TOWN OF ROSE HILL, NORTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-11 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance passed 7-9-2024; and
State legislation through North Carolina Legislative Service,
2024 Regular Session, Pamphlet No. 2
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
CHARTER
Section
   
1   Town incorporated
   
2   Corporate limits
   
3   Officers
   
4   Powers and duties
   
5   Nuisances
   
6   Privilege licenses
   
7   Same; collection; records; violations
   
8   Mayor and Commissioners named
   
9   Liquor licenses
Section 1 Town incorporated.
   The town of Rose Hill, in the county of Duplin, be and the same is hereby
incorporated by the name and style of Rose Hill, and shall have the benefit of
and be subject to all the provisions of law now existing in reference to
incorporated towns, not inconsistent with this act.
(Pr. Laws 1901, C. 67, Sec. 1)
Section 2 Corporate limits.
   The corporate limits of such town shall be as follows:
   Beginning at a point one-half mile due south of the intersection of Main
Street with the Wilmington and Weldon Railroad: thence due east one-half (1/2)
mile; thence due north one (1) mile; thence due west to eastern margin of
Sycamore Street, produced; thence with the eastern margin of said street to
Island Creek Canal; thence up said canal a straight line to the edge of the
right of way on the west side of said railroad, sixty-five (65) feet from the
center of the track; thence with the western margin of said right of way to
line of third (3rd) call of this boundary, which runs due west; thence with
line of said third (3rd) call, produced, one (1) mile from its eastern
extremity; thence due south one (1) mile; thence due east one-half mile, to the
beginning.
(Pr. Laws 1901, C. 67, Sec. 1; Pr. Laws 1909, C. 81, Sec. 1)
Section 3 Officers.
   The officers of said town shall consist of a Mayor, five (5) Commissioners
and a Constable, and the Commissioners shall have power to appoint a Clerk and
Treasurer, and such other officers as they shall deem necessary in the
discharge of their corporate duties.
(Pr. Laws 1901, C. 67, Sec. 3)
Section 4 Powers and duties.
   Said Commissioners shall have and exercise all such corporate powers and
duties as are conferred upon Commissioners of corporate towns under chapter
sixty-two (62), volume two (2), of The Code, and said chapter shall be
applicable in every respect to said town. And the Commissioners shall have
power to lay out and open any new street or streets within the corporate limits
of said town whenever by them deemed necessary, and they shall have power at
any time to widen, change, extend and discontinue any street or streets
whenever they may so determine, by making a reasonable compensation to owners
of property damaged thereby. In cases where the owner or owners of land cannot
agree with the Commissioners of the town regarding the damages to land or
property, the Mayor of the town, by order of the Commissioners, shall issue a
warrant, addressed to the Town Marshal or Constable, commanding him to summon
three (3) disinterested freeholders of said town, who, together with two (2)
freeholders as above, to be selected by the party claiming damages, shall
determine the value of the property condemned, and assess the damages, after
which they shall make their report, or a majority of them, in writing, and file
same into the Mayor's office. Before proceeding to view said premises and
assess said damages, the freeholders so summoned and selected shall take the
following oath before the Mayor or other person authorized by law to administer
an oath: I, A. B. do solemnly swear or affirm that I will faithfully and
honestly discharge the duty of appraiser for which I have been chosen, and a
true report make: So help me, God. If the party or parties claiming damages
refuses to select two (2) appraisers, after notice in writing of five (5) days
as above provided, the report of the three (3) appraisers summoned by the
Constable shall be final: Provided, either party, the town or land owner may
appeal to the Superior Court, and in that case the report of the appraisers and
the proceedings therein shall be sent up to said court, there to be heard and
determined.
(Pr. Laws 1901, C. 67, Sec. 4; Pr. Laws 1903, C. 284, Sec. 1)
Section 5 Nuisances.
   The Commissioners may require and compel the abatement and removal of all
nuisances, and shall have power to pull down and remove any old house, barn or
other building in said town when the same shall be deemed by them dangerous
from fire or other causes, to the safety of the person or property of adjacent
or abutting owners and residents: Provided, however, that before such removal
the owner of such property shall be notified in writing by the secretary of
such board of the action, and allow one (1) month after notice for repairing or
removing of such building.
(Pr. Laws 1903, C. 284, Sec. 2)
Section 6 Privilege licenses.
   In addition to the subjects listed for taxation, the Commissioners may levy
a tax on the following subjects (the amount of each tax when levied to be
collected by the constable of said town instantly), and if the same be not paid
on demand the same may be recovered by suit or the article upon which the tax
is imposed, or any other property of the owner, may be forthwith distrained and
sold to satisfy the same, viz.:
   (1)   Upon all temporary or itinerant merchants or peddlers offering to sell
in the town, a license tax not exceeding fifty dollars ($50.00) a year, except
such only as sell books, charts, maps or wares of their own manufacture, but
not excepting venders of medicine by whomsoever manufactured, and not more than
one person shall sell or peddle under a single license: Provided, that such
temporary or itinerant merchants or peddlers shall comply with such rules and
regulations as the board of commissioners may make, in respect to the times,
place and manner of vending under such licenses. And such itinerant or
temporary merchant shall be construed to be one who opens up and continues in
business for a shorter period than twelve (12) months.
   (2)   Upon every sewing-machine or bicycle company or agent for such
company, dealer in, or manufacturers' agent of musical instruments, keeper of
sales stables or livery-stables, cotton broker or buyer, street huckster,
photographer, merchandise or produce broker, a license tax not exceeding five
dollars ($5.00).
(Pr. Laws 1905, C. 400, Sec. 1)
Section 7 Same; collection; records; violations.
   All license taxes shall be collected by the constable or policeman of said
town whose duty it is to collect the same, and issue a license signed by the
mayor and countersigned by the town clerk, which license shall not extend
beyond June first (1st) next after it is issued. The town clerk shall keep a
record of all licenses issued and shall report monthly to the board of aldermen
all licenses issued during the preceding month. Any person who shall engage
(in), conduct or carry on any business in said town for which a license is
required, without first obtaining said license, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, and upon conviction shall be fined not exceeding fifty dollars
($50.00) or imprisoned not exceeding thirty (30) days; and each day that such a
business is conducted without a license shall be a separate offense.
(Pr. Laws 1905, C. 400, Sec. 2)
Section 8 Mayor and Commissioners named.
   Until an election is held on the first Monday in May next, the following
named persons shall fill the offices, viz.: Mayor, W. B. Southerland; Clerk and
Treasurer, W. G. Fussell; Constable, F. M. Southerland; Commissioners, W. H.
Fussell, W. D. Henderson, J. C. Mallard, C. C. Boney and D. T. Carr.
(Pr. Laws 1901, C. 67, Sec. 5)
Section 9 Liquor licenses.
   The County Commissioners of Duplin County shall not grant license to any
person or persons to sell any intoxicating liquors within the corporate limits
of said town, except upon the request of a majority of the Commissioners of
said town of Rose Hill, and any license granted except upon such request shall
be utterly void.
(Pr. Laws 1901, C. 67, Sec. 6)
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      Chapter
         
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
11.   TOWN STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time; computing time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinances
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the Town of Rose Hill shall be
designated as the Rose Hill, North Carolina, Code of Ordinances, and may be so
cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code, other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers, are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain,
ordinary, and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS. The governing body of the Town of Rose Hill,
North Carolina.
      CHARTER. The Charter of the Town of Rose Hill, North Carolina.
      CODE, THIS CODE, or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or
sections.
      COUNTY. Duplin County, North Carolina.
      GOVERNOR. The Governor of North Carolina.
      JOINT AUTHORITY. All words giving a joint authority to three or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving that authority to a majority
of those persons or officers.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in those cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this municipality, unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
      OWNER. Applied to any property, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant, or tenant by the entirety, of the whole
or a part of the property.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Every species of property except real property.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property.
      REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of North Carolina.
      STREET. Any public way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard,
parkway, dedicated alley, lane, viaduct, bridge, and the approaches thereto
within the town and shall mean the entire width of the right-of-way between
abutting property lines.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      TENANT or OCCUPANT. When applied to a building or land, shall include any
person who occupies the whole or a part of the building or land, whether alone
or with others.
      TOWN. The Town of Rose Hill, North Carolina.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Generally. The construction of all ordinances of this town shall be by
the following rules, unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent
of the legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
"and/or," if the sense requires it.
      (2)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to
be done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
      (3)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
      (4)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of
terms is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered, unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this town exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this town for the transaction of all
municipal business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME; COMPUTING TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from
their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal, or
in any way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering
system hereof and printed for inclusion herein. When subsequent ordinances
repeal any chapter, subchapter, section, or division, or any portion thereof,
the repealed portions may be excluded from this code by omission from reprinted
pages. The subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted in the
case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence that the subsequent ordinances
numbered or omitted are readopted as a new code by the town.
   (B)   Amendments to any of the provisions of the code shall be made by
amending the provisions by specific reference to the section number of this
code in language substantially similar to the following: "Section
               of the Town of Rose Hill, North Carolina, Code of Ordinances, is
hereby amended as follows: . . ." The new provisions shall then be set out in
full as desired.
   (C)   If a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to be added,
language substantially similar to the following shall be used: "The Rose Hill,
North Carolina, Code of Ordinances, is hereby amended by adding a section, to
be numbered               , which section shall read as follows: . . ." The new
section shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (D)   All sections, subchapters, chapters, or provisions desired to be
repealed must be specifically repealed by section, subchapter, or chapter
number, as the case may be.
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and any amending ordinances, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985;
Ord. 30, passed - -; Ord. passed 1-1-1995; Ord. passed - -)
   (B)   (1)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text
of the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example: (G.S. §
160A-11) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1985).
      (2)   A statutory cite set forth as a "statutory reference" following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
   § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      For provisions concerning the inspection of public records, see G.S. §§
132-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the town, the previous code section number shall be indicated in
the history by "(Prior Code, §       )."
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of any
section or division of this code of ordinances for which no other penalty is
provided, or failing or neglecting or refusing to comply with same, shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor and subject to a fine not to
exceed $50 or imprisonment not to exceed 30 days, and each day that any of the
provisions of this code of ordinances are violated shall constitute a separate
offense.
(G.S. § 14-4(a))
Statutory reference:
   For provisions concerning enforcement of ordinances, see G.S. § 160A-175
CHAPTER 11: TOWN STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Extraterritorial jurisdiction
§ 11.01 EXTRATERRITORIAL JURISDICTION.
   (A)   The Town of Rose Hill hereby establishes boundaries for the
extraterritorial enforcement of the following ordinances:
      (1)   Zoning Ordinance; and
      (2)   Subdivision Regulations Ordinance.
   (B)   The boundaries are delineated on the face of a map, entitled
Extraterritorial Jurisdiction of the Town of Rose Hill, which is attached to
the ordinance codified in this section and is hereby adopted by reference.
   (C)   The official copy of this section and map shall be on record in the
office of the Town Clerk for public inspection during normal business hours.
The Town Clerk shall cause a certified copy of this section and map and any
subsequent amendments to be recorded in the office of the County Register of
Deeds. The Town Clerk shall cause signs, signposts, or similar readily
identifiable markers to be installed at all points of intersection of the
above-described boundary with all roads.
   (D)   The ordinance creating the Town Planning Board shall be amended to
include representation for residents of the extraterritorial area to be
regulated.
   (E)   This section shall have full force and effect from and after 6-14-
1988.
(Ord. passed 6-14-1988)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      Chapter
         
30.   BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
         
31.   TOWN OFFICIALS
         
32.   TOWN ORGANIZATIONS
         
33.   FINANCE
         
34.   LAW ENFORCEMENT
         
35.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
         
36.   TOWN POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Office of Mayor; duties
   
30.02   Committees
   
30.03   Power over employees
   
30.04   Resignation of members
   
30.05   Compensation
   
30.06   Division of duties
Meetings
   
30.20   Regular meetings; time and place
   
30.21   Adjourned meetings
   
30.22   Order of business
   
30.23   Rules of procedure
   
30.24   Three-fourths vote required
   
30.25   Meetings open to the public
   
30.26   Minutes
Statutory reference:
   For code of ordinances, see G.S. § 160A-77
   For general law requirements on the ordinance book, see G.S. § 160A-78
   Mayor to preside over Board, see G.S. § 160A-69
   Organizational meeting of Board, see G.S. § 160A-68
   Pleading and proving of ordinances, see G.S. § 160A-79
   Powers and duties of Mayor conferred by law and by ordinance pursuant to
law, see G.S. § 160A-67
   Quorum, see G.S. § 160A-74
   Regular and special meetings procedure, see G.S. § 160A-71
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 OFFICE OF MAYOR; DUTIES.
   It shall be the duty of the Mayor to:
   (A)   Preside over all meetings of the Board;
   (B)   Keep himself or herself informed as to the town's business;
   (C)   Make a monthly report to the Board concerning the business of the town
and its employees and make any recommendations as he or she may deem advisable
for the welfare of the town;
   (D)   See that all laws and ordinances are enforced;
   (E)   Act with the several Commissioners in the expenditure of funds duly
appropriated for improvement or repair of properties in the various departments
as agent of the full Board; and
   (F)   Countersign all checks of the town.
(Prior Code, § 2-1001) (Ord. passed 5-15-1951)
§ 30.02 COMMITTEES.
   The Board may create any committees of the Board for special purposes as it
deems best.
(Prior Code, § 2-1002)
§ 30.03 POWER OVER EMPLOYEES.
   The Board shall have the power to:
   (A)   Assign according to classification. Assign any employee of the town to
any department or branch thereof requiring services appropriate to the
personnel system classification of the employee so assigned;
   (B)   Prescribe rules. Prescribe any rules and regulations as it shall deem
necessary or expedient for the conduct of administrative agencies subject to
its authority, and it shall have the power to revoke, suspend, or amend any
rule or regulation;
   (C)   Investigate. Either by itself or by any officer or person designated
for the purpose by it, investigate and to examine or inquire into the affairs
or operation of any department, division, bureau, or office; and shall have
power to employ consultants and professional counsel to aid in the
investigations, examinations, or inquiries;
   (D)   Overrule officials. Set aside any action taken by a department head
and may supersede him or her in the functions of his or her office;
   (E)   Delegate duties. Direct any department, division, or bureau to perform
the work for any other department, division, or bureau;
   (F)   Appoint administrative committees. Designate from the administrative
service the committees and the officers thereof as it shall find necessary for
the proper consideration of administrative problems. The committees shall meet
at the request of the Board and shall make any recommendation on matters
referred to them as they shall find necessary for the best interests of the
town; and
   (G)   Appear before the Board. Require any employee of the town to appear
before and address the Board at any meeting.
(Prior Code, § 2-1003)
§ 30.04 RESIGNATION OF MEMBERS.
   Resignation of members of the Board shall be in writing, and no final action
shall be taken thereon by the Board until the next regular meeting.
(Prior Code, § 2-1004)
§ 30.05 COMPENSATION.
   The compensation of Board members shall be provided in the annual budget
ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 2-1005)
§ 30.06 DIVISION OF DUTIES.
   The Mayor, by and with the advice and consent of the Board, shall appoint
the following Commissioners, whose duties shall be to act under instructions of
the full Board in a supervisory capacity over the respective departments of the
municipal government from the membership of the Board:
   (A)   Commissioner of Health;
   (B)   Commissioner of Industrial Development;
   (C)   Commissioner of Public Safety;
   (D)   Public Works Director; and
   (E)   Commissioner of Streets.
(Prior Code, § 2-1006)
Cross-reference:
   Meetings, see §§
30.20 through
30.26
   Town Officials, see
Ch. 31
   Town Organizations, see
Ch. 32
MEETINGS
§ 30.20 REGULAR MEETINGS; TIME AND PLACE.
   The Board shall hold its regular meetings on the second Tuesday in each
month at 6:00 p.m. at the Town Hall.
(Prior Code, § 2-1011) (Ord. --, passed - - )
§ 30.21 ADJOURNED MEETINGS.
   If a quorum fails to attend, the meeting shall stand adjourned to a day
agreed upon by the majority of the members present. Any regular or special
meeting may be adjourned to a date prior to the next regular meeting date of
the Board.
(Prior Code, § 2-1012)
§ 30.22 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   The Town Administrator shall prepare and submit the order of business
(agenda) for every meeting of the Board of Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 2-1013)
§ 30.23 RULES OF PROCEDURE.
   Except where otherwise provided by law or ordinance, the procedure of the
Board shall generally be governed by Robert's Rules of Order.
(Prior Code, § 2-1014)
§ 30.24 THREE-FOURTHS VOTE REQUIRED.
   No proposition to appropriate money, to alter or repeal any ordinance or
rule of the Board, or to enact any new ordinance or establish any new rule
shall be made or decided at any other than a regular meeting, except by a vote
of three-fourths of those present.
(Prior Code, § 2-1015)
§ 30.25 MEETINGS OPEN TO THE PUBLIC.
   All sessions of the Board, whether regular or special, shall be open to the
public.
(Prior Code, § 2-1016)
§ 30.26 MINUTES.
   Every resolution or order adopted or made by the Board and every petition
submitted to it, which is not set out in full in the minutes, shall be filed in
an exhibit book and by reference shall be made part of the minutes. The minutes
of each meeting shall be submitted to the Board prior to subsequent meetings
and, upon being approved by the Board, shall be signed by the Clerk. The
minutes shall constitute part of the archives of the town.
(Prior Code, § 2-1017)
CHAPTER 31: TOWN OFFICIALS
Section
   
31.01   Town Administrator
   
31.02   Town Clerk
   
31.03   Town Attorney
§ 31.01 TOWN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Town Administrator shall:
   (A)   Be authorized to inspect at any reasonable time all books and records
pertaining to town affairs and kept by any officer or employee of the town;
   (B)   Settle any dispute as to the respective duties or powers of any
appointed officers of the town after consultation with the Town Attorney;
   (C)   Have the power to delegate to any appointed officer any duty which is
to be performed when no specific officer has been directed to perform that
duty;
   (D)   Make any financial reports and statements as the Board may require of
him or her;
   (E)   Keep the books of accounts of the town which shall show:
      (1)   Accurate and detailed statements of all moneys collected for the
town by the town officers and other persons;
      (2)   In detail the property owned by the town and the income derived
therefrom;
      (3)   Separate accounts of every appropriation made by the Board, the
date thereof, and the purpose for which made;
      (4)   Each payment of public money, its purpose, and to whom paid;
      (5)   Separate accounts for each department of the town government; and
      (6)   Any other accounts as may be necessary for a complete financial
statement of the town.
   (F)   Require from time to time all persons receiving money or having
disposition or management of any town property, of which an account is kept in
his or her office, to render a statement thereof to him or her;
   (G)   Call on all persons who may have moneys or securities belonging to the
town which should be paid or delivered into the treasury, to receive and to
safely keep the same for the use of the town and to disburse the funds upon the
appropriation of the Board according to the order as may be duly drawn on him
or her in the manner hereinafter specified; he or she shall keep in a book
provided for that purpose a fair and correct account of all moneys received and
disbursed by him or her, together with the source from whence they came and the
purpose for which they were appropriated;
   (H)   Make daily deposits of his or her collections in the town depository
and take a receipt therefor;
   (I)   Collect all property and license taxes due the town;
   (J)   Issue receipts for all collections;
   (K)   Keep an accurate record of all collections made by him or her;
   (L)   Supervise the town facilities and property; and
   (M)   Perform the duties specified in G.S. § 160A-148.
(Prior Code, § 2-2001)
§ 31.02 TOWN CLERK.
   The Town Clerk shall:
   (A)   Attend all meetings of the Board;
   (B)   Keep an accurate and complete record of all the proceedings of the
Board and file them in a well-bound book;
   (C)   Preserve all town papers and records turned over to him or her; and
   (D)   Perform the duties specified in G.S. § 160A-171.
(Prior Code, § 2-2002)
§ 31.03 TOWN ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The Board shall, at its first regular meeting following its election
and qualifications, elect a Town Attorney.
   (B)   The Town Attorney shall:
      (1)   Prosecute and defend suits for and against the town;
      (2)   Advise the Mayor, Board, or any officer of the town in regard to
matters connected with the town's business;
      (3)   Attend all meetings of the Board when requested to do so;
      (4)   Draw any deeds, contracts, bonds, notes, and other legal papers as
may be required for the proper conduct of the town's business;
      (5)   Draw all ordinances granting franchises; and
      (6)   Approve all ordinances as to form before their introduction.
(Prior Code, § 2-2003)
CHAPTER 32: TOWN ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Recreation Commission
   
32.01   Creation
   
32.02   Members; vacancies; compensation
   
32.03   Officers; rules; meetings
   
32.04   Powers and duties
   
32.05   Property; contracts
   
32.06   Employees
   
32.07   Disbursements
   
32.08   Reports; fiscal year
   
32.09   Powers vested in Commission
Planning Board
   
32.20   Creation
   
32.21   Members
   
32.22   Organization and rules
   
32.23   Staff and finances
   
32.24   General powers and duties
   
32.25   Purposes
   
32.26   Miscellaneous powers and duties
Cross-reference:
   Land Usage, see
Title XV
   Town Officials, see
Ch. 31
RECREATION COMMISSION
§ 32.01 CREATION.
   There is hereby created a commission to be known as the Town Recreation
Commission, herein referred to as "the Commission."
(Prior Code, § 2-7001)
§ 32.02 MEMBERS; VACANCIES; COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The Commission shall be composed of nine members to be appointed by
the Mayor, by and with the approval of the Board.
   (B)   Three of the members shall be appointed for a term of three years,
three for a term of two years, and three for a term of one year, and they shall
serve until their successors are appointed and qualified. The latter shall
serve for terms of three years.
   (C)   Vacancies in the Commission shall be filled for the unexpired term by
the Mayor, by and with approval of the Board. The members of the Commission
shall serve without compensation.
(Prior Code, § 2-7002)
§ 32.03 OFFICERS; RULES; MEETINGS.
   The Commission shall appoint from its membership a Chairperson and any other
officers as it may deem necessary for the orderly procedure of its business and
may adopt bylaws, rules, and regulations covering its procedure not
inconsistent with the provisions of the state laws. The Commission shall, from
time to time, make rules and regulations governing the operation and conduct of
the recreation facilities operated by it. The Commission shall hold regular
meetings at any times and places as it may designate.
(Prior Code, § 2-7003)
§ 32.04 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Commission shall provide, maintain, operate, and supervise the public
parks, playgrounds, athletic fields, recreation centers, and other recreational
facilities owned or controlled by the town or leased or loaned to the
Commission by the owners thereof. The Commission shall have complete
supervision of the facilities and activities provided and conducted on or in
connection with the parks, playgrounds, athletic fields, and recreation centers
provided, and shall have the power to conduct any form of recreational or
cultural activity.
(Prior Code, § 2-7004)
§ 32.05 PROPERTY; CONTRACTS.
   The Commission may accept any grant, gift, bequest, or donation of any
personal property offered or made for recreational purposes and, with the
approval of the Board, may accept any grant, gift, or devise of real estate,
which shall be held, used, and finally disposed of in accordance with the terms
or conditions under which the grant, gift, or devise is made and accepted. The
Commission shall have no authority to enter into any contract or incur any
obligation binding upon the town other than current obligations or contracts to
be fully executed within the then current fiscal year and all within the budget
appropriations made by the Board.
(Prior Code, § 2-7005)
§ 32.06 EMPLOYEES.
   The Commission shall have power to appoint and designate a Recreation
Director who possesses the necessary foundation training and who demonstrates
by actual work his or her ability to organize and direct a community recreation
system. Any other trained persons as may be necessary in the maintenance of and
operation of the recreation facilities and system may be employed.
(Prior Code, § 2-7006)
§ 32.07 DISBURSEMENTS.
   Funds appropriated by the Board and budgeted to the Commission shall be
disbursed by the fiscal disbursing officer of the town upon vouchers issued by
the Commission and within the budget appropriations made. Funds received by the
Commission from sources other than budget appropriations shall be deposited by
the town to the credit and for the use of the Commission and disbursed as
budget funds are disbursed, except that funds received by gift, bequest, or
otherwise shall be disbursed in accordance with the terms of the gift or
bequest.
(Prior Code, § 2-7007)
§ 32.08 REPORTS; FISCAL YEAR.
   The Commission shall make full and complete reports to the Board at any
times as may be requested and at any other times as to the Board may seem
proper. The fiscal year of the Commission shall conform to that of the town.
(Prior Code, § 2-7008)
§ 32.09 POWERS VESTED IN COMMISSION.
   The powers as are now provided by statute of the state or by the ordinances
of the town relating to the development and operation of recreation systems,
parks, and playgrounds are hereby vested in the Commission to be exercised by
it subject to any and all restrictions contained in the powers and ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 2-7009)
PLANNING BOARD
§ 32.20 CREATION.
   A Town Planning Board is hereby created under the authority of G.S. § 160A-
361.
(Prior Code, § 2-7021)
Editor’s Note:
   G.S. § 160A-361 was repealed by S.L. 2019-111.
§ 32.21 MEMBERS.
   (A)   The Town Planning Board shall consist of five members who shall be
persons of experience and qualifications. At the time of their appointment,
members shall hold no other official municipal government position, except on a
zoning board, zoning board of appeals, or housing authority board. The Mayor
may appoint two ex officio members to the Board who shall have no vote but who
shall act as advisors to the Planning Board.
   (B)   The citizen members shall be appointed by the Town Board of
Commissioners for a term of three years. All members of the Planning Board
shall serve as such without compensation. Members may, after a public hearing,
be removed by the Mayor for inefficiency, neglect of duty, or malfeasance in
office. The Mayor shall file a written statement of reasons for the removal.
Vacancies occurring otherwise than through the expiration of term shall be
filled for the unexpired term by the Town Board of Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 2-7022)
§ 32.22 ORGANIZATION AND RULES.
   (A)   Within 30 days after appointment, the Planning Board shall elect its
Chairperson from among the appointed citizen members and create and fill any
other of its offices as it may determine.
   (B)   The term of office for the Chairperson shall be two years. The
Planning Board shall hold at least one regular meeting in each month which
shall be open to the public.
   (C)   It shall adopt rules for transaction of business and shall keep a
record of its resolutions, transactions, findings, and determinations, which
record shall be a public record.
(Prior Code, § 2-7023)
§ 32.23 STAFF AND FINANCES.
   The Planning Board may contract with city planners, engineers, architects,
and other consultants for any services as it may require. The expenditures of
the Planning Board, exclusive of gifts, shall be within the amounts
appropriated for that purpose by the Town Board of Commissioners, and no
indebtedness for which the town shall be liable shall be contracted by the
Planning Board unless an appropriation is made by the Town Board of
Commissioners for those purposes, and then only to the extent of the
appropriation. The Planning Board shall have the right to accept gifts and
donations for the exercise of its functions and for giving publicity to its
work and may expend the money received from the donations and gifts as in its
judgment may appear best.
(Prior Code, § 2-7024)
§ 32.24 GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   It shall be the function and duty of the Planning Board to make and adopt a
suggested master plan for the physical development of the municipality or
modified parts of the plan as the Planning Board and governing body may deem
best. The plan, with the accompanying maps, plats, charts, and descriptive
matter, may show the Planning Board's recommendations for the development of
the territory, including, among other things, the general location, character,
and extent of streets, viaducts, bridges, waterways, waterfronts, boulevards,
parkways, playgrounds, squares, parks, aviation fields, and other public ways,
grounds, and open spaces, the general location of public buildings and other
public property, and the general location and extent of utilities and terminals
whether publicly or privately owned or operated, for water, light, sanitation,
transportation, communication, power, and other purposes; also the removal,
relocation, widening, narrowing, vacating, abandonment, change of use, or
extension of any of the foregoing ways, grounds, open spaces, buildings,
property, utilities, or terminals, as well as a zoning plan for the control of
the height, area, bulk, location, and use of buildings and premises. The
Planning Board may from time to time recommend amendments, extensions, or
additions to the plan.
(Prior Code, § 2-7025)
§ 32.25 PURPOSES.
   In the preparation of the plan or modified plan or parts thereof, the
Planning Board shall make careful and comprehensive surveys and studies of
present conditions and future growth of the municipality and with due regard to
its relation to neighboring territory. The plan shall be made with the general
purpose of guiding and accomplishing a coordinated, adjusted, and harmonious
development of the municipality and its environs which will, in accordance with
present and future needs, best promote health, safety, morals, order,
convenience, prosperity, and general welfare, as well as efficiency and economy
in the process of development, including, among other things, adequate
provision for traffic, the promotion of safety from fire and other dangers,
adequate provision for light and air, the promotion of the healthful and
convenient distribution of population, the promotion of good civic design and
arrangement, wise and efficient expenditure of public funds, and the adequate
provision of public utilities and other public requirements.
(Prior Code, § 2-7026)
§ 32.26 MISCELLANEOUS POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Before the adoption by the Planning Board of the plan or any part,
amendment, extension, or addition, the Planning Board shall hold at least one
public hearing thereon. The Planning Board shall have power to promote public
interest in and understanding of the plan and to that end may hold public
hearings, publish and distribute copies of the plan or of any report, and may
employ any other means of publicity and education as it may determine. Members
of the Planning Board, when duly authorized by the Planning Board, may attend
city planning conferences or meetings of city planning institutes or hearings
upon pending city planning legislation, and the Planning Board may, by
resolution spread upon its minutes, pay the reasonable traveling expenses
incident to the attendance. All officers and employees of the town shall render
reasonable assistance and any information to the Planning Board as may be
requested by the Planning Board for its work.
   (B)   The Planning Board shall from time to time, and at least annually,
submit reports in writing to the Town Board of Commissioners giving information
regarding the condition of the town and any plans or proposals for the
development of the town and estimates of the cost thereof, and these reports
shall contain any other recommendations as the Planning Board feels should have
immediate attention.
(Prior Code, § 2-7027)
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE
Section
Purchasing
   
33.01   Disbursement of funds
   
33.02   Purchasing; generally
   
33.03   Personal interest
Fiscal Procedures
   
33.15   Official depository
   
33.16   Surplus funds
Tax on Gross Receipts Derived from Retail Short-Term Lease or Rental of
Vehicles
   
33.30   Definitions
   
33.31   Levy of tax
   
33.32   Collection of the tax
   
33.33   Report and payment of tax
   
33.34   Taxpayer to keep records
   
33.35   Tax Collector to provide forms
   
33.36   Situs
   
33.37   Penalties and remedies
   
33.38   Administration
   
33.39   Authority
   
33.40   Effective date
Cross-reference:
   Board of Commissioners, see
Ch. 30
PURCHASING
§ 33.01 DISBURSEMENT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   In accordance with the Local Government Budget and Fiscal Control Act,
being G.S. §§ 159-7 et seq., no bill or claim against the town may be paid
unless it has been approved by the Finance Officer.
   (B)   No check or draft of the town shall be valid unless it bears on its
face the certificate of the Town Administrator as follows.
      (1)   "This disbursement has been approved as required by the Local
Government Budget and Fiscal Control Act, being G.S. §§159-7 et seq."
      (2)   "This instrument has been preaudited in the manner required by the
Local Government Budget and Fiscal Control Act, being G.S. §§ 159-7 et seq."
(Prior Code, § 2-4001)
§ 33.02 PURCHASING; GENERALLY.
   Each purchase by the town shall be made by a purchase order signed by the
authorized purchasing agent.
(Prior Code, § 2-4002) (Ord. passed 6-13-1967)
§ 33.03 PERSONAL INTEREST.
   It shall be unlawful for any officer or employee of the town, directly or
indirectly, to become a contractor for work done for the town, or to become
directly personally interested in or receive profits from any purchase of
supplies for any department of the town; and any person so offending shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and removed from office.
(Prior Code, § 2-4003) Penalty, see §
10.99
FISCAL PROCEDURES
§ 33.15 OFFICIAL DEPOSITORY.
   The official depository for the funds of the town shall be the First Bank,
Rose Hill Branch.
(Prior Code, § 2-4021)
§ 33.16 SURPLUS FUNDS.
   Investment of all idle funds shall be managed by the Town Finance Officer
pursuant to G.S. § 159-30.
(Prior Code, § 2-4022) (Ord. passed 11-14-1961)
TAX ON GROSS RECEIPTS DERIVED FROM RETAIL SHORT-TERM LEASE OR RENTAL OF
VEHICLES
§ 33.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CUSTOMER. Any person that leases or rents a vehicle on a short-term lease or
rental basis.
   GENERAL STATUTES (G.S.). The North Carolina General Statutes, and any
reference to a particular section thereof shall include the same as may be from
time to time amended, modified, supplemented, revised, or superseded.
   GROSS RECEIPTS. The amount that is or would be reported as GROSS RECEIPTS on
a business's state income tax return, or on the federal income tax return filed
with the state income tax return if the state return does not separately state
GROSS RECEIPTS for the most recently completed tax year. Taxes collected
hereunder are not subject to the tax herein imposed and are not included in
GROSS RECEIPTS.
   LEASE OR RENTAL. A transfer, for consideration, of the use but not the
ownership of property to another for a period of time.
(G.S. § 105-164.3(7a))
   LONG-TERM LEASE OR RENTAL. A lease or rental made under a written agreement
to lease or rent property to the same person for a period of at least 365
continuous days.
(G.S. § 105-187.1(3))
   PERSON. Any individual, trustee, executor, other fiduciary, corporation,
unincorporated association, partnership, sole proprietorship, company, firm, or
other legal entity.
   SHORT-TERM LEASE OR RENTAL. Any lease or rental of a vehicle that is not a
long-term lease or rental.
(G.S. §§ 160A-215.1(e)(2) and 105-187.1(5))
   TAX COLLECTOR. The individual appointed by the Town Board of Commissioners
pursuant to G.S. § 105-349 (the provisions of the municipal Charter), to
collect taxes on behalf of the town and any other person authorized to carry
out the duties and functions of the individual.
   TAXPAYER. Any person liable for the taxes imposed by this subchapter.
   VEHICLE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A motor vehicle of the private passenger type, including a
passenger van, minivan, or sport utility vehicle;
      (2)   A motor vehicle of the cargo type, including a cargo van, pickup
truck, or truck with a gross vehicle weight of 26,000 pounds or less used
predominantly in the transportation of property for other than commercial
freight, and that does not require the operator to possess a commercial
driver's license; and/or
      (3)   A trailer or semi-trailer with a gross vehicle weight of 6,000
pounds or less.
(G.S. § 160A-215.1(e)(1))
(Ord. passed 7-11-2000)
§ 33.31 LEVY OF TAX.
   (A)   A tax is hereby imposed and levied in an amount equal to 1.5% of the
gross receipts derived from the short-term lease or rental of vehicles at
retail to the general public.
   (B)   This tax on gross receipts is in addition to the privilege taxes
authorized by G.S. § 160A-211.
(Ord. passed 7-11-2000)
§ 33.32 COLLECTION OF THE TAX.
   Every person engaged in the business of the short-term lease or rental of
vehicles at retail to the general public shall collect at the time of the lease
or rental the tax herein levied, place the tax so collected in a segregated
account, and thereafter remit the tax to the Tax Collector in accordance with
the provisions of this subchapter. The taxpayer shall include a provision in
each retail short-term lease or rental agreement stating that the percentage
amount enacted by this subchapter of the total lease or rental price, excluding
sales tax, is being charged as a tax on gross receipts. The amount of the tax
shall be stated separately from the lease or rental and shown separately on the
taxpayer's records. The tax shall be paid by the customer to the taxpayer as
trustee for and on account of the town. The taxpayer shall be liable for the
collection thereof and for its payment to the Tax Collector and the taxpayer's
failure to charge or to collect the tax from the customer shall not affect the
liability.
(Ord. passed 7-11-2000)
§ 33.33 REPORT AND PAYMENT OF TAX.
   Taxes levied under this subchapter are due and payable when a return is
required to be filed. Every taxpayer shall, within the time specified, submit a
return to the Tax Collector on the form prescribed by the Tax Collector. A
return must be signed by the taxpayer or the taxpayer's agent. Returns of
taxpayers are due to the Tax Collector each month on or before the fifteenth
day of the month following the month in which the tax accrues. As provided in
G.S. § 160A-208.1, a return shall not be considered a public record and
information contained in a return may be disclosed only in accordance
therewith.
(Ord. passed 7-11-2000)
§ 33.34 TAXPAYER TO KEEP RECORDS.
   The taxpayer shall keep and preserve suitable records of the gross receipts
received by the taxpayer in the conduct of business and any other books or
accounts as may be necessary to determine the amount of the tax for which the
taxpayer is liable under the provisions of this subchapter. It shall be the
duty of the taxpayer to keep and preserve for a period of three years all the
records of gross receipts and other books and accounts described. All records,
books, and accounts herein described shall be open for examination at all
reasonable hours during the day by the Tax Collector or his or her duly
authorized agent.
(Ord. passed 7-11-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 33.35 TAX COLLECTOR TO PROVIDE FORMS.
   The Tax Collector shall design, prepare, print, and make available to all
taxpayers operating within the municipal boundaries of the town forms and
instructions for filing returns to ensure a full collection of and an
accounting for taxes due. The failure of any taxpayer to obtain or receive
forms shall not relieve the taxpayer from the payment of the tax at the time
and in the manner provided.
(Ord. passed 7-11-2000)
§ 33.36 SITUS.
   The transaction giving rise to the tax herein levied shall be deemed to have
occurred at the location of the entity from which the customer takes delivery
of the vehicle.
(G.S. § 160A-215.1(b)) (Ord. passed 7-11-2000)
§ 33.37 PENALTIES AND REMEDIES.
   The provisions with respect to remedies and penalties applicable to
Subchapter VIII (Local Government Sales and Use Tax, being G.S. §§ 159-7 et
seq.) of G.S. Ch. 105, as contained in G.S. Ch. 105, Subchapter 1, Art. 5 and 9
thereof, shall be applicable in like manner to the tax authorized to be levied
and collected under this subchapter, to the extent that the same are not
inconsistent with the provisions hereof. The Town Board of Commissioners may
exercise any power the Secretary of Revenue may exercise in collecting sales
and use taxes.
(G.S. § 160A-215.1(f)) (Ord. passed 7-11-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 33.38 ADMINISTRATION.
   In addition to the provisions herein, the levy and collection of the taxes
herein imposed shall be otherwise administered in the same manner as the sales
and use tax as provided in G.S. Ch. 105, Subchapter 1, Art. 5.
(G.S. § 160A-215.1(d)) (Ord. passed 7-11-2000)
§ 33.39 AUTHORITY.
   This subchapter is enacted pursuant to the provisions of G.S. § 160A-215.1.
(Ord. passed 7-11-2000)
§ 33.40 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter and the taxes thereby levied and imposed shall become
effective 9-1-2000.
(Ord. passed 7-11-2000)
CHAPTER 34: LAW ENFORCEMENT
Section
Police Department
   
34.01   Organization; compensation
   
34.02   Control of Department
   
34.03   Chief of Police
   
34.04   Departmental policies
   
34.05   Powers and duties
   
34.06   Qualifications; tours of duty
   
34.07   Uniforms
   
34.07   Aid from citizens
   
34.08   Traffic violations
   
34.09   Extra police assistance
Mutual Aid
   
34.25   Findings
   
34.26   Mutual aid regulations
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 34.01 ORGANIZATION; COMPENSATION.
   The Town Police Department shall be composed of a Chief of Police and any
other officers and employees as shall be deemed necessary by the Board. The
salaries of the Chief of Police and other officers and employees shall be fixed
by the Board. The Mayor shall have general control over the Police Department
and may at any time, for cause, temporarily suspend any member of the police
force until the next meeting of the Board, which shall dispose of the case.
(Prior Code, § 3-1001)
§ 34.02 CONTROL OF DEPARTMENT.
   The Chief of Police, acting under the Mayor and Board, shall have the
supervision and control of the police force.
(Prior Code, § 3-1002) (Ord. passed 10-8-1974)
§ 34.03 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall supervise the Police Department, subject to
control by the Mayor and regulations of the Board, preserve the peace by
suppression of all disturbances and apprehension of all offenders, and enforce
all police regulations of the town; see that all laws and ordinances adopted by
the Board are enforced; and shall do all things as may be required of him or
her by ordinance.
   (B)   He or she may make rules and regulations for the wearing of badges and
uniforms so as to be readily recognized by the public as peace officers. He or
she may authorize the wearing of plain clothes by officers on special duty. He
or she may wear either a uniform or plain clothes at his or her option.
(Prior Code, § 3-1003) (Ord. passed 10-8-1974)
§ 34.04 DEPARTMENTAL POLICIES.
   The Police Department policies and regulations approved by the Board on 8-1-
1974 and consisting of eight pages are hereby incorporated in this section as
if set out at length herein. A copy of the policies and regulations is on file
in the office of the Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 3-1004) (Ord. passed 10-8-1974)
§ 34.05 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Chief of Police and each member of the police force, in execution
of process, shall have the same powers that Sheriffs have in the discharge of
like duties, and fees shall be the same as those of the Sheriff for like
services. The police of the town shall have power to do whatever may be
necessary to preserve the good order and peace of the town and secure the
inhabitants from personal violence and their property from loss or injury. The
Chief of Police and each member of the police force, before entering upon the
discharge of the duties of his or her office, shall be required to take and
subscribe the oath prescribed for public officers and an oath that they will
faithfully and impartially discharge the duties of their office according to
law, which oath shall be filed in the police files for inspection by any
official so authorized to inspect the papers.
   (B)   The police shall patrol the town at reasonable intervals, give their
attention to the enforcement of ordinances, perform all duties imposed upon
them, as is provided under the general law of the state, arrest all offenders,
suppress all disturbances, and, upon the occasion of fire and when requested by
the Fire Chief, be present, preserve order and protect property, give proper
information to strangers, and act in a civil manner to all with whom they have
official business.
(Prior Code, § 3-1005) (Ord. passed 10-8-1974)
§ 34.06 QUALIFICATIONS; TOURS OF DUTY.
   Every person appointed to serve as a police officer of the town:
   (A)   Shall be at least 20 years of age;
   (B)   Shall be able to read and write the English language and shall be a
high school graduate or hold a G.E.D. certificate;
   (C)   Shall be of good moral character; and
   (D)   Shall meet the minimum standards set by the State Criminal Justice
Training and Standards Council.
(Prior Code, § 3-1006)
§ 34.07 UNIFORMS.
   All officers assigned to duty shall dress in same matter, that is if coats
are in order then all shall wear coats. When part of the uniform is worn, the
complete uniform shall be worn. The entire uniform shall be kept cleaned and in
a pressed condition. The uniform shall not be worn when not on duty. Shoes
shall be shined at all times.
(Prior Code, § 3-1007) (Ord. passed 10-8-1974)
§ 34.08 AID FROM CITIZENS.
   The Chief of Police and every police officer shall have authority, in
execution of their official duties, to summon a sufficient number of citizens
to aid in enforcing the law, and failure by any citizen to obey the summons
shall constitute a misdemeanor unless he or she can show cause why he or she
should not have been summoned.
(Prior Code, § 3-1010)
§ 34.09 TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS.
   The members of the Police Department shall have authority to direct and
order persons to comply with traffic laws, where necessity demands it, and to
give any directions and orders as may be necessary in the enforcement of safety
ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 3-1013)
§ 34.10 EXTRA POLICE ASSISTANCE.
   The Mayor shall be authorized to hire extra police assistance for as long as
seven days, to be paid for from the General Fund.
(Prior Code, § 3-1014) (Ord. passed 4-9-1968)
MUTUAL AID
§ 34.25 FINDINGS.
   The Board makes the following findings:
   (A)   G.S. § 160A-288 has been rewritten by the 1977 General Assembly to
allow increased assistance between law enforcement agencies;
   (B)   G.S. § 160A-288 requires the provision of mutual assistance to be in
accordance with policies adopted by the Town Board of Commissioners; and
   (C)   The Mayor and Board desire to establish policies under which the Town
Police Department may provide law enforcement assistance to neighboring local
governmental law enforcement agencies.
(Prior Code, § 3-1021) (Res. passed 5-9-1978)
§ 34.26 MUTUAL AID REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Generally. The following rules and guidelines will constitute the
policy under which the town will provide assistance to a requesting law
enforcement agency.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   The Chief of Police is authorized to provide temporary assistance
to another law enforcement agency, if he or she receives a request in writing
for the assistance from the head of the requesting agency. The Chief of Police
may respond to the request if he or she determines that the request can be
honored without impairing the capacity of the town to provide police protection
to the property and citizens of the town. The Chief may take any steps as
necessary to furnish human-power, equipment, and any other assistance as he or
she deems appropriate.
      (2)   In a nonemergency situation, the Chief of Police shall inform the
Mayor when he or she receives a request for assistance and shall obtain his or
her approval before providing the assistance. In an emergency situation, the
Chief of Police shall notify the Mayor that he or she has received such a
request, and shall obtain approval of the request before providing assistance;
in the absence of the Mayor and the Mayor Pro Tem, the Chief of Police is
authorized to provide the assistance requested and notify the Mayor of the
action as soon as feasible.
      (3)   The town shall assume all liability and responsibility for the
death or injury of any town police officers responding to the request for
assistance. The town will not assume any liability or responsibility for the
death of or injury to any personnel of the requesting agency.
      (4)   The town will assume all liability and responsibility for damage to
its own supplies, materials, or equipment when responding to a request for
assistance. The town will not assume any liability or responsibility for damage
to the supplies, materials, or equipment of the requesting agency.
      (5)   While working with the requesting agency, town police officers
shall have the same jurisdiction, powers, rights, privileges, and immunities as
the officers of the requesting agency, in addition to those that they normally
possess.
      (6)   While on duty with the requesting agency, town police officers
shall be subject to the lawful operational commands of their superior officer
in the requesting agency, but for personnel and administrative purposes
(including the payment of salaries, wages, bonuses, and other compensations),
they shall remain under the control and authority of the town.
      (7)   The specific provisions of this policy may be modified or amended
in advance by agreement between the town and the requesting agency. By way of
example, if assistance is to be provided over a long period of time, the
requesting agency may wish to pay all or part of the compensation of the town
police officers.
(Prior Code, § 3-1022) (Res. passed 5-9-1978)
CHAPTER 35: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
35.01   State of emergency; curfew authorized
   
35.02   Form and content of proclamations
 
   
35.99   Penalty
§ 35.01 STATE OF EMERGENCY; CURFEW AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   A state of emergency shall be deemed to exist whenever during times of
great public crisis, disaster, rioting, catastrophe, or similar public
emergency, for any reason, municipal public safety authorities are unable to
maintain public order or afford adequate protection for lives or property.
   (B)   In the event of an existing or threatened state of emergency
endangering the lives, safety, health, and welfare of the people within the
town, or threatened damage to or destruction of property, the Mayor is hereby
authorized and empowered to issue a public proclamation declaring to all
persons the existence of a state of emergency, and in order to more effectively
protect the lives and property of people within the town, to place in effect
any or all of the restrictions hereinafter authorized.
   (C)   The Mayor is hereby authorized and empowered to limit by the
proclamation the application of all or any part of the restrictions to any area
specifically designated or described within the corporate limits of the town
and to specific hours of the day or night, and to exempt from all or any part
of the restrictions law enforcement officers, firefighters, and other public
employees, doctors, nurses, employees of hospitals, and other medical
facilities; on duty military personnel whether state or federal, on duty
employees of public utilities, public transportation companies, and newspaper,
magazine, radio broadcasting, and television broadcasting corporations operated
for profit; any other persons as may be essential to the preservation of public
order and immediately necessary to serve the safety, health, and welfare needs
of the people within the town.
   (D)   The Mayor shall proclaim the end of the state of emergency or all or
any part of the restrictions imposed as soon as circumstances warrant or when
directed to do so by the Board.
   (E)   During the existence of a proclaimed state of emergency, the Mayor may
impose by proclamation any or all of the following restrictions:
      (1)   Prohibit or regulate the possession off one's own premises of
explosives, firearms, ammunition, or dangerous weapons of any kind, and
prohibit the purchase, sale, transfer, or other disposition thereof;
      (2)   Prohibit or regulate the buying or selling of beer, wine, or
intoxicating beverages of any kind, and their possession or consumption off
one's premises;
      (3)   Prohibit or regulate any demonstration, parade, march, vigil, or
participation therein from taking place on any of the public ways or upon any
public property;
      (4)   Prohibit or regulate the sale of gasoline, kerosene, naptha, or any
other explosive or inflammable fluids or substance;
      (5)   Prohibit or regulate travel upon any public street, alley, or
roadway or upon any other public property, except by those in search of medical
assistance, food, or other commodity or service necessary to sustain the well-
being of themselves or their families or some member thereof;
      (6)   Prohibit or regulate the participation in or carrying on of any
business activity, and prohibit or regulate the keeping open of places of
business, places of entertainment, and any other places of public assembly;
and/or
      (7)   Authorize federal, state, county, or town personnel, their agents
or assigns, to enter onto private roads and private properties for the purpose
of undertaking emergency protective measures to protect life and property, or
to remove or reduce any hazards as may be deemed to constitute a threat to
public health, safety, and welfare, in particular where loss of life or
property may occur as a result of failure to take appropriate or timely action
to remove or reduce potential or existing hazards.
   (F)   Any proclamation may be extended, altered, or repealed in any
particular during the continued or threatened existence of a state of emergency
by the issuance of a subsequent proclamation.
   (G)   During the existence of a proclaimed state of emergency, it shall be
unlawful for any person to violate any provision of any restriction imposed by
any proclamation authorized by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-3001) (Ord. passed 12-10-1974; Ord. passed 12-10-1996)
Penalty, see §
35.99
§ 35.02 FORM AND CONTENT OF PROCLAMATIONS.
   The proclamation for the declaration of a state of emergency and the
imposition of specific prohibitions and restrictions shall take substantially
the following form:
"WHEREAS, The Governing Body of the Town of Rose Hill has duly adopted an
ordinance providing that when there exists within the Town a state of an
emergency extraordinary measures are authorized to cope with any widespread
illegal activity endangering the lives, safety and property of persons within
the Town and
WHEREAS, by ordinance duly adopted by the Governing Body of the Town of Rose
Hill the Mayor is authorized to proclaim the existence of such a state of
emergency to all citizens and to impose certain restrictions for the protection
of the lives and property:
NOW THEREFORE, I ________________________, Mayor of the Town of Rose Hill do
hereby proclaim that:
I.
A state of Emergency exists within the Town of Rose Hill.
II.
Except as provided in section IV below and until the state of emergency as
hereby proclaimed is ended it shall be unlawful for any person:
   (a)   To possess off his premises, or to buy, sell, give away or otherwise
transfer or dispose of any explosives, firearms, ammunition or dangerous
weapons of any kind;
   (b)   To buy or sell beer, wine or intoxicating beverages of any kind; or
   (c)   To organize or participate in demonstrations, parades, marches or
vigils on any of the public ways or public property within the Town of Rose
Hill.
III.
Until the state of emergency as hereby proclaimed is ended, all persons shall
remain in their homes, offices or places of business between _____ O'clock PM
on each day and _____ O'clock AM on the next day and during such hours it shall
be unlawful for any person or persons to:
   (a)   Be or travel upon any public street, alley or roadway or upon any
public property, unless in search of medical assistance, food or other
commodity or service necessary to sustain the well being of himself or his
family;
   (b)   Participate in or carry on any business activity; or
   (c)   Keep open any place of business, place of entertainment, or any other
place of public assembly.
IV.
   (a)   The following persons are exempt from the restrictions imposed by
subsection III (a):
      (1)   All law enforcement personnel;
      (2)   All medical personnel (on business);
      (3)   Military Personnel on duty in Rose Hill; and
      (4)   Town Officials on Town business.
   (b)   The following businesses are exempt from restrictions imposed by
subsections III (a) and III (b) above:
      (1)   Town waterworks;
      (2)   All Public Utilities; and
      (3)   All news media.
This proclamation shall become effective at ______M on this __________ day of
__________, 20__, and shall remain in force until dissolved by the Mayor or
Governing Body of the Town of Rose Hill."
(Prior Code, § 3-3002) (Ord. passed 12-10-1974)
§ 35.99 PENALTY.
   The violation of any provision of this chapter or of any provision of any
restriction imposed by any proclamation authorized by this chapter shall
constitute a misdemeanor, punishable upon conviction by a fine not exceeding
$50 or imprisonment not exceeding 30 days, as provided by G.S. § 14-4.
(Prior Code, § 3-3003) (Ord. passed 12-10-1974)
CHAPTER 36: TOWN POLICIES
Section
   
36.01   Disposal of town property valued at less than $30,000
   
36.02   Posting of signs prohibiting the carrying of concealed weapons on town
property
§ 36.01 DISPOSAL OF TOWN PROPERTY VALUED AT LESS THAN $30,000.
   (A)   The Town Administrator is hereby authorized to dispose of any surplus
personal property owned by the town, whenever he or she determines, in his or
her discretion, that:
      (1)   The item or group of items has a fair market value of less than
$30,000;
      (2)   The property is no longer necessary for the conduct of public
business; and
      (3)   Sound property management principles and financial considerations
indicate that the interests of the town would best be served by disposing of
the property.
   (B)   The Town Administrator may dispose of any surplus personal property by
any means which he or she judges reasonably calculated to yield the highest
attainable sale price in money or other consideration, including, but not
limited to, the methods of sale provided in G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 12. The sale
may be public or private, and with or without notice and minimum waiting
period.
   (C)   The surplus property shall be sold to the party who tenders the
highest offer, or exchanged for any property or services useful to the town if
greater value may be obtained in that manner, and the Town Administrator is
hereby authorized to execute and deliver any applicable title documents. If no
offers are received within a reasonable time, the Town Administrator may retain
the property, obtain any reasonably available salvage value, or cause it to be
discarded. No surplus property may be donated to any individual or organization
except by resolution of the Board of Commissioners.
   (D)   The Town Administrator shall keep a record of all property sold under
authority of this section and that record shall generally describe the property
sold or exchanged, to whom it was sold, or with whom exchanged, and the amount
of money or other consideration received for each sale or exchange.
   (E)   This section is enacted pursuant to the provision of G.S. § 160A-266
(c).
(Ord. passed 7-13-1999; Ord. passed 10-13-2020)
§ 36.02 POSTING OF SIGNS PROHIBITING THE CARRYING OF CONCEALED WEAPONS ON TOWN
PROPERTY.
   (A)   Posting of signs required. The Board of Commissioners is hereby
authorized and instructed to post conspicuous signage at appropriate locations
on or within each park and each building or portion of a building owned, leased
as lessee, operated, occupied, managed, or controlled by the town, as well as
the appurtenant premises to the buildings, indicating that carrying a concealed
handgun is prohibited therein.
   (B)   Location of signs. Signs on buildings shall be visibly posted on the
exterior of each entrance by which the general public can access the building.
The Board of Commissioners shall exercise discretion in determining the number
and appropriate location of signs to be placed on or within appurtenant
premises and parks.
(Ord. passed 3-12-1996)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      Chapter
         
50.   WATER SHORTAGE RESPONSE
         
51.   CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
         
52.   SOLID WASTE COLLECTION
         
53.   SEWER USE
         
54.   WATER SUPPLY AND DISTRIBUTION
         
55.   WATER AND SEWER EXTENSIONS
CHAPTER 50: WATER SHORTAGE RESPONSE
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Introduction
   
50.02   Conservation pricing rates
Water Shortage Response Plan
   
50.15   Introduction
   
50.16   Authorization
   
50.17   Notification
   
50.18   Levels of response
   
50.19   Triggers
   
50.20   Enforcement
   
50.21   Public comment
   
50.22   Variance protocols
   
50.23   Effectiveness
   
50.24   Revision
 
   
50.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 INTRODUCTION.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the declaration of official
stages of water supply shortage situations and the implementation of the
respective voluntary, mandatory, and emergency (including water rationing)
water conservation measures and regulations throughout the town in the event a
water supply shortage is likely to occur or has occurred. The Water Shortage
Response Plan (WSRP), codified in §§
50.15 et seq. of this chapter, is to be used in conjunction with this
subchapter and prescribes penalties for water conservation violations. This
chapter should be accessible to all personnel responsible for water supply
shortage response at all times. In addition, this chapter should be made
available to the North Carolina Public Water Supply (NCPWS) upon request. In
the event that the information below should change or become dated, this
chapter shall be updated immediately.
(Ord. passed 10-9-2007; Am. Ord. passed 6-8-2010)
§ 50.02 CONSERVATION PRICING RATES.
   (A)   Upon the declaration of a water supply shortage, the Town Board of
Commissioners shall have the power to adopt water supply shortage rates by
ordinance designed to conserve water supplies.
   (B)   The rates may provide for, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Higher charges per unit for increasing usage (increasing block
rates);
      (2)   Uniform charges for water usage permit of use (uniform unit rate);
      (3)   Extra charges for use in excess of a specified level (excess
demand/drought surcharge rates); or
      (4)   Discounts for conserving water beyond specific levels.
(Ord. passed 10-9-2007; Am. Ord. passed 6-8-2010)
WATER SHORTAGE RESPONSE PLAN
§ 50.15 INTRODUCTION.
   The procedures herein are written to reduce potable water demand and
supplement existing drinking water supplies whenever existing water supply
sources are inadequate to meet current demands for potable water.
(Ord. passed 10-9-2007; Am. Ord. passed 6-8-2010)
§ 50.16 AUTHORIZATION.
   The Town Administrator shall enact the following water shortage response
provisions whenever the trigger conditions outlined in §
50.19 are met. In his or her absence, the Public Utilities Director will assume
this role.
Mrs. Angela Smith
Rose Hill Town Administrator
Phone: (910) 289-3159
E-mail: angela@townofrosehillnc.com
Mr. Blake Parker
Town of Rose Hill Public Utilities Director
Phone: (910) 284-0402
E-mail: bparker@townofrosehillnc.com
(Ord. passed 10-9-2007; Am. Ord. passed 6-8-2010; Ord. passed 4-11-2023)
§ 50.17 NOTIFICATION.
   The following notification methods will be used to inform water system
employees and customers of a water shortage declaration: employee e-mail
announcements, notices at municipal buildings, and notices in water bills.
Required water shortage response measures will be communicated through The
Duplin Times, PSA announcements on local radio and cable stations. Declaration
of emergency water restrictions or water rationing will be communicated to all
customers by any of the methods noted hereinabove or by telephone through use
of reverse 911.
(Ord. passed 10-9-2007; Am. Ord. passed 6-8-2010)
§ 50.18 LEVELS OF RESPONSE.
   Five levels of water shortage response are outlined below. The five levels
of water shortage response are: Voluntary Reductions, Mandatory Reductions I
and II, Emergency Reductions and Water Rationing. A detailed description of
each response level and corresponding water reduction measures follow below:
   (A)   Stage 1, Voluntary Reductions. Water users are encouraged to reduce
their water use and improve water use efficiency; however, no penalties apply
for noncompliance. Water supply conditions indicate a potential for shortage.
All water users will be asked to reduce their normal water use by 5%. Customer
education and outreach programs will encourage water conservation and
efficiency measures including: irrigating landscapes a maximum of one inch per
week; preventing water waste, including runoff and watering impervious
surfaces; watering plants deeply to encourage root growth; washing only full
loads in clothes and dishwashers; using spring-loaded nozzles on garden hoses;
and identifying and repairing all water leaks.
   (B)   Stage 2, Mandatory Reductions I. Water users must abide by required
water use reduction and efficiency measures; penalties apply for noncompliance.
Water supply conditions are significantly lower than the seasonal norm and
water shortage conditions are expected to persist. All customers are expected
to reduce their water use by 10% in comparison to their previous month's water
bill. In addition to continuing to encourage all voluntary reduction actions,
the following restrictions apply: irrigation is limited to one-half inch per
week between 8 p.m. and 8 a.m.; outdoor use of drinking water for washing
impervious surfaces is prohibited; and all testing and training purposes
requiring drinking water (e.g. fire protection) will be limited.
   (C)   Stage 3, Mandatory Reductions II. Same as Stage 2. Customers must
continue actions from all previous stages and further reduce water use by 20%
compared to their previous month's water bill. All nonessential uses of
drinking water are banned and garden and landscape irrigation must be reduced
to the minimum amount necessary for survival. Additionally, in Stage 3, a
drought surcharge of one and one-half times the normal water rate applies.
   (D)   Stage 4, Emergency Reductions. Water supply conditions are
substantially diminished and pose an imminent threat to human health or
environmental integrity. Customers must continue all actions from previous
stages and further reduce their water use by 25% compared to their previous
month's water bill. A ban on all use of drinking water except to protect public
health and safety is implemented and drought surcharges increase to two times
the normal water rate.
   (E)   Stage 5, Water Rationing. Water supply conditions are substantially
diminished and remaining supplies must be allocated to preserve human health
and environmental integrity. The goal is to provide drinking water to protect
public health (e.g. residences, residential health care facilities and
correctional facilities). In Stage 5, all customers are only permitted to use
water at the minimum required for public health protection. Firefighting is the
only allowable outdoor water use and pickup locations for distributing potable
water will be announced according to the town's Emergency Response Plan.
Drought surcharges increase to five times the normal water rate.
(Ord. passed 10-9-2007; Am. Ord. passed 6-8-2010)
§ 50.19 TRIGGERS.
   (A)   The town's water source is groundwater. The following measurements of
well pumping times and well levels in relationship to pump intake levels
trigger entry into corresponding water restriction stages.
Stage Well Operating Conditions
Stage Well Operating Conditions
1     Pumping Time > 10 hrs.
      20% reduction in seasonal normal distance from static water level and
      pump intake.
      20% increase in pumping time for same output.
2     Pumping Time > 12 hrs.
      40% reduction in distance from static water level and pump intake.
      40% increase in pumping time for same output.
3     Pumping Time > 14 hrs.
      60% reduction in distance from static water level and pump intake.
      60% increase in pumping time for same output.
4     Pumping Time > 20 hrs.
      80% reduction in distance from static water level and pump intake.
5     Water level at pump intake elevation.
 
   (B)   When water shortage conditions have abated and the situation is
returning to normal, water conservation measures employed during each phase
should be decreased in reverse order of implementation. Permanent measures
directed toward long-term monitoring and conservation should be implemented or
continued so that the community will be in a better position to prevent
shortages and respond to recurring water shortage conditions.
(Ord. passed 6-8-2010)
§ 50.20 ENFORCEMENT.
   The provisions of the Water Shortage Response Plan will be enforced by the
town utility department and police personnel. Violators may be reported to the
town's dedicated water conservation hotline.
(Ord. passed 6-8-2010)
§ 50.21 PUBLIC COMMENT.
   Customers will have multiple opportunities to comment on the provisions of
the Water Shortage Response Plan. First, a draft plan will be available at Town
Hall for customers to view. A notice will be included in customer water bill
notifying them of such. Also, a draft plan will be published in The Duplin
Times. All subsequent revisions to the draft plan will be published at least 30
days prior to an adoption vote by the Town Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 6-8-2010)
§ 50.22 VARIANCE PROTOCOLS.
   Applications for water use variance requests are available from the Town
Utility Office. All applications must be submitted to the Utility Office for
review by the Public Utilities Director or his or her designee. A decision to
approve or deny individual variance requests will be determined within two
weeks of submittal after careful consideration of the following criteria:
impact on water demand, expected duration, alternative source options, social
and economic importance, purpose (i.e. necessary use of drinking water) and the
prevention of structural damage.
(Ord. passed 6-8-2010)
§ 50.23 EFFECTIVENESS.
   The effectiveness of the Town Water Shortage Response Plan will be
determined by comparing the stated water conservation goals with observed water
use reduction data. Other factors to be considered include frequency of plan
activation, any problem periods without activation, total number of violation
citations, desired reductions attained and evaluation of demand reductions
compared to the previous year's seasonal data.
(Am. Ord. passed 6-8-2010)
§ 50.24 REVISION.
   The Water Shortage Response Plan will be reviewed and revised as needed to
adapt to new circumstances affecting water supply and demand, following
implementation of emergency restrictions, and at a minimum of every five years
in conjunction with the updating of our Local Water Supply Plan. Further, a
water shortage response planning work group will review procedures following
each emergency or rationing stage to recommend any necessary improvements to
the plan to the Town Board of Commissioners. The Town Public Utilities Director
is responsible for initiating all subsequent revisions.
(Ord. passed 6-8-2010)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Citations are assessed according to the following schedule depending
on the number of prior violations and current level of water shortage.
 
Water Shortage Level  First Violation Second Violation  Third Violation
Voluntary Reductions  N/A             N/A               N/A
Mandatory Reductions  Warning         $250              *Disc. of Service
(Stages 2 & 3)
Emergency Reductions  $250            *Disc. of Service *Disc. of Service
Water Rationing       $500            *Disc. of Service *Disc. of Service
*Disc. (abbreviation for "discontinuation")
 
   (B)   Drought surcharge rates are effective in Stages 3, 4 and 5.
(Ord. passed 10-9-2007; Am. Ord. passed 6-8-2010)
CHAPTER 51: CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
Section
   
51.01   General provisions
   
51.02   Definitions
   
51.03   Compliance with federal and state laws
   
51.04   Unlawful connections
   
51.05   Inspection of property
   
51.06   Right of access
   
51.07   Existing conditions
   
51.08   Hazardous uses
   
51.09   Other connections
   
51.10   Installation of containment devices
   
51.11   New construction
   
51.12   Notification of consumer
   
51.13   Change in nature of use
   
51.14   Consumer responsibilities
   
51.15   Testing and maintenance of devices
   
51.16   Enforcement
   
51.17   Limitation of liability
 
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Introduction.
      (1)   The purpose of this chapter is to define the authority of the Town
Public Works Department as the water purveyor in the elimination of all cross-
connections within its potable water supply.
      (2)   This chapter shall apply to all users connected to the public works
public potable water supply regardless of whether the user is located within
the city limits or outside the city limits.
      (3)   This chapter will comply with the Federal Safe Drinking Act, being
42 U.S.C. §§ 300 et seq., (Pub. L. No. 93-523), the State Administrative Code
(Title 15A, Subchapter 8C), and the State Building Code (Volume II) as they
pertain to cross-connections with the public water supply.
   (B)   Objectives. The specific objectives of this chapter for the Town
Public Works Department are as follows:
      (1)   To protect the public potable water supply of the town against
actual or potential contamination by isolating within the consumer's water
system, contaminates or pollutants which could, under adverse conditions,
backflow through uncontrolled cross-connections in to the public water system;
      (2)   To eliminate or control existing cross-connections, actual or
potential, between the consumer's potable water system(s) and nonpotable or
industrial piping system(s); and
      (3)   To provide a continuing inspection program of cross-connection
control which will systematically and effectively control all actual or
potential cross-connections which may be installed in the future.
   (C)   Responsibilities.
      (1)   Health agency.
         (a)   The State Department of Environment Health and Natural Resources
(Division of Health Services) has the responsibility for promulgating and
enforcing laws, rules, regulations, and policies to be followed in carrying out
an effective cross-connection control program.
         (b)   The State Division of Health Services also has the primary
responsibility of ensuring that the water purveyor operates the public potable
water system free of actual or potential sanitary hazards, including
unprotected cross-connections. They have the further responsibility of ensuring
that the water purveyor provides an approved water supply at the service
connection to the consumer's water system and, further, that he or she requires
the installation, testing, and maintenance of an approved backflow prevention
assembly on the service connection when required.
      (2)   Water purveyor.
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided herein, the water purveyor's
(public works) responsibility to ensure a safe water supply begins at the
source and includes all of the public water distribution system, including the
service connection, and ends at the point of delivery to the consumer's water
system(s). In addition, the water purveyor shall exercise reasonable vigilence
to ensure that the consumer has taken the proper steps to protect the public
potable water system. To ensure that the proper precautions are taken, the
Public Works Department is required to determine the degree of hazard or
potential hazard to the public potable water system; to determine the degree of
protection required; and to ensure proper containment protection through an on-
going inspection program.
         (b)   When it is determined that a backflow prevention assembly is
required for the protection of the public system, the Public Works Department
shall require the consumer, at the consumer's expense, to install an approved
backflow prevention assembly at each service connection, to test immediately
upon installation and thereafter at a frequency as determined by the Public
Works Department, to properly repair and maintain the assemblies and to keep
adequate records of each test and subsequent maintenance and repair, including
materials and or replacement parts.
      (3)   Plumbing inspections.
         (a)   The County Plumbing Inspection Department have the
responsibility to not only review building plans and inspect plumbing as it is
installed; but, they have the explicit responsibility of preventing cross-
connections from being designed and built into the plumbing systems within its
jurisdiction. Where the review of building plans suggests or detects the
potential for cross-connections being made an integral part of the plumbing
system, the Plumbing Inspector has the responsibility, under the State Building
Code, for requiring that the cross-connections be either eliminated or provided
with backflow prevention equipment approved by the State Building Code.
         (b)   The Plumbing Inspector's responsibility begins at the point of
delivery and continues throughout the entire length of the consumer's water
system. The Plumbing Inspector should inquire about the intended use of water
at any point where one is actually called for by the plans. When it is
discovered, it shall be mandatory that a suitable, approved backflow prevention
assembly approved by the State Building Code be required by the plans and be
properly installed. The primary protection assembly for containment purposes
only shall have approval from the Public Works Department, the State Building
Code, and the State Department of Environment Health and Natural Resources.
      (4)   Consumer. The consumer has the primary responsibility of preventing
pollutants and contaminants from entering his or her potable water system(s) or
the public potable water system. The consumer responsibility starts at the
point of delivery from the public potable water system and includes all of his
or her water system(s). The consumer, at his or her own expense, shall install,
operate, test, and maintain approved backflow prevention assemblies as directed
by the Public Works Department. The consumer shall maintain accurate records of
tests and repairs made to backflow prevention assemblies and shall maintain the
records for a minimum period of three years. The records shall be on forms
approved by the Public Works Department and shall include the list of materials
or replacement parts used. Following any repair, overhaul, repiping, or
relocation of an assembly, the consumer shall have it tested to ensure that it
is in good operating condition and will prevent backflow. Tests, maintenance,
and repairs of backflow prevention assemblies shall be made by a certified
backflow prevention assembly tester.
      (5)   Certified backflow prevention assembly tester. When employed by the
consumer to test, repair, overhaul, or maintain backflow prevention assemblies,
a backflow prevention assembly tester will have the following responsibilities.
The tester will be responsible for making competent inspections and for
repairing or overhauling backflow prevention assemblies and making reports of
the repair to the consumer and responsible authorities on forms provided and
approved by the Public Works Department. The tester shall include the list of
materials or replacement parts used. The tester shall be equipped with and be
competent to use all necessary tools guages or other equipment necesary to
properly test, repair and maintain backfiow prevention assemblies. It will be
the tester's further responsibility not to change the design, material, or
operational characteristics of an assembly. A certified tester shall perform
the work and be responsible for the competency and accuracy of all tests and
reports. A tester shall provide a copy of all test and repair reports to the
consumer and to the Public Works Department within ten business days of any
completed test or repair work. A tester shall maintain the records for a
minimum of three years.
(Ord. passed 6-10-2003)
§ 51.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR-GAP SEPARATION. An unobstructed vertical distance through the atmosphere
between the lowest opening from any pipe or faucet supplying water to a tank,
plumbing fixture, or other device and the flood level rim of the receptacle. An
approved air-gap vertical separation shall be at least double the diameter of
the supply pipe. In no case shall the air-gap be less than one inch.
   APPROVED. Certified in writing by the Public Utilities Director or his or
her designee as an acceptable device or methodology for the purpose of backflow
prevention.
   AUXILIARY INTAKE. Any piping connection or other device whereby water may be
secured from a source other than public water supply.
   BACKFLOW. Any flow of water into the public water supply from any other
source due to a cross-connection, auxiliary intake, interconnection,
backpressure, backsiphonage, any combination thereof, or other cause.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. An approved effective device method used to
prevent backflow from occurring in the potable water supply. The type of device
required shall be based on degree of hazard, existing or potential.
   BACKPRESSURE. Any pressure on any source of water other than the public
water supply that may be greater than the pressure on the public water supply
and may result in a backflow.
   BACKSIPHONAGE. Any circumstance in which the pressure on the public water
supply may be reduced to the point that the elevation and atmospheric pressure
on a source of water other than the public water supply may result in a
pressure to be greater than the pressure on the public water supply and may
result in a back flow.
   CERTIFIED TESTER. A person who has proven his or her competency to test,
repair, overhaul, and make reports on backflow prevention devices as evidenced
by certification of successful completion of a training program approved by the
Public Utilities Director or his or her designee.
   CONFINEMENT DEVICE. A backflow prevention device, as approved and required,
installed within a private plumbing or distribution system to isolate a
localized hazard from the remainder of the system.
   CONSUMER. Any person, firm, or corporation responsible for any property at
which water from the town public water supply is received. In the absence of
other parties or the failure of other parties to accept the responsibilities
herein set forth, the owner of record shall be ultimately responsible.
   CONTAINMENT DEVICE. A backflow prevention device, as approved and required,
installed at the point of separation between the public water supply and a
private service or private distribution system or at the point of metering.
   CONTAMINATION. The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic,
radiological, or biological) in water that tends to degrade its quality as to
constitute a hazard or impair the usefulness of the water.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical connection whereby the public water supply is
connected with any other water supply system, whether public or private, either
inside or outside of any building or buildings, in such a manner that a flow of
water into the public water supply is possible either through the manipulation
of valves or because of ineffective check or back-pressure valves, or because
of any other arrangement.
   CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL COORDINATOR. The official position established and
authorized by the town designated by the Public Utilities Director or his or
her designee to administer and interpret this section and who shall be a
certified tester.
   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. An approved assembly composed
of two single, spring-loaded independently operating check valves, including
tightly closing shut-off valves located at each end of the assembly, and having
suitable connections for testing the watertightness of each check valve.
   DUAL CHECK VALVE. An approved device containing two independently acting
check valves in series.
   FIRE LINE. A system of pipes and equipment used to supply water in an
emergency for extinguishing fire.
   INTERCONNECTION. Any system of piping or other arrangement whereby the
public water supply is connected directly with a sewer, drain, conduit, pool,
heat exchanger, storage reservoir, or other device which does or may contain
sewage or other waste or substance which would be capable of imparting
contamination to the public water supply.
   PRESSURE VACUUM BREAKER. An approved assembly containing an independently
operating spring loaded check valve and an independently operating loaded air
inlet valve located on the discharge side of the check valve. The assembly must
be equipped with suitable connections for testing the proper operation of the
device and tightly closing shut-off valves located at each end of the assembly.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY. The water and waterworks system of the town and its
customers outside the town limits, for general use and which supply is
recognized as the public water supply by the State Department of Environmental
Health and Natural Resources.
   REDUCED PRESSURE ZONE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE (RPZ). An
approved device containing within its structure, two spring-loaded
independently operating check valves, together with an automatically operating
pressure differential relief valve located between the two check valves. The
first check valve reduces the supply pressure a predetermined amount so that
during normal flow and at cessation of normal flow the pressure between the
checks shall be less than the supply pressures. In case of leakage of either
check valve, the differential relief valve, by discharging to the atmosphere,
shall operate to maintain the pressure between the check valves less than the
supply pressure. This device shall have suitable connections for testing the
proper operation of the device, including tightly closing shut-off valves
located at each end of the device.
(Ord. passed 6-10-2003)
§ 51.03 COMPLIANCE WITH FEDERAL AND STATE LAWS.
   The town will comply with the Federal Safe Drinking Water Act, the State
Drinking Water Act, and the State Building Code, which pertain to cross-
connections, auxiliary intakes, and interconnections, and establish an
effective ongoing program to control potential sources of contamination of the
public water supply.
(Ord. passed 6-10-2003)
§ 51.04 UNLAWFUL CONNECTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause a cross-connection, auxiliary
intake, or interconnection to be made; or allow one to exist for any purpose
whatsoever.
(Ord. passed 6-10-2003) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.05 INSPECTION OF PROPERTY.
   It shall be the duty, upon request of the Public Utilities Director, or his
or her designee, of the Cross-Connection Coordinator to cause inspections to be
made of properties served by the public water supply where cross-connections
with the public water supply are deemed possible. The frequency of inspections
and reinspections shall be set by the cross-connection backflow ORC.
(Ord. passed 6-10-2003)
§ 51.06 RIGHT OF ACCESS.
   The Public Utilities Director or his or her designee, or authorized
representative, shall have the right to enter, at reasonable times, any
nonresidential property served by a connection to the town public water supply
for the purpose of performing the duties of this chapter. In those cases in
which the property owner chooses not to provide the access, the Public
Utilities Director or his or her designee, or authorized representative, may
designate the location as a high hazard in accordance with §
51.08.
(Ord. passed 6-10-2003)
§ 51.07 EXISTING CONDITIONS.
   Any consumer shall be allowed 90 days to correct any cross-connections,
auxiliary intakes, interconnections, or other hazard as defined by §
51.08 in violation of the provisions of this chapter. The 90 days will be from
the date of receipt of the notification given by the Cross-Connection
Coordinator.
(Ord. passed 6-10-2003)
§ 51.08 HAZARDOUS USES.
   (A)   The following uses shall be classified as hazardous uses:
      (1)   Hazardous uses include, but are not limited to: pumps and tanks
handling sewage, radioactive, lethal, or toxic substances, boiler and steam
connections, sewer waste lines, low inlets to receptacles containing toxic
substances, coils or jackets used as heat exchangers, flush valve toilets
without vacuum breaks, bacterial and viral materials, private wells or other
private water supply, irrigation systems, water systems or hose connections,
with booster pumps, carbonation equipment, or similar hazard potential as
determined by the Cross-Connection Coordinator;
      (2)   Any location at which the nature or mode of operations within a
premises are such that frequent alterations are made to the plumbing or at
which there is a likelihood in the determination of the Cross-Connection
Coordinator that protective measures may be subverted, altered, or
disconnected; and
      (3)   Any facility which contains, but is not limited to, a bottling
plant, cannery, building having five or more stories, battery manufacturer,
exterminator, greenhouse, chemical processing plant, dairy, dye works, film
laboratory, car wash, hospital, commercial laboratory, laundry, metal
fabricating operations, mortuary, swimming pool, morgue, x-ray equipment,
medical office with laboratory, aspirator, medical washing equipment, packing
house, plating plant, poultry house, power plant, nuclear reactor, those fire
sprinkler systems equipped with facilities for introduction of freeze
preventive chemicals or other substances other than water, dental office, any
radioactive material, restaurant, shopping mall with tenant conducting any
activity listed in this section, and sewage pump or treatment facilities.
   (B)   All installations described in this section shall be deemed hazardous
uses, and must have a containment device in the form of a reduced pressure zone
backflow prevention device, provided that, if the consumer demonstrates to the
satisfaction of the Cross-Connection Coordinator that sufficient internal
confinement devices have been installed and tested. The Cross-Connection
Coordinator may require that the consumer provide engineering drawings sealed
by a professional engineer of installations within the premises, which provide
complete internal protection against cross-connection as approved by the Cross-
Connection Coordinator. Any connection shall be considered an other connection
for determining the type of containment device required. Each internal
confinement device shall be one of the following, as approved by the Public
Utilities Director or his or her designee or his or her authorized
representative: reduced pressure zone principle backflow prevention device,
double check valve backflow prevention device, air gap, vacuum break-pressure
type, or dual check valve. Each reduced pressure zone principal backflow
prevention device serving as an internal confinement device shall have a mesh
strainer immediately upstream of the inlet gate valve.
   (C)   No person shall fill any tanks or tankers which include the following:
those containing pesticides, fertilizers, other toxic chemicals or residues,
flush trucks, street sweepers, and nonpotable water tankers from a public water
system except with an approved air gap fill or an approved reduced pressure
backflow preventor properly installed on the tank or tanker or on the public
water supply fill pipeline or hose.
(Ord. passed 6-10-2003) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.09 OTHER CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Services to single-family residential units, not otherwise required by
this code to have other containment devices, may have a containment device in
the form of an approved dual check valve on all the services which meters are
applied more than 90 days following the date of adoption of this chapter, the
dual check valves or other containment devices as required shall be installed
by the owner's representative prior to the installation of the meter by the
Department of Public Utilities. On all the services for which meters have been
applied prior to that date, the dual check valve shall be installed by the
Department of Public Utilities, provided that the town reserves the right to
charge the owner or occupant of any residence for the cost of the device and
its installation. Maintenance of dual check valve containment devices installed
in accordance with this section shall be conducted by the Department of Public
Utilities. Testable containment devices that are required on lawn irrigation
water systems must be tested every three years by a contractor that has been
approved by the town.
   (B)   All other connections to the public water supply of the town shall
have containment devices in the form of a double check valve backflow
prevention device as set forth in this section. This shall include water mains
installed to town standard, and with town supervision, but which are not
maintained by the town, including, but not limited to, manufactured home parks,
apartments, group housing projects, and other private distribution systems, or
similar hazard potential as determined by the Public Utilities Director or his
or her designee, or his or her authorized representative. Private distribution
systems shall be configured so as to provide looped mains, with two or more
containment devices on each building water service connection and at dead-end
branch mains.
(Ord. passed 6-10-2003)
§ 51.10 INSTALLATION OF CONTAINMENT DEVICES.
   (A)   The containment devices shall be located off the street right-of-way
on the water main side of any plumbing connections. When installed in a
building, the device shall be located on the service line immediately after its
entrance into the building. Each containment and confinement device shall be
installed in a location that is physically accessible for inspection and
testing as determined by the Cross-Connection Coordinator. Containment devices,
which have been buried in the ground, do not satisfy the provisions of this
code. Each reduced pressure principle zone device shall be installed so that
flooding of the device is unlikely, as determined by the Cross-Connection
Coordinator.
   (B)   The Public Utilities Director or his or her designee shall maintain a
list of approved manufacturers and models of hazard containment devices and
drawings of standard installation, copies to be made available through the
office of the Public Utilities Director and the Chief Inspector's office. All
reduced pressure zone principle backflow prevention devices and double check
valve backflow prevention devices shall be approved by the Foundation for
Cross-Connection Control and Hydraulic Research. All vacuum breaks and dual
check valve devices shall be approved by the American Society for Sanitary
Engineers. All installations and materials shall conform to town standards as
set by the Public Utilities Director or his or her designee.
   (C)   In those cases in which containment and/or confinement devices have
been previously installed by prior owners, the town, or other parties, the
responsibility for maintenance, testing, and replacement as applicable shall be
with the consumer.
   (D)   The cost of the means of containment, and any other plumbing
modifications necessary and convenient thereto, and the testing and maintenance
thereof is to be paid for by the consumer.
(Ord. passed 6-10-2003)
§ 51.11 NEW CONSTRUCTION.
   All buildings proposing to connect to the public water system of the town
receiving building permits, on or after the effective date of this chapter,
shall be equipped with an approved and tested as properly functioning backflow
prevention device(s), as prescribed herein, prior to the issuance of a
certificate of code compliance for that building. If a building permit was
issued for the building prior to the effective date of this chapter, or a
building permit was not required, the building shall be considered to be an
existing building prior to the effective date, in accordance with §
51.05.
(Ord. passed 6-10-2003)
§ 51.12 NOTIFICATION OF CONSUMER.
   (A)   Upon identification of a hazard, or hazard potential, as defined in §§
51.08 and
51.09, the Cross-Connection Coordinator shall notify the consumer of record of
the property on which the hazard exists of the following:
      (1)   Location of hazard;
      (2)   Nature of hazard observed;
      (3)   Date hazard observed;
      (4)   Section of code applicable; and
      (5)   Requirements of code.
   (B)   The notification to be made by certified mail, with return receipt
requested.
(Ord. passed 6-10-2003)
§ 51.13 CHANGE IN NATURE OF USE.
   The Public Utilities Director or his or her designee shall be notified by
the consumer of the nature of use of the property changes so as to change the
hazard classification of that property, as set forth in §§
51.08 and
51.09.
(Ord. passed 6-10-2003)
§ 51.14 CONSUMER RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The consumer shall, upon notification, as defined in §
51.12, install the hazard containment device(s) as required within 90 days from
the date of notification.
   (B)   If, after expiration of 90 days, the containment device(s) has not
been installed in conformance with standards set by the Public Utilities
Director or his or her designee, in a proper working condition, the Public
Utilities Director or his or her designee may discontinue the public water
supply service at that premises, and service shall not be restored until the
devices have been installed. The Public Utilities Director or his or her
designee may permit an extension of up to 90 additional days if compliance
efforts are underway and the existence of hardship can be demonstrated.
   (C)   The town shall bear no liability for direct or consequential damages
proximately caused by the discontinuance of service pursuant to this section.
(Ord. passed 6-10-2003) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.15 TESTING AND MAINTENANCE OF DEVICES.
   The consumer at each property at which containment and/or confinement device
(s) have been installed, except those with devices installed in accordance with
§
51.09(A), shall have each containment and/or confinement device(s) tested on an
annual basis, and perform any routine maintenance to the device as recommended
by the manufacturer, and provide the Cross-Connection Coordinator with a report
of that inspection and work. The consumer shall cause the maintenance or
repairs to be made, rendering the device fully operational. Failure of the
consumer to perform that testing and maintenance shall be cause for the
premises to be deemed an immediate public health hazard. The Public Utilities
Director or his or her designee may immediately thereafter discontinue public
water supply service to that premises and service shall not be restored until
the devices have been rendered operational. Where the use of water is critical
to the continuance of normal operations or protection of life, property, or
equipment, duplicated containment or confinement devices shall be provided by
the property owner to avoid the necessity of discontinuing water service to
test or repair the device or devices.
(Ord. passed 6-10-2003) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.16 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Assessment. Any civil penalty shall be assessed by the Town
Administrator, upon the recommendation of the Public Utilities Director or his
or her designee, and shall be based upon the reasonable estimated cost of
correcting the cited violation, the magnitude of the potential risk posed to
the public health, safety, and welfare by the violation, and the cost of the
public safety or other emergency response caused by the violation. The Town
Administrator shall serve written notice of the civil penalty assessment on the
offender and set out with reasonable care the basis of the amount so assessed.
   (B)   Equitable relief. An appropriate equitable remedy, including a
mandatory or prohibitory injunction, issuing from a court of competent
jurisdiction may endorse the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Enforcement option. The penalties and enforcement provisions
established by this chapter may be applied in addition to or instead of the
penalties established by other sections of this code.
(Ord. passed 6-10-2003) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.17 LIMITATION OF LIABILITY.
   The town shall not be held liable, for any cause, for failure to detect any
unit failing to operate adequately, or failure to identify any specific hazard,
which may result in contamination of its public water supply, nor shall this
chapter diminish the responsibility of any property owner from whose property a
contamination of the public water supply may originate.
(Ord. passed 6-10-2003)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of any provision of this chapter may subject the offender to
a civil penalty to be recovered by the town in a civil action in the nature of
debt if the offender does not pay the penalty within 30 days after the
assessment has become final by exhaustion of the appeal process established by
this section, or by failure to appeal the assessment.
   (B)   The civil penalty for violation of any provision of this chapter shall
not exceed $500 per day for each day of continuous violation, or a cumulative
or single civil penalty of $10,000. The civil penalty for willful violation of
any provision of this chapter shall not exceed $1,000 per day for each day of a
continuous violation, or a cumulative or single civil penalty of $20,000.
(Ord. passed 6-10-2003)
CHAPTER 52: SOLID WASTE COLLECTION
Section
   
52.01   Refuse collection
   
52.02   Preparation for collection
   
52.03   Fees; billings; failure to pay
   
52.04   Collection frequency
 
   
52.99   Penalty
§ 52.01 REFUSE COLLECTION.
   (A)   Generally. The special regulations set forth below apply to the
preparation of garbage, trash, yard debris, and recyclable materials for
collection.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   A single-family residence shall have one roll cart container
provided by the town for storage of garbage during the interval between
collections by the town. Additional containers may be added where the residence
so warrants; advance approval of the Public Works Director or his or her
designee is required. Any additional container must be obtained through the
town to ensure compatibility with the towns' collection equipment.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, occupant, or tenant to deposit,
or permit to be deposited, any garbage arising from the use of the premises in
any place other than on the premises and in any container other than the
receptacle hereby required to be maintained. It shall be unlawful for the owner
or user to permit the garbage receptacle to remain uncovered.
      (3)   If the number of containers necessary to service a unit, apartment
building, mobile home park, commercial operation, industrial operation, or any
multiple-family dwelling complex, exceeds three in number, the Public Works
Director may require the use of one or more large containers (dumpsters). The
dumpsters or containers are to be at the expense of the user.
      (4)   Large containers (dumpsters) shall be made of metal and shall be of
a size, shape, and design to handle collection equipment.
      (5)   Trash shall be placed in the roll out cart and placed behind the
curb. Trash will be placed in one location so as to permit only one stop at
each location.
      (6)   Yard debris will be bagged, packaged, or otherwise containerized
for collection. It may be placed in a roll out container but may not be
combined with garbage. Yard debris which is too large for containerization will
be stacked or piled neatly behind the curbline or roadway edge at a location
which is accessible to collection equipment. The bulk collection does not
include leaves, grass clippings, or pine straw which must be containerized for
collection.
      (7)   Each residence shall have one recycling container provided by the
town for storage of recyclable materials during the interval between
collections. However, some commercial units may be provided with a cardboard
trailer for their collections.
      (8)   Roll-out refuse containers and recyclable containers shall be
placed behind the curbline or roadway edge of the property for collection,
(commercial unit's location must be approved the Public Works Director or his
or her designee) no earlier than the evening before scheduled collections and
no later than 7:00 a.m. on the day of collection. Containers shall be retrieved
and returned to the dwelling by the end of the collection day. It is the intent
of this section to minimize the aesthetic disruption resulting from permanently
locating carts at the curbside for extended periods of time.
      (9)   All containers shall be maintained in good condition. Damaged
containers will be replaced by the town at no cost to the resident, except that
damage which was caused as a result of the misuse or abuse by the users or
others will be the responsibility of the user.
      (10)   All containers are the property of the town and are assigned per
user. Containers will be imprinted with a control number for tracking. In the
event a unit is vacated, the container shall remain with the residence or be
returned to the town for reuse. If a user fails to return the container, the
cost of replacement will be the property owner's responsibility (i.e., water
deposit and ad valorem taxes).
(Ord. passed 3-13-2001) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.02 PREPARATION FOR COLLECTION.
   (A)   Generally. Occupants of every premise in the town shall follow the
standards set forth below for the preparation of garbage and trash for
collection.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   Garbage. Garbage shall be placed properly in an approved container,
as specified in §
52.01.
      (2)   Trash. Trash may be placed in a roll-out cart or shall be bagged,
bundled, packaged, boxed, or otherwise bound, tied, or secured into one-person
loads and placed adjacent to and behind the curbline or roadway edge for
collection. A one-person load shall not exceed four feet in length or 75 pounds
in weight.
      (3)   Yard debris. Leaves, grass trimmings, pine needles, and other yard
debris shall be bundled, bagged, packaged, or boxed into one-person loads, or
placed into roll-out containers, but not combined with garbage, and placed
adjacent to and behind the curbline or roadway edge.
      (4)   Tree and shrubbery trimmings. Any person desiring collection of
tree trimmings, hedge cuttings, or similar materials which are too large for
containerization shall place them behind the curbline at the street. The
materials must be placed in an orderly manner and neatly stacked. Piles larger
than a cord in size (four feet by four feet by eight feet) may require a
special collection which shall result in a collection charge to be determined
by the Public Works Director or his or her designee.
      (5)   Commercial operations that cut and prepare tree and shrubbery
trimmings. Branches, limbs, trimmings cut by landscaper or tree service
contractors, or other commercial workers, or resulting from vacant land being
cleared or developed, shall not be collected by the town. Heavy materials such
as tree trunks shall be cut into sections small enough for collection by bulk
collection equipment.
      (6)   Bulky items. Worn-out furniture, stoves, refrigerators, and the
like may be collected by appointment only if placed adjacent to and behind the
front curb or street edge. The extent of the town collection service shall not
be intended to include major deposits of unwanted or abandoned furniture,
appliances, or household incidentals, or construction materials resulting from
property owners cleaning out properties, or from major internal or external
renovations or modifications to their properties.
      (7)   Damage to bags or containers. It shall be unlawful to willfully
cut, slash, or upset containers or bags containing garbage, trash, or waste, or
disperse their contents.
      (8)   Throwing or depositing trash on public or private property. It
shall be unlawful for any person to throw or deposit upon any public street or
sidewalk or any private property, except by permission of the owner of the
property, any rocks, bricks, lumber, bottles, jars, broken glass, cans, paper
or plastic bags, or cups of any kind that may be offensive or unsightly or that
may be dangerous to traffic.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2001) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.03 FEES; BILLINGS; FAILURE TO PAY.
   (A)   The charges for garbage and refuse collection and disposal shall be
established by the Town Board of Commissioners from time to time, a schedule of
which shall be maintained in the office of the Town Clerk.
   (B)   The charges in division (A) above shall apply to each unit within the
town. A separate unit charge shall apply for each family or household occupancy
of any structure and for each separate commercial or industrial operation in
any structure or planned complex, based on the number and size of containers
being collected.
   (C)   Each separate residential or commercial entity charge provided for in
divisions (A) and (B) above shall be billed monthly and shall be payable with
the town's water and sewage billing. The charges, if unpaid, shall be a lien
upon the property involved and may be collected as provided in §
52.99(B).
   (D)   In the event the charges are not paid as provided for in division (C)
above, the town may discontinue further collection and removal of the garbage
and refuse from the property involved. Further placement of garbage and refuse
on the property shall be unlawful and shall be subject to all applicable health
and sanitation regulations and laws.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2001) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.04 COLLECTION FREQUENCY.
   (A)   Generally. Except as otherwise provided in this code, and except in
the case of holidays or emergencies arising from an act of God, or other
circumstances over which the town has no control, the Public Works Department
shall collect, remove, and dispose of all refuse in the town at least as
frequently as set forth below.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   Residential garbage collections shall be made on a regular schedule
of once each week.
      (2)   Recycling collections shall be made on a regular schedule of once
each week.
      (3)   Trash in residential areas that is properly prepared shall be
collected once each week. Collection of bulky items shall be by appointment.
      (4)   Commercial refuse shall be made at least once weekly, but
exceptions, not to exceed twice per week, may be made if approved by the Public
Works Director or his or her designee.
      (5)   Yard debris may be collected once weekly.
      (6)   The Public Works Director may change this schedule of collections
if the situations arise (i.e., holidays weather and the like), provided the
Town Administrator, Town Board of Commissioners, and the public shall be
informed of the change(s) as soon as practicable.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2001)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Violations of §
52.01(B)(8) shall result in two warnings, then a civil penalty of $25 which, if
unpaid within 30 days of issuance, may be assessed as a lien against the
subject real property, added to the town tax scroll, and collected as unpaid ad
valorem taxes. Thereafter, this procedure shall be repeated each time the
violation is detected.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2001)
CHAPTER 53: SEWER USE
Section
General Provisions
   
53.001   Purpose and policy
   
53.002   Definitions and abbreviations
General Sewer Use Requirements
   
53.015   Prohibited discharge standards
   
53.016   National Categorical Pretreatment Standards
   
53.017   Local limits
   
53.018   State requirements
   
53.019   Right of revision
   
53.020   Dilution
   
53.021   Pretreatment of wastewater
   
53.022   Accidental discharge and slug control plans
   
53.023   Hauled wastewater
Fees
   
53.035   Purpose
   
53.036   User charges
   
53.037   Surcharges
   
53.038   Pretreatment program administration charges
Wastewater Discharge Permit
Application and Issuance
   
53.050   Wastewater dischargers
   
53.051   Wastewater permits
Reporting Requirements
   
53.065   Baseline monitoring reports
   
53.066   Compliance schedule progress reports
   
53.067   Deadline for reports on compliance with categorical pretreatment
standards
   
53.068   Periodic compliance reports
   
53.069   Reports of changed conditions
   
53.070   Reports of potential problems
   
53.071   Reports from unpermitted users
   
53.072   Notice of violation; repeat sampling and reporting
   
53.073   Notification of the discharge of hazardous waste
   
53.074   Analytical requirements
   
53.075   Grab and composite sample collection
   
53.076   Timing
   
53.077   Record keeping
   
53.078   Electronic reporting
Compliance Monitoring
   
53.090   Monitoring facilities
   
53.091   Inspection and sampling
   
53.092   Search warrants
Confidential Information
   
53.095   Confidential information
Enforcement
   
53.100   Administrative remedies
   
53.101   Civil penalties
   
53.102   Other available remedies
   
53.103   Remedies not exclusive
   
53.104   Annual publication of significant noncompliance
   
53.105   Adjudicatory hearings
   
53.106   Affirmative defenses to discharge violations
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.001 PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   (A)   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for direct and indirect
contributors into the wastewater collection and treatment system for the town,
and enables it to comply with all applicable state and federal laws, including
the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.) and the General Pretreatment
Regulations (40 CFR pt. 403).
   (B)   The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants and wastewater discharges
into the municipal wastewater system, which will interfere with the operation
of the system or contaminate the resulting sludge;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants and wastewater discharges
into the municipal wastewater system, which will pass through the system,
inadequately treated, into any waters of the state or otherwise be incompatible
with the system;
      (3)   To promote the reuse and recycling of industrial wastewater and
sludges from the municipal system;
      (4)   To protect both municipal personnel who may be affected by sewage,
sludge and effluent in the course of their employment, as well as protecting
the general public;
      (5)   To provide for the equitable distribution of the cost of operation,
maintenance and improvement of the municipal wastewater system; and
      (6)   To ensure that the municipality complies with its NPDES or non-
discharge permit conditions, sludge use and disposal requirements, and any
other federal or state laws to which the municipal wastewater system is
subject.
   (C)   This chapter provides for the regulation of direct and indirect
contributors to the municipal wastewater system, through the issuance of
permits to certain non-domestic users and through enforcement of general
requirements for the other users, authorizes monitoring and enforcement
activities, requires user reporting, and provides for the setting of fees for
the equitable distribution of costs resulting from the program established
herein.
   (D)   This chapter shall apply to all users of the municipal wastewater
system as authorized by G.S. § 160A-312 and/or G.S. § 153A-275. The town shall
designate an administrator of the publicly owned treatment works (POTW) and
pretreatment program, hereafter referred to as the POTW Director. Except as
otherwise provided herein, the POTW Director shall administer, implement and
enforce the provisions of this chapter. Any powers granted to or imposed upon
the POTW Director may be delegated by the POTW Director to other town
personnel.
   (E)   By discharging wastewater into the town wastewater system, industrial
users located outside the town limits agree to comply with the terms and
conditions established in this chapter, as well as any permits, enforcement
actions or orders issued hereunder.
(Ord. passed 2-12-2013)
§ 53.002 DEFINITIONS AND ABBREVIATIONS.
   (A)   Definitions.  Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the
following terms and phrases, as used in this chapter, shall have the meanings
hereinafter designated.
      ACT or THE ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as
the Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
      APPROVAL AUTHORITY.  The Director of the Division of Water Quality of the
North Carolina Department of Environment and Natural Resources or his or her
designee.
      AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE INDUSTRIAL USER.
         (a)   If the industrial user is a corporation, AUTHORIZED
REPRESENTATIVE shall mean:
            1.   The president, secretary or a vice-president of the
corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who
performs similar policy or decision-making functions for the corporation; or
            2.   The manager of one or more manufacturing, production or
operation facilities, provided, the manager is authorized to make management
decisions that govern the operation of the regulated facility, including having
the explicit or implicit duty of making major capital investment
recommendations, and initiating and directing comprehensive measures to assure
long-term environmental compliance with environmental laws and regulations; can
ensure that the necessary systems are established or actions taken to gather
complete and accurate information for control-mechanism requirements; and where
authority to sign documents has been assigned or delegated to the manager in
accordance with corporate procedures.
         (b)   If the industrial user is a partnership or sole proprietorship,
an AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE shall mean a general partner or the proprietor,
respectively.
         (c)   If the industrial user is a federal, state or local government
facility, an AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE shall mean a director or the highest
official appointed or designated to oversee the operation and performance of
the activities of the government facility, or his or her designee.
         (d)   The individuals described in divisions (a) - (c) above may
designate another AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE if the authorization is in writing,
the authorization specifies the individual or position responsible for the
overall  operation of the facility from which the discharge originates, or
having overall responsibility for environmental matters for the company, and
the written authorization is submitted to the town.
         (e)   If the designation of an AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE is no longer
accurate because a different individual or position has responsibility for the
overall operation of the facility, or overall responsibility for environmental
matters for the company, a new authorization satisfying the requirements of
this section must be submitted to POTW Director prior to, or together with, any
reports to be signed by an authorized representative.
      BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures
for five days at 20°C, usually expressed as a concentration (e.g., mg/l).
      BUILDING SEWER.  A sewer conveying wastewater from the premises of a user
to the POTW.
      BYPASS. The intentional diversion of wastestreams from any portion of a
user’s treatment facility.
      CATEGORICAL STANDARDS.  National Categorical Pretreatment Standards or
Pretreatment Standard.
      CONTROL AUTHORITY.  Refers to the POTW organization if the POTW
organization’s pretreatment program approval has not been withdrawn.
      ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY or EPA.  The U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency, or where appropriate, the term may also be used as a
designation for the administrator or other duly authorized official of the
agency.
      GRAB SAMPLE.  A sample taken from a wastestream on a one-time basis,
without regard to the  flow in the wastestream, and over a period of time not
to exceed 15 minutes.
      HOLDING TANK WASTE.  Any waste from holding tanks, including, but not
limited to, such holding tanks as vessels, chemical toilets, campers, trailers,
septic tanks and vacuum-pump tank trucks.
      INDIRECT DISCHARGE or DISCHARGE. The discharge or the introduction from
any nondomestic source regulated under Section 307(b), (c) or (d) of the Act,
(33 U.S.C. § 1317), into the POTW (including holding tank waste discharged into
the system).
      INDUSTRIAL USER OR USER.  Any person that is a source of indirect
discharge.
      INTERFERENCE.  The inhibition or disruption of the POTW collection
system, treatment processes, operations, or its sludge process, use or
disposal, which causes or contributes to a violation of any requirement of the
POTW’s NPDES, collection system or non-discharge permit, or which prevents
sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance with specified, applicable state
and federal statutes, regulations or permits. The term includes prevention of
sewage sludge use or disposal by the POTW in accordance with Section 405 of the
Act, (33 U.S.C. § 1345), or any criteria, guidelines or regulations developed
pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA) (42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.),
the Clean Air Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Marine Protection
Research and Sanctuary Act (MPRSA), or more stringent state criteria (including
those contained in any state sludge management plan prepared pursuant to Title
IV of SWDA) applicable to the method of disposal or use employed by the POTW.
      MEDICAL WASTE.  Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and
blood products, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding,
surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes, and dialysis
wastes.
      NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREAT-MENT STANDARD or CATEGORICAL STAN-DARD.
Any regulation containing pollutant-discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in
accordance with Section 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1317), which
applies to a specific category of industrial users, and which appears in 40 CFR
Ch. 1, Subch. N, pts. 405-471.
      NATIONAL PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE STANDARD or PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE
STANDARD.  Absolute prohibitions against the discharge of certain substances;
these prohibitions appear in § 53.015 of this chapter and are developed under
the authority of Section 307(b) of the Act and 40 CFR, § 403.5.
      NEW SOURCE.
         (a)   Any building, structure, facility or installation from which
there may be a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced
after the publication of proposed categorical pretreatment standards under
Section 307(c) of the Act, which will be applicable to it if they are
thereafter promulgated in accordance with Section 307(c), provided that:
            1.   The building, structure, facility or installation is
constructed at a site at which no other source is located; or
            2.   The building, structure, facility or installation totally
replaces the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of
pollutants at an existing source; or
            3.   The production or wastewater-generating processes of the
building, structure, facility or installation are substantially independent of
an existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are
substantially independent, factors, such as the extent to which the new
facility is integrated with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new
facility is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing
source, should be considered.
         (b)   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located
results in a modification, rather than a NEW SOURCE, if the construction does
not create a new building, structure, facility or installation meeting the
criteria of division (a)2. and 3. above, but otherwise alters, replaces or adds
to existing process or production equipment.
         (c)   For purposes of this definition, construction of a NEW SOURCE
has commenced if the owner or operator has:
            1.   Begun, or caused to begin, as part of a continuous on-site
construction program:
               a.   Any placement, assembly or installation of facilities or
equipment; or
               b.    Significant site preparation work, including clearing,
excavation or removal of existing buildings, structures or facilities necessary
for the placement, assembly or installation of new source facilities or
equipment; or
            2.   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase
of facilities or equipment intended to be used in its operation within a
reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts that can be terminated or
modified without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility, engineering
and design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation under this
definition.
      NONCONTACT COOLING WATER.  Water used for cooling that does not come into
direct contact with any raw material, intermediate product, waste product or
finished product.
      NATIONAL POLLUTION DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM PERMIT or NPDES PERMIT. 
A permit issued pursuant to Section 402 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1342) or
pursuant to G.S. § 143-215.1 by the state under delegation from the EPA.
      NON-DISCHARGE PERMIT.  A permit issued by the state pursuant to G.S. §
143-215.1(d) for  a waste that is not discharged directly to surface waters of
the state, or for a wastewater treatment works that does not discharge directly
to surface waters of the state.
      PASS THROUGH.  A discharge that exits the POTW into waters of the state
in quantities or concentrations that, alone or with discharges from other
sources, causes a violation, including an increase in the magnitude or duration
of a violation, of the POTW’s NPDES, collection system, non-discharge permit or
a downstream water quality standard (even if not included in the permit).
      PERSON.  Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint-stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity or any other legal entity, or their legal representatives, agents or
assigns. This definition includes all federal, state and local government
entities.
      pH.  A measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a substance, expressed as
standard units, and calculated as the logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of
the concentration of hydrogen ions expressed in grams per liter of solution.
      POLLUTANT. Any “waste”, as defined in G.S. § 143-213(18), and dredged
spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage, garbage, sewage sludge,
munitions, medical wastes, chemical wastes, biological materials, radioactive
materials, heat, wrecked or discarded equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt and
industrial, municipal and agricultural waste, and certain characteristics of
wastewater (e.g., pH, temperature, TSS, turbidity, color, metals, BOD, COD,
toxicity and odor).
      POTW DIRECTOR. The chief administrative officer of the control authority
or his or her delegate.
      POTW TREATMENT PLANT. That portion of the POTW designed to provide
treatment to wastewater.
      PRETREATMENT.  The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination
of pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater prior to, or in lieu of, discharging or otherwise introducing such
pollutants into a POTW collection system and/or treatment plant. The reduction
or alteration may be obtained by physical, chemical or biological processes, or
process changes or other means, except as prohibited by 40 CFR pt. 403.6(d).
      PRETREATMENT PROGRAM.  The program for the control of pollutants
introduced into the POTW from non-domestic sources, which was developed by the
town in compliance with 40 CFR 403.8 and approved by the approval authority as
authorized by G.S. § 143-215.3(a)(14) in accordance with 40 CFR 403.11.
      PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS.  Any substantive or procedural requirement
related to pretreatment, other than a pretreatment standard.
      PRETREATMENT STANDARD.  Any prohibited discharge standard, categorical
standard or local limit that applies to an industrial user.
      PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW) or MUNICIPAL WASTEWATER SYSTEM.  A
treatment works, as defined by Section 212 of the Act, (33 U.S.C. § 1292),
owned in this instance by the town. This definition includes any devices or
systems used in the collection, storage, treatment, recycling and reclamation
of municipal sewage or industrial wastes of a liquid nature. It also includes
sewers, pipes and other conveyances only if they convey wastewater to the POTW
treatment plant. For the purposes of this chapter, POTW shall also include any
sewers that convey wastewaters to the POTW from persons outside the town who
are, by contract or agreement with the town, or in any other way, users of the
POTW of the town.
      SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE.  Substantial physical damage to property, damage
to the user’s treatment facilities that causes them to become inoperable, or
substantial and permanent loss of natural resources that can reasonably be
expected to occur in the absence of a bypass. SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE does not
mean economic loss caused by delays in production.
      SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER or SIU.  An industrial user that discharges
wastewater into a publicly owned treatment works and that:
         (a)   Discharges an average of 25,000 gallons per day or more of
process wastewater to the POTW (excluding sanitary, noncontact-cooling, and
boiler-blowdown wastewaters); or
         (b)   Contributes process wastewater that makes up 5% or more of the
NPDES or non-discharge, permitted-flow limit, or 5% or more of the maximum
allowable headworks loadings of the POTW treatment plant for any POTW pollutant
of concern; or
         (c)   Is subject to categorical pretreatment standards under 40 CFR
pt. 403.6 and 40 CFR Ch. 1, Subch. N, pts. 405-471; or
         (d)   Is designated as such by the control authority on the basis that
the industrial user has a reasonable potential for adversely affecting the
POTW’s operation, or for violating any pretreatment standard or requirement, or
for contributing to violations of the POTW’s effluent limitations and
conditions in its NPDES or non-discharge permit, or for contributing to
violations of the POTW’s receiving-stream standard, or for limiting the POTW’s
sludge-disposal options.
         (e)   Subject to Division approval under 15A NCAC 02H. 0907(b), the
control authority may determine that an industrial user meeting the criteria in
divisions (a) and (b) above has no reasonable potential for adversely affecting
the POTW’s operation, or for violating any pretreatment standards or
requirement, or for contributing to violations of the POTW’s effluent
limitations and conditions in its NPDES or non-discharge permit, or for
contributing to violations of the POTW’s receiving-stream standard, or for
limiting the POTW’s sludge-disposal options, and thus is not a SIGNIFICANT
INDUSTRIAL USER.
         (f)   Subject to Division approval under 15A NCAC 02H. 0907(b), the
control authority may determine that an industrial user meeting the criteria in
division (c) above meets the requirements of 40 CFR pt. 403.3(v)(2) and thus is
a non-significant categorical industrial user.
         (g)   Subject to Division approval under 15A NCAC 02H. 0907(b), the
control authority may determine that an industrial user meeting the criteria in
division (c) above meets the requirements of 40 CFR pt.403.12(e)(3), and thus
is a middle tier SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER. Sampling and inspection
requirements may be cut in half as per 40 CFR pts. 403.8 (f)(2)(v)(C) and
403.12 (e)(3).
      SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE or SNC. A status of noncompliance of a
significant industrial user when one or more of the following criteria are met.
Additionally, any industrial user that meets the criteria in division (c), (d)
or (h) below shall also be SNC.
         (a)   CHRONIC VIOLATIONS of wastewater discharge limits, defined here
as those in which 66% or more of all the measurements taken for the same
pollutant parameter (not including flow) during a six-month period exceed (by
any magnitude) a numeric pretreatment standard or requirement, including
instantaneous limits, as defined by 40 CFR pt. 403.3(1);
         (b)   TECHNICAL REVIEW CRITE-RIA (TRC) VIOLATIONS, defined here as
those in which 33% or more of all the measurements taken for the same pollutant
parameter during a six-month period equal or exceed the product of the numeric
pretreatment standard or requirement, including instantaneous limits, as
defined by 40 CFR pt. 403.3(1), multiplied by the applicable TRC (TRC of 1.4
for BOD, TSS, fats, oil and grease; TRC of 1.2 for all other pollutants (except
flow and pH));
         (c)   Any other violation of a pretreat-ment standard or requirement,
as defined by 40 CFR pt. 403.3(1) (daily maximum, long-term average,
instantaneous limit, or narrative standard) that the control authority and/or
the POTW determines has caused, alone or in combination with other discharges,
interference or pass through (including endangering the health of POTW
personnel or the general public);
         (d)   Any discharge of a pollutant or wastewater that has caused
imminent endangerment to human health, welfare or to the environment, or has
resulted in either the control authority’s or the POTW’s, if different from the
control authority, exercise of its emergency authority under 40 CFR pt. 403.8
(f)(l)(vi)(B) and § 53.100(E) of this chapter to halt or prevent such a
discharge;
         (e)   Violations of compliance-schedule milestones, contained in a
pretreatment permit or enforcement order, for starting construction, completing
construction, and attaining final compliance by 90 days or more after the
schedule date;
         (f)   Failure to provide reports for a compliance schedule, self-
monitoring data, baseline monitoring reports, 90-day compliance reports, and
periodic compliance reports within 45 days from the due date;
         (g)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance;
         (h)   Any other violation or group of violations that the control
authority determines will adversely affect the operation or implementation of
the local pretreatment program.
      SLUG LOAD or DISCHARGE. Any discharge at a flow rate or concentration
that has a reasonable potential to cause interference or pass through, or in
any other way violates the POTW’s regulations, local limits or industrial-user-
permit conditions. This can include, but is not limited to,  spills and other
accidental discharges; discharges of a non-routine, episodic nature; a non-
customary batch discharge; or any other discharges that can cause a violation
of the prohibited discharge standards in §
53.015 of this chapter.
      STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC). A classification pursuant to
the Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued in 1987 by the Executive
Office of the President, Office of Management and Budget.
      STORM WATER.  Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting therefrom.
      SUSPENDED SOLIDS.  The total suspended matter that floats on the surface
of, or is suspended in, water, wastewater or other liquids, and that is
removable by laboratory filtering.
      UPSET.  An exceptional incident in which there is unintentional and
temporary noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards because of
factors beyond the reasonable control of the user. An UPSET does not include
noncompliance to the extent caused by operational error, improperly designed
treatment facilities, inadequate treatment facilities, lack of preventive
maintenance, or careless or improper operation.
      WASTEWATER.  The liquid and water-carried industrial or domestic wastes
from dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities, mobile sources,
treatment facilities and institutions, together with any groundwater, surface
water, and storm water that may be present, whether treated or untreated, that
are contributed into or permitted to enter the POTW.
      WASTEWATER PERMIT. As set forth in §
53.051 of this chapter.
      WATERS OF THE STATE.  All streams, rivers, brooks, swamps, sounds, tidal
estuaries, bays, creeks, lakes, waterways, reservoirs, and all other  bodies or
accumulations of water, surface or underground, natural or artificial, public
or private, that are contained within, flow through, or border upon the state
or any portion thereof.
   (B)   This chapter is gender neutral and the masculine gender shall include
the feminine and vice-versa.
   (C)   "Shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissive or discretionary.
   (D)   The use of the singular shall be construed to include the plural, and
the plural shall include the singular as indicated by the context of its use.
   (E)   Abbreviations. The following abbreviations, when used in this chapter,
shall have the designated meanings:
      (1)   BOD - Biochemical oxygen demand;
      (2)   CFR - Code of Federal Regulations;
      (3)   COD - Chemical oxygen demand;
      (4)   EPA - Environmental Protection Agency;
      (5)   gpd - Gallons per day;
      (6)   G.S. - North Carolina General Statutes
      (7)   l - Liter;
      (8)   mg - Milligrams;
      (9)   mg/1 - Milligrams per liter;
      (10)   NPDES - National Pollution Discharge Elimination System;
      (11)   O&M - Operation and maintenance;
      (12)   POTW - Publicly owned treatment works;
      (13)   RCRA - Resource Conservation and Recovery Act;
      (14)   SIC - Standard industrial classification;
      (15)   SWDA - Solid Waste Disposal Act;
      (16)   TSS - Total suspended solids;
      (17)   TKN - Total Kjeldahl nitrogen;
      (18)   U.S.C. - United States Code.
(Ord. passed 2-12-2013)
GENERAL SEWER USE REQUIREMENTS
§ 53.015 PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS.
   (A)   General prohibitions.  No user shall contribute or cause to be
contributed into the POTW, directly or indirectly, any pollutant or wastewater
that causes interference or pass through. These general prohibitions apply to
all users of a POTW, whether or not the user is a significant industrial user,
or subject to any national, state or local pretreatment standards or
requirements.
   (B)   Specific prohibitions.  No user shall contribute or cause to be
contributed into the POTW the following pollutants, substances or wastewater:
      (1)   Pollutants that create a fire or explosive hazard in the POTW,
including, but not limited to, wastestreams with a closed cup flashpoint of
less than 140°F (60°C), using the test methods specified in 40 CFR 261.21;
      (2)   Solid or viscous substances in amounts that will cause obstruction
of the flow in the POTW, resulting in interference, but in no case solids
greater than one-half inch in any dimension;
      (3)   Petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil, or products of
mineral-oil origin, in amounts that will cause interference or pass through;
      (4)   Any wastewater having a pH less than 5.0 or more than 9.0, or
wastewater having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage to the
POTW or equipment;
      (5)   Any wastewater containing pollutants, including oxygen-demanding
pollutants (BOD and the like), in sufficient quantity (flow or concentration),
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to cause interference
with the POTW;
      (6)   Any wastewater having a temperature greater than 150°F (66°C), or
that will inhibit biological activity in the POTW treatment plant, resulting in
interference, but in no case wastewater that causes the temperature at the
introduction into the treatment plant to exceed 104°F (40°C);
      (7)   Any pollutants that result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors
or fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems;
      (8)   Any trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points
designated by the POTW Director in accordance with §
53.023 of this chapter;
      (9)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases or solids, or other
wastewater that, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are
sufficient to create a public nuisance or hazard to life, or are sufficient to
prevent entry into the sewers for maintenance and repair;
      (10)   Any substance that may cause the POTW’s effluent, or any other
product of the POTW such as residues, sludges or scums, to be unsuitable for
reclamation and reuse, or to interfere with the reclamation process. In no case
shall a substance discharged to the POTW cause the POTW to be in noncompliance
with sludge use or disposal regulations or permits issued under Section 405 of
the Act; the Solid Waste Disposal Act, the Clean Air Act, the Toxic Substances
Control Act, or state criteria applicable to the sludge management method being
used;
      (11)   Any wastewater that imparts color that cannot be removed by the
treatment process, including, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions, that consequently imparts sufficient color to the treatment
plant’s effluent to render the waters injurious to public health or secondary
recreation, or to aquatic life and wildlife, or to adversely affect the
palatability of fish, or the aesthetic quality or impair the receiving waters
for any designated uses;
      (12)   Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes,
except as specifically approved by the POTW Director in compliance with
applicable state or federal regulations.
      (13)   Storm water, surface water, ground water, artesian well water,
roof runoff, subsurface drainage, swimming pool drainage, condensate, deionized
water, noncontact cooling water and unpolluted industrial wastewater, unless
specifically authorized by the POTW Director;
      (14)   Fats, oils or greases of animal or vegetable origin, in
concentrations greater than 100 mg/l, unless authorized by the POTW Director;
      (15)   Any sludges, screenings or other residues from the pretreatment of
industrial wastes;
      (16)   Any medical wastes, except as specifically authorized by the POTW
Director in a wastewater discharge permit;
      (17)   Any material containing ammonia, ammonia salts or other chelating
agents that will produce metallic complexes that interfere with the municipal
wastewater system;
      (18)   Any material that would be identified as hazardous waste,
according to 40 CFR pt. 261, if notdisposed of in a sewer, except as may be
specifically authorized by the POTW Director;
      (19)   Any wastewater causing the treatment plant effluent to violate
state water quality standards for toxic substances as described in 15A NCAC 2B.
0200;
      (20)   Wastewater causing, alone or in conjunction with other sources,
the treatment plant’s effluent to fail a toxicity test;
      (21)   Recognizable portions of the human or animal anatomy;
      (22)   Any wastes containing detergents, surface active agents, or other
substances that may cause excessive foaming in the municipal wastewater system;
      (23)   At no time shall two successive readings on an explosion hazard
meter, at the point of discharge into the system (or at any point in the
system) be more than 5%, nor shall there be any single reading over 10% of the
lower explosive limit (LEL) of the meter;
   (B)   Pollutants, substances, wastewater or other wastes prohibited by this
section shall not be processed or stored in such a manner that they could be
discharged to the municipal wastewater system. All floor drains located in
process or materials-storage areas must discharge to the industrial user’s
pretreatment facility before connecting with the system.
   (C)   When the POTW Director determines that a user(s) is contributing to
the POTW, any of the above-enumerated substances in such amounts that may cause
or contribute to interference of POTW operation or pass through, the POTW
Director shall:
      (1)   Advise the user(s) of the potential impact of the contribution on
the POTW in accordance with §
53.100; and
      (2)   Take appropriate actions in accordance with §§
53.050 et seq. for such user to protect the POTW from interference or pass
through.
(Ord. passed 2-12-2013)
§ 53.016 NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   Users subject to categorical pretreatment standards are required to comply
with applicable standards as set out in 40 CFR Ch. 1, Subch. N, pts. 405-471
and incorporated herein.
   (A)   Where a categorical pretreatment standard is expressed only in terms
of either the mass or the concentration of a pollutant in wastewater, the POTW
Director may impose equivalent concentration or mass limits in accordance with
40 CFR 403.6(c).
   (B)   When wastewater subject to a categorical pretreatment standard is
mixed with wastewater not regulated by the same standard, the POTW Director
shall impose an alternate limit using the combined wastestream formula in 40
CFR 403.6(e).
   (C)   A user may obtain a variance from a categorical pretreatment standard
if the user can prove, pursuant to the procedural and substantive provisions in
40 CFR 403.13, that factors relating to its discharge are fundamentally
different from the factors considered by the EPA when developing the
categorical pretreatment standard.
   (D)   A user may obtain a net gross adjustment to a categorical standard in
accordance with 40 CFR 403.15.
   (E)   A user may request a removal credit adjustment to a categorical
standard in accordance with 40 CFR 403.7.
(Ord. passed 2-12-2013)
§ 53.017 LOCAL LIMITS.
   (A)   An industrial waste survey is required prior to a user discharging
wastewater containing in excess of the following average discharge limits.
BOD            300 mg/1
TSS            300 mg/1
Total nitrogen 50 mg/1
NH3            25 mg/1
Arsenic        0.003 mg/1
Cadmium        0.0015 mg/1
Chromium       0.05 mg/1 (total chromium)
Copper         0.061 mg/l
Cyanide        0.015 mg/1
Lead           0.003 mg/l
Mercury        0.0003 mg/1
Nickel         0.021 mg/1
Silver         0.005 mg/1
Zinc           0.175 mg/1
 
   (B)   Industrial waste survey information will be used to develop user-
specific local limits when necessary to ensure that the POTW’s maximum
allowable headworks loadings are not exceeded for particular pollutants of
concern. User-specific local limits for appropriate pollutants of concern shall
be included in wastewater permits. The POTW Director may impose mass-based
limits in addition to, or in place of concentration-based limits.
(Ord. passed 2-12-2013)
§ 53.018 STATE REQUIREMENTS.
   State requirements and limitations on discharges shall apply in any case
where they are more stringent than federal requirements and limitations or
those in this chapter.
(Ord. passed 2-12-2013)
§ 53.019 RIGHT OF REVISION.
   The town reserves the right to establish limitations and requirements that
are more stringent than those required by either state or federal regulation if
deemed necessary to comply with the objectives presented in §
53.001 of this chapter, or the general and specific prohibitions in §
53.015 of this chapter, as is allowed by 40 CFR 403.4.
(Ord. passed 2-12-2013)
§ 53.020 DILUTION.
   No user shall ever increase the use of process water or, in any way, attempt
to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in the national
categorical pretreatment standards, unless expressly authorized by an
applicable pretreatment standard, or in any other pollutant-specific limitation
developed by the town or state.
(Ord. passed 2-12-2013)
§ 53.021 PRETREATMENT OF WASTEWATER.
   (A)   Pretreatment facilities. Users shall provide wastewater treatment as
necessary to comply with this chapter and wastewater permits issued under §
53.051 of this chapter, and shall achieve compliance with all national
categorical pretreatment standards, local limits and the prohibitions set out
in §
53.015 of this chapter, within the time limitations as specified by the EPA,
the state or the POTW Director, whichever is more stringent. Any facilities
necessary for compliance shall be provided, operated and maintained at the
user’s expense. Detailed plans showing the pretreatment facilities and
operating procedures shall be submitted to the town for review, and shall be
approved by the POTW Director before construction of the facility. The review
of such plans and operating procedures shall in no way relieve the user from
the responsibility of modifying the facility as necessary to produce an
effluent acceptable to the town under the provisions of this chapter. Any
subsequent changes in the pretreatment facilities or method of operation shall
be reported to and be approved by the POTW Director prior to the user’s
initiation of the changes.
   (B)   Additional pretreatment measures.
      (1)   Whenever deemed necessary, the POTW Director may require users to
restrict their discharge during peak flow periods, designate that certain
wastewater be discharged only into specific sewers, relocate and/or consolidate
points of discharge, separate sewage wastestreams from industrial wastestreams,
and such other conditions as may be necessary to protect the POTW, and
determine the user’s compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   The POTW Director may require any person discharging into the POTW
to install and maintain, on their property and at their expense, a suitable
storage and flow-control facility to ensure equalization of flow. A wastewater
discharge permit may be issued solely for flow equalization.
      (3)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the POTW Director, they are necessary for the proper handling of
wastewater containing excessive amounts of grease and oil, or sand; except that
they shall not be required for residential users. All interception units shall
be of a type and capacity approved by the POTW Director, and shall be so
located to be easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. Such interceptors
shall be inspected, cleaned and repaired regularly, as needed, by the user at
the user’s expense.
      (4)   Users with the potential to discharge flammable substances may be
required to install and maintain an approved, combustible-gas-detection meter.
(Ord. passed 2-12-2013)
§ 53.022 ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE AND SLUG CONTROL PLANS.
   (A)   The POTW Director shall evaluate whether each significant industrial
user needs a plan or other action to control and prevent slug discharges and
accidental discharges as defined in § 53.002(A). All SIUs must be evaluated
within one year of being designated an SIU. The POTW Director may require any
user to develop, submit for approval, and implement such a plan or other
specific action. Alternatively, the POTW Director may develop such a plan for
any user.
   (B)   All SIUs are required to notify the POTW immediately of any changes at
its facility affecting the potential for spills and other accidental discharge,
discharge of a non-routine, episodic nature, a non-customary batch discharge,
or a slug load. See also §§
53.069 and
53.070.
   (C)   An accidental discharge and slug control plan shall address, at a
minimum, the following:
      (1)   A description of discharge practices, including non-routine batch
discharges;
      (2)    A description of stored chemicals;
      (3)   Procedures for immediately notifying the POTW Director of any
accidental or slug discharge, as required by §
53.070 of this chapter; and
      (4)   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or slug
discharge. Such procedures include, but are not limited to, inspection and
maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and
unloading operations, control of plant-site runoff, worker training, building
of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic organic
pollutants, including solvents, and/or measures and equipment for emergency
response.
(Ord. passed 2-12-2013)
§ 53.023 HAULED WASTEWATER.
   (A)   Septic tank waste may be introduced into the POTW only at locations
designated by the POTW Director, and at such times as are established by the
POTW Director. Such waste shall not violate §§
53.015 et seq. of this chapter or any other requirements established by the
town. The POTW Director may require septic tank waste haulers to obtain
wastewater discharge permits.
   (B)   The POTW Director shall require haulers of industrial waste to obtain
wastewater discharge permits. The POTW Director may require generators of
hauled industrial waste to obtain wastewater discharge permits. The POTW
Director also may prohibit the disposal of hauled industrial waste. The
discharge of hauled industrial waste is subject to all other requirements of
this chapter.
   (C)   Industrial waste haulers may discharge loads only at locations
designated by the POTW Director. No load may be discharged without prior
consent of the POTW Director. The POTW Director may collect samples of each
hauled load to ensure compliance with applicable standards. The POTW Director
may require the industrial waste hauler to provide a waste analysis of any load
prior to discharge.
   (D)   Industrial waste haulers must provide a waste-tracking form for every
load. This form shall include, at a minimum, the name and address of the
industrial waste hauler, the permit number, truck identification, names and
addresses of sources of waste, and the volume and characteristics of waste. The
form shall identify the type of industry, known or suspected waste
constituents, and whether any wastes are RCRA hazardous wastes.
(Ord. passed 2-12-2013)
FEES
§ 53.035 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to provide for the recovery of costs from
users of the wastewater disposal system of the town for the implementation of
the program established herein. The applicable charges or fees shall be set
forth in a schedule of sewer use charges and fees by the POTW Director and
approved by the Town Board. A copy of these charges and fees will be made
available from the POTW Director.
(Ord. passed 2-12-2013)
§ 53.036 USER CHARGES.
   A user charge shall be levied on all users, including, but not limited to,
persons, firms, corporations or governmental entities that discharge, cause or
permit the discharge of sewage into the POTW.
   (A)   The user charge shall reflect, at least, the cost of debt service,
operation and maintenance (including replacement) of the POTW.
   (B)   Each user shall pay its proportionate cost based on volume of flow.
   (C)   The manager of the town shall review annually the sewage contributions
of users, the total costs of debt service, operation and maintenance of the
POTW, and will make recommendations to the council or board serving the town
for adjustments in the schedule of charges and fees as necessary.
   (D)   Charges for flow to the POTW not directly attributable to the users
shall be distributed among all users of the POTW based upon the volume of flow
of the users.
(Ord. passed 2-12-2013)
§ 53.037 SURCHARGES.
   The amount of the surcharges will be based upon the volume of flow and the
character and concentration of the constituents of the wastewater.
   (A)   The volume of flow used in determining the total discharge of
wastewater for payment of user charges and surcharges shall be based on the
following:
      (1)   Metered water consumption as shown in the records of meter readings
maintained by the town; or
      (2)   If required by the town or at the individual discharger’s option,
other flow-monitoring devices that measure the actual volume of wastewater
discharged to the sewer. Such devices shall be accessible and safely located,
and the measuring system shall be installed in accordance with plans approved
by the town. The metering system shall be installed and maintained at the
user's expense according to arrangements that may be made with the town.
      (3)   Where any user procures all or part of his or her water supply from
sources other than the town, the user shall install and maintain, at his or her
own expense, a flow-measuring device of a type approved by the town.
   (B)   The character and concentration of the constituents of the wastewater
used in determining surcharges shall be determined by samples collected and
analyzed by the town. Samples shall be collected in such a manner as to be
representative of the actual discharge, and shall be analyzed using procedures
set forth in 40 CFR pt.136.
   (C)   The determination of the character and concentration of the
constituents of the wastewater discharge by the POTW Director, or his or her
duly appointed representatives, shall be binding as a basis for charges.
(Ord. passed 2-12-2013)
§ 53.038 PRETREATMENT PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION CHARGES.
   The schedule of charges and fees adopted by the town may include charges and
fees for:
   (A)   Reimbursement of costs of setting up and operating the pretreatment
program;
   (B)   Monitoring, inspections and surveillance procedures;
   (C)   Reviewing slug control plans, including accidental and/or slug load
discharge procedures and construction plans and specifications;
   (D)   Permitting;
   (E)   Other fees as the town may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements of the pretreatment program.
(Ord. passed 2-12-2013)
WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT APPLICATION AND ISSUANCE
§ 53.050 WASTEWATER DISCHARGERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to connect or discharge to the POTW
without first obtaining the permission of the town. When requested by the POTW
Director, a user must submit information on the nature and characteristics of
its wastewater within 30 days of the request. The POTW Director is authorized
to prepare a form for this purpose and may periodically require users to update
this information.
(Ord. passed 2-12-2013)
§ 53.051 WASTEWATER PERMITS.
   All significant industrial users shall obtain a significant industrial user
permit prior to the commencement of discharge to the POTW. Existing industrial
users determined by the POTW Director to be significant industrial users shall
obtain a significant industrial user permit within 180 days of receiving
notification of the POTW Director’s determination. Industrial users who do not
fit the significant industrial user criteria may, at the discretion of the POTW
Director, be required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit for non-
significant industrial users.
   (A)   Significant industrial user determination. All persons proposing to
discharge non-domestic wastewater, or proposing to change the volume or
characteristics of an existing discharge of non-domestic wastewater, shall
request from the POTW Director a significant industrial user determination. If
the POTW Director determines or suspects that the proposed discharge fits the
significant industrial user criteria he or she will require that a significant
industrial user permit application be filed.
   (B)   Significant industrial user permit application. Users required to
obtain a significant industrial user permit shall complete and file with the
town, an application in the form prescribed by the POTW Director, and
accompanied by an application fee in the amount prescribed in the schedule of
charges and fees. Significant industrial users shall apply for a significant
industrial user permit within 90 days after notification of the POTW Director’s
determination in division (A) above. The application shall include at a
minimum:
      (1)   The name of the industrial user;
      (2)   The address of the industrial user;
      (3)   The standard industrial classification (SIC) code(s) or expected
classification and industrial user category;
      (4)   The wastewater flow;
      (5)   The types and concentrations (or mass) of pollutants contained in
the discharge;
      (6)   The major products manufactured or services supplied;
      (7)   A description of existing on-site pretreatment facilities and
practices;
      (8)   The locations of discharge points;
      (9)   The raw materials used or stored at the site;
      (10)   A flow diagram or sewer map for the industrial user;
      (11)   The number of employees;
      (12)   Operation and production schedules; and
      (13)   A description of current and projected waste reduction activities
in accordance with G.S. § 143-215.1(g).
   (C)   Application signatories and certification. All wastewater discharge
permit applications and user reports must be signed by the current authorized
representative of the user on file with the control authority and/or
municipality, as defined in §
53.002(A), and contain the following certification statement:
      "I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments
were prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system
designed to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the
information submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage
the system, or those persons directly responsible for gathering the
information, the information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and
belief, true, accurate and complete. I am aware that there are significant
penalties for submitting false information, including the possibility of fine
and imprisonment for knowing violations."
   (D)   Application review and evaluation. The POTW Director will evaluate the
data furnished by the user and may require additional information.
      (1)   The POTW Director is authorized to accept applications for the town
and shall refer all applications to the POTW staff for review and evaluation.
      (2)   Within 30 days of receipt, the POTW Director shall acknowledge and
accept the complete application; or if not complete, shall return the
application to the applicant with a statement of what additional information is
required.
   (E)   Tentative determination and draft permit.
      (1)   The POTW staff shall conduct a review of the application and an on-
site inspection of the significant industrial user, including any pretreatment
facilities, and shall prepare a written evaluation and tentative determination
to issue or deny the significant industrial user permit.
      (2)   If the staff’s tentative determination in division (E)(1) above is
to issue the permit, the following additional determinations shall be made in
writing;
         (a)   Proposed discharge limitations for those pollutants proposed to
be limited;
         (b)   A proposed schedule of compliance, including interim dates and
requirements, for meeting the proposed limitations; and
         (c)   A brief description of any other proposed special conditions
that will have significant impact upon the discharge described in the
application.
      (3)   The staff shall organize the determinations made pursuant to
division (E)(1) and (2) above, and the general permit conditions of the town
into a significant industrial user permit.
   (F)   Permit-supporting documentation. The control authority staff shall
prepare the following documents for all significant industrial user permits.
      (1)   An allocation table (AT), listing permit information for all
significant industrial users, including, but not limited to, permit limits,
permit effective and expiration dates, and a comparison of total permitted
flows and loads with Division-approved, maximum allowable loadings of the POTW,
including flow, on forms or in a format approved by the Division. The AT shall
be updated as permits are issued or renewed, and as permits are modified where
the permitted limits or other AT information is revised.
      (2)   The basis, or rationale, for the pretreatment limitations,
including the following:
         (a)   Documentation of categorical determination, including
documentation of any calculations used in applying categorical pretreatment
standards; and
         (b)   Documentation of the rationale of any parameters for which
monitoring has been waived under 40 CFR pt.403.12(e)(2).
   (G)   Final action on significant industrial user permit applications.
      (1)   The POTW Director shall take final action on all applications not
later than 90 days following the receipt of a complete application.
      (2)   The POTW Director is authorized to:
         (a)   Issue a significant industrial user permit containing such
conditions as are necessary to effectuate the purposes of this chapter and G.S.
§ 143-215.1;
         (b)   Issue a significant industrial user permit containing time
schedules for achieving compliance with applicable pretreatment standards and
requirements;
         (c)   Modify any permit upon not less than 60 days notice and pursuant
to division (I) below;
         (d)   Revoke any permit pursuant to §
53.100 of this chapter;
         (e)   Suspend a permit pursuant to §
53.100 of this chapter;
         (f)   Deny a permit application when, in the opinion of the POTW
Director, such discharge may cause or contribute to pass through or
interference of the wastewater treatment plant, or where necessary to
effectuate the purposes of G.S. § 143-215.1.
   (H)   Permit modification.
      (1)   Modifications of permits shall be subject to the same procedural
requirements as the issuance of permits, except as listed below. Any changes or
new conditions in the permit shall include a reasonable time schedule for
compliance.
         (a)   Changes in the ownership of the discharge when no other change
in the permit is indicated.
         (b)   A single modification of any compliance schedule not in excess
of four months.
         (c)   Modification of compliance schedules (construction schedules) in
permits for new sources where the new source will not begin to discharge until
control facilities are operational.
      (2)   Within nine months of the promulgation of a national categorical
pretreatment standard, the wastewater discharge permit of users subject to such
standards shall be revised to require compliance with such standard within the
time frame prescribed by such standard. Where a user, subject to a national
categorical pretreatment standard, has not previously submitted an application
for a wastewater discharge permit as required by division (B) above, the user
shall apply for a wastewater discharge permit within 180 days after the
promulgation of the applicable national categorical pretreatment standard.
      (3)   A request for a modification by the permittee shall constitute a
waiver of the 60-day notice required by G.S. § 143-215.1(b) for modifications.
   (I)   Permit conditions.
      (1)   The POTW Director shall have the authority to grant a permit with
such conditions attached as he or she believes necessary to achieve the purpose
of this chapter and G.S. § 143-215.1. Wastewater permits shall contain, but are
not limited to, the following:
         (a)   A statement of duration (in no case more than five years);
         (b)   A statement of non-transferability;
         (c)   Applicable effluent limits based on categorical standards or
local limits or both;
         (d)   Applicable monitoring, sampling, reporting, notification and
record-keeping requirements. These requirements shall include an identification
of pollutants to be monitored, sampling location, sampling frequency and sample
type based on federal, state and local law;
         (e)   Requirements for notifying the POTW in the event of an
accidental discharge or slug load as defined in §
53.002(A);
         (f)   Requirements to implement a plan or other controls for the
prevention of accidental discharges and/or slug loads as defined in §
53.002(A), if determined by the POTW Director to be necessary for the user;
         (g)   Requirements for immediately notifying the POTW of any changes
at its facility affecting the potential for spills and other accidental
discharges, or slug load as defined in §
53.002(A). See also §§
53.069 and
53.070;
         (h)   A statement of applicable civil and/or criminal penalties for
violation of pretreatment standards and requirements and any applicable
compliance schedule.
      (2)   In addition, permits may contain, but are not limited to, the
following:
         (a)   Limits on the average and/or maximum rate of discharge, and/or
requirements for flow regulation and equalization;
         (b)   Limits on the instantaneous, daily and/or monthly average and/or
maximum concentration, mass or other measure of identified wastewater
pollutants or properties;
         (c)   Requirements for the installation of pretreatment technology or
construction of appropriate containment devices, and the like, designed to
reduce, eliminate or prevent the introduction of pollutants into the treatment
works;
         (d)   Development and implementation of waste minimization plans to
reduce the amount of pollutants discharged to the municipal wastewater system;
         (e)   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
management of the wastewater discharged to the system;
         (f)   Requirements for the installation and maintenance of inspection
and sampling facilities and equipment;
         (g)   Specifications for monitoring programs that may include sampling
locations, frequency of sampling, number, types and standards for tests and
reporting schedules;
         (h)   Requirements for the immediate reporting of any instance of
noncompliance, and for automatic resampling and reporting within 30 days where
self-monitoring indicates a violation(s);
         (i)   Compliance schedules for meeting pretreatment standards and
requirements;
         (j)   Requirements for submission of periodic self-monitoring or
special notification reports;
         (k)   Requirements for maintaining and retaining plans and records
relating to wastewater discharges as specified in §
53.077, and affording the POTW Director, or his or her representatives, access
thereto;
         (l)   Requirements for prior notification and approval by the POTW
Director of any new introduction of wastewater pollutants or of any significant
change in the volume or character of the wastewater prior to introduction in
the system;
         (m)   Requirements for the prior notification and approval by the POTW
Director of any change in the manufacturing and/or pretreatment process used by
the permittee;
         (n)   A statement that compliance with the permit does not relieve the
permittee of responsibility for compliance with all applicable federal and
state pretreatment standards, including those that become effective during the
terms of the permit;
         (o)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the POTW Director to
ensure compliance with this chapter, and state and federal laws, rules and
regulations.
   (J)   Permit duration. Permits shall be issued for a specified time period,
not to exceed five years. A permit may be issued for a period less than a year
or may be stated to expire on a specific date.
   (K)   Permit transfer. Wastewater permits are issued to a specific user for
a specific operation. A wastewater discharge permit shall not be reassigned,
transferred or sold to a new owner, new user, different premises, or a new or
changed operation.
   (L)   Permit reissuance. A significant industrial user shall apply for
permit reissuance by submitting a complete permit application, in accordance
with §
53.051, a minimum of 180 days prior to the expiration of the existing permit.
(Ord. passed 2-12-2013)
REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
§ 53.065 BASELINE MONITORING REPORTS.
   (A)   Within 180 days after either the effective date of a categorical
pretreatment standard, or the final administrative decision on a category
determination under 40 CFR 403.6(a)(4), whichever is later, existing
categorical users currently discharging to or scheduled to discharge to the
POTW shall submit to the POTW Director a report that contains the information
listed in division (B) below. At least 90 days prior to commencement of their
discharge, new sources, and sources that become categorical users subsequent to
the promulgation of an applicable categorical standard, shall submit to the
POTW Director a report that contains the information listed in division (B)
below. A new source shall report the method of pretreatment it intends to use
to meet applicable categorical standards. A new source also shall give
estimates of its anticipated flow and quantity of pollutants to be discharged.
   (B)   Users described above shall submit the information set forth below.
      (1)   Identifying information.  The facility name and address, including
the name of the operator and owner.
      (2)   Environmental permits. A list of any environmental control permits
held by or for the facility.
      (3)   Description of operations. A brief description of the nature,
average rate of production, and standard industrial classifications of the
operation(s) carried out by the user. This description should include a
schematic process diagram that indicates points of discharge to the POTW from
the regulated processes.
      (4)   Flow measurement. Information showing the measured average daily
and maximum daily flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW from regulated process
streams and other streams, as necessary, to allow use of the combined
wastestream formula set out in 40 CFR 403.6(e).
      (5)   Measurement of pollutants.
         (a)   The categorical pretreatment standards applicable to each
regulated process.
         (b)   The results of sampling and analysis identifying the nature and
concentration, and/or mass, where required by the standard or by the POTW
Director, of regulated pollutants in the discharge from each regulated process.
Instantaneous, daily maximum and long-term average concentrations, or mass,
where required, shall be reported. The sample shall be representative of daily
operations and shall be analyzed in accordance with procedures set out in §
53.074 of this chapter.
         (c)   Sampling must be performed in accordance with procedures set out
in §
53.075 of this chapter and 40 CFR 403.12(b) and (g), including 40 CFR 403.12(g)
(4).
      (6)   Certification. A statement, reviewed by the user’s current
authorized representative as defined in §
53.002(A), and certified by a qualified professional, indicating whether
pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis, and, if not,
whether additional operation and maintenance (O&M) and/or additional
pretreatment is required to meet the pretreatment standards and requirements.
      (7)   Compliance schedule. If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will be
required to meet the pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the
user will provide such additional pretreatment and/or O&M. The completion date
in this schedule shall not be later than the compliance date established for
the applicable pretreatment standard. A compliance schedule pursuant to this
section must meet the requirements set out in §
53.066 of this chapter.
      (8)   Signature and certification. All baseline monitoring reports must
be signed and certified in accordance with §
53.051(C) of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 2-12-2013)
§ 53.066 COMPLIANCE SCHEDULE PROGRESS REPORTS.
   The following conditions shall apply to the compliance schedule required by
§
53.065(B)(7) of this chapter.
   (A)   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of dates
for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction
and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to meet the
applicable pretreatment standards (such events include, but are not limited to,
hiring an engineer, completing preliminary and final plans, executing contracts
for major components, commencing and completing construction, and beginning and
conducting routine operation);
   (B)   No increment referred to above shall exceed nine months;
   (C)   The user shall submit a progress report to the POTW Director no later
than 14 days following each date in the schedule and the final date of
compliance, including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress, the reason for any delay, and, if appropriate, the steps
being taken by the user to return to the established schedule; and
   (D)   In no event shall more than nine months elapse between such progress
reports to the POTW Director.
(Ord. passed 2-12-2013)
§ 53.067 DEADLINE FOR REPORTS ON COMPLIANCE WITH CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT
STANDARDS.
   Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with applicable
categorical pretreatment standards, or in the case of a new source following
commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any user subject
to such pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to the POTW
Director a report containing the information described in §
53.065(B) (4) - (6) of this chapter. For users subject to equivalent mass or
concentration limits established in accordance with the procedures in 40 CFR
403.6(c), this report shall contain a reasonable measure of the user’s long-
term production rate. For all other users subject to categorical pretreatment
standards expressed in terms of allowable pollutant discharge per unit of
production (or other measure of operation), this report shall include the
user’s actual production during the appropriate sampling period. All compliance
reports must be signed and certified in accordance with §
53.051(C) of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 2-12-2013)
§ 53.068 PERIODIC COMPLIANCE REPORTS.
   Municipalities may sample and analyze user discharges in lieu of requiring
the users to conduct sampling and analysis.
   (A)   All significant industrial users shall, at a frequency determined by
the POTW Director, but in no case less than once every six months, submit a
report indicating the nature and concentration of pollutants in the discharge
that are limited by pretreatment standards, and the applicable flows for the
reporting period. Sampling and analysis must be performed in accordance with
procedures set out in §§
53.074 and
53.075 of this chapter. All periodic compliance reports must be signed and
certified in accordance with §
53.051(C) of this chapter.
   (B)   If a user subject to the reporting requirement in this section
monitors any pollutant more frequently than required by the POTW Director,
using the procedures prescribed in §§
53.074 and
53.075 of this chapter, the results of this monitoring shall be included in the
report.
(Ord. passed 2-12-2013)
§ 53.069 REPORTS OF CHANGED CONDITIONS.
   Each user must notify the POTW Director of any planned significant changes
to the user’s operations or system that might alter the nature, quality or
volume of its wastewater, at least 30 days before the change. The permittee
shall not begin the changes until receiving written approval from the control.
See §
53.070(D) for other reporting requirements.
   (A)   The POTW Director may require the user to submit such information as
may be deemed necessary to evaluate the changed condition, including the
submission of a wastewater discharge permit application under §
53.051 of this chapter.
   (B)   The POTW Director may issue a wastewater discharge permit under §
53.051 of this chapter, or modify an existing wastewater discharge permit under
§
53.051 of this chapter in response to changed conditions or anticipated changed
conditions.
   (C)   For purposes of this requirement, significant changes include, but are
not limited to, flow or pollutant increases of 20% or greater, and the
discharge of any previously unreported pollutants. Other circumstances that may
constitute changed conditions include, but are not limited to: production
increases or decreases; increases in discharge of previously-reported
pollutants; discharge of pollutants not previously reported to the control
authority; and new or changed product lines, manufacturing processes, chemicals
or customers.
(Ord. passed 2-12-2013)
§ 53.070 REPORTS OF POTENTIAL PROBLEMS.
   (A)   In the case of any discharge, including, but not limited to,
accidental discharges, discharges of a non-routine, episodic nature, a non-
customary batch discharge, or a slug load as defined in §
53.002(A), which may cause potential problems for the POTW, the user shall
immediately telephone and notify the POTW Director of the incident. This
notification shall include the location of the discharge, the type of waste,
the concentration and volume, if known, and corrective actions taken by the
user.
   (B)   Within five days following such discharge, the user shall, unless
waived by the POTW Director, submit a detailed written report describing the
cause(s) of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user to prevent
similar future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the user of any
expense, loss, damage or other liability that may be incurred as a result of
damage to the POTW, natural resources, or any other damage to person or
property; nor shall such notification relieve the user of any fines, penalties
or other liability that may be imposed pursuant to this chapter.
   (C)   A notice shall be permanently posted on the user’s bulletin board or
other prominent place, advising employees who to call in the event of a
discharge described in division (A) above. Employers shall ensure that all
employees, who may cause such a discharge to occur, are advised of the
emergency notification procedure.
   (D)   All SIUs are required to notify the POTW immediately of any changes at
its facility affecting the potential for spills and other accidental discharge,
discharge of a non-routine, episodic nature, a non-customary batch discharge,
or a slug load as defined in §
53.002(A).
(Ord. passed 2-12-2013)
§ 53.071 REPORTS FROM UNPERMITTED USERS.
   All users classified as non-significant categorical industrial users under §
53.002(A) shall provide appropriate reports to the POTW Director as the POTW
Director may require. At a minimum, this shall include the annual certification
of continuing to meet the non-significant categorical industrial user criteria
as required under 40 CFR 403.12(q).
(Ord. passed 2-12-2013)
§ 53.072 NOTICE OF VIOLATION; REPEAT SAMPLING AND REPORTING.
   (A)   If sampling performed by a user indicates a violation, the user must
notify the POTW Director within 24 hours of becoming aware of the violation.
The user shall also repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the results of
the repeat analysis to the POTW Director within 30 days after becoming aware of
the violation. If allowed by the POTW Director, the user is not required to
resample:
      (1)   If the POTW Director monitors at the user’s facility at least once
a month; or
      (2)   If the POTW Director samples between the user’s initial sampling
and when the user receives the results of this sampling.
   (B)   If the POTW Director has performed the sampling and analysis in lieu
of the industrial user and the POTW sampling of the user indicates a violation,
the POTW Director shall repeat the sampling and obtain the results of the
repeat analysis within 30 days after becoming aware of the violations, unless
one of the following occurs:
      (1)   The POTW Director monitors at the user’s facility at least once a
month; or
      (2)   The POTW Director samples the user between their initial sampling
and when the POTW receives the results of this initial sampling; or
      (3)   The POTW Director requires the user to perform sampling and submit
the results to the POTW Director within the 30-day deadline of the POTW
becoming aware of the violation.
(Ord. passed 2-12-2013)
§ 53.073 NOTIFICATION OF THE DISCHARGE OF HAZARDOUS WASTE.
   The town prohibits the discharge of any hazardous wastes without
notification to and approval by the POTW Director.
   (A)   Any user who commences the discharge of hazardous waste shall notify
the POTW, the EPA Regional Waste Management Division Director, and state
hazardous waste authorities, in writing, of any discharge into the POTW of a
substance that, if otherwise disposed of, would be a hazardous waste under 40
CFR pt. 261. The notification must include the name of the hazardous waste as
set forth in 40 CFR pt. 261, the EPA hazardous waste number, and the type of
discharge (continuous, batch or other). If the user discharges more than 100
kilograms of such waste per calendar month to the POTW, the notification also
shall contain the following information, to the extent such information is
known and readily available to the user: an identification of the hazardous
constituents contained in the wastes; an estimation of the mass and
concentration of such constituents in the wastestream discharge during the
calendar month; and an estimation of the mass and concentration of such
constituents in the wastestream expected to be discharged during the following
12 months. All notifications must take place no later than 180 days before the
discharge commences. The user shall not begin the discharge until receiving
written approval from the town. Any notification under this division needs to
be submitted only once for each hazardous waste discharge. However,
notifications of changed conditions must be submitted under §
53.069 of this chapter. The notification requirement in this section does not
apply to pollutants already reported by users subject to categorical
pretreatment standards under the self-monitoring requirements of §§
53.065,
53.067 and
53.068 of this chapter.
   (B)   Dischargers are exempt from the require-ments of division (A) above
during a calendar month in which they discharge no more than 15 kilograms of
hazardous wastes, unless the wastes are acute hazardous wastes as specified in
40 CFR 261.30(d) and 261.33(e). Discharge of more than 15 kilograms of nonacute
hazardous wastes in a calendar month, or of any quantity of acute hazardous
wastes as specified in 40 CFR 261.30(d) and 261.33(e), requires a one-time
notification. Subsequent months during which the user discharges more than such
quantities of any hazardous waste do not require additional notification.
   (C)   In the case of any new regulation under Section 3001 of RCRA,
identifying additional characteristics of hazardous waste or listing any
additional substance as a hazardous waste, the user must notify the POTW
Director, the EPA Regional Waste Management Waste Division Director, and state
hazardous waste authorities of the discharge of such substance within 90 days
of the effective date of such regulations.
   (D)   In the case of any notification made under this section, the user
shall certify that it has a program in place to reduce the volume and toxicity
of hazardous wastes generated, to the degree it has determined to be
economically practical.
   (E)   This provision does not create a right to discharge any substance not
otherwise permitted to be discharged by this chapter, a permit issued
thereunder, or any applicable federal or state law.
(Ord. passed 2-12-2013)
§ 53.074 ANALYTICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   All pollutant analyses, including sampling techniques, to be submitted as
part of a wastewater discharge permit application or report shall be performed
by a laboratory certified by the state to perform the wastewater analyses in
accordance with the techniques prescribed in 40 CFR pt. 136, unless otherwise
specified in an applicable categorical pretreatment standard, or unless
otherwise performed in accordance with procedures approved by the EPA or the
town. If 40 CFR pt. 136 does not contain sampling or analytical techniques for
the pollutant in question, sampling and analyses must be performed in
accordance with procedures approved by the EPA and the town.
(Ord. passed 2-12-2013)
§ 53.075 GRAB AND COMPOSITE SAMPLE COLLECTION.
   (A)   Representative samples required. All wastewater samples must be
representative of the user’s discharge. Wastewater monitoring and flow-
measurement facilities shall be properly operated, kept clean, and maintained
in good working order at all times. The failure of a user to keep its
monitoring facility in good working order shall not be grounds for the user to
claim that sample results are unrepresentative of its discharge.
   (B)   Grab samples.  Grab samples must be used for pH, cyanide, total
phenols, oil and grease, sulfides, volatile organic compounds, and any other
pollutants as required by 40 CFR 136. The POTW shall determine the number of
grabs necessary to be representative of the user’s discharge. See 40 CFR 403.12
(g)(5) for additional grab sample number requirements for DMR and 90-day
compliance reports. Additionally, the POTW Director may allow collection of
multiple grabs during a 24-hour period that are composited prior to analysis as
allowed under 40 CFR 136.
   (C)   Composite samples.  All wastewater composite samples shall be
collected with a minimum of hourly aliquots or grabs for each hour that there
is a discharge. All wastewater composite samples shall be collected using flow-
proportional, composite-collection techniques, unless time-proportional
composite sampling or grab sampling is authorized by the POTW Director. When
authorizing time-proportional composites or grabs, the samples must be
representative and the decision to allow the alternative sampling must be
documented.
(Ord. passed 2-12-2013)
§ 53.076 TIMING.
   Written reports will be deemed to have been submitted on the date
postmarked. For reports that are not mailed, postage prepaid, into a mail
facility serviced by the United States Postal Service, the date of receipt of
the report shall govern.
(Ord. passed 2-12-2013)
§ 53.077 RECORD KEEPING.
   Users subject to the reporting requirements of this chapter shall retain,
and make available for inspection and copying, all records of information
obtained pursuant to any monitoring activities required by this chapter, and
any additional records of information obtained pursuant to monitoring
activities undertaken by the user independent of such requirements. Records
shall include the date, the exact place, method and time of sampling, and the
name of the person(s) taking the samples; the dates analyses were performed;
who performed the analyses; the analytical techniques or methods used; and the
results of such analyses. These records shall remain available for a period of
at least three years. This period shall be automatically extended for the
duration of any litigation concerning the user or the town, or where the user
has been specifically notified of a longer retention period by the POTW
Director.
(Ord. passed 2-12-2013)
§ 53.078 ELECTRONIC REPORTING.
   The POTW Director may develop procedures for the receipt of electronic
reports for any reporting requirements of this chapter. Such procedures shall
comply with 40 CFR pt. 3. These procedures shall be enforceable under §§
53.100 through
53.103 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 2-12-2013)
COMPLIANCE MONITORING
§ 53.090 MONITORING FACILITIES.
   (A)   The town requires the user to provide and operate, at the user's own
expense, monitoring facilities to allow the inspection, sampling and flow
measurement of the building sewer and/or internal drainage systems. The
monitoring facility should normally be situated on the user’s premises, but the
town may, when such a location would be impractical or cause undue hardship on
the user, allow the facility to be constructed in the public street or sidewalk
area, and located so that it will not be obstructed by landscaping or parked
vehicles.
   (B)   There shall be ample room in or near such sampling manhole or facility
to allow accurate sampling and the preparation of samples for analysis. The
facility, sampling and measuring equipment shall be maintained at all times in
a safe and proper operating condition at the expense of the user.
   (C)   Whether constructed on public or private property, the sampling and
monitoring facilities shall be provided in accordance with the requirements of
the town and all applicable local construction standards and specifications.
Construction shall be completed within 90 days following written notification
by the town.
(Ord. passed 2-12-2013)
§ 53.091 INSPECTION AND SAMPLING.
   The town will inspect the facilities of any user to ascertain whether the
purpose of this chapter is being met, and whether there is compliance with all
of its requirements. Persons or occupants of premises where wastewater is
created or discharged shall allow the town, the approval authority and the EPA,
or their representatives, ready access at all reasonable times to all parts of
the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, records examination and
copying, or in the performance of any of their duties. The town, the approval
authority and the EPA shall have the right to set up on the user’s property
such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling, inspection, compliance
monitoring and/or metering operations. Where a user has security measures in
force that would require proper identification and clearance before entry into
their premises, the user shall make necessary arrangements with their security
guards so that, upon presentation of suitable identification, personnel from
the town, the approval authority and the EPA will be permitted to enter,
without delay, to perform their specific responsibilities. Denial of the
town’s, the approval authority’s or the EPA’s access to the user’s premises
shall be a violation of this chapter. Unreasonable delays may constitute denial
of access.
(Ord. passed 2-12-2013)
§ 53.092 SEARCH WARRANTS.
   If the town, the approval authority or the EPA has been refused access to a
building, structure or property, or any part thereof, and is able to
demonstrate probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of this
chapter, or that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine
inspection and sampling program of the town designed to verify compliance with
this chapter, or any permit or order issued hereunder, or to protect the
overall public health, safety and welfare of the community, then the town, the
approval authority or the EPA may seek issuance of a search warrant from the
court having jurisdiction within the town.
(Ord. passed 2-12-2013)
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION
§ 53.095 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   Information and data provided by an industrial user to the POTW
Director pursuant to this chapter, identifying the nature and frequency of a
discharge, shall be available to the public without restriction. All other
information that may be so submitted by an industrial user to the POTW Director
in connection with any required reports shall also be available to the public,
unless the industrial user or other interested person specifically identifies
the information as confidential upon submission, and is able to demonstrate to
the satisfaction of the POTW Director that the disclosure of such information,
or a particular part thereof, to the general public would divulge methods or
processes entitled to protection as trade secrets.
   (B)   Information provided by an industrial user to the POTW Director that
is determined to be entitled to confidential treatment shall be made available
upon written request to the Division of Water Quality, or any state agency, for
uses related to the pretreatment program, the National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System (NPDES) permit, the collection system permit, the storm
water permit, and/or the non-discharge permit, and for uses related to judicial
review or enforcement proceedings involving the person furnishing the report.
   (C)   Information and data received by the Division or other state agency
under division (B) above shall be subject to the processes set forth in G.S. §
143-215.3C.
(Ord. passed 2-12-2013)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 53.100 ADMINISTRATIVE REMEDIES.
   (A)   Notification of violation. Whenever the POTW Director finds that any
industrial user has violated or is violating this chapter, a wastewater permit,
or any prohibition, limitation or requirements contained therein, or any other
pretreatment requirement, the POTW Director may serve upon that person a
written notice stating the nature of the violation. Within 30 days from the
date of this notice, the user shall submit to the town an explanation for the
violation and a plan for its satisfactory correction. Submission of this plan
does not relieve the discharger of liability for any violations occurring
before or after receipt of the notice of violation.
   (B)   Consent orders. The POTW Director is hereby empowered to enter into
consent orders, assurances of voluntary compliance, or other similar documents
establishing an agreement with the person responsible for the noncompliance.
Such orders will include specific action to be taken by the discharger to
correct the noncompliance within a time period also specified by the order.
Consent orders shall have the same force and effect as an administrative order
issued pursuant to §
53.100(D) below.
   (C)   Show cause hearing.  
      (1)   The POTW Director may order any industrial user who causes or is
responsible for an unauthorized discharge, has violated this chapter or is in
noncompliance with a wastewater discharge permit, to show cause why a proposed
enforcement action should not be taken.
      (2)   In the event the POTW Director determines that a show cause order
should be issued, a notice shall be served on the user, specifying the time and
place for the hearing, the proposed enforcement action, the reasons for such
action, and a request that the user show cause why this proposed enforcement
action should not be taken. The notice of the hearing shall be served
personally or by registered or certified mail (return receipt requested) at
least ten days before the hearing. Service may be made on any agent or officer
of a corporation.
      (3)   The POTW Director shall review the evidence presented at the
hearing and determine whether the proposed enforcement action is appropriate.
      (4)   A show cause hearing under this section is not a prerequisite to
the assessment of a civil penalty under §
53.101, nor is any action or inaction taken by the POTW Director under this
section subject to an administrative appeal under §
53.105.
   (D)   Administrative orders. When the POTW Director finds that an industrial
user has violated or continues to violate this chapter, permits or orders
issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment requirement, the POTW Director may
issue an order to cease and desist all such violations, and direct those
persons in noncompliance to do any of the following:
      (1)   Immediately comply with all requirements;
      (2)   Comply in accordance with a compliance time schedule set forth in
the order;
      (3)   Take appropriate remedial or preventive action in the event of a
continuing or threatened violation;
      (4)   Disconnect, unless adequate treatment facilities, devices or other
related appurtenances are installed and properly operated within a specified
time period.
   (E)   Emergency suspensions.
      (1)   The POTW Director may suspend the wastewater treatment service and/
or wastewater permit when it is necessary in order to stop an actual or
threatened discharge that presents or may present an imminent or substantial
endangerment to the health or welfare of persons or the environment, interferes
with the POTW, or causes the POTW to violate any condition of its NPDES or non-
discharge permit.
      (2)   Any user notified of a suspension of the wastewater treatment
service and/or the wastewater permit shall immediately stop or eliminate the
contribution. A hearing will be held within 15 days of the notice of suspension
to determine whether it may be lifted or the user’s waste discharge permit
terminated. In the event of a failure to comply voluntarily with the suspension
order, the POTW Director shall take such steps as deemed necessary, including
immediate severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize damage to
the POTW system or endangerment to any individuals. The POTW Director shall
reinstate the wastewater permit and the wastewater treatment service upon proof
of the elimination of the noncompliant discharge. Prior to the date of the
above-described hearing, the industrial user shall submit to the POTW Director
a detailed written statement, describing the causes of the harmful contribution
and the measures taken to prevent any future occurrence.
   (F)   Termination of permit or permission to discharge.  
      (1)   The POTW Director may revoke a wastewater discharge permit or
permission to discharge for good cause, including, but not limited to, the
following reasons:
         (a)   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of a wastewater discharge;
         (b)   Failure to report significant changes in operations, or
wastewater constituents and characteristics;
         (c)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user’s premises for the
purpose of inspection or monitoring; or
         (d)   Violation of conditions of the permit or permission to
discharge, conditions of this chapter, or any applicable state and federal
regulations.
      (2)   Noncompliant industrial users will be notified of the proposed
termination of their wastewater permit and will be offered an opportunity to
show cause under §
53.100 of this chapter why the proposed action should not be taken.
(Ord. passed 2-12-2013)
§ 53.101 CIVIL PENALTIES.
   (A)   (1)   Any user who is found to have failed to comply with any
provision of this chapter, or the orders, rules, regulations and permits issued
hereunder, may be assessed a civil penalty of up to $25,000 per day per
violation.
      (2)   Penalties between $10,000 and $25,000 per day per violation may be
assessed against a violator only if:
         (a)   For any class of violation, only if a civil penalty has been
imposed against the violator within the five years preceding the violation; or
         (b)   In the case of failure to file, submit or make available, as the
case may be, any documents, data or reports required by this chapter, or the
orders, rules, regulations and permits issued hereunder, only if the POTW
Director determines that the violation was intentional and a civil penalty has
been imposed against the violator within the five years preceding the
violation.
   (B)   In determining the amount of the civil penalty, the POTW Director
shall consider the following:
      (1)   The degree and extent of the harm to the natural resources, to the
public health, or to public or private property resulting from the violation;
      (2)   The duration and gravity of the violation;
      (3)   The effect on ground or surface water quantity or quality or on air
quality;
      (4)   The cost of rectifying the damage;
      (5)   The amount of money saved by noncompliance;
      (6)   Whether the violation was committed willfully or intentionally;
      (7)   The prior record of the violator in complying or failing to comply
with the pretreatment program;
      (8)   The costs of enforcement to the town.
   (C)   Appeals of civil penalties assessed in accordance with this section
shall be as provided in §
53.105.
(Ord. passed 2-12-2013)
§ 53.102 OTHER AVAILABLE REMEDIES.
   In addition to those previously mentioned in this chapter, remedies are
available to the POTW Director who may use any single one or combination
against a noncompliant user. Additional available remedies include, but are not
limited to:
   (A)   Criminal violations. The district attorney for the applicable judicial
district may, at the request of the town, prosecute noncompliant users who
violate the provisions of G.S. § 143-215.6B. Note: Under North Carolina law, it
is a crime to:
      (1)   Negligently violate any term, condition or requirement of a
pretreatment permit;
      (2)   Negligently fail to apply for a pretreatment permit issued by local
governments (G.S. § 143-215.6B(f));
       (3)   Knowingly and willfully violate any term, condition or requirement
of a pretreatment permit;
      (4)   Knowingly and willfully fail to apply for a pretreatment permit
issued by local governments (G.S. § 143-215.6B(g));
      (5)   Knowingly violate any term, condition or requirement of a
pretreatment permit issued by local governments;
      (6)   Knowingly fail to apply for a pretreatment permit, knowing at the
time that a person is placed in imminent danger of death or serious bodily
injury (G.S. § 143-215.6B(h)); and
      (7)   Falsify information required under Article 21 of Chapter 143 of the
General Statutes (G.S. § 143-215.6B(i)).
   (B)   Injunctive relief. Whenever a user is in violation of the provisions
of this chapter, or an order or permit issued hereunder, the POTW Director,
through the City Attorney, may petition the Superior Court of Justice for the
issuance of a restraining order or a preliminary and permanent injunction that
restrains or compels the activities in question.
   (C)   Water supply severance. Whenever an industrial user is in violation of
the provisions of this chapter, or an order or permit issued hereunder, water
service to the industrial user may be severed and service will only recommence,
at the user’s expense, after it has satisfactorily demonstrated ability to
comply.
   (D)   Public nuisances. Any violation of the prohibitions or effluent
limitations of this chapter, or of a permit or order issued hereunder, is
hereby declared a public nuisance and shall be corrected or abated as directed
by the POTW Director. Any person(s) creating a public nuisance shall be subject
to the provisions of the appropriate ordinances of the town governing such
nuisances, including reimbursing the POTW for any costs incurred in removing,
abating or remedying the nuisance.
(Ord. passed 2-12-2013)
§ 53.103 REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The remedies provided for in this chapter are not exclusive. The POTW
Director may take any, all, or any combination of these actions against a
noncompliant user. Enforcement of pretreatment violations will generally be in
accordance with the town’s enforcement response plan. However, the POTW
Director may take other action against any user when the circumstances warrant.
Further, the POTW Director is empowered to take more than one enforcement
action against any noncompliant user.
(Ord. passed 2-12-2013)
§ 53.104 ANNUAL PUBLICATION OF SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE.
   At least annually, the POTW Director shall publish, in a newspaper of
general circulation that provides meaningful public notice within the
jurisdiction(s) served by the POTW, a list of those industrial users that were
found to be in significant noncompliance, also referred to as reportable
noncompliance, in 15A NCAC 2H. 0903(b)(34), with applicable pretreatment
standards and requirements, during the previous 12 months.
(Ord. passed 2-12-2013)
§ 53.105 ADJUDICATORY HEARINGS.
   The local government may conduct hearings in accordance with its regular
hearing procedure.
   (A)   Initial adjudicatory hearing. An applicant whose permit is denied, or
is granted subject to conditions he or she deems unacceptable, a permittee/user
assessed a civil penalty under §
53.101, or one issued an administrative order under § 53.100, shall have the
right to an adjudicatory hearing before the POTW Director, or other hearing
officer appointed by the POTW Director, upon making written demand, identifying
the specific issues to be contested, to the POTW Director, within 30 days
following receipt of the significant industrial user permit, civil penalty
assessment, or administrative order. Unless the written demand is made within
the time specified herein, the action shall be final and binding and further
appeal is barred. For modified permits, only those parts of the permit being
modified may be adjudicated. The hearing officer shall make a final decision on
the contested permit, penalty or order within 45 days of the receipt of the
written demand for a hearing. The POTW Director shall transmit a copy of the
hearing officer’s decision by registered or certified mail as described in
division (C) below. The terms and conditions of a permit under appeal shall be
as follows:
      (1)   New permits. Upon appeal, including judicial review in the General
Courts of Justice, of the terms or conditions of a newly-issued permit, the
terms and conditions of the entire permit are stayed and the permit is not in
effect until either the conclusion of judicial review or until the parties
reach a mutual resolution.
      (2)   Renewed permits. Upon appeal, including judicial review in the
General Courts of Justice, of the terms or conditions of a renewed permit, the
terms and conditions of the existing permit remain in effect until either the
conclusion of judicial review or until the parties reach a mutual resolution.
      (3)   Terminated permits. Upon appeal, including judicial review in the
General Courts of Justice, of a terminated permit, no permit is in effect until
either the conclusion of judicial review or until the parties reach a mutual
resolution.
   (B)   Final appeal hearing.  Any decision of a hearing officer made as a
result of an adjudicatory hearing held under division (A) above may be appealed
to the Board of Commissioners serving the town, upon filing a written demand
within ten days of receipt of notice of the decision. Hearings held under this
division shall be conducted in accordance with local hearing procedures and
Chapters 53,
54 and
55 of this code. Failure to make written demand within the time specified
herein shall bar further appeal. The Board of Commissioners serving the town
shall make a final decision on the appeal within 90 days of the receipt of the
demand filed under division (A), and shall transmit a written copy of its
decision by registered or certified mail as described in division (C) below.
The decision is final for the purposes of seeking judicial review.
   (C)   Official record. When a final decision is issued under division (B)
above, the Board of Commissioners serving the town shall prepare an official
record of the case that includes:
      (1)   All notices, motions and other like pleadings;
      (2)   A copy of all documentary evidence introduced;
      (3)   A certified transcript of all testimony taken, if testimony is
transcribed. If testimony is taken and not transcribed, then a narrative
summary of any testimony taken; and
      (4)   A copy of the final decision of the Board of Commissioners serving
the town.
   (D)   Judicial review. Any person against whom a final order or decision of
the Board of Commissioners serving the town is entered, pursuant to the hearing
conducted under division (B) above, may seek judicial review of the order or
decision by filing a written request for review by the Superior Court of Duplin
County within 30 days after receipt of notice by registered or certified mail
of the order or decision, but not thereafter, along with a copy to the town.
Within 30 days after receipt of the copy of the written request for review by
the Court, the Board of Commissioners serving the town shall transmit to the
reviewing court the original or a certified copy of the official record.
(Ord. passed 2-12-2013)
§ 53.106 AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES TO DISCHARGE VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Upset.
      (1)   An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an action
brought for noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards if the
requirements of division (A)(2) below are met.
      (2)   A user who wishes to establish the affirmative defense of upset
shall demonstrate, through properly-signed, contemporaneous operating logs, or
other relevant evidence that:
         (a)   An upset occurred and the user can identify the cause(s) of the
upset;
         (b)   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
workman-like manner, and in compliance with applicable operation and
maintenance procedures; and
         (c)   The user has submitted the following information to the POTW
Director within 24 hours of becoming aware of the upset (if this information is
provided orally, a written submission must be provided within five days):
            1.   A description of the indirect discharge and cause of
noncompliance;
            2.   The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times
or, if not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to
continue; and
            3.   The steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate and
prevent recurrence of the noncompliance.
      (3)   In any enforcement proceeding, the user seeking to establish the
occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof.
      (4)   Users will have the opportunity for a judicial determination on any
claim of upset only in an enforcement action brought for noncompliance with
categorical pretreatment standards.
      (5)   Users shall control the production of all discharges to the extent
necessary to maintain compliance with categorical pretreatment standards, upon
reduction, loss or failure of its treatment facility, until the facility is
restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement
applies in the situation where, among other things, the primary source of power
of the treatment facility is reduced, lost or fails.
   (B)   Prohibited discharge standards defense.  A user shall have an
affirmative defense to an enforcement action brought against it for
noncompliance with the general prohibitions in §
53.015(A) of this chapter, or the specific prohibitions in §
53.015(B)(2), (3), (5) - (7) and (9) - (23) of this chapter if it can prove
that it did not know, or have reason to know, that its discharge, alone or in
conjunction with discharges from other sources, would cause pass through or
interference, and that either:
      (1)   A local limit exists for each pollutant discharged and the user was
in compliance with each limit directly prior to, and during, the pass through
or interference; or
      (2)   No local limit exists, but the discharge did not change
substantially in nature or constituents from the user’s prior discharge when
the city was regularly in compliance with its NPDES permit, and in the case of
interference, was in compliance with applicable sludge use or disposal
requirements.
   (C)   Bypass.
      (1)   A user may allow any bypass to occur that does not cause
pretreatment standards or requirements to be violated, but only if it also is
for essential maintenance to assure efficient operation. These bypasses are not
subject to the provisions of division (C)(2) and (3) of this section.
      (2)   (a)   If a user knows in advance of the need for a bypass, it shall
submit prior notice to the POTW Director, at least ten days before the date of
the bypass, if possible.
         (b)   A user shall submit oral notice to the POTW Director of an
unanticipated bypass that exceeds applicable pretreatment standards within 24
hours from the time it becomes aware of the bypass. A written submission shall
also be provided within five days of this time the user becomes aware of the
bypass. The written submission shall contain a description of the bypass and
its cause; the duration of the bypass, including exact dates and times; and, if
the bypass has not been corrected, the anticipated time it is expected to
continue; and steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate and prevent
reoccurrence of the bypass. The POTW Director may waive the written report on a
case-by-case basis if the oral report has been received within 24 hours.
      (3)   (a)   Bypass is prohibited, and the POTW Director may take an
enforcement action against a user for a bypass, unless:
            1.   Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal
injury or severe property damage;
            2.   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the
use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes, or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate back-up equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass that occurred,
during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventive maintenance; and
            3.   The user submitted notices as required under division (C)(2)
of this section.
         (b)   The POTW Director may approve an anticipated bypass, after
considering its adverse effects, if the POTW Director determines that it will
meet the three conditions listed in division (C)(3)(a) of this section.
(Ord. passed 2-12-2013)
CHAPTER 54: WATER SUPPLY AND DISTRIBUTION
Section
   
54.01   Definitions
   
54.02   Where mains will be laid without assessments
   
54.03   Laterals to be laid only to inside of curb
   
54.04   Extension of laterals
   
54.05   Connections to be made within 30 days after mains ready for use
   
54.06   Connections to be made by town
   
54.07   Connections to be made only upon application
   
54.08   Application for connections
   
54.09   Payment for connections
   
54.10   Connection fees, monthly rates, and the like
   
54.11   Approval of application
   
54.12   Construction of connections
   
54.13   Separate connections required
   
54.14   Air chambers and meters for hydraulic elevators and motors
   
54.14-5   Irrigation systems
   
54.15   Connections and meters to remain property of town
   
54.16   Maintenance of meters
   
54.17   Maintenance of connections
   
54.18   Connection to other than town water supply
   
54.19   Connections from outside town
   
54.20   Classes of services
   
54.21   When water rents payable
   
54.22   Returned checks
   
54.23   Cutting on water after discontinuance
   
54.24   Climbing water towers
   
54.25   Tampering with water system
   
54.26   Protection of water system
   
54.27   More than one user on single meter
 
   
54.99   Penalty
§ 54.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   IMPROVED STREET. Any street having a wearing surface of concrete, asphalt,
brick, stone block, tar treatment, or similar hard material.
   LATERAL. A pipe connecting a sanitary sewer or water main with the line of
adjacent property or extending from the main to the inside of the curb.
   MACADAM STREET. Any street with crushed stone surface, either water,
asphalt, or tar bound.
   SEWER. Sanitary sewer.
   UNIMPROVED STREET. Any street having a dirt surface.
(Prior Code, § 5-1001)
§ 54.02 WHERE MAINS WILL BE LAID WITHOUT ASSESSMENTS.
   Water mains will not be laid in any street of the town without assessment
therefor, except in those streets where the town may order larger-size water
mains for increased water distribution or fire protection.
(Prior Code, § 5-1002)
§ 54.03 LATERALS TO BE LAID ONLY TO INSIDE OF CURB.
   Water or sewer laterals laid as a part of any sewer or water main
improvement shall be laid only to the inside of the curb unless, in the
resolution ordering the improvement, the town specifically directs otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 5-1003)
§ 54.04 EXTENSION OF LATERALS.
   After laterals are laid, from water or sewer mains to the inside of the
curb, no lateral shall be extended to the property line until the owner or
occupant of the property to be served thereby applies therefor.
(Prior Code, § 5-1004)
§ 54.05 CONNECTIONS TO BE MADE WITHIN 30 DAYS AFTER MAINS READY FOR USE.
   Within 30 days after the time when any water main in any street is completed
and ready for use, the owner of every abutting lot whereon water is supplied
for any human use shall cause the lot to be connected with the water main.
(Prior Code, § 5-1005) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.06 CONNECTIONS TO BE MADE BY TOWN.
   The construction of laterals for the connection of sewer or water pipes or
any lot with sewer or water pipes in any street and the necessary excavation
therefor shall be done only by the town.
(Prior Code, § 5-1006) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.07 CONNECTIONS TO BE MADE ONLY UPON APPLICATION.
   No connection shall be made to any sewer or water main nor to any sewer or
water lateral except after the written application therefor has been approved
by the Public Utilities Director.
(Prior Code, § 5-1007) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.08 APPLICATION FOR CONNECTIONS.
   Every application for a sewer or water connection shall state the name of
the owner of the lot; the name of the street on which the lot is situated; the
number of the house, if there is one on the lot, or, if not, a description of
the location of the lot; the number and kind of connections desired; and the
character of surface of the abutting street. Every application shall be signed
by the person making the application, shall be accompanied by the proper fee
for making the connection applied for, and shall be filed with the Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 5-1008)
§ 54.09 PAYMENT FOR CONNECTIONS.
   Payment for water and sewer taps shall be made at the time applications for
the taps are submitted to the town.
(Prior Code, § 5-1009) (Ord. passed 6-12-1956)
§ 54.10 CONNECTION FEES, MONTHLY RATES, AND THE LIKE.
   Water rates, deposits, and connection and reconnection charges shall be
determined from time to time by the Board of Commissioners and kept on file in
the office of the Clerk. The charges are hereby incorporated in this section as
if set out at length herein.
(Prior Code, § 5-1010)
§ 54.11 APPROVAL OF APPLICATION.
   Every application for a water or sewer connection to be made in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter shall be approved by the Public Utilities
Director unless the connection applied for is of a size or is so located that
it cannot be made without impairing the town's ordinary sewer and water
service.
(Prior Code, § 5-1011)
§ 54.12 CONSTRUCTION OF CONNECTIONS.
   Upon approval of any application for sewer or water connection, the town
shall do the excavating, lay the pipe, install a meter where necessary, make
the connection to the main, fill the excavation, and replace the surface of the
street.
(Prior Code, § 5-1012)
§ 54.13 SEPARATE CONNECTIONS REQUIRED.
   Every house or building abutting any water or sewer main and requiring a
water or sewer connection shall be separately and independently connected,
except in those cases where laterals have already been laid in macadam or
improved streets from the main provision being made for the house or building,
in which case the connection may be made to an existing lateral. If the house
or building is on a macadam or improved street where laterals have not been
laid, the connection may be made to any convenient lateral. When two or more
houses or units are connected with the same water lateral, a separate meter
shall be provided for each house or unit.
(Prior Code, § 5-1013) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.14 AIR CHAMBERS AND METERS FOR HYDRAULIC ELEVATORS AND MOTORS.
   Air chambers of adequate size shall be provided for hydraulic elevators and
hydraulic motors and shall be kept in good repair and working condition. The
owner or operator of every hydraulic elevator or motor shall provide therefor a
suitable meter, which shall be maintained in good repair and shall not be
removed or replaced except upon notice of the town.
(Prior Code, § 5-1014) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.14-5 IRRIGATION SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Irrigation meter requirement. All new in-ground irrigation systems
installed after application of this section, which will be supplied water from
the town water system, shall be independently connected to the system, and
water consumption shall be measured through a separate irrigation meter.
   (B)   Methods of connection.  
      (1)   An irrigation service line may be installed by a direct tap into
the main (separate tap), or by a split line off the non-irrigation service
line, at a point between the main and the non-irrigation meter (split tap).
      (2)   Either method of connection shall be performed by the Town Public
Utilities Department or a licensed contractor.
      (3)   A licensed contractor must obtain a permit from the town prior to
installing an irrigation service line.
   (C)   Technical and other requirements. An irrigation service line, the
irrigation meter and all related appurtenances shall be installed in accordance
with the same regulations, policies and procedures that apply to non-irrigation
meters.
(Ord. passed 10-13-2009)
§ 54.15 CONNECTIONS AND METERS TO REMAIN PROPERTY OF TOWN.
   All meters, meter boxes, pipes, and other equipment furnished and used by
the town in installing any water or sewer connection shall be and remain the
property of the town.
(Prior Code, § 5-1015)
§ 54.16 MAINTENANCE OF METERS.
   All meters furnished by the town shall be kept in good repair and working
order by the town and at the expense of the town. Meters furnished by certain
users of water shall be kept in good repair and working order by the town, but
the expense thereof shall be borne by the users.
(Prior Code, § 5-1016)
§ 54.17 MAINTENANCE OF CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the word CONNECTION shall be
construed to be that portion of water or sewer pipe between main and property
line.
   (B)   Water and sewer connections shall be kept in repair by the town and at
the expense of the town.
(Prior Code, § 5-1017) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.18 CONNECTION TO OTHER THAN TOWN WATER SUPPLY.
   No part of the town's water system shall be connected to any source of water
supply other than the town's.
(Prior Code, § 5-1018) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.19 CONNECTIONS FROM OUTSIDE TOWN.
   No connection of any water or sewer line or system outside the town shall be
made to any part of the town's water or sewer system without permission from
the Board on any terms as the Board shall prescribe.
(Prior Code, § 5-1019)
§ 54.20 CLASSES OF SERVICES.
   Water shall be furnished to consumers at metered rates only.
(Prior Code, § 5-1020)
§ 54.21 WHEN WATER RENTS PAYABLE.
   All bills shall be due and payable at the town hall office on or before the
tenth of the month. All persons shall have a right to appeal the amount of the
bill and/or any potential water service disconnection(s). If the full payment
or an appeal is not made at the town hall on or before the 20th of the month,
your water service shall be disconnected on the 21st of the month. If your
water service is disconnected, the total amount of the unpaid bill(s) along
with a $30 reconnection charge shall be due and payable before the service(s)
is resumed.
(Prior Code, § 5-1021) (Ord. passed 4-12-1966; Ord. passed 3-11-1986; Ord.
passed 3-8-1994)
§ 54.22 RETURNED CHECKS.
   There shall be a $20 service charge on all returned checks regarding utility
payments and/or garbage collection.
(Ord. passed 3-8-1994)
§ 54.23 CUTTING ON WATER AFTER DISCONTINUANCE.
   Any person who shall turn the water from the town water mains into a meter
or private connection, which connection has been cut off by the Town Clerk or
other official for the nonpayment of water bill, without authority of the Town
Clerk or other official, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 5-1022) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.24 CLIMBING WATER TOWERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, without first obtaining written
authority from the Public Utilities Director, to go or climb on or upon, or in
any manner ascend, the town water tank or reservoir, its towers or supports, or
any part thereof.
(Prior Code, § 5-1023) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.25 TAMPERING WITH WATER SYSTEM.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cut, break, obstruct, damage, change,
alter, or otherwise interfere or tamper with any water pipe or water main or
hydrant or water tank or any other thing being a part of the water works.
Violation of this section shall constitute a misdemeanor punishable by a fine
or imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 5-1024) (Ord. passed 3-11-1986) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.26 PROTECTION OF WATER SYSTEM.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw trash, rubbish, sticks, stones,
or any other substance into the storage tank or reservoir or other water
apparatus of the town and it shall be unlawful for any person to throw or place
any trash, rubbish, or any other substance on the grounds around the wells of
the town or upon the grounds surrounding the buildings or any part of and
pertaining to the town water system and known as the pumping station lot.
(Prior Code, § 5-1025) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.27 MORE THAN ONE USER ON SINGLE METER.
   It shall constitute a misdemeanor for two or more users of the town water to
join together on one water service lateral or water meter unless same shall be
approved by the Town Board of Commissioners. When two or more users
(residential and/or commercial) are allowed to exist on one service lateral or
water meter, a commercial rate shall be assessed and one of the several users,
or the owner of the property, shall be designated as the responsible party for
both the payment of the total monthly commercial charge and the applicable
deposit for a commercial account.
(Prior Code, § 5-1026) (Ord. passed 6-13-1995) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Violation of §
54.27 shall be punishable by a fine of $50 or 30 days in jail, or both, by the
court; each day of violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. passed 6-13-1995)
CHAPTER 55: WATER AND SEWER EXTENSIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
55.01   Definitions
Private Utility Lines Outside the Corporate Limits
   
55.15   Application for connection; map
   
55.16   Prior approval of subdivision and map required
   
55.17   Recommendations by approving authority
   
55.18   Action by Board; subdivisions regulated
   
55.19   Approval of fixtures and the like
   
55.20   Deed of dedication and contract required
   
55.21   Sewer lines and connections required
   
55.22   Laying of utility lines
   
55.23   Connection of private lines with town lines
   
55.24   Easements and rights-of-way
   
55.25   Map of fixtures and the like approved by town
   
55.26   Indemnification of town
   
55.27   Authority of town; fees
   
55.28   Discontinuing or reducing service and the like
   
55.29   Connections under town supervision
   
55.30   Effect of unauthorized connections
Connections Inside the Corporate Limits
   
55.45   Laying of pipe line by property owner
   
55.46   Laying of pipe line by town
   
55.47   Size and depth of mains
   
55.48   Cost of repaving paid by town
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 55.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEDICATOR. The person owning or constructing any private utility system
being dedicated to the town.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation, or
group.
   UTILITY SYSTEM or UTILITY LINES.
      (1)   Water pipe lines and sewer pipe lines (either or both as determined
by the context), and shall include all pipes, valves, valve boxes, hydrants,
and other fixtures, equipment, and systems, or both, provided same is located
in right-of-way and/or easement.
      (2)   The utility lines dedicated to the town pursuant to this chapter
shall include only main distribution lines, valves, hydrants, and other
apparatus, fixtures, and equipment forming a part of the lines laid in streets,
roads, highways, and alleys or across private property, provided, same is
located in a town right-of-way and/or easement, and shall not include lateral
lines leading from mains to building connections beyond a town right-of-way
and/or easement, and shall not include the water or sewer lines within any
residence or other privately owned building.
(Prior Code, § 5-3001)
PRIVATE UTILITY LINES OUTSIDE THE CORPORATE LIMITS
§ 55.15 APPLICATION FOR CONNECTION; MAP.
   Any person owning or proposing to construct any private line or system
outside the corporate limits of the town, which it is desired to have connected
with the public utility lines and systems of the town for the purpose of making
water or sewer service available to consumers, shall make written application
to the Board for permission to make the connections, upon forms furnished by
the Clerk. Applications will be received and acted upon by the Board only in
accordance with and pursuant to the terms and provisions of this chapter. The
application must be accompanied by a map made by a registered engineer or
registered land surveyor authorized to practice in the state, which map shall
show accurately the property to be served with water or sewer service, and if
within any real estate development or subdivision of lots and the layout of
streets therein.
(Prior Code, § 5-3011) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 55.16 PRIOR APPROVAL OF SUBDIVISION AND MAP REQUIRED.
   (A)   When the private utility lines or systems are to be laid and
constructed within any residential development or subdivision, the subdivision
and the map thereof showing the property lines and subdivision of lots and the
layout of streets must have been duly approved by the Town Administrator and
the Board before the Board will approve any application for permission to make
connections with the water and/or sewer systems of the town.
   (B)   No new utility service shall be furnished outside the town limits on
any street right-of-way less than 50 feet in width, unless otherwise approved
by the Board.
(Prior Code, § 5-3012) (Ord. passed 11-10-1959) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 55.17 RECOMMENDATIONS BY APPROVING AUTHORITY.
   When application is made by the owner or promoters of any addition,
subdivision, or development, outside the town limits, for connection with the
town's water and/or sewer system, the application, with plans, maps, and all
other papers and documents relating thereto shall be referred to the Town
Administrator. The Town Administrator shall have authority to recommend the
approval or disapproval of the application and to indicate reasonable
conditions and requirements for approval, and to recommend any measures that
may be requisite or necessary to protect the interest of the town or to prevent
improper connections being made with its water or sewer systems.
(Prior Code, § 5-3013)
§ 55.18 ACTION BY BOARD; SUBDIVISIONS REGULATED.
   (A)   After action has been taken by the Town Administrator and
recommendations have been made to the Board, the Board shall consider and act
upon the question of approving or disapproving the application, and the action
of the Board shall be final; provided, however, that the Board may indicate to
the owners or promoters of any addition, subdivision, or development the
requirements which must be met as a prerequisite for approving the application.
   (B)   In prescribing the requirements prerequisite for approval of the
application for utility connections, the Board shall, in approving the
subdivision or development, determine the width of streets, the adequacy of
drainage, the type of paving, the size and type of pipes and other equipment,
the location of streets, particularly with respect to their condition with the
street plan of the town and any other matters with respect to the development
or subdivision as the Board in its discretion may deem proper.
(Prior Code, § 5-3014)
§ 55.19 APPROVAL OF FIXTURES AND THE LIKE.
   No application will be considered by the Board under the provisions of this
chapter until the Town Administrator shall have approved the sizes, location,
character, and quality of all pipes, valves, valve boxes, hydrants, and other
fixtures, equipment, and apparatus to be laid and constructed and to be
connected with the utility systems of the town.
(Prior Code, § 5-3015)
§ 55.20 DEED OF DEDICATION AND CONTRACT REQUIRED.
   Upon the approval of the application by the Board and before any person
shall connect in any manner any privately owned utility line or system with the
public utility lines or systems of the town, the person shall properly execute
a written deed of dedication and contract, in form approved by the Town
Attorney, by which, in consideration of making the connection and the benefits
to be derived therefrom, the person shall dedicate, give, grant, and convey the
privately owned utility line or system to the town, and automatically upon its
completion, inspection, and connection with the system of the town, the same
shall become the sole and absolute property of the town and a part of the
public utility system of the town without any cost or expense to the town and
without any obligation whatsoever on the part of the town to compensate or
reimburse the dedicators or their successors or assigns in any amount. The
dedication to the town of any privately owned utility lines and the connection
of any lines with the public utility lines of the town shall be upon and in
accordance with the terms and conditions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-3016)
§ 55.21 SEWER LINES AND CONNECTIONS REQUIRED.
   No private water line, lines, or system within any residential development
or subdivision outside the corporate limits shall be connected with the water
system of the town, nor will the town accept any dedication of the same and
agree to furnish water service to consumers within any residential development
or subdivision, unless, at the same time, there is connected with the town
sewerage system and dedicated within the residential development or subdivision
sufficient to make available adequate sewerage services for each of the
residential lots within the subdivision, provided the development or
subdivision is (and a sewerage system therein would be) physically accessible,
from a sound engineering standpoint, to an existing sewer main or sewer outfall
line of the town as determined by the Board. However, if there is no currently
existing sewer main or sewer outfall line to which the development or
subdivision is (and a sewerage system therein would be) physically
inaccessible, from a sound engineering standpoint, as determined by the Board,
then, the Board may nevertheless in its discretion grant permission for a water
system installed within the development or subdivision to be connected to and
with the town's water system and dedicated to the town, if the dedicators at
the same time install and dedicate to the town an adequate system of sewer
pipes and lines exclusively within the development or subdivision with lateral
or sub pipes to the property lines to make possible eventual sewerage service
for all lots in the development or subdivision as required by the Town Board of
Commissioners, without immediately running and constructing any sewerage line
beyond the development or subdivision and without immediately connecting the
sewerage system installed within the development or subdivision with the
sewerage system of the town, the intent and purpose of this provision being to
have a sewerage system installed within the development or subdivision which
would be available for future connection with the town's sewerage system in the
event any accessible sewer line or sewer outfall should in the future be
constructed.
(Prior Code, § 5-3017)
§ 55.22 LAYING OF UTILITY LINES.
   After the Board shall have approved the application for the connection of
any proposed privately owned utility line or system with the public utility
lines or systems of the town, the applicant or applicants at their own proper
cost and expense and without unnecessary delay shall furnish, construct, and
lay the utility lines as approved by the Board without cost or expense to the
town and the utility lines shall be laid and constructed according to the
standards and specifications, and of the character, size, quality, and
durability, as prescribed by the town through and by its proper officials and
employees, and shall be subject to the approval of the town through its proper
officers or employees.
(Prior Code, § 5-3018) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 55.23 CONNECTION OF PRIVATE LINES WITH TOWN LINES.
   Upon the completion of the construction and laying of the utility lines as
authorized by the Board for connection, and upon inspection and approval
thereof by the town, the dedicators shall be permitted to connect the private
utility lines with the utility lines and system of the town upon the terms and
conditions prescribed by this chapter and the deed of dedication and contract
executed by the dedicators.
(Prior Code, § 5-3019)
§ 55.24 EASEMENTS AND RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   In the event that the utility lines are to be constructed and laid in and
along any public highway or the right-of-way thereof, or in and across lands
now owned and possessed by the dedicators, the dedicators, without cost or
expense to the town, shall procure the necessary and proper written easement or
right-of-way contracts or deeds from the proper officials and agencies having
contracts or deeds from the proper officials and agencies having control of the
public highways and from the owners of the lands, granting the right and
authority to construct, lay, maintain, inspect, and repair the utility lines,
with appropriate rights of ingress and egress over private lands, when
necessary. The town will join in the execution of the contracts and deeds, when
required, subject to approval of the legal instruments by the Town Attorney.
(Prior Code, § 5-3020)
§ 55.25 MAP OF FIXTURES AND THE LIKE APPROVED BY TOWN.
   The dedicators shall furnish the town an accurate map showing in detail the
location of all mains, pipe lines, laterals, stubs, valves, valve boxes,
hydrants, and other fixtures, apparatus, and equipment forming a part of the
utility lines constructed and dedicated pursuant to this chapter, and showing
the depth of all pipes and apparatus below the ground level, which map shall be
subject to the approval of the Town Administrator or other proper official of
the town designated by the Board, and after the map is so approved there shall
be no changes to the map made without the written consent of the Town
Administrator or other officials of the town authorized to make the consent.
(Prior Code, § 5-3021)
§ 55.26 INDEMNIFICATION OF TOWN.
   The dedicators shall have and assume all risk in the laying, installation,
and construction of the utility lines and system constructed pursuant to this
chapter, and the dedicators shall agree that the town shall not be responsible
or liable for, and that the dedicators will indemnify and save harmless the
town against, any and all injuries and damages to persons or property by reason
of or in any way growing out of the construction, installation, and laying of
the utility lines. The dedicators shall furnish the town with an adequate and
satisfactory bond and/or public liability insurance policy (or a certificate or
other evidence from the insurance company that the insurance is in force) fully
protecting the town as provided by this section, the bond and/or insurance
policy to be executed by an insurance company authorized to do business in the
state.
(Prior Code, § 5-3022)
§ 55.27 AUTHORITY OF TOWN; FEES.
   All connections by consumers with the utility lines constructed and
dedicated pursuant to this chapter and all services through those lines and
apparatus shall be in accordance with the laws, ordinances, rules, and
regulations of and applicable to the town, as now in force or as may be
enacted, adopted, and amended from time to time. The town shall have complete
supervision and control over the lines, taps, connections, and all other parts
of the utility lines and system so constructed for the purpose of making any
and all necessary inspections, and turning the water on and off, and for other
purposes. The charges, rents, and fees charged by the town for connections,
inspections, and services to consumers through the utility lines shall be upon
the same basis and schedules as those charged other consumers of like status
residing outside of the corporate limits of the town, from time to time, and
the town shall collect all rents, fees, and charges from consumers connected
with the utility lines, for its sole use and benefit without compensation to
the dedicators.
(Prior Code, § 5-3023)
§ 55.28 DISCONTINUING OR REDUCING SERVICE AND THE LIKE.
   The town shall have the right to cut off the water and to discontinue the
furnishing of water and/or sewer services through the utility lines constructed
and dedicated pursuant to this chapter, at any time, without notice, whenever
it shall appear to the town in the sole and absolute discretion of the Board
that to continue to furnish water and/or sewer services to the consumers along
any of the lines would render the town unable to properly furnish an adequate
water supply or adequate sewer service for the use of its consumers and
citizens living within the corporate limits of the town, but in that event, the
town shall give the dedicators and the consumers as ample notice of the
intention to discontinue the water supply or sewer service, or both, as the
circumstances of the situation render practicable. The town specifically does
not and shall not agree or undertake to be required to furnish to the
dedicators or to any consumer along any of the utility lines constructed and
dedicated pursuant to this chapter any stated or particular pressure of water,
and the town specifically does not and shall not agree to furnish fire
protection, nor shall there by any such responsibility. The town shall not be
liable to the dedicators or to any consumer or to any person, firm, or
corporation for any failure to supply water for the character or quality of the
water supplied or for any failure or inadequacy of sewer service.
(Prior Code, § 5-3024)
§ 55.29 CONNECTIONS UNDER TOWN SUPERVISION.
   No connection of any private utility line or lines shall be made with the
public utility lines or system of the town or any part thereof except by the
forces or the employees of the town under the supervision of the Supervisor or
any persons as may be designated by the Board to supervise the connections.
(Prior Code, § 5-3025)
§ 55.30 EFFECT OF UNAUTHORIZED CONNECTIONS.
   Should any person connect any privately owned water or sewer line or lines
or system with any town water or sewer line or lines without first dedicating,
giving, granting, and conveying same to the town, the act of connecting the
water or sewer line or lines to the water or sewer line or lines of the town
shall be deemed a dedication, gift, grant, and conveyance of the water or sewer
lines to the town and in the event, all of the terms and conditions of this
chapter shall be applicable to any such lines so connected without authority.
(Prior Code, § 5-3026)
CONNECTIONS INSIDE THE CORPORATE LIMITS
§ 55.45 LAYING OF PIPE LINE BY PROPERTY OWNER.
   (A)   When water or sewer connections shall be desired for any property
situated upon a street or alley where no water or sewer pipe has been laid, and
the town shall be unwilling to extend its water or sewer mains to the property,
the owner of the property may make application to the town and any other
approving authority for permission to lay a line of pipe from the town's water
or sewer mains to the property.
   (B)   The permit issued to the person shall be in writing, signed by the
applicant, and shall be subject to the following conditions, which shall be
expressed therein.
      (1)   The person to whom the permit shall be granted shall bear all the
expense of laying the pipe line and of connecting the same with the water or
sewerage system of the town.
      (2)   The pipe line shall be laid in accordance with the specifications
furnished by the approving authority and the town and the work shall be done
under the supervision and control of the authority and the town.
      (3)   The town shall be saved harmless from all loss, cost, damage, or
expense by reason of any injury to any person or property as a result of laying
the pipe line. The pipe line, when completed, shall become the property of the
town and be subject to its control.
(Prior Code, § 5-3031)
§ 55.46 LAYING OF PIPE LINE BY TOWN.
   (A)   Generally. When water or sewer connections shall be desired for any
property upon which a residence or business building or an apartment building
exists or is under construction, if the property is situated upon a street
where adjacent to the property no water or sewer mains have been laid, the town
will construct and extend its water or sewer mains, or both, from the nearest
existing mains to a point suitable for any desired connection, subject to the
existence of funds appropriated by the Board for that purpose, upon the
following basis and upon the following conditions.
   (B)   Specifically. The town will extend the mains, without cost to the
property owner desiring a connection under the circumstances stated above, for
a distance of 150 lineal feet from the existing mains for each connection to be
made.
(Prior Code, § 5-3032)
§ 55.47 SIZE AND DEPTH OF MAINS.
   The town shall determine the size and depth of water or sewer mains, or
both, required and desirable in each locality and on each street where an
extension is requested.
(Prior Code, § 5-3034)
§ 55.48 COST OF REPAVING PAID BY TOWN.
   Where it becomes necessary to cut the street paving to lay and construct a
water or sewer main, the town will pay the entire cost of the repaving of the
street for the main lines unless the street paving is due to the construction
of a water or sewer main by a property owner in accordance with §
55.45.
(Prior Code, § 5-3035)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      Chapter
         
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
         
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
         
73.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
         
74.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.001   Definitions
Enforcement and Obedience to Traffic Regulations
   
70.030   Application of title to person riding, propelling, and the like
pushcarts, tractors, trailers, carts, animals, and the like
   
70.031   Drivers of government-owned vehicles
   
70.032   Authority of Police and Fire Department officials
   
70.033   Use of coasters, roller skates, and similar devices restricted
   
70.034   Authorized emergency vehicles
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.050   Obedience to signs and the like; generally
   
70.051   Signs as prerequisite to enforcement
   
70.052   Specifications for traffic-control devices
   
70.053   Traffic-control signal legend
   
70.054   Pedestrian-control signals
   
70.055   Flashing signals
   
70.056   Display of unauthorized signs, signals, or markings
   
70.057   Interference with official traffic-control devices, signs, or signals
   
70.058   Authority to establish play streets
   
70.059   Traffic lanes
Golf Carts
   
70.070   Authority to regulate
   
70.071   Liability disclaimer
   
70.072   Definitions
   
70.073   Liability insurance
   
70.074   Required equipment
   
70.075   Registration, inspection, and fee prior to usage
   
70.076   General operation
   
70.077   Exception
Pedestrians' Rights and Duties
   
70.090   Pedestrians subject to traffic-control signals
   
70.091   Pedestrians' right-of-way in crosswalk
   
70.092   Pedestrians to use right half of crosswalk
   
70.093   Crossing at right angles
   
70.094   When pedestrian shall yield
   
70.095   Pedestrians walking along roadways
   
70.096   Pedestrians soliciting rides or business
   
70.097   Drivers to exercise due care
Regulations for Bicycles
   
70.110   Effect of regulations
   
70.111   Traffic laws apply to persons riding bicycles
   
70.112   Obedience to traffic-control devices
   
70.113   Riding on bicycles
   
70.114   Riding on roadways and bicycle paths
   
70.115   Speed
   
70.116   Emerging from alley or driveway
   
70.117   Carrying articles
   
70.118   Riding on sidewalks and streets
   
70.119   Lamps and other equipment on bicycles
 
   
70.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A thoroughfare through the middle of a block.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Vehicles of the Fire Department, police
vehicles, and any ambulances and emergency vehicles of municipal departments or
public service corporations as are designated or authorized by the Chief of
Police, including the personal vehicles of fire, police, or rescue personnel,
if the vehicle is actually engaged in an emergency operation.
   BICYCLE. Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may
ride, having two tandem wheels either of which is over 20 inches in diameter.
   BLOCK. A portion of any street located between any two intersections of any
two streets or public alleyways next adjacent to each other.
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE. Every vehicle designed, maintained, or used primarily
for the transportation of property.
   CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY. Every highway, street, or roadway in respect to
which owners or occupants of abutting property or lands and other persons have
no legal right of access to or from the same, except at those points only and
in the manner as may be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction
over the highway, street, or roadway.
   CROSSWALK. The portion of any street or roadway ordinarily included within
the prolongation or connection of the lateral lines of sidewalks at
intersections. Any portion of a roadway or street distinctly indicated for
pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface of the street or
roadway.
   CURB LOADING ZONE. A space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use
of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or materials.
   DRIVER. The operator of a vehicle.
   FREIGHT CURB LOADING ZONE. A space adjacent to a curb for the exclusive use
of vehicles during the loading or unloading of freight or passengers.
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of the two highways which join one another at any angle whether or not
one highway crosses the other.
      (2)   Where a highway includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then
every crossing of each roadway of the divided highway by an intersecting
highway shall be regarded as a separate intersection. In the event the
intersecting highway also includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then
every crossing of two roadways of the highways shall be regarded as a separate
INTERSECTION.
   LANED ROADWAY. A roadway which is divided into two or more clearly marked
lanes for vehicular traffic.
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle having a saddle for the use of the rider and
designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the ground,
including motor scooters and motor-driven bicycles, but excluding tractors and
utility vehicles equipped with an additional form of device designed to
transport property, and three-wheeled vehicles while being used by law
enforcement agencies.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle
designed to run upon the streets which is pulled by a self-propelled vehicle.
   OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD. Whenever certain hours are named herein they shall
mean standard time or daylight saving time as may be in current use in this
town.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICE. Any sign, signal, marking, or device, not
inconsistent with this title, placed or erected by authority of the governing
body by any designated official having jurisdiction through authority given by
the governing body, for the purpose of regulating, warning, prohibiting, or
guiding traffic upon the public streets and thoroughfares of the town.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC SIGNALS. Any device, whether manually, electrically, or
mechanically operated, whereby traffic is alternately directed to stop and to
proceed, or to turn, or to proceed with caution.
   PARK. The standing of any vehicle, whether occupied or unoccupied, otherwise
than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or
unloading passengers or cargo.
   PASSENGER CURB LOADING ZONE. A place adjacent to a curb reserved for the
exclusive use of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   PERSON. Every individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
governmental agency, or combination thereof of whatsoever form or character.
   POLICE OFFICER. Every police officer of the town, including every employee
of the town authorized and empowered to regulate traffic and to make arrests
for any violations of the provisions of this title.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY. Every road or driveway not open to the use of the
public as a matter of right for the purpose of vehicular traffic.
   PUBLIC CONVEYANCE. Any vehicle other than a taxicab or railroad train for
transporting persons for a fare.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the street or roadway.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a street or highway improved, designed, or
ordinarily used for vehicular travel, exclusive of the shoulder. In the event a
highway includes two or more separate roadways, the term ROADWAY as used herein
shall refer to any such roadway separately but not to all the roadways
collectively.
   SAFETY ZONE. Traffic island or other space officially set aside within a
roadway for the exclusive use of pedestrians and which is so plainly marked or
indicated by proper signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set apart
as a safety zone.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curblines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   STOP. When required, means the complete cessation of movement.
   STOP, STOPPING, OR STANDING. When prohibited, means any stopping or standing
of a vehicle whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict
with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or
traffic-control sign or signal.
   STREET or HIGHWAY.
      (1)   The entire width between property lines of every way or place of
whatever nature, when any part thereof is open to the use of the public as a
matter of right for the purposes of vehicular traffic.
      (2)   The terms HIGHWAY or STREET or a combination of the two terms shall
be used synonymously.
   THROUGH HIGHWAY. Every street or highway or portion thereof at the entrances
to which vehicular traffic from intersecting streets or highways is required by
law to stop before entering or crossing the same and when stop signs are
erected as provided in this title.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, and other
conveyances either singly or together while using any street for purposes of
travel.
   TRAFFIC BUREAU. The Traffic Division of the Town Police Department, or in
the event a Traffic Division is not established, then the term whenever used
herein shall be deemed to refer to the Town Police Department.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, excepting devices moved by human power
or used exclusively upon fixed rails or tracks; provided, that for the purpose
of this title, bicycles shall be deemed vehicles and every rider of a bicycle
upon a highway shall be subject to the provisions of this title applicable to
the driver of a vehicle except those which by their nature can have no
application.
(Prior Code, § 7-1001) (Ord. passed 6-10-1980)
ENFORCEMENT AND OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
§ 70.030 APPLICATION OF TITLE TO PERSON RIDING, PROPELLING, AND THE LIKE
PUSHCARTS, TRACTORS, TRAILERS, CARTS, ANIMALS, AND THE LIKE.
   Every person operating, riding, propelling, or driving any pushcart,
tractor, trailer, bicycle, buggy, cart, or other type of machine or conveyance,
or any person riding or driving or leading an animal upon any of the public
streets of the town, shall be subject to the provisions of this title, except
those provisions of this title which by their very nature can have no
application.
(Prior Code, § 7-1021) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.031 DRIVERS OF GOVERNMENT-OWNED VEHICLES.
   The provisions of this title applicable to the drivers of vehicles upon
streets shall apply to the driver of any vehicle owned by or used in the
service of the United States government, this state or any other state, or any
county or city. It shall be unlawful for any driver to violate any provisions
of this title, except as otherwise permitted in this title by state statute.
(Prior Code, § 7-1022) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.032 AUTHORITY OF POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the officers of the Police Department or the
officers as are assigned by the Chief of Police to enforce all street traffic
laws and all of the state vehicle laws applicable to street traffic.
   (B)   Officers of the Police Department or the officers as are assigned by
the Chief of Police are hereby authorized to direct all traffic by voice, hand,
or signal in conformance with traffic laws, provided that, in the event of a
fire or other emergency or to expedite traffic or to safeguard pedestrians,
officers of the Police Department may direct traffic as conditions may require
notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws.
   (C)   Officers of the Fire Department, when at the scene of a fire, may
direct or assist the police in directing traffic thereat or in the immediate
vicinity.
(Prior Code, § 7-1023)
§ 70.033 USE OF COASTERS, ROLLER SKATES, AND SIMILAR DEVICES RESTRICTED.
   No person upon roller skates, or riding in or by means of any coaster, toy
vehicle, or similar device, shall go upon any roadway except while crossing a
street on a crosswalk and when so crossing the person shall be granted all of
the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to pedestrians.
This section shall not apply upon any street while set aside as a play street
as authorized by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 7-1025) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.034 AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   The provisions of this title regulating the operation, parking, and
standing of vehicles shall apply to authorized emergency vehicles, as defined
in this title, except as follows. A driver, when operating the vehicle in any
emergency, except when otherwise directed by a police officer, may:
      (1)   Park or stand, notwithstanding the provisions of this title;
      (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal, or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
      (3)   Exceed the posted or prima facie speed limits by not more than ten
mph; or
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement, or turning,
in specified directions so long as he or she does not endanger life or
property.
   (B)   The foregoing exemptions shall not, however, protect the driver of the
vehicle from the consequences of his or her reckless disregard of the safety of
others.
(Prior Code, § 7-1026) (Ord. passed 6-10-1980)
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.050 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNS AND THE LIKE; GENERALLY.
   Any person failing or refusing to comply with the directions indicated on
any sign, marker, or device for the control or direction of traffic erected or
placed in accordance with the provisions of this title when so placed or
erected shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. This section shall not be construed
to apply when the driver of a vehicle is otherwise directed by a police officer
or when an exception is granted to the driver of an authorized emergency
vehicle under §
70.034.
(Prior Code, § 7-1031) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.051 SIGNS AS PREREQUISITE TO ENFORCEMENT.
   No provision of this title for which signs are required shall be enforced
against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the alleged violation,
an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently legible to an
ordinarily observant person. Whenever any particular section in this title does
not state that signs are required, the section shall be effective without signs
being placed to give notice thereof.
(Prior Code, § 7-1032)
§ 70.052 SPECIFICATIONS FOR TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   All traffic-control signs, signals, and devices shall conform to state
regulations. All signs and signals required hereunder for a particular purpose
shall so far as practicable be uniform as to type and location. All traffic-
control devices so erected and not inconsistent with the provisions of state
law or this subchapter shall be official traffic-control devices.
(Prior Code, § 7-1033)
§ 70.053 TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND.
   (A)   Generally. Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals
exhibiting the words "Go," "Caution," or "Stop," or exhibiting different
colored lights successively one at a time, or with arrows, the following colors
only shall be used and the terms and light shall indicate and apply to drivers
of vehicles and pedestrians as follows.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   Green alone or "Go."
         (a)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed straight through
or turn right or left unless a sign at the place prohibits either turn. But
vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left, shall yield the
right-of-way to other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the
intersection or an adjacent crosswalk at the time the signal is exhibited.
         (b)   Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the roadway
within any marked or unmarked crosswalk.
      (2)   Yellow alone or "Caution" when shown following the green or "Go"
signal.
         (a)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal is thereby warned that the
red or "Stop" signal will be exhibited immediately thereafter and the vehicular
traffic shall not enter or be crossing the intersection when the red or "Stop"
signal is exhibited.
         (b)   No pedestrian facing the signal shall enter the roadway until
the green or "Go" is shown alone unless authorized so to do by a pedestrian
"Walk" signal.
      (3)   Red alone or "Stop."
         (a)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering
the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if none, then before
entering the intersection and shall remain standing until green or "Go" is
shown alone. Provided, however, that if a sign is not erected prohibiting turns
on red lights, then vehicles may turn right on red lights after coming to a
complete stop.
         (b)   No pedestrian facing the signal shall enter the roadway until
the green or "Go" is shown alone unless authorized so to do by a pedestrian
"Walk" signal.
      (4)   Red with green arrow.
         (a)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal may cautiously enter the
intersection only to make the movement indicated by the arrow but shall yield
the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within a crosswalk and to other
traffic lawfully using the intersection.
         (b)   No pedestrian facing the signal shall enter the roadway until
the green or "Go" is shown alone unless authorized so to do by a pedestrian
"Walk" signal.
      (5)   Not at intersections. In the event an official traffic-control
signal is erected and maintained at a place other than an intersection, the
provisions of this section shall be applicable except as to those provisions
which by their nature can have no application. Any stop required shall be made
at a sign or marking on the pavement indicating where the stop shall be made,
but in the absence of any sign or marking, the stop shall be made at the
signal.
(Prior Code, § 7-1034) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.054 PEDESTRIAN-CONTROL SIGNALS.
   (A)   Generally. Whenever special pedestrian-control signals exhibiting the
words "Walk" or "Don't Walk" are in place, the signals shall indicate as
follows.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   "Walk." Pedestrians facing the signals may proceed across the
highway in the direction of the signal and shall be given the right-of-way by
the drivers of all vehicles.
      (2)   "Don't Walk." No pedestrian shall start to cross the highway in the
direction of the signal, but any pedestrian who has partially completed his or
her crossing on the "Walk" signal shall proceed to a sidewalk or safety island
while the "Don't Walk" signal is showing.
(Prior Code, § 7-1035) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.055 FLASHING SIGNALS.
   (A)   Generally. Whenever flashing red or yellow signals are used, they
shall require obedience by vehicular traffic as follows.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   Flashing red (stop signal). When a red lens is illuminated by rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall come to a complete stop before
entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at a limit line when
marked, and the right to proceed shall be subject to the rules applicable after
making a stop at a stop sign. In no event shall the vehicle be driven into the
crosswalk unless and until the entry can be made with safety to other persons
and property at the place.
      (2)   Flashing yellow (caution signal). When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers or operators of vehicles may proceed
through the intersection or past the signal only with caution.
(Prior Code, § 7-1036) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.056 DISPLAY OF UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS, SIGNALS, OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   No person shall place, maintain, or display upon or in view of any
highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device which purports to be
or is in imitation of or resembles an official traffic-control device, sign, or
signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic, or which hides
from view or interferes with the effectiveness of any official traffic-control
device, sign, or signal.
   (B)   No person shall place or maintain nor shall any public authority
permit upon any highway any traffic sign or signal bearing thereon any
commercial advertising.
   (C)   This section shall not be deemed to prohibit the erection upon private
property adjacent to highways of signs giving useful directional information
and of a type that cannot be mistaken for official signs.
   (D)   Every prohibited sign, signal, or marking is hereby declared to be a
public nuisance and the authority having jurisdiction over the highway is
hereby empowered to remove the same or cause it to be removed without notice.
(Prior Code, § 7-1037) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.057 INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES, SIGNS, OR SIGNALS.
   No person shall without lawful authority attempt to or in fact alter,
deface, injure, knock down, or remove any official traffic-control device,
sign, or signal or any inscription, shield, or insignia thereon, or any other
part thereof.
(Prior Code, § 7-1038) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.058 AUTHORITY TO ESTABLISH PLAY STREETS.
   (A)   The Board shall have authority to declare any street or part thereof a
play street and to place appropriate signs or devices in the roadway indicating
and helping to protect the same.
   (B)   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating any street or part
thereof as a play street, no person shall drive a vehicle upon any street or
portion thereof except drivers of vehicles having business or whose residences
are within the closed area, and then the driver shall exercise the greatest
care in driving upon the street or portion thereof.
(Prior Code, § 7-1039) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.059 TRAFFIC LANES.
   Where traffic lanes have been marked, it shall be unlawful for the operator
of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep the vehicle within the boundaries of
the lane, except when lawfully passing another vehicle or preparatory to making
a lawful turning movement.
(Prior Code, § 7-1040) Penalty, see §
70.999
GOLF CARTS
§ 70.070 AUTHORITY TO REGULATE.
   Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-300.5, the town is authorized, by ordinance, to
regulate the operation of golf carts on any public street or road within the
town.
(Ord. passed 12-11-2007)
Editor's Note:
   G.S. § 160A-300.5 was repealed by S.L. 2009-459. For relevant provisions,
see G.S. § 160A-300.6.
§ 70.071 LIABILITY DISCLAIMER.
   This subchapter is adopted to address the interest of public safety. Most
golf carts are not designed or manufactured to be used on public streets. The
town in no way advocates or endorses their operation on public streets. By
establishing guidelines that regulate the use of golf carts, the town is merely
trying to address safety issues that may be pertinent to golf cart usage. The
adoption of this subchapter is not to be relied upon as a determination that
operation of golf carts on public streets is safe or advisable, even if done in
accordance with this subchapter. As with any other form of transportation, all
persons who operate golf carts or any other vehicle do so at their own risk and
peril and must be observant of and attentive to the safety of themselves and
others. The town has no liability under any theory of liability and the town
assumes no liability for permitting golf carts to be operated on public
streets.
(Ord. passed 12-11-2007)
§ 70.072 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHIEF OF POLICE. The Town Chief of Police or his or her designee.
   GOLF CART. A golf cart vehicle, designed and  manufactured for operation on
a golf course for sporting or recreational purposes and that is not capable of
exceeding speeds of 20 mph.
   OPERATE. To drive or be in physical control of a golf cart on a public
street.
   PUBLIC STREET. Any public street or road within the corporate limits of the
town, open to the general public and whose posted speed limit is 25 mph or
less.
   REGISTRATION PERIOD. July 1 through June 30 of each year.
   TOWN. The Town of Rose Hill, North Carolina.
(Ord. passed 12-11-2007)
§ 70.073 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   No golf cart shall be operated on any public street within the town without
liability insurance coverage being provided for that golf cart. Any person who
owns a golf cart that is operated within the town shall be responsible for
procuring liability insurance sufficient to cover the risk involved in
operating a golf cart on public streets.
(Ord. passed 12-11-2007) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.074 REQUIRED EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Generally. In addition to all other requirements stated herein, all
golf carts operated within the town shall have the following equipment
installed on them and the equipment shall be visible and/or operational at all
times.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   Two red reflectors of a diameter of not less than three inches,
which are so designed and located as to height and which are maintained so that
each reflector is visible for at least 500 feet under normal atmospheric
conditions;
      (2)   Slow-moving vehicle warning sign attached to the rear;
      (3)   Rear view mirror or side view mirrors, mounted on each side of the
golf cart; and
      (4)   Seat belts (one per seat, a lap belt only, is required).
   (C)   Additionally. Golf carts registered for nighttime operation shall also
have the following equipment installed on them and the equipment shall be
visible and/or operational while operating before sunrise and after sunset:
      (1)   Headlamps which comply with G.S. § 20-129(b);
      (2)   Rear lamps which comply with G.S. § 20-129(d);
      (3)   Brake light(s) which comply with G.S. § 20-129(g);
      (4)   Front and rear turn signals which comply with § G.S. 20-125.1(a),
(b); and
      (5)   One yellow, white or clear flashing led or strobe light, which
shall be mounted at the top and facing to the rear of the golf cart.
(Ord. passed 12-11-2007; Ord. passed 5-8-2012; Ord. passed 8-14-2012) Penalty,
see §
70.999
§ 70.075 REGISTRATION, INSPECTION, AND FEE PRIOR TO USAGE.
   (A)   All golf cart owners must complete a golf cart registration form and
submit it to the Chief of Police or his or her designee prior to being eligible
for an inspection.
   (B)   Prior to being operated within the town, a golf cart must be inspected
by the Chief of Police or his or her designee. Upon successfully passing an
inspection, the golf cart will be assigned a registration card. Inspections are
due each year. Registrations may be issued at any time during the registration
period; however, all registrations will expire on June 30 of each year,
provided, it shall be lawful to operate a registered golf cart until July 15 of
the year of expiration. The registration card must be located on the cart and
available for review at all times.
   (C)   Prior to receiving a golf cart registration card, the applicant must
produce proof of payment of the applicable golf cart registration fee and
provide proof of liability insurance.
   (D)   Registration fees may change without notice. The current fee is $35.
Registration fees will not be prorated due to date of issuance.
(Ord. passed 12-11-2007) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.076 GENERAL OPERATION.
   (A)   Golf carts can only operate on public streets during daylight hours,
from sunrise to sunset. However, golf carts equipped and registered for
nighttime operation can operate from 5:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m.
   (B)   Golf cart drivers shall have a valid driver's license and in no case
be under age 16.
   (C)   Golf cart drivers shall stay on the far right of the road and shall
yield the right-of-way to overtaking vehicles.
   (D)   No golf cart may be operated in a careless or reckless manner. No golf
cart may be operated at a speed greater than reasonable and prudent for the
existing conditions and in no instance at a speed of greater than 20 mph.
   (E)   The maximum occupancy of a cart traveling on public streets shall be
one person per seat. Persons may not ride in or on areas not designed as a seat
(e.g., the baggage/storage area that is typical on most golf carts shall not be
used as a passenger area).
   (F)   Golf carts shall be operated in accordance with all applicable state
and local laws. Golf carts will be subject to the same right-of-way,
maneuvering, and operating guidelines as that apply to standard vehicles,
except as otherwise noted herein.
   (G)   All applicable state laws concerning possession and use of alcoholic
beverages or any other intoxicating substances shall also apply to golf cart
drivers and passengers.
   (H)   Seatbelts must be worn by all golf cart drivers and passengers while
the golf cart is in motion.
(Ord. passed 12-11-2007; Ord. passed 5-8-2012) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.077 EXCEPTION.
   Any golf cart that complies with the requirements of state law, which make
it a street legal golf cart and therefore eligible for usage on public streets
as prescribed by law, shall be exempt from the requirements of this subchapter
as they are regulated by state motor vehicle laws.
(Ord. passed 12-11-2007)
PEDESTRIANS' RIGHTS AND DUTIES
§ 70.090 PEDESTRIANS SUBJECT TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic-control signals as heretofore
declared in §§
70.053 and
70.054, but at all other places pedestrians shall be granted those rights and
be subject to the restrictions stated in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-1101)
§ 70.091 PEDESTRIANS' RIGHT-OF-WAY IN CROSSWALK.
   (A)   When traffic-control signals are not in place or not in operation, the
driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping if
need be to so yield, to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk
when the pedestrian is upon the half of the roadway upon which the vehicle is
traveling, or when the pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite
half of the roadway as to be in danger, but no pedestrian shall suddenly leave
a curb or other place of safety and walk or run into the path of a vehicle,
which is so close that it is impossible for the driver to yield. A pedestrian's
right-of-way in a crosswalk is modified under the condition and as stated in §
70.094(B).
   (B)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass the stopped vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 7-1102) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.092 PEDESTRIANS TO USE RIGHT HALF OF CROSSWALK.
   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of
crosswalks.
(Prior Code, § 7-1103) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.093 CROSSING AT RIGHT ANGLES.
   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway at any place other than by a route at
right angles to the curb or by the shortest route to the opposite curb except
in a crosswalk.
(Prior Code, § 7-1104) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.094 WHEN PEDESTRIAN SHALL YIELD.
   (A)   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (B)   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel
or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right-of-way
to all vehicles upon the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 7-1105) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.095 PEDESTRIANS WALKING ALONG ROADWAYS.
   (A)   Where sidewalks are provided, it shall be unlawful for any pedestrian
to walk along and upon an adjacent roadway.
   (B)   Where sidewalks are not provided, any pedestrian walking along and
upon a highway shall, when practicable, walk only on the left side of the
roadway or its shoulder facing traffic which may approach from the opposite
direction.
(Prior Code, § 7-1106) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.096 PEDESTRIANS SOLICITING RIDES OR BUSINESS.
   (A)   No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a
ride, employment, or business from the occupant of any vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall stand on or in proximity to a street or highway for
the purpose of soliciting the watching or guarding of any vehicle while parked
or about to be parked on a street or highway.
(Prior Code, § 7-1107) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.097 DRIVERS TO EXERCISE DUE CARE.
   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this subchapter, every driver of
a vehicle shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon
any roadway; shall give warning by sounding the horn when necessary; and shall
exercise proper precaution upon observing any child or any confused or
incapacitated person upon a roadway.
(Prior Code, § 7-1108) Penalty, see §
70.999
REGULATIONS FOR BICYCLES
§ 70.110 EFFECT OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The parent of any child and the guardian of any ward shall not
authorize or knowingly permit any child or ward to violate any of the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   These regulations applicable to bicycles shall apply whenever a
bicycle is operated upon any street or upon any public path set aside for the
exclusive use of bicycles, subject to those exceptions stated herein.
(Prior Code, § 7-1111) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.111 TRAFFIC LAWS APPLY TO PERSONS RIDING BICYCLES.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the
rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle by the laws of this state declaring rules of the road applicable to
vehicles or by this title applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except as to
special regulations in this subchapter and except as to those provisions of
laws and ordinances which by their nature can have no application.
(Prior Code, § 7-1112)
§ 70.112 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the instructions of official
traffic-control signals, signs, and other control devices applicable to
vehicles, unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   (B)   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left
or U-turn is permitted, no person operating a bicycle shall disobey the
direction of the sign, except where the person dismounts from the bicycle to
make the turn, in which event the person shall then obey the regulations
applicable to pedestrians.
(Prior Code, § 7-1113) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.113 RIDING ON BICYCLES.
   (A)   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than astride a
permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
   (B)   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped.
(Prior Code, § 7-1114) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.114 RIDING ON ROADWAYS AND BICYCLE PATHS.
   (A)   Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride as near to
the right-hand side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when
passing a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
   (B)   Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two
abreast, except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use
of bicycles.
   (C)   Whenever a usable path for bicycles has been provided adjacent to a
roadway, bicycle riders shall use the path and shall not use the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 7-1115) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.115 SPEED.
   No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under the conditions then existing.
(Prior Code, § 7-1116) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.116 EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR DRIVEWAY.
   The operator of a bicycle emerging from an alley, driveway, or building
shall, upon approaching a sidewalk or the sidewalk area extending across any
alleyway, yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians approaching on the sidewalk
or sidewalk area, and upon entering the roadway shall yield the right-of-way to
all vehicles approaching on the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 7-1117) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.117 CARRYING ARTICLES.
   No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle, or article
which prevents the rider from keeping at least one hand upon the handlebars.
(Prior Code, § 7-1118) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.118 RIDING ON SIDEWALKS AND STREETS.
   (A)   No person shall ride a bicycle upon a sidewalk.
   (B)   The Chief of Police is authorized to erect signs on any roadway
prohibiting the riding of bicycles thereon by any person and when the signs are
in place no person shall disobey the same.
(Prior Code, § 7-1120) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.119 LAMPS AND OTHER EQUIPMENT ON BICYCLES.
   (A)   Every bicycle when in use at nighttime shall be equipped with a lamp
on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least
500 feet to the front and with a red reflector on the rear of a type which
shall be visible from all distances from 50 feet to 300 feet to the rear when
directly in front of lawful upper beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle. A lamp
emitting a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear may be
used in addition to the red reflector.
   (B)   No person shall operate a bicycle unless it is equipped with a bell or
other device capable of giving a signal audible for a distance of at least 100
feet, except that a bicycle shall not be equipped with nor shall any person use
upon a bicycle any siren or whistle.
   (C)   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will enable the
operator to make the braked wheel skid on dry, level, and clean pavement.
(Prior Code, § 7-1121) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. If any person shall violate an ordinance regulating the
operation or parking of vehicles, he or she shall be responsible for an
infraction and shall be required to pay a penalty of not more than $50.
(G.S. § 14-4(b))
   (B)   Sections
70.070 through
70.077.
      (1)   Violation of the provisions of §§
70.070 through
70.077 shall be an infraction, the maximum penalty for which shall be $50.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, persons who, while driving golf carts on public
streets within the town, violate the "rules of the road" applicable to motor
vehicles generally (as set forth in G.S. Ch. 20, Part 10) shall be subject to
the same penalties applicable to the operators of the other motor vehicles.
      (2)   More than one violation of any of the provisions of §§
70.070 through
70.077 within the same registration year as defined in §
70.072 may also result in the revocation of the golf cart registration that is
assigned to that golf cart owner.
      (3)   All provisions enumerated in this division (B) may be enforced
through the authority granted in G.S. § 160A-175. The town may also, in
addition, seek any and all appropriate equitable remedies, injunctions, and/or
abatement orders from the appropriate court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. passed 12-11-2007; Ord. passed 10-10-2023; Ord. passed 7-9-2024)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
Turning Movements
   
71.01   Required position and method of turning at intersections
   
71.02   Turning markers
   
71.03   Authority to place restricted turn signs
   
71.04   Obedience to no-turn signs
   
71.05   Limitations on turning around
One-Way Streets and Alleys
   
71.30   Authority to sign one-way streets and alleys
   
71.31   One-way streets and alleys; generally
Special Stops Required
   
71.45   Authority to erect stop signs
   
71.46   Signs to bear the word "Stop"
   
71.47   Vehicles to stop at stop signs
   
71.48   Emerging from alley, driveway, or building
   
71.49   Stop when traffic obstructed
   
71.50   Obedience to signal indicating approach of railroad train
Miscellaneous Driving Rules
   
71.65   Clinging to vehicles
   
71.66   Driving through funeral procession
   
71.67   Backing
   
71.68   Driving within sidewalk area
   
71.69   Drivers in a procession
   
71.70   Funeral processions to be identified
   
71.71   Riding on motorcycles
   
71.72   Controlled access
TURNING MOVEMENTS
§ 71.01 REQUIRED POSITION AND METHOD OF TURNING AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Generally. The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an
intersection shall do so as follows.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   Right turns. Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn
shall be made as close as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the
roadway.
      (2)   Left turns on two-way roadways. At any intersection where traffic
is permitted to move in both directions on each roadway entering the
intersection, an approach for a left turn shall be made in that portion of the
right half of the roadway nearest the center line thereof and by passing to the
right of the center line where it enters the intersection and after entering
the intersection the left turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection to
the right of the center line of the roadway being entered. Whenever
practicable, the left turn shall be made in that portion of the intersection to
the left of the center of the intersection.
      (3)   Left turns on other than two-way roadways. At any intersection
where traffic is restricted to one direction on one or more of the roadways,
the driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at the intersection shall
approach the intersection in the extreme left-hand lane lawfully available to
traffic moving in the direction upon the roadway being entered.
(Prior Code, § 7-1061) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 71.02 TURNING MARKERS.
   When authorized markers, buttons, or other indications are placed within an
intersection indicating the course to be traveled by vehicles turning thereat,
no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of those indications.
(Prior Code, § 7-1062) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 71.03 AUTHORITY TO PLACE RESTRICTED TURN SIGNS.
   The Board shall determine those intersections at which drivers of vehicles
shall not make a right, left, or U-turns and shall place proper signs at the
intersections. The marking of the turns may be prohibited between certain hours
of any day and permitted at other hours, in which event the same shall be
plainly indicated on the signs or they may be removed when the turns are
permitted.
(Prior Code, § 7-1063) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 71.04 OBEDIENCE TO NO-TURN SIGNS.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left or U-
turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of the
sign.
(Prior Code, § 7-1064) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 71.05 LIMITATIONS ON TURNING AROUND.
   The driver of any vehicle shall not turn the vehicle so as to proceed in the
opposite direction upon any street in a business district and shall not upon
any other street so turn a vehicle unless the movement can be made in safety
and without interfering with other traffic.
(Prior Code, § 7-1065) Penalty, see §
70.999
ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS
§ 71.30 AUTHORITY TO SIGN ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   Whenever any ordinance designates any one-way street or alley, there shall
be signs giving notice thereof, and no regulation shall be effective unless the
signs are in place. Signs indicating the direction of lawful traffic movement
shall be placed at every intersection where movement of traffic in the opposite
direction is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 7-1071) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 71.31 ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS; GENERALLY.
   Vehicular traffic shall move only in the indicated direction when signs
indicating the direction of traffic are erected and maintained at every
intersection where movement in the opposite direction is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 7-1072) Penalty, see §
70.999
SPECIAL STOPS REQUIRED
§ 71.45 AUTHORITY TO ERECT STOP SIGNS.
   Whenever any ordinance designates and describes a through street, there
shall be a stop sign on each and every street intersecting the through street
or intersecting that portion thereof described and designated as such by any
ordinance unless traffic at the intersection is controlled at all times by
traffic-control signals; provided, however, that at the intersection of two
through streets or at the intersection of a through street and a heavy traffic
street not so designated, stop signs shall be erected at the approaches of
either of the streets.
(Prior Code, § 7-1082)
§ 71.46 SIGNS TO BEAR THE WORD "STOP."
   Every sign erected pursuant to this subchapter shall bear the word "Stop" in
letters not less than eight inches in height and the signs shall at nighttime
be rendered luminous by steady or flashing internal illumination, or by a fixed
floodlight projected on the face of the sign, or by efficient reflecting
elements on the face of the sign. Every stop sign shall be located as near as
practicable at the nearest line of the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection or, if none, at the nearest line of the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 7-1084)
§ 71.47 VEHICLES TO STOP AT STOP SIGNS.
   When stop signs are erected as herein authorized at or near the entrance to
any intersection, every driver of a vehicle shall stop before entering the
crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, in the event there is no
crosswalk, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none, then at the
point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of
approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering the
intersection except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic-
control signal.
(Prior Code, § 7-1085) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 71.48 EMERGING FROM ALLEY, DRIVEWAY, OR BUILDING.
   The driver of a vehicle within a business or residence district emerging
from an alley, driveway, or building shall stop the vehicle immediately prior
to driving onto a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk area extending across any
alleyway or driveway, yielding the right-of-way to any pedestrian as may be
necessary to avoid collision, and upon entering the roadway shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 7-1086) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 71.49 STOP WHEN TRAFFIC OBSTRUCTED.
   No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicle he or she is operating without obstructing the passage
of other vehicles or pedestrians notwithstanding any traffic-control signal
indication to proceed.
(Prior Code, § 7-1087) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 71.50 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNAL INDICATING APPROACH OF RAILROAD TRAIN.
   (A)   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad grade
crossing under any of the circumstances stated in this section, the driver of
the vehicle shall stop within 50 feet but not less than 15 feet from the
nearest rail of the railroad, and shall not proceed until he or she can do so
safely. The foregoing requirements shall apply when:
      (1)   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives
warning of the immediate approach of a railroad train;
      (2)   A crossing gate is lowered or when a human flagger gives or
continues to give a signal of the approach or passage of a railroad train;
      (3)   A railroad train approaching within approximately 1,500 feet of the
highway crossing emits a signal audible from the distance and the railroad
train, by reason of its speed or nearness to the crossing, is an immediate
hazard; or
      (4)   An approaching railroad train is plainly visible and is in
hazardous proximity to the crossing.
   (B)   No person shall drive any vehicle through, around, or under any
crossing gate or barrier at a railroad grade crossing while the gate or barrier
is closed or is being opened or closed.
(Prior Code, § 7-1088) Penalty, see §
70.999
MISCELLANEOUS DRIVING RULES
§ 71.65 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to hang on to any moving vehicle.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person riding upon any bicycle,
motorcycle, coaster, sled, roller skates, or any toy vehicle to attach the
bicycle, motorcycle, coaster, sled, or toy vehicle or himself or herself to any
moving vehicle upon any roadway.
(Prior Code, § 7-1091) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 71.66 DRIVING THROUGH FUNERAL PROCESSION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle, except vehicles of
the Fire Department, Police Department, patrols, and ambulances when the
vehicles are responding to emergency calls, through a funeral procession.
(Prior Code, § 7-1092) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 71.67 BACKING.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a vehicle to back the vehicle into
any intersection or over a crosswalk and, in any event or at any place, to back
the vehicle unless the movement can be made in safety and unless the driver
shall have given ample warning, either by hand or horn or other signal, to
those who may be behind.
(Prior Code, § 7-1093) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 71.68 DRIVING WITHIN SIDEWALK AREA.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a vehicle to drive the vehicle within
any sidewalk area, except at a permanent or temporary driveway.
(Prior Code, § 7-1094) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 71.69 DRIVERS IN A PROCESSION.
   Each driver in a funeral or other procession shall drive as near to the
right-hand edge of the roadway as practical and shall follow the vehicle ahead
as close as is practical and safe.
(Prior Code, § 7-1095) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 71.70 FUNERAL PROCESSIONS TO BE IDENTIFIED.
   A funeral composed of a procession of vehicles shall be identified by the
display upon the outside of each vehicle of a pennant or other identifying
insignia or by any other method as may be determined and designated by the
Traffic Division.
(Prior Code, § 7-1096) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 71.71 RIDING ON MOTORCYCLES.
   A person operating a motorcycle shall ride only upon the permanent and
regular seat attached thereto, and the operator shall not carry any other
person nor shall any other person ride on a motorcycle unless the motorcycle is
designed to carry more than one person, in which event a passenger may ride
upon the permanent and regular seat if designed for two persons, or upon
another seat firmly attached to the rear or side of the operator.
(Prior Code, § 7-1097) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 71.72 CONTROLLED ACCESS.
   No person shall drive a vehicle onto or from any controlled-access roadway
except at the entrances and exits as are established by public authority.
(Prior Code, § 7-1098) Penalty, see §
70.999
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
Method of Parking
   
72.01   Standing or parking close to curb
Stopping, Standing, or Parking Prohibited in Specified Places
   
72.15   Stopping, standing, or parking prohibited; no signs required
   
72.16   Parking not to obstruct traffic
   
72.17   Parking in alleys
   
72.18   Standing or parking for certain purposes prohibited
   
72.19   Parking adjacent to schools
   
72.20   Standing or parking on one-way roadways
   
72.21   No stopping, standing, or parking near hazardous or congested places
   
72.22   Fines; parking tickets
Stopping for Loading or Unloading Only
   
72.35   Loading and unloading zones
   
72.36   Commercial loading zones
   
72.37   Public carrier stops and stands
   
72.38   Stopping, standing, and parking of busses and taxicabs regulated
   
72.39   Restricted use of bus and taxicab stands
Stopping, Standing, or Parking Restricted or Prohibited on Certain Streets
   
72.50   Application of subchapter
   
72.51   Regulations not exclusive
   
72.52   Parking signs required
METHOD OF PARKING
§ 72.01 STANDING OR PARKING CLOSE TO CURB.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle in a roadway other than parallel
with the edge of the roadway headed in the direction of lawful traffic movement
and with the right-hand wheels of the vehicle within 18 inches of the curb or
edge of the roadway, except as otherwise provided in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-1131) Penalty, see §
70.999
STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES
§ 72.15 STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING PROHIBITED; NO SIGNS REQUIRED.
   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle, except when necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with law or the directions
of a police officer or traffic-control device, in any of the following places:
   (A)   On a sidewalk;
   (B)   In front of a public or private driveway;
   (C)   Within an intersection;
   (D)   Within ten feet of a fire hydrant;
   (E)   On a crosswalk;
   (F)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
   (G)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign, or
traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway;
   (H)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless signs
or markings indicate a different length;
   (I)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
   (J)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and on the
side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75 feet of
the entrance (when properly signposted);
   (K)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic;
   (L)   On a roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb
of a street;
   (M)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or within a
highway tunnel; and/or
   (N)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
(Prior Code, § 7-1141) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 72.16 PARKING NOT TO OBSTRUCT TRAFFIC.
   No person shall park any vehicle upon a street, other than an alley, in such
a manner or under the conditions as to leave available less than ten feet of
the width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular traffic.
(Prior Code, § 7-1142) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 72.17 PARKING IN ALLEYS.
   No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in such a manner or under the
conditions as to leave available less than ten feet of the width of the roadway
for the free movement of vehicular traffic, and no person shall stop, stand, or
park a vehicle within an alley, in the position as to block the driveway
entrance to any abutting property.
(Prior Code, § 7-1143) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 72.18 STANDING OR PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to park, cause to
be parked, or otherwise stand or store any motor vehicle attached or detached
trailer upon any street or public right-of-way except for the following
purposes:
   (A)   Displaying for sale;
   (B)   Washing, greasing, or repairing the vehicle, except repairs made
necessary by a bona fide emergency;
   (C)   Storing by garages, dealers, or other persons when the storing is not
incident to the bona fide use and operation of the automobile or other vehicle;
   (D)   For the temporary purpose of delivery merchandise, freight or
residential deliveries, but not to exceed two hours for each such delivery; and
   (E)   Any NCDOT or federal highway within the town limits shall be exempt
from these regulations.
(Prior Code, § 7-1145) (Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 72.19 PARKING ADJACENT TO SCHOOLS.
   When official signs are erected indicating no parking upon either side of a
street adjacent to any school property as authorized herein, no person shall
park a vehicle in that designated place.
(Prior Code, § 7-1146) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 72.20 STANDING OR PARKING ON ONE-WAY ROADWAYS.
   In the event a highway includes two or more separate roadways and traffic is
restricted to one direction upon any such roadway, no person shall stand or
park a vehicle upon the left-hand side of the one-way roadway unless signs are
erected to permit the standing or parking.
(Prior Code, § 7-1147) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 72.21 NO STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING NEAR HAZARDOUS OR CONGESTED PLACES.
   When official signs are erected at hazardous or congested places, no person
shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle in that designated place.
(Prior Code, § 7-1148) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 72.22 FINES; PARKING TICKETS.
   (A)   Fines. The fine for each parking violation shall be $15, except that
the fine for parking within ten feet of a fire hydrant shall be $25.
   (B)   Parking tickets.
      (1)   As an alternative system of administering and enforcing the parking
regulations of the town, there is hereby established a procedure whereby
parking tickets may be expeditiously paid to the Town Clerk in lieu of a
criminal warrant being issued for certain violations.
      (2)   Whenever a member of the Town Police Department, or other person
charged with the enforcement of the town's parking regulations, shall find that
any of the regulations are being or have been violated by the owner or operator
of any vehicle, the officer or person shall notify the owner or operator of the
vehicle of the violation, by conspicuously attaching to the vehicle a notice or
ticket, in the form as the Chief of Police may determine, which notice or
ticket shall require the owner, or operator, to report in person to the police
department within 48 hours after the violation, and answer to the same, or
immediate arrest may be made and the owner or operator taken before the
appropriate court of justice.
      (3)   The owner or operator of any vehicle who has been notified of the
violation in the manner herein before provided, may within the time specified
in the ticket or notice, present himself or herself, with the ticket or notice,
at the Police Department and answer to the violations noted on the ticket or
notice, by voluntarily paying a penalty of $25 for each violation involving the
list below, or by voluntarily paying $15 for every other violation of the
town's parking regulations:
         (a)   Double parking, standing, or stopping;
         (b)   Stopping, standing, or parking in loading zones;
         (c)   Stopping, standing, or parking in bus zones or bus stops;
         (d)   Blocking or otherwise obstructing access to driveways,
intersections, and sidewalks;
         (e)   Stopping, standing, or parking in traffic lanes; and/or
         (f)   Stopping, standing, or parking in front of a fire hydrant or
within a fire hydrant zone.
      (4)   Whenever any person who has been notified as herein provided to
appear at the police station and answer for a violation of any of the
provisions of this division (B), shall fail or refuse to appear as required, or
having appeared, shall fail or refuse to pay the penalty specified herein, it
is hereby made the duty of the Chief of Police to cause a warrant to be issued
charging the person with the violations specified in the notice and the person
shall be tried in a court of law upon the warrant.
      (5)   All payments herein provided to be paid to and received by the town
shall in no event be construed to be an enforced imposition of fines or
forfeitures, but on the other hand, the amounts shall be construed to be
amounts which the offender may voluntarily contribute toward the cost and
expense of furnishing the public with a less expensive method of regulating and
administering those minor traffic law violations which are expressly made to
fall within the application of this section, and to the extent herein provided.
      (6)   All sums paid to the town as herein provided shall be paid into the
General Fund of the town at the times and under the regulations as may be
prescribed by the Town Board of Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 7-1149) (Ord. passed 4-14-1970; Ord. passed 3-12-1985)
STOPPING FOR LOADING OR UNLOADING ONLY
§ 72.35 LOADING AND UNLOADING ZONES.
   Whenever vehicle loading and unloading zones are designated and described by
this subchapter and when signs are placed, erected, or installed, giving notice
thereof, it shall be unlawful for any person to stop, stand, or park any
vehicle for any purpose or period of time, except in accordance with the
requirements of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-1151) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 72.36 COMMERCIAL LOADING ZONES.
   For streets, or parts thereof, designated as commercial loading and
unloading zones, no person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle therein during
the hours of 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. for any purpose other than the expeditious
unloading and delivery, or pickup and loading of materials and goods, and then
only for a period not to exceed 30 minutes.
(Prior Code, § 7-1153) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 72.37 PUBLIC CARRIER STOPS AND STANDS.
   Bus stands, taxicab stands, and stands for other passenger common-carrier
motor vehicles shall be designated by appropriate signs.
(Prior Code, § 7-1154)
§ 72.38 STOPPING, STANDING, AND PARKING OF BUSSES AND TAXICABS REGULATED.
   (A)   The operator of a bus shall not stand or park the vehicle upon any
street at any place other than at a bus stand so designated.
   (B)   The operator of a bus shall not stop the vehicle upon any street at
any place for the purpose of loading or unloading passengers or their baggage
other than at a bus stop, bus stand, or passenger loading zone so designated as
provided herein, except in case of an emergency.
   (C)   The operator of a bus shall enter a bus stop, bus stand, or passenger
loading zone on a public street in such a manner that the bus when stopped to
load or unload passengers or baggage shall be in a position with the right
front wheel of the vehicle not farther than 18 inches from the curb, and the
bus approximately parallel to the curb, so as not to unduly impede the movement
of other vehicular traffic.
   (D)   The operator of a taxicab shall not stand or park the vehicle upon any
street at any place other than a taxicab stand so designated as provided
herein. This provision shall not prevent the operator of a taxicab from
temporarily stopping in accordance with other stopping or parking regulations
at any place for the purpose of and while actually engaged in the expeditious
loading or unloading of passengers.
(Prior Code, § 7-1155) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 72.39 RESTRICTED USE OF BUS AND TAXICAB STANDS.
   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle other than a bus in a bus
stop, or other than a taxicab in a taxicab stand when the stop has been
officially designated and appropriately signed, except that the driver of a
passenger vehicle may temporarily stop therein for the purpose of and while
actually engaged in loading or unloading passengers when the stopping does not
interfere with any bus or taxicab waiting to enter or about to enter the zone.
(Prior Code, § 7-1156) Penalty, see §
70.999
STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING RESTRICTED OR PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN STREETS
§ 72.50 APPLICATION OF SUBCHAPTER.
   The provisions of this subchapter prohibiting the standing or parking of a
vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times herein specified or as
indicated on official signs except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or official traffic-control device.
(Prior Code, § 7-1161)
§ 72.51 REGULATIONS NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The provisions of this subchapter imposing a time limit on parking shall not
relieve any person from the duty to observe other and more restrictive
provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping, standing, or parking of
vehicles in specified places or at specified times.
(Prior Code, § 7-1162)
§ 72.52 PARKING SIGNS REQUIRED.
   Whenever by this or any other subchapter any parking time limit is imposed
or parking is prohibited on designated streets, there shall be appropriate
signs giving notice thereof and no regulations shall be effective unless the
signs are erected and in place at the time of any alleged offense.
(Prior Code, § 7-1165)
CHAPTER 73: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Use of streets by trucks of certain weight restricted; permit
   
II.   Speed limits
   
III.   Through streets
   
IV.   Intersections where stop is required before entering
   
V.   Turning restrictions
SCHEDULE I. USE OF STREETS BY TRUCKS OF CERTAIN WEIGHT RESTRICTED; PERMIT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to drive or cause
to be driven any truck, motor vehicle, or other apparatus that weighs in excess
of 20,000 pounds, whether loaded or unloaded, upon any street, drive, or
alleyway within the corporate limits of the town. Provided, however, this shall
not apply to Center Street (U.S. Highway 117 to Walnut Street), Charity Road,
East Church Street (Bay Street to Railroad Street), East Main Street (Highway
117 to Newton Street and the city limits), East Railroad Street, East South
Street (Charity Road to Marshall Street), First Street, Magnolia Street, Oak
Street (Charity Road to South Street), Ridge Street, South Bay Street (Church
Street to Charity Road), South Street (Oak Street to U.S. Highway 117), U.S.
Highway 117, Walnut Street, West Railroad Street, and West South Street or any
other street maintained by the State Department of Transportation. Provided
further, that this schedule shall not apply to any vehicle used by or in
connection with the repair or maintenance of any of the streets, water or
sewage systems, or garbage collection performed by or on behalf of the town, or
any fire protection apparatus. Provided further, that in the event a special
need is shown therefor, the Town Clerk is hereby authorized to issue a special
permit for use only on the day designated in the permit.
(Prior Code, § 7-1099) (Ord. passed 3-11-1975; Ord. passed 12-13-1988; Ord.
passed 6-26-2012; Ord. passed 4-9-2024) Penalty, see §
70.999
SCHEDULE II. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle in excess of the posted
speeds placed upon the streets or portions of streets of the State Highway
System.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle in excess of the speeds
listed below upon the streets or portions of streets, not a part of the State
Highway System, listed below:
Street Speed Limit
Street                Speed Limit
Allison Street        25 mph
Ash Street            25 mph
Azalea Street         25 mph
Bay Street            25 mph
Blanchard Street      25 mph
Briarwood Street      25 mph
Camellia Street       25 mph
Canal Street          25 mph
Carolina Landing Road 25 mph
Center Street         25 mph
Church Street         25 mph
Circle Drive          25 mph
Dogwood Street        25 mph
East Railroad Street  25 mph
Elm Street            25 mph
Fifth Street          25 mph
First Street          25 mph
Fourth Street         25 mph
Fussell Street        25 mph
Hall Street           25 mph
Herring Street        25 mph
La Carol Street       25 mph
Magnolia Street       25 mph
Main Street           25 mph
Mallard Alley         25 mph
Maple Street          25 mph
Marshall Street       25 mph
Newton Street         25 mph
North Railroad Street 25 mph
Oak Street            25 mph
Park Drive            25 mph
Pine Street           25 mph
Pirate Lane           25 mph
Rose Street           25 mph
Rosewood Lane         25 mph
Sixth Street          25 mph
South Railroad Street 25 mph
South Street          25 mph
Southerland Street    25 mph
Walnut Street         25 mph
West Railroad Street  25 mph
West Street           25 mph
 
(Prior Code, §7-1052) Penalty, see §
70.999
SCHEDULE III. THROUGH STREETS.
   The streets and parts of streets described below are declared to be through
streets:
Blanchard Street
Center Street
Church Street
Fifth Street
First Street
Fourth Street
Main Street
Sixth Street
Sycamore Street
 
(Prior Code, § 7-1081) Penalty, see §
70.999
SCHEDULE IV. INTERSECTIONS WHERE STOP IS REQUIRED BEFORE ENTERING.
   The Board may determine and designate intersections where particular hazard
exists upon other than through streets and may determine whether vehicles shall
stop at one or more entrances to any such stop intersection, and shall erect a
stop sign at every place where a stop is required. These places are specified
below:
All intersections on Bay Street
All intersections on Blanchard Street
All intersections on Camelia Street
All intersections on Center Street
All intersections on Church Street
All intersections on Circle Drive
All intersections on Elm Street
All intersections on First Street
All intersections on Hall Street
All intersections on Herring Street
All intersections on Main Street
All intersections on Ridge Street
All intersections on Sycamore Street and Charity Road
All intersections on Walnut Street
All intersections on West Street
 
(Prior Code, § 7-1083) Penalty, see §
70.999
SCHEDULE V. TURNING RESTRICTIONS.
   No complete or "U" turns at the following intersections:
 
All intersections on Bay Street
All intersections on Blanchard Street
All intersections on Center Street
All intersections on Church Street
All intersections on Main Street
All intersections on Sycamore Street
 
(Prior Code, App. I, § 114) Penalty, see §
70.999
CHAPTER 74: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Passenger loading zones
   
II.   Parking prohibited at all times on certain streets
   
III.   Parking prohibited at all times if weight exceeds 20,000 pounds
   
IV.   Disposition of truck, trailer, semi-trailer, motor vehicle or apparatus
found in violation
SCHEDULE I. PASSENGER LOADING ZONES.
   The streets, or parts thereof, listed below are hereby designated as
passenger loading and unloading zones, and no person shall stop, stand, or park
a vehicle therein during the hours of 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. for any purpose
other than the expeditious loading or unloading of passengers, and then only
for a period not to exceed ten minutes: east side of Marshall St., 100 feet
south from East Church Street.
(Prior Code, § 7-1152) Penalty, see §
70.999
SCHEDULE II. PARKING PROHIBITED AT ALL TIMES ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
at any time upon any of the streets listed below:
 
On both sides of Mallard Street from Church Street north 100 feet
On south side of Church Street from Marshall Street to Bay Street
On south side of Main Street from East Railroad Street to Mallard Street
South side of Church Street between Bay and Elm Streets
 
(Prior Code, § 7-1163) (Ord. passed 6-8-1971) Penalty, see §
70.999
SCHEDULE III. PARKING PROHIBITED AT ALL TIMES IF WEIGHT EXCEEDS 20,000 POUNDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to leave standing
any truck, trailer or semi-trailer, motor vehicle or any apparatus with more
than three axles weighing more than 20,000 pounds, including the trailer and
any goods or merchandise being hauled, within the corporate limits of town,
unless otherwise permitted in a designated parking area. Designated parking
area excludes any residential area within the corporate limits; must be zoned
Highway Business, Industrial or Central Business; as well as allowable and
accessible per the zoning guidelines set forth in
Chapter 73, Traffic Schedules, and
Chapter 154, Zoning Code. In addition, a zoning permit must be issued by the
Town Zoning Administrator before an area is considered a designated parking
area.
(Ord. passed 2-13-2024; Ord. passed 7-9-2024) Penalty, see §
70.999
SCHEDULE IV. DISPOSITION OF TRUCK, TRAILER, SEMI-TRAILER, MOTOR VEHICLE OR
APPARATUS FOUND IN VIOLATION.
   When any truck, trailer, semi-trailer, motor vehicle or apparatus exceeding
the weight restriction set forth in Schedule III above, is left standing upon
the street or right-of-way, or any other location not permitted for such use
within the corporate limits, for a period of more than 24 hours, the owner
shall be deemed to have appointed any investigating officer, or his or her
agent, for the purpose of arranging for the transportation and safe storage of
the vehicle, and the investigating officer shall be deemed the legal possessor
of the motor vehicle within the meaning of that term as in appears in G.S. §
44A-1(1).
(Ord passed 2-13-2024; Ord passed 7-9-2024)
Statutory reference:
   For similar provisions, see G.S. § 20-161
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
90.   ANIMAL CONTROL
         
91.   HEALTH AND SAFETY
         
92.   ABANDONED OR JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES
         
93.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
         
94.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
         
95.   MOVING OF BUILDINGS
CHAPTER 90: ANIMAL CONTROL
Section
   
90.01   State law references
   
90.02   Purpose for animal control regulations
   
90.03   Administration and enforcement
   
90.04   Duties of Animal Control Officer
   
90.05   General regulations
   
90.06   Potentially vicious dogs
 
   
90.99   Penalties
§ 90.01 STATE LAW REFERENCES.
   (A)   Authority for a municipality to regulate animals: see G.S. § 160A-186.
   (B)   Authority for a municipality to protect animals: see G.S. Ch. 19A.
   (C)   Authority for a municipality to regulate for rabies: see G.S. § 130A-
184.
   (D)   Authority for a municipality to prevent cruelty to animals: see G.S. §
14-360.
   (E)   Authority for a municipality to have a bird sanctuary: see G.S. § 160-
188.
   (F)   Authority for a municipality to have enforcement penalties: see G.S. §
14-4.
(Ord. passed 5-8-2018)
§ 90.02 PURPOSE FOR ANIMAL CONTROL REGULATIONS.
   Pursuant to authority granted by the N.C. General Assembly, these animal
control regulations are enacted to regulate, restrict or prohibit animals, if
necessary; to protect the public from unvaccinated, diseased, stray, roaming,
dangerous, wild or exotic animals; to protect animals from abuse or conditions
harmful to their well-being; to protect the peace and safety of the community
from unlawful acts of animals; and to provide a means for enforcing state,
county and town law.
(Ord. passed 5-8-2018)
§ 90.03 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   For the purpose of administering and enforcing the provisions outlined in
these regulations pertaining to the keeping and controlling of animals within
the corporate limits of the town; the Police Chief shall appoint an Animal
Control Officer. He or she and his or her designated agents shall perform their
duties to enforce and administer animal statutes and ordinances.
(Ord. passed 5-8-2018)
§ 90.04 DUTIES OF ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER.
   (A)   Enforcement of all state, county, and town laws/regulations relating
to animal control.
   (B)   Enforcement of all health regulations relating to the care, custody,
and control of animals; especially regarding vaccination of dogs and cats
against rabies.
   (C)   Investigating complaints regarding animal abuse, cruelty, or neglect
of any animal within the town corporate limits.
(Ord. passed 5-8-2018)
§ 90.05 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The territory within the corporate limits of the town shall be
designated a bird sanctuary as authorized by G.S. § 160-188.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to hunt, trap, shoot, kill or otherwise take any
birds within the town limits except birds classed as a pest under G.S. §§ 113-
300.1 through 113-300.3; the Structural Pest Control Act, G.S. § 106-65.22; or
the Pesticide Law G.S. § 143-434; or except pursuant to a permit issued by the
NC Wildlife Resources Commission under G.S. § 113-274.
   (C)   All owners of dogs and cats within the town corporate limits of Rose
Hill shall be required to register their animals and pay a one-time
registration fee ($10 per animal) at the Town Hall. A new dog or cat must be
registered within 30 days of acquisition. A numbered tag shall be issued by the
town that will indicate the number of the tag, the name and description of the
animal, and the name and address of the owner. The tag shall be affixed to a
collar around the neck of the animal at all times. (Cats are excluded from
wearing tags.) Every dog and cat must be submitted for the purpose of taking
photographs of the animal to place on file at the Town Hall and to be used for
identification purposes. Owners will be responsible for obtaining tags for all
dogs and cats.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any animal owner to fail to comply with NC
State Statutes regarding the control of rabies. A rabies vaccination shall be
deemed current for cats if the vaccination has been given within the preceding
12 months. For dogs, the vaccination shall be deemed current if two
vaccinations have been given one year apart and booster doses of rabies vaccine
are given every 3 years thereafter. Vaccination tags shall be affixed to a
collar around the neck of the animal at all times. (Cats are excluded from
wearing tags.) Owners are required to show proof of such vaccinations upon
request of the Animal Control Officer or his or her designee.
   (E)   If any animal is suspected to have or has shown symptoms of rabies,
the owner of the animal shall immediately confine the animal to their premises
and notify a veterinarian and the Animal Control Officer. A diagnosis and
treatment will be completed at the owner's expense.
   (F)   All animals, but not limited to horses, ponies, donkeys, cattle,
sheep, goats, swine, or chickens (roosters) etc. within the corporate limits of
the town shall be kept inside their residence or in a fenced in area on the
owner's property.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful to keep more than a combination of 4 total dogs
and/or cats per residence. Owners who currently own more than 4 animals will be
allowed to keep them provided that all requirements are met as outlined in this
chapter and all excess animals that are removed from the premises upon death or
other means may not be replaced.
   (H)   Domestic fowl.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or keeper of any domestic fowl
of whatever description to permit such animal to be or run at large within the
town.
      (2)   No person shall keep or maintain domestic fowl in the town unless
the fowl will be on a tract of land or maintained as follows:
         (a)   The tract shall consist of at least 20,000 square feet under
single ownership or control;
         (b)   Such fowl must be contained in a secure fenced enclosure at all
times;
         (c)   The enclosure shall have a minimum of 10 square feet of area for
each fowl;
         (d)   No enclosure shall be erected or maintained within the front or
side yard, within 5 feet of any property line or within 5 feet of another
residence;
         (e)   The enclosure shall be kept clean, sanitary, and free from
accumulations of excrement and objectionable odor;
         (f)   No more than 20 such fowl shall be kept or maintained per acre.
The number of fowl shall be proportionate to the acreage. There will be no
discounting for chicks or other young fowl; and
         (g)   It shall be unlawful for any person to tether any fowl.
   (I)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning an animal to abandon that
animal within the corporate limits of the town. If an abandoned animal is
trapped, it will be transported directly to the Duplin County Animal Shelter or
like facility as deemed necessary.
   (J)   It shall be unlawful for any person within the corporate limits of the
town, without the consent of the owner or keeper, to knowingly and
intentionally harbor, feed and/or keep in their possession by confinement any
animal that is not owned by him or her.
   (K)   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, hinder, molest,
resist, or obstruct the Animal Control Officer or his or her designee in the
performance of any duty authorized by law or ordinance, or to seek to release
any animal in the custody of such agents (including from traps, cages, or other
enclosures) except as specifically provided by the Animal Control Officer.
   (L)   It shall be unlawful for any person to conceal, for the purpose of
evading the licensing requirement or rabies vaccination requirement of the law
or any applicable ordinance, any unlicensed or unvaccinated animal.
   (M)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any animal to fail or refuse to
remove feces deposited by the animal on any street, sidewalk, park, or other
property whether public or private.
   (N)   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow any animal to run at
large off the owner's premises.
   (O)   Tethering is a form of animal cruelty so therefore it shall be
unlawful for any animal to be tied, chained, fastened, or otherwise tethered to
any stationary or inanimate object.
   (P)   Nuisance animals.
      (1)   Prohibited generally; exceptions. It shall be unlawful for any
person to own, keep, possess, harbor or maintain an animal in such a manner as
to annoy or disturb rights and privileges common to the public or to annoy or
disturb persons in the enjoyment of private property. By way of example and not
of limitation, the following are hereby declared to be a public nuisance and
are, therefore, unlawful:
         (a)   Getting into or turning over waste or garbage containers;
         (b)   Walking on or sleeping on automobiles of another;
         (c)   Damaging the real or personal property of anyone other than its
owner;
         (d)   Repeatedly being or running at large;
         (e)   Being maintained in an unsanitary condition to be offensive to
sight or smell;
         (f)   Not being confined to a building or secure enclosure while in
estrus;
         (g)   Being vicious or chasing, snapping at, attacking, or otherwise
molesting others, including pedestrians, bicyclists, motor vehicles, or
domestic animals;
         (h)   Allowing or permitting an animal to make frequent or long
continued sounds, including barking, whining, screeching, calling, howling, or
yowling in an excessive, continuous, habitual, or untimely fashion, or to make
other noise in such a manner so as to result in the serious annoyance or
interference with the reasonable use and enjoyment of neighboring premises
("annoying sound") beyond two city blocks. Any such sound which is made for
more than 15 minutes during any 30 minute period shall be deemed a serious
annoying sound. Three or more complaints have to be reported to the Police
Department from the above two city block area, within a 3-day time period;
         (i)   Being housed or restrained less than 5 feet from a public
street, road, or sidewalk such that at the discretion of the Animal Control
Officer, the location of the animal poses a threat to the general safety,
health, and welfare of the general public;
         (j)   By virtue of number or type, being offensive or dangerous to the
public health, safety, or welfare; and
         (k)   Being diseased or dangerous to the health of the public.
   (Q)   All animals within the corporate limits of the town shall remain under
the immediate control of their owner or keeper. For the purpose of this
section, immediate control by owner or keeper shall be construed to mean:
      (1)   Restrained upon the property of the owner or keeper of the animal
either within the confines of a fence designed to restrain the animal, an
electronically operated fence sufficient to restrain the animal upon the
property, in the presence of the owner or keeper or other means of restraint
approved by the town; and
      (2)   While being walked or exercised off the premises or property of the
owner or keeper, the animal must be restrained by a leash connected to a collar
or harness, sufficient to restrain the animal from breaking loose.
(Ord. passed 5-8-2018)
Statutory reference: 
   Authority to exempt cats from wearing tag, G.S. § 130-190
§ 90.06 POTENTIALLY VICIOUS DOGS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter a POTENTIALLY VICIOUS DOG is defined
to mean:
      (1)   Any dog which has the appearance and characteristics of being
violent (aggressive barking, growling, showing teeth, etc.). Any dog with a
known propensity, tendency, or disposition to attack unprovoked, to cause
injury to, or to otherwise endanger the safety of humans or other domestic
animals; or
      (2)   Any dog which attacks a human being or other domestic animal
without provocation.
   (B)   The keeping of potentially vicious dogs shall be subject to the
following requirements:
      (1)   Confinement. All potentially vicious dogs shall be securely
confined indoors or in a securely enclosed and locked pen or kennel. Such pen
or kennel shall have secure sides and must be affixed to the property in such a
manner as to prevent the animal from digging or climbing out. All structures
shall be locked securely when such animals are within the structure. All such
structures must be kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
      (2)   Confinement indoors. No potentially vicious dog may be kept on a
porch, patio or in any part of a house or structure that would allow the dog to
exit such building on its own volition.
      (3)   Signs. All owners or keepers of potentially vicious dogs within the
corporate limits of the town shall within 10 days of the effective date of this
section display in a prominent place on their premises a sign easily readable
by the public using the words "Beware of Dog." In addition, a similar sign is
required to be posted on the kennel or pen of such animal.
(Ord. passed 5-8-2018)
§ 90.99 PENALTIES.
   The following penalties shall pertain to violations of this chapter:
   (A)   The violation of any provision of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor
and any person convicted of such violation shall be punishable as provided in
G.S. § 14-4 or other applicable law. Each day's violation of this chapter is a
separate offense. Payment of a fine imposed in criminal proceedings pursuant to
this section does not relieve a person of his or her liability of fees imposed
under this chapter.
   (B)   Enforcement of this chapter may include any appropriate equitable
remedy, injunction or order of abatement issuing from a court of competent
jurisdiction pursuant to G.S. § 153A-123(d) and (e).
   (C)   In addition to and independent of any criminal penalties and other
sanctions provided in this chapter, a violation of this chapter may also
subject the offender to the civil penalties hereinafter set forth.
      (1)   The Animal Control Supervisor, or designee, may issue to the known
owner or keeper of any animal, or to any other violator of the provisions of
this chapter, a ticket or citation giving notice of the alleged violations(s).
Tickets or citations so issued may be delivered in person or mailed by
certified or registered mail to the person charged if that person cannot
readily be found. The ticket or citation, except those issued for failure to
license an animal, shall
impose upon the violator a minimum civil penalty of $75, or such greater
amounts for subsequent offenses as may be set by the ordinance. Tickets or
citations issued for failure to license an animal as required by the ordinance
shall impose upon the violator a penalty of $50. This civil penalty shall be
paid in full to the Town Hall within 14 days of receipt of the citation
assessing the civil penalty. This civil penalty is in addition to any other
fees, fines or costs authorized by this chapter.
      (2)   In the event that the owner or keeper of an animal or other alleged
violator does not appear in response to the above-described ticket or citation,
or the applicable civil penalty is not paid within the time period prescribed,
a civil action may be commenced to recover the penalty and costs associated
with collection of the penalty, and/or a criminal summons may be issued against
the owner or keeper or other alleged violator of this chapter, and upon
conviction, the owner shall be punished as provided by state law.
      (3)   The following civil penalties are hereby established for the
indicated violations of this chapter:
Animal Control Civil Penalty Fee Schedule
Violation Description Fee
Violation Description                                                 Fee
Interference of duty of any animal control division employee or agent $100
or trap
Concealment of animal for the purpose of evading ordinance            $100
Vicious animals                                                       $500
Rabies vaccination tag and certificate                                $50
Keeping stray animal                                                  $50
Animals running at large:                                              
First violation                                                       Warning
Second violation                                                      $75
Third and subsequent violations                                       $100
Public nuisance:                                                       
First violation                                                       Warning
Second violation                                                      $75
Third and subsequent violations                                       $100
Tethering of animals:                                                  
First violation                                                       Warning
Second violation                                                      $75
Third and subsequent violations                                       $100
Failure to confine female animals in estrus:                           
First violation                                                       Warning
Second violation                                                      $75
Third and subsequent violations                                       $100
 
(Ord. passed 5-8-2018)
CHAPTER 91: HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
Nuisances
   
91.01   Findings
   
91.02   Definitions
   
91.03   Solid wastes, scrap materials, noxious growth
   
91.04   Other nuisances
   
91.98   Enforcement
NUISANCES
§ 91.01 FINDINGS.
   (A)   The Town Board of Commissioners (Board) finds that burned out or
incomplete structures, the uncontrolled growth of noxious weeds and grass, the
accumulation of offensive animal and vegetable matter, and the accumulation of
refuse cause or threaten to cause a nuisance dangerous and prejudicial to the
public health and safety. The Board also finds that the uncontrolled
accumulation of scrap materials on any premises constitutes a danger to the
health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the town, in that such
accumulations can furnish shelter and breeding places for vermin, present
physical dangers to the safety and well-being of children and other citizens,
pose a danger of fire and depreciate property value, and cause a loss of
business by detracting from the appearance and character of residential and
commercial neighborhoods.
   (B)   It is the intention of the Board to preserve the natural beauty of the
municipality, free from litter, waste, noxious growth and other nuisances so as
to protect property values.
§ 91.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. All solid wastes capable of being rapidly decomposed by
microorganisms, including, but not limited to, animal and vegetable wastes
resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food, as
well as animal offal and carcasses, but excluding sewage and human wastes.
   NOXIOUS WEEDS. Shall include but not be limited to the following:
      (1)   Alum (allium), Buckthorn, Bur Cucumber, Canada Thistle, Corncockle,
Cressleaf Groundsel, Curly Dock, Dodder, Field Bindweed, French Weed, Hairy
Whitetop, Hedge Bindweed, Hoary Cress, Horsenettle, Johnsongrass, Leafy Spurge,
Mile-A-Minute Weed, Musk Thistle, Oxeye Daisy, Perennial Sowthistle, Poison
Hemlock, Purple Loosestrife, Quackgrass, Russian Knapweed, Russian Thistle,
Serrated Tussock, Shatter Cane, Sorghum Wild Carrot, Wild Garlic, Wild Mustard,
Wild Onion, Wild Parsnip;
      (2)   Grapevines when growing in groups of 100 or more and not pruned,
sprayed, cultivated, or otherwise maintained for two consecutive years;
      (3)   Bushes of the species of tall, common, or European barberry,
further known as berberis vulgaris or its horticultural varieties; and
      (4)   Any weeds, grass, or plants, other than trees, bushes, flowers, or
other cultivated ornamental plants or grasses, growing to a height exceeding 24
inches.
   REFUSE. All solid wastes except garbage, and solids that are dissolved or
suspended in domestic, commercial or industrial waste water effluent.
   SCRAP MATERIALS.
      (1)   Pieces or fragments of metal, wood, glass, masonry, plastic,
textiles, rope, leather, rubber, paper or any other substance that formerly
were part of the construction of some useful object or thing or that consist of
the excess resulting from the creation of some useful object or thing;
      (2)   Objects or things, including, but not limited to, machines, tools,
equipment, hardware, furniture, appliances and the like, or parts of the same
that are no longer in serviceable condition or are valuable only as raw
material for reprocessing; or
      (3)   Brush, including but not limited to any cut weeds, grass, brushes,
trees, stumps, branches or other plant materials, but that do not constitute
solid wastes as herein defined because they are or may be useful to or wanted
by or have not been discarded by the person in control of the premises where
they have been located.
   SOLID WASTES. Wastes that are nongaseous and non-liquid (except that liquid
wastes resulting from the processing of food are deemed solid wastes for the
purposes of this chapter).
   WASTES. All useless, unwanted or discarded materials resulting from
domestic, industrial, commercial or community activities.
§ 91.03 SOLID WASTES, SCRAP MATERIALS, NOXIOUS GROWTH.
   (A)   Accumulation of solid wastes. No person may cause, suffer or permit
solid wastes to accumulate or remain on premises under his or her control.
   (B)   Dumping or littering on private property.
      (1)   No person shall place, discard, throw, drop or deposit or cause to
be placed, discarded, thrown, dropped or deposited any solid waste on any
property not owned by him or her or it without the consent of the owner,
occupant or lessee thereof.
      (2)   No person shall distribute, place, discard, throw, drop or deposit
or cause to be distributed, placed, discarded, thrown, dropped or deposited
flyers or other types of promotional materials in such a manner that the flyers
or promotional materials become scattered about private property. In the event
the flyers or promotional materials become scattered about private property,
the person responsible for or benefitting from the promotion shall be in
violation of this section. Each individual flyer and each individual
promotional material that becomes scattered about as described above shall
constitute a separate violation of this section.
   (C)   Dumping or littering on streets, sidewalks and other public property.
      (1)   No person shall distribute, place, discard, throw, drop or deposit
or cause to be distributed, placed, discarded, thrown, dropped or deposited any
solid waste on any public street or sidewalk within the town or on any property
owned or operated by the town, except in properly designated receptacles.
      (2)   No person shall distribute, place, discard, throw, drop or deposit
or cause to be distributed, placed, discarded, thrown, dropped or deposited any
flyer or other type of promotional material in such a manner that the flyers or
promotional materials become scattered about any public street, sidewalk within
the town or about any property owned or operated by the town. In the event the
flyers or promotional materials become scattered about any public street or
sidewalk or about any property owned or operated by the town, the person
responsible for or from the promotion shall be in violation of this section.
Each individual flyer and each individual promotional material that becomes
scattered about as described above shall constitute a separate violation of
this section.
   (D)   Transportation of solid waste within the town. No person may transport
or cause to be transported any solid wastes on the public streets of the town
unless the solid wastes are so secured that no solid wastes escape from the
transporting vehicle. In addition, any garbage so transported shall be carried
in closed containers that prevent the escape of noxious odors or liquids.
   (E)   Accumulating scrap materials. No person may cause, suffer or permit
scrap materials to accumulate or remain on premises under his or her control.
   (F)   Noxious growth. No person may cause, suffer or permit on premises
under his or her control any growth of noxious weeds. No person may cause,
suffer or permit on premises under his or her control any growth of grasses or
other plants or bushes that becomes or threatens to become a fire hazard, or a
harboring place for rats, mice, snakes or other vermin, or otherwise poses a
danger to the public health or depreciate property values or cause loss of
business by detracting from the appearance and character of residential and
commercial neighborhoods.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.04 OTHER NUISANCES.
   (A)   Construction sites.
      (1)   Each contractor shall provide one porta-john and at least one six-
cubic-yard dumpster located on the parking pad for trash at the building site
during the period of construction. The porta-john shall be on the site prior to
the beginning of construction and the dumpster shall be in place prior to the
seal plate inspection.
      (2)   The contractor shall remove all trash and discarded materials from
the building site at least once per week so as to maintain a reasonably clean
area that would not be objectionable to the general public. All garbage,
refuse, scrap materials, waste and solid waste shall be removed from the
building site and surrounding area before the structure is occupied. The
building site should be cleaned up daily so as to prevent the accumulation of
trash and other debris and insure that the site is neat and orderly.
   (B)   Public nuisances. The existence of any of the following conditions on
any vacant lot or other parcel of land within the corporate limits of the town
is hereby declared to be dangerous and prejudicial to the public health or
safety and to constitute a public nuisance:
      (1)   The uncontrolled growth of noxious weeds or grass to a height in
excess of 24 inches causing or threatening to cause a hazard detrimental to the
public health or safety;
      (2)   Any accumulation of rubbish, trash or junk causing or threatening
to cause a fire hazard, or causing or threatening to cause the accumulation of
stagnant water, or causing or threatening to cause the inhabitation therein of
rats, mice, snakes or vermin of any kind which is or may be dangerous or
prejudicial to the public health;
      (3)   Any accumulation of animal or vegetable matter that is offensive by
virtue of odors or vapors or by the inhabitance therein of rats, mice, snakes
or vermin of any kind which is or may be dangerous or prejudicial to the public
health;
      (4)   The open storage of any abandoned ice box, refrigerator, stove,
glass, water heater, building material, building rubbish or similar items;
      (5)   Any condition detrimental to the public health which violates the
rules and regulations of the County Health Department;
      (6)   Any burned out structure;
      (7)   Any incomplete structure on which no work has been done for a
period of six months; or
      (8)   Any other condition specifically declared to be a danger to the
public health, safety and general welfare of inhabitants of the town and a
public nuisance by the Town Administrator or other town, county, state or
federal official charged with making such determination.
Penalty, see §
10.99 
§ 91.98 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Investigation.
      (1)   The Town Administrator or other official designated by the Board
shall have the responsibility for enforcing the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   The Town Administrator or other designated official, upon notice
from any person of the possible existence of any of the conditions described in
this chapter, shall cause to be made such investigations as may be necessary to
determine whether conditions exist which may constitute a public nuisance as
declared in this chapter.
   (B)   Hearing. If it appears that such conditions exist, the Town
Administrator or other designated official shall cause to be delivered or
mailed to the owner of the property upon which the conditions exist a notice
stating the reasons why the conditions may constitute a violation and that a
hearing will be held before the Board at a place therein fixed, not less than
ten nor more than 30 days after the delivery or mailing of the notice. The
owner or any party in interest shall have the right to file an answer to the
notice and to appear in person, or otherwise, and give evidence at the place
the time fixed in the notice. Any person desiring to do so may attend the
hearing and give evidence relevant to the matter being heard. The rules of
evidence prevailing in courts of law or equity shall not be controlling in the
hearings.
   (C)   Order of abatement. If a determination is made that the conditions
constituting a public nuisance exist, the town shall notify, in writing, the
owner of the premises in question of the conditions constituting the public
nuisance and shall order the prompt abatement thereof within 15 days from the
receipt of the written notice.
   (D)   Removal of nuisance. If the owner, having been ordered to abate such a
public nuisance, fails, neglects or refuses to abate or remove the condition
constituting the nuisance within 15 days from receipt of the order, the town
may cause the condition to be removed or otherwise remedied by having employees
of the town go upon the premises and remove or otherwise abate the nuisance
under the supervision of an officer or employee designated by the town.
   (E)   Cost of removal charged to owner. The actual cost incurred by the town
in removing or otherwise remedying a public nuisance shall be charged to the
owner of the lot or parcel of land, and it shall be the duty of the Tax
Collector to mail a statement of the charges to the owner or other person in
possession of the premises with instructions that the charges are due and
payable within 30 days from the receipt thereof.
   (F)   Liens. In the event charges for the removal or abatement of a public
nuisance are not paid within 30 days after the receipt of a statement of
charges, the charges shall become a lien upon the land or premises where the
public nuisance existed and shall be collected as unpaid taxes, as provided in
G.S. § 160A-193.
   (G)   Other penalties. In addition to the procedure set forth above, any
person that violates any section of this chapter is subject to the provisions
set forth in §
10.99. Each day a violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense.
CHAPTER 92: ABANDONED AND JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES
Section
   
92.01   Findings
   
92.02   Definitions
   
92.03   Vehicles in violation; removal; indemnify
   
92.04   Hearing required
   
92.05   Towing fees
   
92.06   Vehicles used on a regular basis; removal prohibited
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate abandoned and junked motor vehicles, see G.S. §§ 160A-
303 and 303.2
§ 92.01 FINDINGS.
   The Town Board of Commissioners (Board) finds that the regulation of
abandoned motor vehicles and junked motor vehicles on public grounds and on
private property within the town's ordinance-making jurisdiction is necessary
and desirable to promote and enhance community, neighborhood and area
appearance. In addition, a town may by ordinance prohibit the abandonment of
motor vehicles on the public streets or on public or private property within
the town, and may enforce any ordinance by removing and disposing of junked or
abandoned motor vehicles according to the procedures prescribed in this
section.
§ 92.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle that:
      (1)   Has been left upon a street or highway in violation of a law or
ordinance prohibiting parking;
      (2)   Is left on property owned or operated by the city for longer than
24 hours;
      (3)   Is left on private property without the consent of the owner,
occupant, or lessee there for longer than two hours; or
      (4)   Is left on any public street or highway for longer than seven days.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE. An abandoned motor vehicle that does not display a
current license plate and that:
      (1)   Is partially dismantled or wrecked;
      (2)   Cannot be self-propelled or moved in the manner in which it
originally was intended to move; or
      (3)   Is more than five years old and appears to be worth less than $100.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Includes all machines designed or intended to travel over
land or water by self-propulsion or while attached to any self-propelled
vehicle.
(G.S. § 160A-303.2(a))
§ 92.03 VEHICLES IN VIOLATION; REMOVAL; INDEMNIFY.
   (A)   Any abandoned motor vehicle or junked motor vehicle found to be in
violation of this chapter may be removed to a storage garage or area, but no
such vehicle shall be removed from private property without the written request
of the owner, lessee, or occupant of the premises unless the Board or a duly
authorized town official or employee finds in writing that the motor vehicle is
a health or safety hazard. In addition, any junked motor vehicle found to be in
violation of this chapter may be removed to a storage garage or area, but no
such vehicle shall be removed from private property without the written request
of the owner, lessee, or occupant of the premises unless the Board or a duly
authorized town official or employee finds in writing that the aesthetic
benefits of removing the vehicle outweigh the burdens imposed on the private
property owner. Such finding shall be based on a balancing of the monetary loss
of the apparent owner against the corresponding gain to the public by promoting
or enhancing community, neighborhood or area appearance. The following, among
other relevant factors, may be considered:
      (1)   Protection of property values;
      (2)   Promotion of tourism and other economic development opportunities;
      (3)   Indirect protection of public health and safety;
      (4)   Preservation of the character and integrity of the community; and
      (5)   Promotion of the comfort, happiness, and emotional stability of
area residents.
(G.S. § 160A-303.2(a)(1))
   (B)   The town may require any person requesting the removal of a junked or
abandoned motor vehicle from private property to indemnify the town against any
loss, expense, or liability incurred because of the removal, storage or sale
thereof. When an abandoned or junked motor vehicle is removed, the town shall
give notice to the owner as required by G.S. § 20-219.11(a) and (b).
(G.S. § 160A-303.2(a2))
§ 92.04 HEARING REQUIRED.
   Regardless of whether the town does its own removal and disposal of motor
vehicles or contracts with another person to do so, the town shall provide a
prior hearing procedure for the owner. For purposes of this section, the
definitions in G.S. § 20-219.9 apply.
(G.S. § 160A-303.2(a3))
§ 92.05 TOWING FEES.
   (A)   If the town operates in such a way that the person who tows the
vehicle is responsible for collecting towing fees, all provisions of G.S. Ch.
20, Art. 7A apply.
   (B)   If the town operates in such a way that it is responsible for
collecting towing fees, it shall:
      (1)   Provide by contract or ordinance for a schedule of reasonable
towing fees;
      (2)   Provide a procedure for a prompt fair hearing to contest the
towing;
      (3)   Provide for an appeal to district court from that hearing;
      (4)   Authorize release of the vehicle at any time after towing by the
posting of a bond or paying of the fees due; and
      (5)   Provide a sale procedure similar to that provided in G.S. §§ 44A-4,
44A-5, and 44A-6, except that no hearing in addition to the probable cause
hearing is required. If no one purchases the vehicle at the sale and if the
value of the vehicle is less than the amount of the lien, the town may destroy
it.
(G.S. § 160A-303.2(a3)(1),(2))
   (C)   Any person who removes a vehicle pursuant to this section shall not be
held liable for damages for the removal of the vehicle to the owner, lienholder
or other person legally entitled to the possession of the vehicle removed;
however, any person who intentionally or negligently damages a vehicle in the
removal of such vehicle, or intentionally or negligently inflicts injury upon
any person in the removal of such vehicle, may be held liable for damages.
(G.S. § 160A-303.2(a4))
§ 92.06 VEHICLES USED ON A REGULAR BASIS; REMOVAL PROHIBITED.
   No person shall remove or dispose of any motor vehicle that is used on a
regular basis for business or personal use.
(G.S. § 160A-303.2(b)) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 93: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
Fire Department
   
93.01   Organization
   
93.02   Duties of Chief
   
93.03   Duty of Chief in case of fire
   
93.04   Chief to investigate cause of every fire
   
93.05   Record of fire to be kept
   
93.06   Inspection to be made
   
93.07   Inspection to be made upon complaint
   
93.08   County Fire Marshall to order fire hazards remedied
   
93.09   Failure to comply with order unlawful
   
93.10   Power of members of Fire Department
   
93.11   Aid from citizens
   
93.12   Citizens must keep out of way at fires
   
93.13   Interference with firefighters or fire apparatus
   
93.14   False fire alarms forbidden
   
93.15   Protection of fire hose
Fire Prevention and Hazards
   
93.30   Adoption of Fire Prevention Code
Fire Limits
   
93.45   Description
   
93.46   Restrictions
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 93.01 ORGANIZATION.
   The Fire Department shall consist of the Fire Chief and a sufficient number
of firefighters (voluntary, part- or full-time) to maintain and operate the
Department. The Department may from time to time adopt its own rules and
regulations governing the Department subject to the approval of the Board.
(Prior Code, § 3-2001)
§ 93.02 DUTIES OF CHIEF.
   The Fire Chief shall have general control of the Department, the personnel,
apparatus, and fire alarm system.
(Prior Code, § 3-2002)
§ 93.03 DUTY OF CHIEF IN CASE OF FIRE.
   Whenever a fire shall occur in the town, it shall be the duty of the Chief
to report immediately to the place of the fire and take active charge of the
firefighting.
(Prior Code, § 3-2003)
§ 93.04 CHIEF TO INVESTIGATE CAUSE OF EVERY FIRE.
   Immediately after the occurrence of any fire, the Chief shall investigate
the cause, origin, and circumstances thereof and, as far as possible, he or she
shall determine whether the fire was the result of accident, carelessness, or
design. If he or she has reason to believe that the fire was of suspicious
origin, he or she shall notify the proper authorities, designated by law to
pursue the investigation of the matter, and shall further cooperate with the
authorities in the collection of evidence and in the prosecution of the case
when properly instituted.
(Prior Code, § 3-2004)
§ 93.05 RECORD OF FIRE TO BE KEPT.
   (A)   The Chief shall keep an accurate record of all fires occurring in the
town.
   (B)   For each fire, the following information shall be secured and kept:
      (1)   Location of premises;
      (2)   Owner;
      (3)   Brief description of premises, whether of brick, stone, concrete,
iron, or wood;
      (4)   How occupied, whether as dwelling, storehouse, factory, workshop,
or otherwise;
      (5)   Amount and nature of damage as to both real and personal property;
      (6)   Amount of insurance;
      (7)   Cause of fire; and
      (8)   Date.
(Prior Code, § 3-2005)
§ 93.06 INSPECTION TO BE MADE.
   It shall be the duty of the County Fire Marshall to inspect as often as may
be necessary, but not less than four times a year, all especially hazardous
manufacturing processes, storages or installations of acetylene or other gases,
chemicals, oils, explosives, and flammable materials, also all interior fire
alarms and automatic sprinkler systems and any other appliances as may be
necessary for the enforcement of the laws and ordinances governing the same and
for the safeguarding of life and property from fire. It shall also be the duty
of the County Fire Marshall to inspect, or cause to be inspected, as often as
may be necessary but not less than twice a year in outlying districts and four
times a year in closely built portions of the town, all buildings and premises
except the interiors of private dwellings, for the purpose of ascertaining and
causing to be corrected any conditions liable to cause fire or any violation of
the provisions or intent of any ordinance of the town affecting fire hazards.
(Prior Code, § 3-2006)
§ 93.07 INSPECTION TO BE MADE UPON COMPLAINT.
   Whenever any person shall make written complaint to the County Fire Marshall
that any business or premise constitutes a fire hazard, it shall be the duty of
the County Fire Marshall to have same inspected immediately.
(Prior Code, § 3-2007)
§ 93.08 COUNTY FIRE MARSHALL TO ORDER FIRE HAZARDS REMEDIED.
   Whenever the County Fire Marshall shall find that any building or any
premise constitutes a fire hazard for any reason, he or she shall serve, or
cause to be served, upon the owner or the occupant of the building a written
notice, specifying the condition complained of and ordering the same to be
remedied promptly, indicating a reasonable time for compliance with the order.
(Prior Code, § 3-2008)
§ 93.09 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ORDER UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any occupant or owner of the building or premises
to fail to comply, within a reasonable time after the service of the order,
with the requirements thereof.
(Prior Code, § 3-2009) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.10 POWER OF MEMBERS OF FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   Any member of the Fire Department or any person acting under the orders of
the Chief shall have the right to go upon the premises of any person and to
enter any building or room and insert the hose and turn on the water whenever,
in the judgement of the Chief, it shall be necessary.
(Prior Code, § 3-2010)
§ 93.11 AID FROM CITIZENS.
   During the continuance of any fire, the Chief and each member of the Fire
Department shall have the power to call on any person to assist in
extinguishing the fire, or in removing any goods, wares, merchandise, or
furniture from any building on fire or in danger of fire, to some place of
safety. No person shall fail to obey the order given for the purpose aforesaid.
It shall be the duty of any able-bodied person present at any fire, at the
command of the Chief, to assist the firefighters in managing the hose or other
equipment or to perform any reasonable service with a view toward the
prevention or extinguishing of the fire.
(Prior Code, § 3-2011)
§ 93.12 CITIZENS MUST KEEP OUT OF WAY AT FIRES.
   No person shall stand or be in any street, alley, or square where or near
where a fire is in progress, in such a manner as to interfere with the duties
of the Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 3-2012) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.13 INTERFERENCE WITH FIREFIGHTERS OR FIRE APPARATUS.
   No person shall interfere with a firefighter in the discharge of his or her
duty or hinder him or her in the performance of the duty, nor shall any person
loiter about any fire station, or change, meddle with, or handle in any manner
any fire engine or any other fire apparatus.
(Prior Code, § 3-2013)
§ 93.14 FALSE FIRE ALARMS FORBIDDEN.
   No person shall give or cause to be given any false fire alarm by means of
the town fire alarm system or otherwise. Test or drill alarms shall not be
considered false alarms within the meaning of this section.
(Prior Code, § 3-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.15 PROTECTION OF FIRE HOSE.
   It shall be unlawful to drive over or in any way damage or mutilate any fire
hose.
(Prior Code, § 3-2015) Penalty, see §
10.99
FIRE PREVENTION AND HAZARDS
§ 93.30 ADOPTION OF FIRE PREVENTION CODE.
   The 2009 Edition of the Fire Prevention Code recommended by the American
Insurance Association is hereby adopted by reference as fully as though set
forth herein as the Fire Prevention Code for the town. Amendments to the Fire
Prevention Code adopted by reference herein, which are from time to time
adopted and published by the agency or organization referred to herein, shall
automatically be renewed and adopted every three years and shall thereby be
effective immediately.
(Prior Code, § 3-2021)
FIRE LIMITS
§ 93.45 DESCRIPTION.
   The primary fire limits shall comprise the territory lying between South
Street and a line parallel to and 150 feet north of Main Street and within 365
feet of the center line of the right-of-way of the Atlantic Coast Line Railroad
Company, on the east side of the railroad, and the territory lying between
South Street and a line parallel to and 150 feet north of Main Street and
within 365 feet of the center line of the right-of-way of the Atlantic Coast
Line Railroad Company, on the west side of the railroad.
(Prior Code, § 3-2031)
§ 93.46 RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or cause to be erected a
building other than of brick or stone with metal, stone, or other fireproof
roofing within the fire limits. Buildings within the primary fire limits shall
have eight-inch masonry walls.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to move or assist in moving into
the fire limits, or moving from one place to another within the same, any
building of a description other than that mentioned in division (A) above.
(Prior Code, § 3-2032) (Ord. passed 10-11-1955) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 94: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Acceptance and Improvement of Public Streets
   
94.001   Policy
   
94.002   Requirements for the acceptance of new streets
   
94.003   Petition for street improvements
   
94.004   Definition
   
94.005   Street improvement project procedure
   
94.006   Installation of utilities
   
94.007   Responsibility of property owners
   
94.008   Construction according to specifications
   
94.009   Opening and improving streets without petition
   
94.010   Resurfacing improvements
   
94.011   Property owner's cost
   
94.012   Assessments under petitions
   
94.013   New subdivisions
   
94.014   Developer's costs
Excavation and Repair
   
94.025   Permit to dig in streets
   
94.026   Application for permit; fees
   
94.027   Municipal liability
   
94.028   Supervision and control
   
94.029   Disposition of fees
   
94.030   Street repair
   
94.031   Excavations; leaving unprotected
   
94.032   Streets not to be damaged
   
94.033   Sidewalk construction
   
94.034   House moving
   
94.035   Damage to municipal property
   
94.036   Permit to mix building materials
   
94.037   Driveways; permit
   
94.038   Driveways; application
   
94.039   Driveways; standards
   
94.040   Driveways; construction
Obstruction of Streets
   
94.055   Assembly on sidewalk
   
94.056   Display of goods and the like prohibited
   
94.057   Placing objects on streets or sidewalks
   
94.058   Construction near sidewalk
   
94.059   Sheds and awnings
   
94.060   Impeding travel
   
94.061   Games and the like in streets
Use and Cleanliness
   
94.075   Littering prohibited
   
94.076   Littering; from vehicles
   
94.077   Maintenance of public areas
   
94.078   Receptacles
Parades and Demonstrations
   
94.090   Definitions
   
94.091   Permit required
   
94.092   Standards
   
94.093   Requirements and issuance of permits
   
94.094   Certain activities prohibited
   
94.095   Revocation of permit
   
94.096   Interference prohibited
   
94.097   Additional regulations applicable to picketing
   
94.098   Exceptions
 
   
94.999   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   General authority of municipalities to establish and control streets, see
G.S. § 160A-296
   Streets under authority of Board of Transportation, see G.S. § 160A-297
ACCEPTANCE AND IMPROVEMENT OF PUBLIC STREETS
§ 94.001 POLICY.
   It shall be the policy of the Board to regulate the acceptance and
improvement of public streets by exercising the powers and duties conferred by
G.S. § 160A-296 in the best interests of the citizens of the town.
(Prior Code, § 4-1001)
§ 94.002 REQUIREMENTS FOR THE ACCEPTANCE OF NEW STREETS.
   (A)   Dedication for public use on recorded map. Streets shall be considered
for acceptance for maintenance by the town when the proper width street is
dedicated for public use and a map is recorded in the office of the County
Register of Deeds.
   (B)   Sloping of banks when applicant does not control all property abutting
street. When a person filing an application with the Public Works Director for
acceptance of a public street does not control all property frontage abutting
the street acceptance of which is desired, the applicant shall attempt to
secure written approval from owners permitting sloping of banks on private
property not in his or her control and furnish copies to the office of the
Public Works Director; provided, however, that this requirement shall not be
construed to delay the project unduly.
   (C)   Construction requirements. Streets must be constructed in compliance
with the standards that are or may be established in the town's subdivision
regulations.
(Prior Code, § 4-1002) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.003 PETITION FOR STREET IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Execution by owners. All petitions for street improvements must be
signed in ink by the owners of the property signed for, or by their duly
authorized agents.
   (B)   Execution when town owns property. Whenever the abutting landowners on
any street petition to have the same improved and the town owns property along
the street whereon the improvement is desired, the Mayor is hereby authorized
and empowered to sign the petition in the name of the town for the full
frontage of the property owned by the town along the street.
   (C)   Right to withdraw signature. Any person shall have the right to
withdraw his or her signature from a petition for the pavement or repavement of
a street, but the withdrawal must be in the handwriting of the withdrawing
petitioner and shall state that it is his or her own act uninfluenced by
persuasion from any person manufacturing competing products.
   (D)   Effect of withdrawal of signature. Any person who has signed a
petition for the pavement or repavement of a street or portion of a street and
withdraws his or her signature therefrom thereafter will not be considered on
any petition for pavement or repavement; that is, the withdrawing person can
sign any other paving petition, but the town will not pass the other petition
unless the required number of feet is signed in addition to that of the party
who had withdrawn his or her signature.
   (E)   Misrepresentation to induce withdrawal of signers. No person shall
appeal personally to signers of the petitions to withdraw their names and in
making the appeals misrepresent the facts, either as to the cost of the
respective pavements or any other fact connected therewith.
(Prior Code, § 4-1003)
§ 94.004 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   STREET IMPROVEMENTS. The grading, regrading, paving, repaving, macadamizing,
and remacadamizing of streets, alleys, sidewalks, or other public places or
ways, and the construction, reconstruction, and altering of curbing, guttering,
storm sewers, turnouts, watermains, and water, gas, or sewer connections
therein.
(Prior Code, § 4-1004)
§ 94.005 STREET IMPROVEMENT PROJECT PROCEDURE.
   The procedure for street improvement projects shall be as specified in G.S.
§§ 160A-216 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 4-1005)
§ 94.006 INSTALLATION OF UTILITIES.
   (A)   At least 30 days before a contractor is notified that a street is
ready for him or her to proceed with his or her work, the Public Works Director
shall notify all public utilities that the street is being turned over to the
contractor for the execution of his or her contract. If those so notified are
not ready or cannot get ready within the 30 days, the Public Works Director
shall be so notified in writing, whereupon he or she may, at his or her
discretion and upon the approval of the Board, delay the sending of the notice
to the contractor.
   (B)   The term PUBLIC UTILITIES shall include power, gas, light, telephone,
and telegraph corporations, and any others as may operate like public services,
and also shall include departments of the town providing any of the above
services as well as water distribution and sewage disposal.
(Prior Code, § 4-1006)
§ 94.007 RESPONSIBILITY OF PROPERTY OWNERS.
   All abutting property owners shall receive the same notice as is provided to
public utilities under §
94.006(A) and shall be required to make all necessary preparations for street
improvements. Property owners may request a delay in the sending of notice to
the contractor as provided in §
94.006(A).
(Prior Code, § 4-1007)
§ 94.008 CONSTRUCTION ACCORDING TO SPECIFICATIONS.
   All street improvements shall be constructed in accordance with
specifications furnished by the Public Works Director, and all the work shall
be done under his or her supervision.
(Prior Code, § 4-1008) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.009 OPENING AND IMPROVING STREETS WITHOUT PETITION.
   It shall be wholly discretionary with the Board whether any street
improvement work is necessary or desirable and shall be done or not. Except for
the levy of assessments, street improvements made without a petition therefor
shall follow the same procedures as street improvements made pursuant to
petition.
(Prior Code, § 4-1009)
§ 94.010 RESURFACING IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   In all cases where a street is being repaved, the Public Works
Director shall be authorized to close the street or part of the street from the
time the work is started until the time as in his or her judgment the street is
suitable for ordinary traffic thereon. If there is any dispute as to the time
when the pavement is sufficiently set or hardened or otherwise has become fit
for travel, the decision of the Public Works Director shall be final. It shall
be the special duty of the Public Works Director to see that the provisions of
this section are enforced, both as to the erection of barriers or enclosures
and as to travel on any such street by vehicles, during the time prohibited. It
shall also be the duty of the Public Works Director to serve any notice as may
be necessary to protect any person having a permanent line thereon, such as bus
lines, taxicab lines, and the like.
   (B)   No person shall interfere with the closing or undertaking by operating
a car or otherwise traveling thereon before the enclosures have been removed
therefrom and the street opened for travel.
(Prior Code, § 4-1010) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.011 PROPERTY OWNER'S COST.
   The cost for street improvements charged against each abutting property
owner shall be determined by the Board under the provisions of G.S. § 160A-218.
(Prior Code, § 4-1011)
§ 94.012 ASSESSMENTS UNDER PETITIONS.
   Assessments shall be due within 30 days from presentation and notification
of the assessment; but the property owners shall have the privilege, on giving
written notice of the intention, to pay one-fourth thereof in cash and to give
notes for the balance for payment of the assessments in installments. The notes
shall provide that if all installments are paid before maturity, only interest
accruing to date of payment shall be collected.
(Prior Code, § 4-1012)
§ 94.013 NEW SUBDIVISIONS.
   Street improvements in new subdivisions shall be made as provided in
Chapter 153.
(Prior Code, § 4-1013) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.014 DEVELOPER'S COSTS.
   Developers shall be assessed as abutting property owners for the cost of
street improvements done by the town.
(Prior Code, § 4-1014)
EXCAVATION AND REPAIR
§ 94.025 PERMIT TO DIG IN STREETS.
   No person shall make any excavation or opening or dig any ditch, trench,
tunnel, or hole in, along, across, or under any street, sidewalk, or other
public place for the purpose of laying or placing therein any pipe, wires, or
poles or for any other purpose, unless a written permit therefor has been
issued by the Clerk or some other officer of the town vested with the
authority; provided, that a permit shall not be required where the work is
performed under a contract with the town, but in the event the work requires a
sidewalk or street to be wholly or partially obstructed, the person shall
notify the Clerk, the Public Works Department and the Police Department at
least two hours before obstructing the sidewalk or street, unless prevented by
sudden emergency.
(Prior Code, § 4-1021) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.026 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; FEES.
   All persons desiring a permit to make an opening in any street or sidewalk,
as set forth in §
94.025, shall make written application therefor, which application shall show
the location of the proposed opening, the purpose therefor, and the approximate
number of square yards of surface to be cut. The application shall be
accompanied by a fee which shall be established by the Board.
(Prior Code, § 4-1022)
§ 94.027 MUNICIPAL LIABILITY.
   Any person obtaining a permit, as provided for in §§
94.025 and
94.026, agrees, as a condition of the issuance of the permit, to indemnify and
hold harmless the town against any claims or expenses, including attorney's
fees for bodily injury or property damage for accidents or occurrences arising
out of the person's operations, excluding only the liability of the town for
its sole negligence except in connection with general supervision of work
performed by the person.
(Prior Code, § 4-1023)
§ 94.028 SUPERVISION AND CONTROL.
   All excavations and work in streets, sidewalks, alleys, or public places of
the town shall be under the supervision and control of the Public Works
Director, whose duty it shall be to inspect the same from time to time during
the progress thereof. Upon the completion thereof, he or she shall make a final
inspection and see that the street, sidewalk, or public place is restored to a
condition as good in all respects as before the excavation or work was made or
done, and that all debris, materials, tools, and equipment are removed
therefrom. Any person refusing or failing to comply with any provision of this
section shall be guilty of a violation thereof, and where the failure or
refusal is continued after notice from the Public Works Director, every day's
continuance shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(Prior Code, § 4-1024)
§ 94.029 DISPOSITION OF FEES.
   All fees collected under the provisions of this subchapter shall be paid
into the General Fund.
(Prior Code, § 4-1025)
§ 94.030 STREET REPAIR.
   (A)   When any part of any street, sidewalk, alley, or other public place of
the town shall be torn or dug up for any purpose, the person making the
excavation or opening shall have the duty of refilling the excavation or
opening so as to restore it to essentially the same condition that existed
prior to the excavation or opening, and the refilling shall be done in
accordance with the standards and specifications issued by the Public Works
Director or his or her duly authorized representative.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation neglecting, refusing, or failing to
comply with any provision of this section shall be guilty of a violation
thereof; and where the neglect, refusal, or failure is continued, after notice
from the Public Works Director or his or her authorized representative, every
day's continuance thereafter shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(Prior Code, § 4-1026)
§ 94.031 EXCAVATIONS; LEAVING UNPROTECTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation who obtains a
permit under the sections of this subchapter to do any excavation of any kind
which may create or cause a dangerous condition in or near any street, alley,
sidewalk, or public place of the town without placing and maintaining proper
guard rails three feet from the ground and signal lights or other warnings at,
in, or around the same, sufficient to warn the public of the excavation or
work, and to protect all persons using reasonable care from injuries on account
of same.
(Prior Code, § 4-1027) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.032 STREETS NOT TO BE DAMAGED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to drag,
run, or cause to be dragged or run any harrow or other implement, engine,
machine, or tool upon any asphalt, bithulitic, warrenite, or other type of
permanently paved street of the town which shall be liable, in any way, to
injure or cut the surface thereof.
   (B)   It shall also be unlawful to injure any dirt street in the same
manner.
(Prior Code, § 4-1028) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.033 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   No sidewalk of any description shall be built by any individual, firm, or
corporation of any brick, wood, or other material without a written permit from
the town.
(Prior Code, § 4-1029) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.034 HOUSE MOVING.
   No person shall move any house or building upon or across the public streets
or sidewalks without the written consent of the Board and the deposit of a good
and sufficient bond in the sum of $500 to cover damage done to the street or
sidewalk or to any property of any person.
(Prior Code, § 4-1030) Penalty, see §
94.999
Cross-reference:
   Moving of Buildings, see
Ch. 95
§ 94.035 DAMAGE TO MUNICIPAL PROPERTY.
   No person shall injure, tamper with, remove, paint upon, or deface any
bridge, culvert, ditch and drain, sign, sign post, street light, traffic
signal, bulletin board, or other municipal property upon the streets and
sidewalks or elsewhere, except employees of the town in the performance of
their duties.
(Prior Code, § 4-1031) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.036 PERMIT TO MIX BUILDING MATERIALS.
   No person shall mix any building materials on any street, sidewalks, or
other public place, unless a written permit therefor has been issued by the
Clerk or some other officer of the town vested with that authority. All persons
desiring a permit to mix building materials shall make written application
therefor, which application shall show the location of the proposed mixing and
the kind and approximate amounts of materials to be mixed. The application
shall be accompanied by a fee, which shall be established by the Board.
(Prior Code, § 4-1032) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.037 DRIVEWAYS; PERMIT.
   No person shall begin to construct, reconstruct, repair, alter, or grade any
driveway on the public streets, unless a written permit therefor has been
issued by the Clerk or some other officer of the town vested with that
authority. All persons desiring a driveway on property that abuts a town street
shall be provided one driveway on the property at no expense to the property
owner.
(Prior Code, § 4-1033) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.038 DRIVEWAYS; APPLICATION.
   All persons desiring a driveway permit shall make application therefor,
which application shall show:
   (A)   The name and address of the owner or agent in charge of the property
abutting the proposed work area;
   (B)   The name and address of the party doing the work;
   (C)   The location of the work area;
   (D)   Attached plans showing details of the proposed alteration;
   (E)   The estimated cost of the alteration; and
   (F)   Any other information as the issuing officer shall find reasonably
necessary to the determination of whether a permit should issue hereunder. The
application shall be accompanied by a fee, which shall be established by the
Board.
(Prior Code, § 4-1034)
§ 94.039 DRIVEWAYS; STANDARDS.
   The officer shall issue a permit hereunder when he or she finds that:
   (A)   The plans for the proposed operation have been approved by the Public
Works Director, to whom they shall be forwarded by the officer within a
reasonable time after receipt thereof;
   (B)   The work shall be done according to the standard specifications of the
town for public work of like character;
   (C)   The operation will not unreasonably interfere with vehicular and
pedestrian traffic, the demand and necessity for parking spaces, and the means
of egress to and from the property affected and adjacent properties; and
   (D)   The health, welfare, and safety of the public will not be unreasonably
impaired.
(Prior Code, § 4-1035)
§ 94.040 DRIVEWAYS; CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Driveways shall be constructed of portland cement concrete in one
course as well as adequate drainage materials such as culverts, pipes, when
required, if the immediate area abutting the driveway is generally constructed
of materials that consist of concrete, asphalt paving material and/or drainage
materials. In the event the predominant material used in the area surrounding
the proposed driveway is dirt or gravel, then those same materials shall be
allowed.
   (B)   The maximum width of driveway entrances to streets shall be 40 feet
per entrance.
(Prior Code, § 4-1036) (Ord. passed 12-13-1960) Penalty, see §
94.999
OBSTRUCTION OF STREETS
§ 94.055 ASSEMBLY ON SIDEWALK.
   All crowds or assemblages of persons that shall congregate on the streets or
sidewalks of this town, thereby obstructing the street to the inconvenience of
pedestrians, shall be dispersed by the police, and any person who refuses to
obey the warning of the officer shall be deemed to violate this section.
(Prior Code, § 6-2001) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.056 DISPLAY OF GOODS AND THE LIKE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any merchant or other person to exhibit or display
any goods, wares, or merchandise of any kind, or anything else upon any public
street, alley, or sidewalk of the town, or to leave any delivery cart, wagon,
or other vehicle standing in or upon any street or sidewalk in that portion as
will impede traffic. Provided, however, the Mayor may give permission for a
temporary obstruction thereof when reasonably necessary.
(Prior Code, § 6-2002) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.057 PLACING OBJECTS ON STREETS OR SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, store, pile, deposit, erect,
keep, or place, or cause, permit, or suffer to be thrown, stored, piled,
deposited, erected, kept, or placed, upon any street or sidewalk in the town
any wood, coal, boxes, barrels, stone, glass, china, crockery ware, brick,
lumber, dirt, merchandise, shipping case, stand, stall, booth or showcase, or
other obstruction of any kind, except as herein or otherwise provided by law or
ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 6-2003) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.058 CONSTRUCTION NEAR SIDEWALK.
   Before building or remodeling at any place where the same is in close
proximity to the sidewalk, a passageway shall be constructed so as to leave the
sidewalk unobstructed and provide safe and easy passage.
(Prior Code, § 6-2004) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.059 SHEDS AND AWNINGS.
   (A)   No person shall erect, project, or suspend over the sidewalks any
sign, shed, awning, or other structure, unless same is erected under the
supervision of the Commissioner of Streets.
   (B)   The structures must be securely fastened and their lower edges shall
be not less than ten feet above the sidewalk level, nor shall they extend
beyond the width of the sidewalk; provided, however, that awnings of cloth or
other similar material may be constructed and suspended over the sidewalk if
their lower edges are not less than eight feet above the sidewalk level and if
they are erected under the supervision and by permission of the Commissioner of
Streets.
(Prior Code, § 6-2005) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.060 IMPEDING TRAVEL.
   No person shall obstruct or impede travel on any street in the corporate
limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 6-2006) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.061 GAMES AND THE LIKE IN STREETS.
   No person shall play baseball, football, or any other game of ball, or shall
pitch or catch a ball on any street or sidewalk within the fire limits of the
town.
(Prior Code, § 6-2007) Penalty, see §
94.999
USE AND CLEANLINESS
§ 94.075 LITTERING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, organization, or private
corporation to throw or deposit, or cause to be thrown or deposited, upon any
street or sidewalk, into any gutter or drain, or upon any private property,
except with written permission of the owner or occupant of that private
property any trash, refuse, garbage, building material, cans, bottles, broken
glass, paper, or any type of litter.
(Prior Code, § 6-2011) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.076 LITTERING; FROM VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, while a driver or a passenger, in a
vehicle to throw or deposit litter upon any street or other public place within
the town, or upon private property.
(Prior Code, § 6-2012) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.077 MAINTENANCE OF PUBLIC AREAS.
   Every owner, lessee, tenant, occupant, or other person in charge of any
commercial establishment or premises which maintains any paved or unpaved areas
for the use of the public, either for parking or as access areas and incident
to the carrying on of the principal business of any commercial establishment or
premises and which parking or access areas abut or lie within ten feet of any
public street or other public way, shall keep and maintain the areas clean and
free from trash, litter, rubbish, and any materials liable to be blown,
deposited, or cast upon the street or other public way.
(Prior Code, § 6-2013) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.078 RECEPTACLES.
   Suitable receptacles shall be provided in all parking or access areas within
the meaning of §
94.077. The receptacles shall be plainly marked and constructed to prevent
scattering of any trash, litter, rubbish, or other materials deposited therein.
(Prior Code, § 6-2014) Penalty, see §
94.999
PARADES AND DEMONSTRATIONS
§ 94.090 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BLOCK. The portion of any street lying between its intersections with other
streets.
   GROUP DEMONSTRATION. Any assembly together or concert of action between or
among two or more persons for the purpose of protesting any matter or of making
known any position or promotion of the persons, or of or on behalf of any
organization or class of persons, or for the purpose of attracting attention of
the assembly.
   PARADE. Any assemblage of two or more persons participating in or operating
any vehicle in any march, ceremony, show, exhibition, or procession of any kind
in or upon the public streets, sidewalks, alleys, parks, or other public
grounds or places.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, corporation, partnership, association, or other
organization, whether formal or informal.
   PICKET LINE. Any two or more persons formed together for the purpose of
making known any position or promotion of those persons, or on behalf of any
organization or class of persons.
(Prior Code, § 6-2021)
§ 94.091 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to organize, conduct, or participate in
any parade, picket line, or group demonstration in or upon any street,
sidewalk, alley, or other public place within the town, unless a permit
therefor has been issued by the town in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-2022) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.092 STANDARDS.
   The Chief of Police shall issue a permit for the proposed parade, unless he
or she finds that:
   (A)   The parades, picket lines, or group demonstrations are to commence
before 6:00 a.m. or terminate after 5:00 p.m.;
   (B)   The parades or group demonstrations are to be held at the same time
and place as those designated in a permit issued pursuant to a written
application previously received by the Chief of Police or his or her designee;
   (C)   The conduct of the parade will substantially interrupt the safe and
orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
   (D)   The conduct of the parade will require the diversion of so great a
number of police officers of the town to properly police the line of movement
of the parade and of contiguous areas that adequate police protection cannot be
provided the remainder of the town;
   (E)   The conduct of the parade will require the diversion of so great a
number of ambulances that adequate ambulance service to portions of the town
not occupied by the parade and contiguous areas will be prevented;
   (F)   The concentration of persons, animals, and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will substantially interfere with adequate fire and police
protection of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to the assembly areas;
   (G)   The conduct of the parade is reasonably likely to result in violence
to persons or property causing serious harm to the public;
   (H)   The parade is to be held for the primary purposes of advertising a
product, good, or event, and is designed to be held primarily for private
profit; or
   (I)   The conduct of the parade will interfere with the movement of
firefighting equipment to such an extent that adequate fire protection cannot
be provided to the town.
(Prior Code, § 6-2023)
§ 94.093 REQUIREMENTS AND ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.
   The Chief of Police or his or her designee shall issue permits as required
in §
94.092, and in the issuance thereof he or she shall:
   (A)   Require a written application for permit to be filed not less than 24
hours in advance of the parade, picket line, or group demonstration which
application shall specify the time and place for the commencement of the picket
line and the time, place, route, and duration of the parade or group
demonstration;
   (B)   Require that the application for a permit specify whether or not
minors below the age of 18 years will be permitted to participate; and
   (C)   Require that the application for a permit shall specify and the permit
shall designate the person or persons in charge of the activity. The person
shall be required to accompany the parade, picket line, or group demonstration
and shall carry the permit with him or her at that time. The permit shall not
be valid in the possession of any other person.
(Prior Code, § 6-2024)
§ 94.094 CERTAIN ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED.
   The following acts or activities, when performed or undertaken in
conjunction with or as a part of, any parade, picket line, or group
demonstration, are hereby prohibited and declared unlawful:
   (A)   The carrying on or about the person any firearm, or any weapon or
article, including, but not limited to, blackjacks, nightsticks, or flashlights
which by their use might constitute a deadly weapon; and
   (B)   The taking or keeping of any dog or other vicious animal, whether
leashed or unleashed.
(Prior Code, § 6-2025) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.095 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police shall revoke any permit granted for a parade, picket
line, or group demonstration for any of the following causes:
   (A)   The violation by any participant of §
94.094; or
   (B)   The failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the permit.
(Prior Code, § 6-2026)
§ 94.096 INTERFERENCE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall hamper, obstruct, impede, or interfere with any parade,
picket line, or group demonstration being conducted under authority of a permit
duly issued by the Chief of Police.
(Prior Code, § 6-2027) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.097 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS APPLICABLE TO PICKETING.
   (A)   Generally. Picket lines and picketing shall be subject to the
following additional regulations.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   Picketing may be conducted only on the sidewalks reserved for
pedestrian movement, and may not be conducted on the portion of a street used
primarily for vehicular traffic.
      (2)   Not more than ten pickets promoting the same objective shall be
permitted to use either of the two sidewalks within a single block at any one
time.
      (3)   Pickets must march in single file and not abreast and must not
march closer together than 15 feet, except in passing one another.
(Prior Code, § 6-2028) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.098 EXCEPTIONS.
   This subchapter shall not apply to:
   (A)   Funeral processions; and
   (B)   Any governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
(Prior Code, § 6-2029)
§ 94.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter for
which no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Sections
94.075 through
94.078.
      (1)   Any owner, lessee, tenant, occupant, or other person in charge of
any commercial establishment or premises within the meaning of §
94.077 who fails to abide by the provisions of §§
94.075 through
94.078 shall be subject to a penalty of $50, in addition to the penal
provisions of state law for violations of municipal ordinances.
      (2)   Any person found guilty of violating §§
94.075 through
94.078 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $50,
or imprisoned for not more than 30 days.
(Prior Code, § 6-2015)
CHAPTER 95: MOVING OF BUILDINGS
Section
   
95.01   Application and bond required
   
95.02   Contents of application
   
95.03   Moving permit fee
   
95.04   Amount and purpose of bond
   
95.05   Time permitted on streets and sidewalks
   
95.06   Notices required
   
95.07   Night safety precautions
   
95.08   Inspections required
§ 95.01 APPLICATION AND BOND REQUIRED.
   An application provided by the Building Inspector and a bond approved as to
form by the Town Attorney are required to be submitted to the town before any
building shall be moved over any public street of the town.
(Prior Code, § 6-3001) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.02 CONTENTS OF APPLICATION.
   The application shall set forth:
   (A)   A description of the building proposed to be moved, giving street
number, construction materials, dimensions, number of rooms, and condition of
exterior and interior;
   (B)   A legal description of the lot from which the building is to be moved,
giving the lot, block, and tract number, if located in the town;
   (C)   A legal description of the lot to which it is proposed the building be
removed, giving lot, block, and tract number, if located in the town;
   (D)   The portion of the lot to be occupied by the building when moved;
   (E)   The highways, streets, and alleys over, along, or across which the
building is proposed to be moved;
   (F)   Proposed moving date and hours; and
   (G)   Any additional information which the Building Inspector shall find
necessary to a fair determination of whether a permit should issue.
(Prior Code, § 6-3002)
§ 95.03 MOVING PERMIT FEE.
   The application shall be accompanied by a permit fee established by the
Board. If the building to be moved is located outside the town, the fee is to
be augmented by a fixed charge per mile beyond the town limits established by
the Board.
(Prior Code, § 6-3003)
§ 95.04 AMOUNT AND PURPOSE OF BOND.
   The bond required by §
95.01 shall be executed in an amount established by the Board, conditioned upon
the assurance that this and other applicable ordinances and laws will be
complied with. The bond shall run to the town for the use and benefit of any
person or persons intended to be protected thereby and shall be conditioned on
the payment of any damage to public or private property and the payment for any
damages or losses resulting from any malfeasance, misfeasance, or nonfeasance
or negligence in connection with any of the activities or conditions upon which
the permit applied for is granted.
(Prior Code, § 6-3004)
§ 95.05 TIME PERMITTED ON STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   The building shall be permitted on the streets and sidewalks for not more
than four days, unless an extension is granted by the Building Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 6-3005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.06 NOTICES REQUIRED.
   The Chief of Police and Fire Chief shall be informed of the location at
night of any building in the process of being moved.
(Prior Code, § 6-3006)
§ 95.07 NIGHT SAFETY PRECAUTIONS.
   Red lights shall be displayed at night on every side of the building while
on the streets and sidewalks, and barricades shall be maintained across the
streets for the protection of the public.
(Prior Code, § 6-3007) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.08 INSPECTIONS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Prior to the issuance of a permit, the Building Inspector shall
inspect the building to be moved to ensure that it can be moved safely and in
accordance with local ordinances.
   (B)   Following the move, the Building Inspector shall inspect the original
premises, if located within the town, and shall see that the permittee leaves
the premises in a safe and sanitary condition.
(Prior Code, § 6-3008)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
110.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
         
111.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
CHAPTER 110: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
110.01   Consumption of intoxicating beverages
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 CONSUMPTION OF INTOXICATING BEVERAGES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess any intoxicating
beverage, either in an open or closed container, on any property owned or
controlled by the town. It shall be unlawful for any person to possess any
intoxicating beverage in an open container upon any public vehicular area;
provided that this section shall not apply to the premises of those
establishments that have an "on-premises" ABC permit as prescribed under G.S. §
18B-301.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PUBLIC VEHICULAR AREA. Any drive, driveway, road, roadway, street,
sidewalk, alley, parking area, or other space open for the purpose of vehicular
traffic or operation upon the grounds or premises of:
         (a)   Any public or private hospital, college, university, school,
orphanage, or church, or any institution maintained and supported by the state
or the town; and/or
         (b)   Any service station, car wash, supermarket, store, restaurant,
amusement center, lounge, shopping center, office building, or any other
business or municipal establishment, or groups of the establishments, providing
parking space for customers, patrons, employees, or the public.
(Prior Code, § 8-1004) (Ord. passed 5-9-1978; Ord. passed 6-10-1997) Penalty,
see §
110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Violation of §
110.01 shall constitute a misdemeanor and shall be punishable by a fine not to
exceed $50, or imprisonment for up to 30 days, or both, within the discretion
of the court.
(Prior Code, § 8-1004) (Ord. passed 5-9-1978)
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Registration
   
111.03   Badge
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLER. Any person who transports goods from place to place and sells or
offers for sale the goods, or who, without traveling from place to place, sells
or offers for sale any goods from any vehicle or device; provided, that any
person who separates the acts of sale and delivery for the purpose of evading
the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed a PEDDLER.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels from place to place taking or offering to
take orders for the sale of goods for future delivery or for personal services
to be performed in the future, whether or not samples are displayed or money is
collected in advance, and any person who uses or occupies any building or
premises for the sole purpose of taking or offering to take orders for the sale
of goods for future delivery or for personal services to be performed in the
future, whether or not samples are displayed or money is collected in advance.
   TRANSIENT VENDOR. Any person who engages in a temporary business of selling
and delivering goods and who, for this purpose, uses or occupies any building
or premises; provided, that no person shall be relieved from complying with the
provisions of this section merely by conducting a transient business in
association with any permanently established merchant.
(Prior Code, § 6-1071)
§ 111.02 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Generally. Each and every person doing business in the town as a
peddler, solicitor, or transient vendor shall file with the Town Clerk, on a
form to be provided for that purpose, a statement setting forth the following
information.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   Name and address of individual filing statement;
      (2)   Name and address of principal or employer if individual is an agent
or employee;
      (3)   Credentials showing relationship of agent or employee;
      (4)   Description of individual filing statement including height,
weight, sex, age, color, and distinguishing characteristics, if any;
      (5)   The goods to be sold or offered for sale, or the type of services
to be rendered;
      (6)   The period of time during which the business will be carried on in
the town; and
      (7)   Description of automobile or other vehicle to be used in the
business, including the make, model, body style, color, and license number.
(Prior Code, § 6-1072) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.03 BADGE.
   (A)   The Town Clerk shall issue to each person filing the statement
required by §
111.02 a badge substantially as follows:
"20__ Town of ________________________ No. ___
SOLICITOR'S BADGE
____________________ has registered with the Town Clerk as required by
Ordinance.
______________
(Date)
      ________________
      Town Clerk"
   (B)   During the time the person is engaged in soliciting, the badge shall
be worn on the front of his or her outer garment in the manner as to be
conspicuous.
(Prior Code, § 6-1073) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      Chapter
         
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Curfews for minors
   
130.02   Loitering
   
130.03   Discharging guns, firearms, and firecrackers forbidden
   
130.04   Indirect solicitation of alms in public places
   
130.05   Tampering with signs and signals
   
130.06   Loud, raucous, and disturbing noises prohibited
   
130.07   Noises expressly prohibited
   
130.08   Firebombs prohibited
   
130.09   Firebombs; enforcement
   
130.10   Posting bills; other advertising
   
130.11   Abandonment of refrigerators and other containers
   
130.12   Exhibitions
   
130.13   Selling alcohol near schools and the like
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 CURFEWS FOR MINORS.
   (A)   The purpose of this section shall be to establish a curfew for minors
in the town, thus assisting the parents and guardians of minors in the ever
increasingly difficult task of child-rearing, and to promote the health,
safety, and welfare of both minors and adults in the town by creating an
environment offering protection and security for all concerned.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      GUARDIAN. One who legally has the care and management of the person of a
child defined as a MINOR by this division (B).
      MINOR. A person who has not reached his or her eighteenth birthday and is
not married, emancipated, or a member of the armed services of the United
States.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Areas such as, but not limited to, all common areas open to
all for common use; alleys, streets, or public places, or places of business
and amusement; public vehicular areas, highways, and parks; and establishments
open to the public for the conduct of business.
   (C)   A curfew applicable to minors is established and shall be enforced as
follows.
      (1)   Time limits. It is unlawful for any minor to be or remain upon any
public place, as defined in division (B) above, in the town between 12:00 a.m.
Friday and 5:00 a.m. on Saturday, or between 12:00 a.m. Saturday and 5:00 a.m.
on Sunday, or between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. of the following
morning on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, or Thursday.
      (2)   Exceptions. This section does not apply to a minor who is:
         (a)   Accompanied by the minor's parent or guardian;
         (b)   On an errand at the direction of the minor's parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
         (c)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
         (d)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
         (e)   Involved in an emergency;
         (f)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor's residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
police department about the minor's presence;
         (g)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
         (h)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
         (i)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority
removed in accordance with state law.
      (3)   Responsibility of adults. It is unlawful for any parent, guardian,
or other person charged with the care and custody of any minor to allow or
permit the minor to be in or upon a public place within the town within the
curfew hours set by division (C)(1) above, except as otherwise provided in
division (C)(2) above.
      (4)   Responsibility of business establishment. It is unlawful for any
person, firm, or corporation operating a place of business or amusement to
allow or permit any minor to be in or upon, or to remain in or upon, any place
of business or amusement operated by them within the curfew hours set by
division (C)(1) above, except as otherwise provided in division (C)(2) above.
      (5)   Enforcement.
         (a)   When a minor is found to be in violation of this section, the
officer will check the records of the Town Police Department to determine if
the minor is a first offender. If the minor is a first offender, he or she will
be taken to the residence of his or her parent or guardian. A verbal warning
will be given to that adult and an information report shall be taken by the
officer, to document the violation, which shall include the names of the minor
and the adult, and the time, date, and location of the offense. This report
will be turned in and filed in the Police Department juvenile records files.
         (b)   If, upon checking the Police Department records, the minor is
found to be a repeat offender, he or she will be taken to the residence of his
or her parent or guardian and the adult will be subject to a criminal citation,
pursuant to division (C)(6) below. A written police report will also be
completed and filed.
         (c)   If the minor is under 12 years of age, a report will be made and
a copy forwarded to the County Department of Social Services.
      (6)   Aiding and abetting by adult, guardian, or parent. It shall be a
violation of this section for an adult, guardian, or parent to allow, permit,
encourage, aid, or abet a minor in the violation of division (C)(1) above,
except as otherwise provided in division (C)(2) above.
      (7)   Refusal of guardian or parent to take custody of a minor. If any
guardian or parent refuses to take custody of his or her minor child found in
violation of this section, the officer with custody of the minor shall contact
the County Department of Social Services and release the minor to that agency,
pending further investigation by the Police Department and the Department of
Social Services. The adult will be subject to a criminal citation pursuant to
division (C)(6) above.
      (8)   Emergency curfew. Under the authority of G.S. § 166A-19.31,
whenever the Mayor deems that an emergency exists, and there is a clear and
present danger to the preservation of the public peace, health, life, or safety
or to public or private property in the town, necessitating expansion of the
curfew provisions set forth in division (C)(1) above, the Mayor may effect the
expansion effective for the period of the emergency by proclamation. The
proclamation shall contain a statement of the reasons for the necessity, the
period of the expanded curfew, and provide that no minor under the age of 16
shall be upon or about, or remain upon or about, public places, as defined by
division (B) above, in the town between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. of
the following morning, unless accompanied by his or her parent, guardian, or
responsible adult. The proclamation may further provide that no parent or
guardian of any minor under the age of 16 shall allow the minor to be upon or
about, or remain upon or about, any public place, as defined by division (B)
above, in the town between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. of the
following morning, unless the minor is under the direction or protection of
some adult person with authority and consent of the parent or guardian for his
or her being there. The proclamation shall become effective 30 minutes after
being publicly announced by the Mayor for the period or until rescinded by the
Mayor or repealed by the Town Board of Commissioners in the manner in which
ordinances are repealed. As soon as is reasonably possible, the proclamation
shall be published and reported in the local media and posted conspicuously
about the town.
   (D)   This section shall be in full force and effect on 9-1-1996.
(Ord. passed 8-20-1996) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 LOITERING.
   (A)   A person commits a violation if he or she loiters or prowls in a
place, at a time, or in a manner not usual for law-abiding individuals under
circumstances that warrant alarm for the safety of persons or property in the
vicinity. Among the circumstances which may be considered in determining
whether alarm is warranted is the fact that the person takes flight upon
appearance of a police officer, refuses to identify himself or herself, or
manifestly endeavors to conceal himself or herself or any object. Unless flight
by the person or other circumstances makes it impractical, a police officer
shall, prior to any arrest for an offense under this section, afford the person
an opportunity to dispel any alarm which would otherwise be warranted, by
requesting the person to identify himself or herself and to explain his or her
presence or conduct. No person shall be convicted of an offense under this
section if the police officer did not comply with the preceding sentence, or if
it appears at trial that the explanation given by the person was true and, if
it had been believed by the police officer at the time, would have dispelled
the alarm. Any police officer may arrest any person suspected of being a
loiterer or prowler without a warrant if it reasonably appears that the delay
in arresting the suspect caused by obtaining a warrant would result in the
suspect's escape.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, after first being warned by a
police officer, or where a "no loitering" sign or signs have been posted, to
loiter, stand, sit, or lie in or upon any public or quasi-public sidewalk,
street, curb, cross-walk, walkway area, mall or that portion of private
property utilized for public use, so as to hinder or obstruct unreasonably the
free passage of pedestrians or vehicles thereon. It shall be unlawful for any
person to block, obstruct, or prevent free access to the entrance to any
building open to the public.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter in or near any
thoroughfare or place open to the public for the purpose of inducing, enticing,
soliciting, or procuring another to commit an act of prostitution. Among the
circumstances which may be considered in determining whether such action is
consistent with the intent to induce, entice, solicit, or procure another to
commit an act of prostitution are that the person is a known prostitute or
panderer and repeatedly beckons, in the attempt to stop or engage male or
female passersby in conversation, or repeatedly stops or attempts to stop motor
vehicles by engaging their operators by hailing, waving of arms, or other
bodily gestures. The violator's conduct must be such as to demonstrate a
specific intent to induce, entice, solicit, or procure another to commit an act
of prostitution. No arrest shall be made for a violation of this division
unless the arresting officer first affords the person an opportunity to explain
his or her conduct, and no one shall be convicted of violating this division if
it appears at trial that the explanation given was true and disclosed a lawful
purpose.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, PUBLIC PLACE has the following
definition unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning: an area generally visible to public view, including streets,
sidewalks, bridges, alleys, plazas, parks, driveways, parking lots, automobiles
(whether moving or not), and buildings open to the general public, including
those which serve food or drink or provide entertainment, and the doorways and
entrances to buildings or dwellings and the grounds enclosing them.
(Ord. passed 11-13-1984) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 DISCHARGING GUNS, FIREARMS, AND FIRECRACKERS FORBIDDEN.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any firearm, firecracker,
cannon cracker, or other fireworks or things of like character, or any bow and
arrow, sling shot, bean shooter, rubber sling, or cap gun, within the city
limits, without having a town permit to do so.
(Prior Code, § 8-6002) (Ord. --. passed 10-8-2019) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 INDIRECT SOLICITATION OF ALMS IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to solicit alms in public places by
offering for sale any article or merchandise without a permit.
(Prior Code, § 8-6006) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05 TAMPERING WITH SIGNS AND SIGNALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to write on, mark on, deface, or change
the proper position of any street name signs or traffic-control signs in the
town unless authorized to do so by the Town Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 8-6007) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.06 LOUD, RAUCOUS, AND DISTURBING NOISES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or group of persons, regardless of
number, to willfully make, continue, or cause to be made or continue any loud,
raucous, and disturbing noise, which term shall mean any sound which, because
of its volume level, duration, and character, annoys, disturbs, injures, or
endangers the comfort, health, peace, or safety of reasonable persons of
ordinary sensibilities within the limits of the town. The term LOUD, RAUCOUS,
AND DISTURBING NOISE shall be limited to loud, raucous, and disturbing noises
heard upon the public streets, in any public building or upon the grounds
thereof while in use, in any church or hospital or upon the grounds thereof
while in use, upon any parking lot open to members of the public as invitees or
licensees, or in any occupied residential unit which is not the source of the
noise upon the grounds thereof.
(Prior Code, § 8-6008) (Ord. passed 4-9-2002) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.07 NOISES EXPRESSLY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Generally. In addition to the common meaning of words, the following
definitions shall be used in interpreting §
130.06 and the following acts, among others, are declared to be loud, raucous,
and disturbing noises in violation of §
130.06, but this enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   The sounding of any horn or signal device on any automobile,
motorcycle, bus, or other vehicle while not in motion, except as a danger
signal if another vehicle is approaching apparently out of control, or if in
motion only as a danger signal after, or as brakes are being applied and
deceleration of the vehicle is intended; the creation by means of any such
signal device of any unreasonably loud or harsh sound; and the sounding of the
device for an unnecessary and unreasonable period of time;
      (2)   The use of any gong or siren upon any vehicle, other than police,
fire, or other emergency vehicle, or the spinning of the vehicle tires;
      (3)   Radios, amplifiers, phonographs, group gatherings and the like,
singing, yelling, or using, operating, or permitting to be played, used, or
operated any radio, amplifier, musical instrument, phonograph, interior or
exterior loudspeakers, or other device for the producing or reproducing of
sound in the manner as to cause loud, raucous, and disturbing noise, which
because of its volume level, duration, and character annoys, disturbs, injures,
or endangers the comfort, health, peace, or safety of reasonable persons of
ordinary sensibilities, provided, however, that upon application to the town,
permits may be granted to responsible organizations to produce programs in
music, speeches, or general entertainment;
      (4)   The keeping of any animal or bird which, by causing frequent or
loud continued noise, shall disturb any ordinary person of reasonable
sensibilities;
      (5)   The use of any automobile, motorcycle, or other vehicle so out of
repair, so loaded, or in the manner as to create loud or unnecessary grating,
grinding, rattling, or other noise;
      (6)   The blowing of any steam whistle attached to any stationary boiler,
except to give notice of time to begin or stop work or as a warning of danger;
      (7)   The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any steam engine,
stationary internal combustion engine, or motor vehicle, except through a
muffler or other device which will effectively prevent loud or explosive noises
therefrom;
      (8)   The use of any mechanical device operated by compressed air, unless
the noise created thereby is effectively muffled and reduced;
      (9)   The erection (including excavation), demolition, alteration, or
repair of any building in a residential or business district other than between
the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on weekdays, except in the case of urgent
necessity in the interest of public safety and then only with a permit from the
Clerk, which permit may be renewed for a period of three days or less while the
emergency continues;
      (10)   The creation of any excessive noise on any street adjacent to any
school, institute of learning, or court while the same is in session, or within
150 feet of any hospital, which unreasonably interferes with the working of the
institution, provided conspicuous signs are displayed in the streets indicating
that the same is a school, court, or hospital street;
      (11)   The creation of an excessive noise on Sundays on any street
adjacent to any church, provided, conspicuous signs are displayed in the
streets adjacent to churches indicating that the same is a church street;
      (12)   The creation of loud and excessive noise in connection with
loading or unloading any vehicle, of the opening and destruction of bales,
boxes, crates, and containers;
      (13)   The sounding of any bell or gong, attached to any building or
premises which disturbs the quiet or repose of an ordinary person of reasonable
sensibilities;
      (14)   The shouting and crying of peddlers, barkers, hawkers and vendors
which disturbs the quiet and peace of the neighborhood;
      (15)   The use of any drum, loudspeaker, or other instrument or device
for the purpose of attracting attention by creation of noise to any
performance, show, or sale or display of merchandise;
      (16)   The use of any mechanical loud speakers or amplifiers on trucks or
other moving vehicles for advertising purposes or other purposes except where
specific license is received from the Board;
      (17)   The conducting, operating, or maintaining of any garage or filling
station in any residential district so as to cause loud or offensive noises to
be emitted therefrom between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.; and
      (18)   The firing or discharging of squibs, crackers, gunpowder, or other
combustible substance in the streets or elsewhere for the purpose of making
noise or disturbance, except by permit from the Board.
(Prior Code, § 8-6009) (Ord. passed 4-9-2002) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.08 FIREBOMBS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      FIREBOMB. Any type of object designed or constructed so that, upon being
propelled, it will explode or ignite its area of impact.
      MOLOTOV COCKTAIL. Any breakable container or any container which is
designed in such a manner that, upon being propelled, it will, at impact, empty
its contents, which is filled with an inflammable fluid or substance, and which
is fitted with a fuse or wick.
   (B)   Prohibited acts. It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to
manufacture, possess, transport, or use any Molotov cocktail or other firebomb.
   (C)   Possession of materials restricted. It shall be unlawful for any
person or group of persons to possess all the items or materials needed to
manufacture Molotov cocktails or other firebombs, other than on his or her
premises.
(Prior Code, § 8-6010) (Ord. passed 4-9-1968) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.09 FIREBOMBS; ENFORCEMENT.
   The Mayor, or in his or her absence the Mayor Pro Tempore, or in the absence
of both officials the Chief of Police, is authorized to enforce §
130.08 for any periods of time as he or she shall deem necessary.
(Prior Code, § 8-6011)
§ 130.10 POSTING BILLS; OTHER ADVERTISING.
   No person shall stick, paint, brand, stamp, write, or put upon any house,
fence, wall, pavement, post, or upon any property owned by any person, firm, or
corporation, or owned by the town, any printed, written, painted, or other
advertisement, bill, notice, sign, or poster, without first having obtained the
written permission of the owner of the property and having received a permit
from the Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 8-6012) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.11 ABANDONMENT OF REFRIGERATORS AND OTHER CONTAINERS.
   No person shall have upon any premises owned or occupied by him or her any
abandoned refrigerator or similar device whose door is fastened when closed and
cannot be opened from the inside or is more difficult to open from the inside
than from the outside.
(Prior Code, § 8-6013) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.12 EXHIBITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to open, maintain, or operate a museum
of anatomy as a source of profit or business, and it shall likewise be unlawful
to exhibit the human form or parts thereof as a business or source of profit.
(Prior Code, § 8-6014) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.13 SELLING ALCOHOL NEAR SCHOOLS AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to sell, or offer
for sale, wine or beer within 500 yards of any church or public school within
the corporate limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 8-6015) Penalty, see §
130.99
Cross-reference:
   Alcoholic Beverages, see
Ch. 110
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   The punishment for violation of §
130.01 shall be a fine of up to $500 and/or imprisonment up to six months.
   (C)   Violation of §
130.02 shall constitute a misdemeanor punishable by a fine not to exceed $50 or
imprisonment for a period not to exceed 30 days, or both, within the discretion
of the court.
   (D)   Violation of §§
130.03 through
130.13 shall constitute a misdemeanor punishable by a fine not to exceed $50
and/or imprisonment for a period not to exceed 30 days, or both within the
discretion of the court.
(Ord. passed 11-13-1984; Ord. passed 11-19-1991; Ord. passed 8-20-1996)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      Chapter
         
150.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
         
151.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
         
152.   VACANT BUILDINGS AND BLIGHTED PROPERTIES
         
153.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
         
154.   ZONING CODE
CHAPTER 150: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Statutory authorization
   
150.02   Findings of fact
   
150.03   Statement of purpose
   
150.04   Objectives
   
150.05   Definitions
   
150.06   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
150.07   Basis for establishing the Special Flood Hazard Areas
   
150.08   Establishment of flood plain development permit
   
150.09   Compliance
   
150.10   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
150.11   Interpretation
   
150.12   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Administration
   
150.25   Designation of Flood Plain Administrator
   
150.26   Application, permit and certification requirements
   
150.27   Duties and responsibilities of the Flood Plain Administrator
   
150.28   Corrective procedures
   
150.29   Variance procedures
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
150.40   General standards
   
150.41   Specific standards
   
150.42   Reserved
   
150.43   Standards for flood plains without established base flood elevations
   
150.44   Standards for riverine flood plains with BFE, but without established
floodways or non-encroachment areas
   
150.45   Floodways and non-encroachment areas
Legal Status Provisions
   
150.60   Effect on rights and liabilities under the existing flood damage
prevention ordinance
   
150.61   Effect upon outstanding flood plain development permits
 
   
150.99   Penalties for violation
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
    The State Legislature has in G.S. Ch. 143, Art. 21, Part 6; G.S. Ch. 153A,
Art. 6; G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 8; and G.S. Ch. 160D, Arts. 7, 9, and 11, delegated
to local governmental units the authority to adopt regulations designed to
promote the public health, safety, and general welfare.
(Ord. passed 2-10-2004; Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
§ 150.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood-prone areas within the jurisdiction of the town are subject
to periodic inundation which results in loss of life, property, health, and
safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary
public expenditures of flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax
base, all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general
welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in flood plains causing increases in flood heights and velocities, and by the
occupancy in flood-prone areas of uses vulnerable to floods or other hazards.
(Ord. passed 2-10-2004; Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
§ 150.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions within flood-prone areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water or erosion hazards, or that result in damaging increases
in erosion, flood heights, or velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural flood plains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and all other development that may
increase erosion or flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers that will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(Ord. passed 2-10-2004; Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
§ 150.04 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are:
   (A)   To protect human life, safety, and health;
   (B)   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   To minimize prolonged business losses and interruptions;
   (E)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities (i.e., water and
gas mains, electric, telephone, cable and sewer lines, streets, and bridges)
that are located in flood-prone areas;
   (F)   To minimize damage to private and public property due to flooding;
   (G)   To make flood insurance available to the community through the
National Flood Insurance Program;
   (H)   To maintain the natural and beneficial functions of flood plains;
   (I)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas; and
   (J)   To ensure that potential buyers are aware that property is in a
Special Flood Hazard Area.
(Ord. passed 2-10-2004; Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
§ 150.05 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter
shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage
and to give this chapter it’s most reasonable application.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure located on the same
parcel of property as the principal structure and the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principal structure. Garages, carports, and
storage sheds are common urban ACCESSORY STRUCTURES. Pole barns, hay sheds, and
the like qualify as ACCESSORY STRUCTURES on farms, and may or may not be
located on the same parcel as the farm dwelling or shop building.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING BUILDING). An extension or increase in the floor
area or height of a building or structure.
   ALTERATION OF A WATERCOURSE. A dam, impoundment, channel relocation, change
in channel alignment, channelization, or change in cross-sectional area of the
channel or the channel capacity, or any other form of modification which may
alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or velocity of the riverine
flow of water during conditions of the base flood.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Flood Plain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated Zone AO or AH on a community’s Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with base flood depths determined to be from one to
three feet. These areas are located where a clearly defined channel does not
exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate, and where
velocity flow may be evident.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. See SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA).
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). A determination of the water surface elevations
of the base flood as published in the Flood Insurance Study. When the BFE has
not been provided in a “Special Flood Hazard Area,” it may be obtained from
engineering studies available from a federal, state, or other source using FEMA
approved engineering methodologies. This elevation, when combined with the
“Freeboard,” establishes the “Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation.”
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   CHEMICAL STORAGE FACILITY. A building, portion of a building, or exterior
area adjacent to a building used for the storage of any chemical or chemically
reactive products.
   DESIGN FLOOD. See REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
   DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITY. Any activity defined as development which will
necessitate a flood plain development permit. This includes buildings,
structures, and non- structural items, including (but not limited to) fill,
bulkheads, piers, pools, docks, landings, ramps, and erosion control/
stabilization measures.
   DIGITAL FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (DFIRM). The digital official map of a
community, issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), on which
both the Special Flood Hazard Areas and the risk premium zones applicable to
the community are delineated.
   DISPOSAL. Defined as in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(6), the discharge, deposit,
injection, dumping, spilling, leaking, or placing of any solid waste into or on
any land or water so that the solid waste or any constituent part of the solid
waste may enter the environment or be emitted into the air or discharged into
any waters, including groundwaters.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. A non-basement building which has its lowest elevated
floor raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear walls, posts, piers,
pilings, or columns.
   ENCROACHMENT. The advance or infringement of uses, fill, excavation,
buildings, structures or development into a Special Flood Hazard Area, which
may impede or alter the flow capacity of a flood plain.
   EXISTING BUILDING AND EXISTING STRUCTURE. Any building and/or structure for
which the START OF CONSTRUCTION commenced before the effective date of the
initial FIRM for the community, dated February 16, 2006.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. A
manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities
for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed before the effective date of the flood plain management regulations
adopted by a community, dated May 12, 1988.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). An official map of a community,
issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, on which the Special Flood
Hazard Areas and the floodways are delineated. This official map is a
supplement to and shall be used in conjunction with the Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM).
   FLOOD INSURANCE. The insurance coverage provided under the National Flood
Insurance Program.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, issued by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency, on which both the Special Flood Hazard
Areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community are delineated.
(See also DFIRM)
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). An examination, evaluation, and determination
of flood hazard areas, corresponding water surface elevations (if appropriate),
flood hazard risk zones, and other flood data in a community issued by FEMA.
The FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY report includes Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMs) and
Flood Boundary and Floodway Maps (FBFMs), if published.
   FLOOD PLAIN. Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any
source.
   FLOOD PLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The individual appointed to administer and
enforce the flood plain management regulations.
   FLOOD PLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. Any type of permit that is required in
conformance with the provisions of this chapter, prior to the commencement of
any development activity.
   FLOOD PLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective
and preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the flood plain, including, but not
limited to, emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, flood plain
management regulations, and open space plans.
   FLOOD PLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning
ordinances, subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations,
special purpose ordinances, and other applications of police power. This term
describes federal, state, or local regulations in any combination thereof which
provide standards for preventing and reducing flood loss and damage.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures, which reduce or eliminate flood damage
to real estate or improved real property, water and sanitation facilities,
structures, and their contents.
   FLOOD-PRONE AREA. See FLOOD PLAIN.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   FLOOD ZONE. A geographical area shown on a Flood Hazard Boundary Map or
Flood Insurance Rate Map that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the
area.
   FLOOD-RESISTANT MATERIAL. Any building product (material, component or
system) capable of withstanding direct and prolonged contact (minimum 72 hours)
with floodwaters without sustaining damage that requires more than low-cost
cosmetic repair. Any material that is water-soluble or is not resistant to
alkali or acid in water, including normal adhesives for above-grade use, is not
flood-resistant. Pressure- treated lumber or naturally decay-resistant lumbers
are acceptable flooring materials. Sheet- type flooring coverings that restrict
evaporation from below and materials that are impervious, but dimensionally
unstable are not acceptable. Materials that absorb or retain water excessively
after submergence are not flood-resistant. Please refer to Technical Bulletin
2, Flood Damage- Resistant Materials Requirements, and available from the FEMA.
Class 4 and 5 materials, referenced therein, are acceptable flood-resistant
materials.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse, including the area
above a bridge or culvert when applicable, and the adjacent land areas that
must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively
increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   FLOODWAY ENCROACHMENT ANALYSIS. An engineering analysis of the impact that a
proposed encroachment into a floodway or non-encroachment area is expected to
have on the floodway boundaries and flood levels during the occurrence of the
base flood discharge. The evaluation shall be prepared by a qualified North
Carolina licensed engineer using standard engineering methods and hydraulic
models meeting the minimum requirements of the National Flood Insurance
Program.
   FREEBOARD. The height added to the BFE to account for the many unknown
factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the height
calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as wave
action, blockage of bridge or culvert openings, precipitation exceeding the
base flood, and the hydrological effect of urbanization of the watershed. The
BFE plus the freeboard establishes the REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT FACILITY. A facility which cannot be used for its
intended purpose unless it is located in close proximity to water, limited to a
docking or port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or
passengers, shipbuilding, or ship repair. The term does not include long-term
storage, manufacture, sales, or service facilities.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT FACILITY. As defined in G.S. Ch. 130A, Art. 9, a
facility for the collection, storage, processing, treatment, recycling,
recovery, or disposal of hazardous waste.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE (HAG). The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface, prior to construction, immediately next to the proposed walls of the
structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the U.S. Department of the Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic landmarks in
communities with a “Certified Local Government (CLG) Program”; or
      (4)   Certified as contributing to the historical significance of a
historic district designated by a community with a “Certified Local Government
(CLG) Program.”
      (5)   Certified Local Government (CLG) Programs are approved by the U.S.
Department of the Interior in cooperation with the North Carolina Department of
Cultural Resources through the State Historic Preservation Officer as having
met the requirements of the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966 as
amended in 1980.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). An official determination issued by FEMA that
amends or revises an effective Flood Insurance Rate Map or Flood Insurance
Study. Letters of Map Change include:
      (1)   Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA). An official amendment, by letter,
to an effective National Flood Insurance Program map. A LOMA is based on
technical data showing that a property had been inadvertently mapped as being
in the flood plain, but is actually on natural high ground above the base flood
elevation. A LOMA amends the current effective Flood Insurance Rate Map and
establishes that a specific property, portion of a property, or structure is
not located in a Special Flood Hazard Area.
      (2)   Letter of Map Revision (LOMR). A revision based on technical data
that may show changes to flood zones, flood elevations, Special Flood Hazard
Area boundaries and floodway delineations, and other planimetric features.
      (3)   Letter of Map Revision Based on Fill (LOMR-F). A determination that
a structure or parcel of land has been elevated by fill above the BFE and is,
therefore, no longer located within the Special Flood Hazard Area. In order to
qualify for this determination, the fill must have been permitted and placed in
accordance with the community’s flood plain management regulations.
      (4)   Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR). A formal review and
comment as to whether a proposed project complies with the minimum NFIP
requirements for such projects with respect to delineation of Special Flood
Hazard Areas. A CLOMR does not revise the effective Flood Insurance Rate Map or
Flood Insurance Study; upon submission and approval of certified as-built
documentation, a Letter of Map Revision may be issued by FEMA to revise the
effective FIRM.
   LIGHT DUTY TRUCK. Any motor vehicle rated at 8,500 pounds Gross Vehicular
Weight Rating or less which has a vehicular curb weight of 6,000 pounds or less
and which has a basic vehicle frontal area of 45 square feet or less as defined
in 40 CFR 86.082-2 and is:
      (1)   Designed primarily for purposes of transportation of property or is
a derivation of such a vehicle;
      (2)   Designed primarily for transportation of persons and has a capacity
of more than 12 persons; or
      (3)   Available with special features enabling off-street or off-highway
operation and use.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE (LAG). The lowest elevation of the ground, sidewalk or
patio slab immediately next to the building, or deck support, after completion
of the building.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access, or limited storage in an area other than
a basement area is not considered a building’s lowest floor, provided that such
an enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK or SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MAP REPOSITORY. The location of the official flood hazard data to be applied
for flood plain management. It is a central location in which flood data is
stored and managed; in North Carolina, FEMA has recognized that the application
of digital flood hazard data products have the same authority as hard copy
products. Therefore, the NCEM’s Floodplain Mapping Program websites house
current and historical flood hazard data. For effective flood hazard data the
NC FRIS website (http://FRIS.NC.GOV/FRIS) is the map repository, and for
historical flood hazard data the FloodNC website (http://FLOODNC.GOV/NCFLOOD)
is the map repository.
   MARKET VALUE. The building value, not including the land value and that of
any accessory structures or other improvements on the lot. Market value may be
established by independent certified appraisal; replacement cost depreciated
for age of building and quality of construction (Actual Cash Value); or
adjusted tax assessed values.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the START OF CONSTRUCTION commenced
on or after the effective date of the initial flood plain management
regulations and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NON-CONVERSION AGREEMENT. A document stating that the owner will not convert
or alter what has been constructed and approved. Violation of the agreement is
considered a violation of the ordinance and, therefore, subject to the same
enforcement procedures and penalties. The agreement must be filed with the
recorded deed for the property. The agreement must show the clerk’s or
recorder’s stamps and/or notations that the filing has been completed.
   NON-ENCROACHMENT AREA (NEA). The channel of a river or other watercourse,
including the area above a bridge or culvert when applicable, and the adjacent
land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot as
designated in the Flood Insurance Study report.
   POST-FIRM. Construction or other development for which the START OF
CONSTRUCTION occurred on or after February 16, 2006, the effective date of the
initial Flood Insurance Rate Map.
   PRE-FIRM. Construction or other development for which the START OF
CONSTRUCTION occurred before February 16, 2006, the effective date of the
initial Flood Insurance Rate Map.
   PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND. At least 51% of the actual cash value of the
structure is above ground.
   PUBLIC SAFETY and/or NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to the safety or
health of an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of
persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV).  
      (1)   A vehicle, which is:
         (a)   Built on a single chassis;
         (b)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
         (c)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck;
         (d)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational camping, travel, or seasonal use;
and
         (e)   Is fully licensed and ready for highway use.
      (2)   For the purpose of this chapter, TINY HOMES/HOUSES and park models
that do not meet the items listed above are not considered recreational
vehicles and should meet the standards of and be permitted as residential
structures.
   REFERENCE LEVEL. The top of the lowest floor for structures within Special
Flood Hazard Areas designed as Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A99.
   REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION. The BASE FLOOD ELEVATION plus the
FREEBOARD. In Special Flood Hazard Areas where Base Flood Elevations (BFEs)
have been determined, this elevation shall be the BFE plus two feet freeboard.
In Special Flood Hazard Areas where no BFE has been established, this elevation
shall be at least two feet above the highest adjacent grade.
   REMEDY A VIOLATION. To bring the structure or other development into
compliance with state and community flood plain management regulations, or, if
this is not possible, to reduce the impacts of its noncompliance. Ways that
impacts may be reduced include protecting the structure or other affected
development from flood damages, implementing the enforcement provisions of the
ordinance or otherwise deterring future similar violations, or reducing federal
financial exposure with regard to the structure or other development.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, and the like.
   SALVAGE YARD. Any non-residential property used for the storage, collection,
and/or recycling of any type of equipment, and including but not limited to
vehicles, appliances and related machinery.
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITY. Any facility involved in the disposal of
solid waste, as defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(35).
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL SITE. Defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(36), any place at
which solid wastes are disposed of by incineration, sanitary landfill, or any
other method.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). The land in the flood plain subject to a
1% or greater chance of being flooded in any given year as determined in §
150.07.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement, or other
improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start means
either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site,
such as the pouring of slabs or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading, and filling; nor does
it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include
excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual START
OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of the building, whether or not that alteration affects
the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, a manufactured home, or a gas,
liquid, or liquified gas storage tank that is principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure during any
one year period whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before
damaged condition would equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the
structure before the damage occurredSUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE also means flood-related
damage sustained by a structure on two separate occasions during a ten-year
period for which the cost of repairs at the time of each flood event, on the
average, equals or exceeds 25% of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred. See definition of SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any combination of repairs, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, or other improvement of a structure, taking place
during any one-year period for which the cost equals or exceeds 50% of the
market value of the structure before the START OF CONSTRUCTION of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred SUBSTANTIAL
DAMAGE, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
      (1)   Any correction of existing violations of state or community health,
sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been identified by the
community code enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure and the alteration is approved by variance issued pursuant
to §
150.29.
   TECHNICAL BULLETIN and TECHNICAL FACT SHEET.
      (1)   A FEMA publication that provides guidance concerning the building
performance standards of the NFIP, which are contained in Title 44 of the U.S.
Code of Federal Regulations at § 60.3. The bulletins and fact sheets are
intended for use primarily by state and local officials responsible for
interpreting and enforcing NFIP regulations and by members of the development
community, such as design professionals and builders. New bulletins, as well as
updates of existing bulletins, are issued periodically as needed. The bulletins
do not create regulations; rather they provide specific guidance for complying
with the minimum requirements of existing NFIP regulations.
      (2)   It should be noted that Technical Bulletins and Technical Fact
Sheets provide guidance on the minimum requirements of the NFIP regulations.
State or community requirements that exceed those of the NFIP take precedence.
Design professionals should contact the community officials to determine
whether more restrictive state or local regulations apply to the building or
site in question. All applicable standards of the state or local building code
must also be met for any building in a flood hazard area.
   TEMPERATURE CONTROLLED. Having the temperature regulated by a heating and/or
cooling system, built-in or appliance.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s flood plain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in §§
150.25 through
150.29 and
150.40 through
150.45 is presumed to be in violation until the time as that documentation is
provided.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel, or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION (WSE). The height, in relation to NAVD 1988, of
floods of various magnitudes and frequencies in the flood plains of riverine
areas.
(Ord. passed 2-10-2004; Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
§ 150.06 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all Special Flood Hazard Areas within the
jurisdiction, including Extra-Territorial Jurisdictions (ETJ) as allowed by
law, of the town.
(Ord. passed 2-10-2004; Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
§ 150.07 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   The Special Flood Hazard Areas are those identified under the Cooperating
Technical State (CTS) agreement between the state and FEMA in its FIS dated
June 19, 2020 for Duplin County and associated DFIRM panels, including any
digital data developed as part of the FIS, which are adopted by reference and
declared a part of this chapter, and all revisions thereto.
(Ord. passed 2-10-2004; Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
§ 150.08 ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOOD PLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A flood plain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities within Special Flood Hazard Areas as determined in §
150.07.
(Ord. passed 2-10-2004; Ord. passed 6-29-2021) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.09 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted,
altered, or developed in any way without full compliance with the terms of this
chapter and other applicable regulations.
(Ord. passed 2-10-2004; Ord. passed 6-29-2021) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.10 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions
shall prevail.
(Ord. passed 2-10-2004; Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
§ 150.11 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. passed 2-10-2004; Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
§ 150.12 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
consideration. Larger floods can and will occur. Actual flood heights may be
increased by man-made or natural causes. This chapter does not imply that land
outside the Special Flood Hazard Areas or uses permitted within the areas will
be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create liability
on the part of the town or by any officer or employee thereof for any flood
damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. passed 2-10-2004; Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 150.25 DESIGNATION OF FLOOD PLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Town Administrator, hereinafter referred to as the “Flood Plain
Administrator,” is hereby appointed to administer and implement the provisions
of this chapter. In instances where the Flood Plain Administrator receives
assistance from others to complete tasks to administer and implement this
chapter, the Flood Plain Administrator shall be responsible for the
coordination and community’s overall compliance with the National Flood
Insurance Program and the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 2-10-2004; Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
§ 150.26 APPLICATION, PERMIT AND CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Application requirements. Application for a flood plain development
permit shall be made to the Flood Plain Administrator prior to any development
activities located within Special Flood Hazard Areas. The following items shall
be presented to the Flood Plain Administrator to apply for a flood plain
development permit.
      (1)   A plot plan drawn to scale which shall include, but shall not be
limited to, the following specific details of the proposed flood plain
development:
         (a)   The nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the area of
development/disturbance; existing and proposed structures, utility systems,
grading/pavement areas, fill materials, storage areas, drainage facilities, and
other development;
         (b)   The boundary of the Special Flood Hazard Area as delineated on
the FIRM or other flood map as determined in §
150.07 or a statement that the entire lot is within the Special Flood Hazard
Area;
         (c)   Flood zone(s) designation of the proposed development area as
determined on the FIRM or other flood map as determined in §
150.07;
         (d)   The boundary of the floodway(s) or non-encroachment area(s) as
determined in §
150.07;
         (e)   The Base Flood Elevation (BFE) where provided as set forth in §§
150.07;
150.27; or
150.43;
         (f)   The old and new location of any watercourse that will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development; and
         (g)   The certification of the plot plan by a registered land surveyor
or professional engineer;
      (2)   Proposed elevation, and method thereof of all development within a
Special Flood Hazard Area, including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Elevation in relation to NAVD 1988 of the proposed reference
level (including basement) of all structures;
         (b)   Elevation in relation to NAVD 1988 to which any non- residential
structure in Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A99 will be floodproofed; and
         (c)   Elevation in relation to NAVD 1988 to which any proposed utility
systems will be elevated or floodproofed;
      (3)   If floodproofing, a floodproofing certificate (FEMA Form 086-0-34)
with supporting data, an operational plan, and an inspection and maintenance
plan that include, but are not limited to, installation, exercise, and
maintenance of floodproofing measures;
      (4)   A foundation plan drawn to scale, which shall include details of
the proposed foundation system to ensure all provisions of this chapter are
met. These details include, but are not limited to:
         (a)   The proposed method of elevation, if applicable (i.e., fill,
solid foundation perimeter wall, solid backfilled foundation, open foundation
on columns/posts/piers/piles/shear walls); and
         (b)   Openings to facilitate automatic equalization of hydrostatic
flood forces on walls in accordance with §
150.41(D)(4) when solid foundation perimeter walls are used in Zones A, AE, AH,
AO, A99;
      (5)   Usage details of any enclosed areas below the lowest floor;
      (6)   Plans and/or details for the protection of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems to be located and
constructed to minimize flood damage;
      (7)   Certification that all other local, state and federal permits
required prior to flood plain development permit issuance have been received;
      (8)   Documentation for placement of recreational vehicles and/or
temporary structures, when applicable, to ensure that the provisions of §
150.41(E) and (F) are met; and
      (9)   A description of proposed watercourse alteration or relocation,
when applicable, including an engineering report on the effects of the proposed
project on the flood- carrying capacity of the watercourse and the effects to
properties located both upstream and downstream; and a map (if not shown on
plot plan) showing the location of the proposed watercourse alteration or
relocation.
   (B)   Permit requirements. The flood plain development permit shall include,
but not be limited to:
      (1)   A complete description of all the development to be permitted under
the flood plain development permit (e.g. house, garage, pool, septic, bulkhead,
cabana, pier, bridge, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or
drilling operations, or storage of equipment or materials, etc.);
      (2)   The Special Flood Hazard Area determination for the proposed
development in accordance with available data specified in §
150.07;
      (3)   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the
reference level and all attendant utilities;
      (4)   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the
protection of all public utilities;
      (5)   All certification submittal requirements with timelines;
      (6)   A statement that no fill material or other development shall
encroach into the floodway or non-encroachment area of any watercourse unless
the requirements of §
150.45 have been met;
      (7)   The flood openings requirements;
      (8)   Limitations of below BFE enclosure uses (i.e., parking, building
access and limited storage only); and
      (9)   A statement, that all materials below BFE/RFPE must be flood
resistant materials.
   (C)   Certification requirements.
      (1)   Elevation certificates.
         (a)   An Elevation Certificate (FEMA Form 086-0-33) is required prior
to the actual start of any new construction. It shall be the duty of the permit
holder to submit to the Flood Plain Administrator a certification of the
elevation of the reference level, in relation to NAVD 1988. The Flood Plain
Administrator shall review the certificate data submitted. Deficiencies
detected by such review shall be corrected by the permit holder prior to the
beginning of construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure to
make required corrections shall be cause to deny a flood plain development
permit.
         (b)   An Elevation Certificate (FEMA Form 086-0-33) is required after
the reference level is established. Within seven calendar days of establishment
of the reference level elevation, it shall be the duty of the permit holder to
submit to the Flood Plain Administrator a certification of the elevation of the
reference level, in relation to NAVD 1988. Any work done within the seven day
calendar period and prior to submission of the certification shall be at the
permit holder's risk. The Flood Plain Administrator shall review the
certificate data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be
corrected by the permit holder immediately and prior to further work being
permitted to proceed. Failure to submit the certification or failure to make
required corrections shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the project.
         (c)   A final Finished Construction Elevation Certificate (FEMA Form
086-0-33) is required after construction is completed and prior to Certificate
of Compliance/Occupancy issuance. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to
submit to the Flood Plain Administrator a certification of final as-built
construction of the elevation of the reference level and all attendant
utilities. The Flood Plain Administrator shall review the certificate data
submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the
permit holder immediately and prior to Certificate of Compliance/Occupancy
issuance. In some instances, another certification may be required to certify
corrected as-built construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure
to make required corrections shall be cause to withhold the issuance of a
Certificate of Compliance/Occupancy. The Finished Construction Elevation
Certificate certifier shall provide at least two photographs showing the front
and rear of the building taken within 90 days from the date of certification.
The photographs must be taken with views confirming the building description
and diagram number provided in §
150.25. To the extent possible, these photographs should show the entire
building including foundation. If the building has split-level or multi-level
areas, provide at least two additional photographs showing side views of the
building. In addition, when applicable, provide a photograph of the foundation
showing a representative example of the flood openings or vents. All
photographs must be in color and measure at least 3" × 3". Digital photographs
are acceptable.
      (2)   Floodproofing certificate.
         (a)   If non-residential floodproofing is used to meet the Regulatory
Flood Protection Elevation requirements, a Floodproofing Certificate (FEMA Form
086-0-34), with supporting data, an operational plan, and an inspection and
maintenance plan are required prior to the actual start of any new
construction. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to the Flood
Plain Administrator a certification of the floodproofed design elevation of the
reference level and all attendant utilities, in relation to NAVD 1988.
Floodproofing certification shall be prepared by or under the direct
supervision of a professional engineer or architect and certified by same. The
Flood Plain Administrator shall review the certificate data, the operational
plan, and the inspection and maintenance plan. Deficiencies detected by such
review shall be corrected by the applicant prior to permit approval. Failure to
submit the certification or failure to make required corrections shall be cause
to deny a flood plain development permit. Failure to construct in accordance
with the certified design shall be cause to withhold the issuance of a
Certificate of Compliance/Occupancy.
         (b)   A final Finished Construction Floodproofing Certificate (FEMA
Form 086-0-34), with supporting data, an operational plan, and an inspection
and maintenance plan are required prior to the issuance of a Certificate of
Compliance/Occupancy. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to
the Flood Plain Administrator a certification of the floodproofed design
elevation of the reference level and all attendant utilities, in relation to
NAVD 1988. Floodproofing certificate shall be prepared by or under the direct
supervision of a professional engineer or architect and certified by same. The
Flood Plain Administrator shall review the certificate data, the operational
plan, and the inspection and maintenance plan. Deficiencies detected by such
review shall be corrected by the applicant prior to Certificate of Occupancy.
Failure to submit the certification or failure to make required corrections
shall be cause to deny a flood plain development permit. Failure to construct
in accordance with the certified design shall be cause to deny a Certificate of
Compliance/Occupancy.
      (3)   If a manufactured home is placed within Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A99
and the elevation of the chassis is more than 36 inches in height above grade,
an engineered foundation certification is required in accordance with the
provisions of §
150.41(C)(2).
      (4)   If a watercourse is to be altered or relocated, a description of
the extent of watercourse alteration or relocation; a professional engineer’s
certified report on the effects of the proposed project on the flood- carrying
capacity of the watercourse and the effects to properties located both upstream
and downstream; and a map showing the location of the proposed watercourse
alteration or relocation shall all be submitted by the permit applicant prior
to issuance of a flood plain development permit.
      (5)   Certification exemptions. The following structures, if located
within Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A99, are exempt from the elevation/floodproofing
certification requirements specified in divisions (1) and (2) of this division
(C):
         (a)   Recreational vehicles meeting requirements of §
150.41(B)(6)(a);
         (b)   Temporary structures meeting requirements of §
150.41(B)(7); and
         (c)   Accessory structures that are 150 square feet or less or $5,000
or less and meeting requirements of §
150.41(B)(8).
   (D)   Determinations for existing buildings and structures. For applications
for building permits to improve buildings and structures, including
alterations, movement, enlargement, replacement, repair, change of occupancy,
additions, rehabilitations, renovations, substantial improvements, repairs of
substantial damage, and any other improvement of or work on such buildings and
structures, the Flood Plain Administrator, in coordination with the Building
Official, shall:
      (1)   Estimate the market value, or require the applicant to obtain an
appraisal of the market value prepared by a qualified independent appraiser, of
the building or structure before the start of construction of the proposed
work; in the case of repair, the market value of the building or structure
shall be the market value before the damage occurred and before any repairs are
made;
      (2)   Compare the cost to perform the improvement, the cost to repair a
damaged building to its pre-damaged condition, or the combined costs of
improvements and repairs, if applicable, to the market value of the building or
structure;
      (3)   Determine and document whether the proposed work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage; and
      (4)   Notify the applicant if it is determined that the work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage and that compliance
with the flood resistant construction requirements of the NC Building Code and
this chapter is required.
(Ord. passed 2-10-2004; Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
§ 150.27 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOOD PLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Flood Plain Administrator shall perform, but not be limited to, the
following duties:
   (A)   Review all flood plain development applications and issue permits for
all proposed development within Special Flood Hazard Areas to assure that the
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
   (B)   Review all proposed development within Special Flood Hazard Areas to
assure that all necessary local, state and federal permits have been received,
including Section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of
1972, 33 U.S.C. 1334;
   (C)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Department of Public Safety,
Division of Emergency Management, State Coordinator for the National Flood
Insurance Program, prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and
submit evidence of the notification to the Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA);
   (D)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is maintained;
   (E)   Prevent encroachments within floodways and non-encroachment areas
unless the certification and flood hazard reduction provisions of§
150.45 are met;
   (F)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to NAVD 1988) of the reference
level (including basement) of all attendant utilities of all new or
substantially improved structures in accordance with §
150.26(C);
   (G)   Obtain the actual elevation (in relation to NAVD 1988) to which all
new and substantially improved structures and utilities have been floodproofed,
in accordance with §
150.26(C);
   (H)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to NAVD 1988) of all public
utilities, in accordance with the provisions of §
150.26(C);
   (I)   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, obtain
certifications from a registered professional engineer or architect in
accordance with the provisions of §§
150.26(C) and
150.41(B)(2);
   (J)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of boundaries
of the Special Flood Hazard Areas, floodways, or non- encroachment areas (for
example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and
actual field conditions), make the necessary interpretation. The person
contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity
to appeal the interpretation as provided in this subchapter;
   (K)   When Base Flood Elevation (BFE) data has not been provided in
accordance with the provisions of §
150.07, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any Base Flood Elevation (BFE)
data, along with floodway data and/or non-encroachment area data available from
a federal, state, or other source, including data developed pursuant to §
150.43(B)(3), in order to administer the provisions of this chapter;
   (L)   When Base Flood Elevation (BFE) data is provided but no floodway or
no-nencroachment area data has been provided in accordance with the provisions
of §
150.07, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any floodway data, or non-
encroachment area data available from a federal, state, or other source in
order to administer the provisions of this chapter;
   (M)   Permanently maintain all records that pertain to the administration of
this chapter and make these records available for public inspection,
recognizing that such information may be subject to the Privacy Act of 1974, as
amended;
   (N)   Make on-site inspections of work in progress. As the work pursuant to
a flood plain development permit progresses, the Flood Plain Administrator
shall make as many inspections of the work as may be necessary to ensure that
the work is being done according to the provisions of the local ordinance and
the terms of the permit. In exercising this power, the Flood Plain
Administrator has a right, upon presentation of proper credentials, to enter on
any premises within the jurisdiction of the community at any reasonable hour
for the purposes of inspection or other enforcement action;
   (O)   Issue stop-work orders as required. Whenever a building or part
thereof is being constructed, reconstructed, altered, or repaired in violation
of this chapter, the Flood Plain Administrator may order the work to be
immediately stopped. The stop-work order shall be in writing and directed to
the person doing the work. The stop-work order shall state the specific work to
be stopped, the specific reason(s) for the stoppage, and the condition(s) under
which the work may be resumed. Violation of a stop-work order constitutes a
misdemeanor;
   (P)   Revocation of flood plain development permits as required. The Flood
Plain Administrator may revoke and require the return of the flood plain
development permit by notifying the permit holder in writing stating the reason
(s) for the revocation. Permits shall be revoked for any substantial departure
from the approved application, plans, and specifications; for refusal or
failure to comply with the requirements of state or local laws; or for false
statements or misrepresentations made in securing the permit. Any flood plain
development permit mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable state or
local law may also be revoked;
   (Q)   Make periodic inspections throughout the Special Flood Hazard Areas
within the jurisdiction of the community. The Flood Plain Administrator and
each member of his or her inspections department shall have a right, upon
presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises within the
territorial jurisdiction of the department at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action;
   (R)   Follow through with corrective procedures of §
150.28;
   (S)   Review, provide input, and make recommendations for variance requests;
   (T)   Maintain a current map repository to include, but not limited to,
historical and effective FIS Report, historical and effective FIRM and other
official flood maps and studies adopted in accordance with the provisions of §
150.07, including any revisions thereto including Letters of Map Change, issued
by FEMA. Notify state and FEMA mapping of needs; and
   (U)   Coordinate revisions to FIS reports and FIRMs, including Letters of
Map Revision Based on Fill (LOMR-Fs) and Letters of Map Revision (LOMRs).
(Ord. passed 2-10-2004; Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
§ 150.28 CORRECTIVE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Violations to be corrected. When the Flood Plain Administrator finds
violations of applicable state and local laws, it shall be his or her duty to
notify the owner or occupant of the building of the violation. The owner or
occupant shall immediately remedy each of the violations of law cited in such
notification.
   (B)   Actions in event of failure to take corrective action. If the owner of
a building or property shall fail to take prompt corrective action, the Flood
Plain Administrator shall give the owner written notice, by certified or
registered mail to the owner’s last known address or by personal service,
stating that:
      (1)   The building or property is in violation of the flood plain
management regulations;
      (2)   A hearing will be held before the Flood Plain Administrator at a
designated place and time, not later than ten days after the date of the
notice, at which time the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or by
counsel and to present arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter; and
      (3)   Following the hearing, the Flood Plain Administrator may issue the
order to alter, vacate, or demolish the building; or to remove fill as
applicable.
   (C)   Order to take corrective action. If, upon a hearing held pursuant to
the notice prescribed above, the Flood Plain Administrator shall find that the
building or development is in violation of this chapter, he or she shall issue
an order in writing to the owner, requiring the owner to remedy the violation
within a specified time period, not less than 60 calendar days, nor more than
180 calendar days. Where the Flood Plain Administrator finds that there is
imminent danger to life or other property, he or she may order that corrective
action be taken in such lesser period as may be feasible.
   (D)   Appeal. Any owner who has received an order to take corrective action
may appeal the order to the local elected governing body by giving notice of
appeal in writing to the Flood Plain Administrator and the Clerk within ten
days following issuance of the final order. In the absence of an appeal, the
order of the Flood Plain Administrator shall be final. The local governing body
shall hear an appeal within a reasonable time and may affirm, modify and
affirm, or revoke the order.
   (E)   Failure to comply with order. If the owner of a building or property
fails to comply with an order to take corrective action from which no appeal
has been made, or fails to comply with an order of the governing body following
an appeal, the owner shall be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor pursuant to G.S.
§ 143-215.58 and shall be punished at the discretion of the court.
(Ord. passed 2-10-2004; Ord. passed 6-29-2021) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.29 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment as established by the town, hereinafter
referred to as the “Appeal Board,” shall hear and decide requests for variances
from the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board may appeal
the decision to the court, as provided in G.S. Ch. 7A.
   (C)   Variances may be issued for:
      (1)   The repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon the
determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the
structure’s continued designation as a historic structure and that the variance
is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the
structure;
      (2)   Functionally dependent facilities if determined to meet the
definition as stated in §
150.05, provided provisions of divisions (I)(2), (3), and (5) of this section
have been satisfied, and such facilities are protected by methods that minimize
flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats to public
safety; or
      (3)   Any other type of development provided it meets the requirements of
this section.
   (D)   In passing upon variances, the Appeal Board shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other
sections of this chapter, and:
      (1)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (2)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location as defined
under §
150.02 as a functionally dependent facility, where applicable;
      (6)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
flood plain management program for that area;
      (9)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (10)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
      (11)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
   (E)   A written report addressing each of the above factors shall be
submitted with the application for a variance.
   (F)   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of
this chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes and objectives of this
chapter.
   (G)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the BFE and the elevation to which the
structure is to be built and that such construction below the BFE increases
risks to life and property, and that the issuance of a variance to construct a
structure below the BFE may result in increased premium rates for flood
insurance up to $25 per $100 of insurance coverage. Such notification shall be
maintained with a record of all variance actions, including justification for
their issuance.
   (H)   The Flood Plain Administrator shall maintain the records of all appeal
actions and report any variances to the FEMA and the state upon request.
   (I)   Conditions for variances:
      (1)   Variances shall not be issued when the variance will make the
structure in violation of other federal, state, or local laws, regulations, or
ordinances;
      (2)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway or
non-encroachment area if the variance would result in any increase in flood
levels during the base flood discharge;
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief;
      (4)   Variances shall only be issued prior to development permit
approval; and
      (5)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, or
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
   (J)   A variance may be issued for solid waste disposal facilities or sites,
hazardous waste management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage
facilities that are located in Special Flood Hazard Areas provided that all of
the following conditions are met.
      (1)   The use serves a critical need in the community.
      (2)   No feasible location exists for the use outside the Special Flood
Hazard Area.
      (3)   The reference level of any structure is elevated or floodproofed to
at least the regulatory flood protection elevation.
      (4)   The use complies with all other applicable federal, state, and
local laws.
      (5)   The town has notified the Secretary of the State Department of
Public Safety of its intention to grant a variance at least 30 calendar days
prior to granting the variance.
(Ord. passed 2-10-2004; Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD
HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 150.40 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   In all Special Flood Hazard Areas, the following provisions are
required.
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be designed
(or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, and
lateral movement of the structure.
      (2)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage in
accordance with the FEMA Technical Bulletin 2, Flood Damage-Resistant Materials
Requirements.
      (3)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damages.
      (4)   All new electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air
conditioning equipment, and other service equipment shall be located at or
above the RFPE or designed and installed to prevent water from entering or
accumulating within the components during the occurrence of the base flood.
These include, but are not limited to, HVAC equipment, water softener units,
bath/kitchen fixtures, ductwork, electric/gas meter panels/boxes, utility/cable
boxes, hot water heaters, and electric outlets/switches.
         (a)   Replacement part of a substantial improvement, electrical,
heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning equipment, and other service
equipment shall also meet the above provisions.
         (b)   Replacements that are for maintenance and not part of a
substantial improvement, may be installed at the original location provided the
addition and/or improvements only comply with the standards for new
construction consistent with the code and requirements for the original
structure.
      (5)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
      (6)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters.
      (7)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
      (8)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the repair, reconstruction,
or replacement of a building or structure existing on the effective date of
this chapter and located totally or partially within the floodway, non-
encroachment area, or stream setback, provided there is no additional
encroachment below the Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation in the floodway,
non-encroachment area, or stream setback, and provided that such repair,
reconstruction, or replacement meets all of the other requirements of this
chapter.
      (9)   New solid waste disposal facilities and sites, hazardous waste
management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage facilities shall not
be permitted, except by variance as specified in §
150.29(J). A structure or tank for chemical or fuel storage incidental to an
allowed use or to the operation of a water treatment plant or wastewater
treatment facility may be located in a Special Flood Hazard Area only if the
structure or tank is either elevated or floodproofed to at least the Regulatory
Flood Protection Elevation and certified in accordance with the provisions of §
150.26(C).
      (10)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall be
consistent with the need to minimize flood damage.
      (11)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall
have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water
systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage.
      (12)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall
have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
      (13)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall
have received all necessary permits from those governmental agencies for which
approval is required by federal or state law, including § 404 of the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. 1334.
      (14)   When a structure is partially located in a Special Flood Hazard
Area, the entire structure shall meet the requirements for new construction and
substantial improvements.
      (15)   When a structure is located in a flood hazard risk zone with
multiple base flood elevations, the provisions for the more restrictive flood
hazard risk zone and the highest BFE shall apply.
      (16)   Buildings and structures that are located in more than one flood
hazard area shall comply with the provisions associated with the most
restrictive flood hazard area.
(Ord. passed 2-10-2004; Ord. passed 6-29-2021) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.41 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   (A)   Generally. In all Special Flood Hazard Areas where Base Flood
Elevation (BFE) data has been provided, as set forth in §§
150.07 or
150.43, the following provisions, in addition to the provisions of §
150.40, are required.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial
improvement of any residential structure (including manufactured homes) shall
have the reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the
regulatory flood protection elevation, as defined in §
150.05.
      (2)   Non-residential construction. New construction and substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or other non-residential structure
shall have the reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the
regulatory flood protection elevation, as defined in §
150.05. Structures located in Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A99 may be floodproofed to
the regulatory flood protection elevation in lieu of elevation provided that
all areas of the structure, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, below the regulatory flood protection elevation are watertight with
walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water, using structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads and the effect of buoyancy.
      (3)   Manufactured homes.
         (a)   New and replacement manufactured homes shall be elevated so that
the reference level of the manufactured home is no lower than the regulatory
flood protection elevation, as defined in §
150.05.
         (b)   Manufactured homes shall be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement, either
by certified engineered foundation system, or in accordance with the most
current edition of the State Regulations for Manufactured Homes adopted by the
Commissioner of Insurance pursuant to G.S. § 143-143.15. Additionally, when the
elevation would be met by an elevation of the chassis 36 inches or less above
the grade at the site, the chassis shall be supported by reinforced piers or
engineered foundation. When the elevation of the chassis is above 36 inches in
height, an engineering certification is required.
         (c)   All enclosures or skirting below the lowest floor shall meet the
requirements of §
150.41(D).
         (d)   An evacuation plan must be developed for evacuation of all
residents of all new, substantially improved, or substantially damaged
manufactured home parks or subdivisions located within flood-prone areas. This
plan shall be filed with and approved by the Flood Plain Administrator and the
local Emergency Management Coordinator.
      (4)   Elevated buildings. Fully enclosed area, of new construction and
substantially improved structures, which is below the lowest floor:
         (a)   Shall not be designed or used for human habitation, but shall
only be used for parking of vehicles, building access, or limited storage of
maintenance equipment used in connection with the premises. Access to the
enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow for parking of vehicles
(garage door) or limited storage of maintenance equipment (standard exterior
door), or entry to the living area (stairway or elevator). The interior portion
of such enclosed area shall not be finished or partitioned into separate rooms,
except to enclose storage areas;
         (b)   Shall not be temperature-controlled or conditioned;
         (c)   Shall be constructed entirely of flood resistant materials at
least to the regulatory flood protection elevation; and
         (d)   Shall include flood openings to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on walls by allowing for the entry and exit of
floodwaters. To meet this requirement, the openings must either be certified by
a professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following minimum
design criteria:
            1.   A minimum of two flood openings on different sides of each
enclosed area subject to flooding;
            2.   The total net area of all flood openings must be at least one
square inch for each square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding;
            3.   If a building has more than one enclosed area, each enclosed
area must have flood openings to allow floodwaters to automatically enter and
exit;
            4.   The bottom of all required flood openings shall be no higher
than one foot above the higher of the interior or exterior adjacent grade;
            5.   Flood openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other
coverings or devices, provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions; and
            6.   Enclosures made of flexible skirting are not considered
enclosures for regulatory purposes, and, therefore, do not require flood
openings. Masonry or wood underpinning, regardless of structural status, is
considered an enclosure and requires flood openings as outlined above;
         (e)   Property owners shall be required to execute and record a non-
conversion agreement prior to issuance of a building permit declaring that the
area below the lowest floor shall not be improved, finished or otherwise
converted to habitable space; the town will have the right to inspect the
enclosed area. The town will conduct annual inspections. This agreement shall
be recorded with the Duplin County Register of Deeds and shall transfer with
the property in perpetuity.
      (5)   Additions/improvements.
         (a)   Additions and/or improvements to pre-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure:
            1.   Are not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or
improvements must be designed to minimize flood damages and must not be any
more non- conforming than the existing structure; and
            2.   Are a substantial improvement, with modifications/
rehabilitations/improvements to the existing structure or the common wall is
structurally modified more than installing a doorway, both the existing
structure and the addition must comply with the standards for new construction.
         (b)   Additions to pre-FIRM or post-FIRM structures that are a
substantial improvement with no modifications /rehabilitations/improvements to
the existing structure other than a standard door in the common wall, shall
require only the addition to comply with the standards for new construction.
         (c)   Additions and/or improvements to post-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure:
            1.   Are not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or
improvements only must comply with the standards for new construction
consistent with the code and requirements for the original structure; and
            2.   Are a substantial improvement, both the existing structure and
the addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
         (d)   Any combination of repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation,
addition or improvement of a building or structure taking place during a one
year period, the cumulative cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market
value of the structure before the improvement or repair is started must comply
with the standards for new construction. For each building or structure
subsequent to the effective date of this chapter. Substantial damage also means
flood-related damage sustained by a structure on two separate occasions during
a ten- year period for which the cost of repairs at the time of each such flood
event, on the average, equals or exceeds 25% of the market value of the
structure before the damage occurred. If the structure has sustained
substantial damage, any repairs are considered substantial improvement
regardless of the actual repair work performed. The requirement does not,
however, include either:
            1.   Any project for improvement of a building required to correct
existing health, sanitary or safety code violations identified by the building
official and that are the minimum necessary to assume safe living conditions;
or
            2.   Any alteration of a historic structure provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure.
      (6)   Recreational vehicles. Recreation vehicles shall either:
         (a)   Temporary placement.
            1.   Be on site for fewer than 180 consecutive days; or
            2.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use. (A recreational
vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is
attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities, and has no
permanently attached additions.)
         (b)   Permanent placement. Recreational vehicles that do not meet the
limitations of temporary placement shall meet all the requirements for new
construction.
      (7)   Temporary non-residential structures. Prior to the issuance of a
flood plain development permit for a temporary structure, the applicant must
submit to the Flood Plain Administrator a plan for the removal of such
structure(s) in the event of a hurricane, flash flood or other type of flood
warning notification. The following information shall be submitted in writing
to the Flood Plain Administrator for review and written approval:
         (a)   A specified time period for which the temporary use will be
permitted. Time specified may not exceed three months, renewable up to one
year;
         (b)   The name, address, and phone number of the individual
responsible for the removal of the temporary structure;
         (c)   The time-frame prior to the event at which a structure will be
removed (i.e., minimum of 72 hours before landfall of a hurricane or
immediately upon flood warning notification);
         (d)   A copy of the contract or other suitable instrument with the
entity responsible for physical removal of the structure; and
         (e)   Designation, accompanied by documentation, of a location outside
the Special Flood Hazard Area, to which the temporary structure will be moved.
      (8)   Accessory structures. When accessory structures (sheds, detached
garages, and the like) are to be placed within a Special Flood Hazard Area, the
following criteria shall be met:
         (a)   Accessory structures shall not be used for human habitation
(including working, sleeping, living, cooking, or restroom areas);
         (b)   Accessory structures shall not be temperature-controlled;
         (c)   Accessory structures shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential;
         (d)   Accessory structures shall be constructed and placed on the
building site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters.
         (e)   Accessory structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance with
the provisions of §
150.40(A);
         (f)   All service facilities such as electrical shall be installed in
accordance with the provisions of §
150.40(D); and
         (g)   Flood openings to facilitate automatic equalization of
hydrostatic flood forces shall be provided below regulatory flood protection
elevation in conformance with the provisions of §
150.41(D)(4).
         (h)   An accessory structure with a footprint less than 150 square
feet or that is a minimal investment of $3,000 or less and satisfies the
criteria outlined above is not required to meet the elevation or floodproofing
standards of §
150.41(B). Elevation or floodproofing certifications are required for all other
accessory structures in accordance with §
150.26(C).
      (9)   Tanks. When gas and liquid storage tanks are to be placed within a
Special Flood Hazard Area, the following criteria shall be met:
         (a)   Underground tanks. Underground tanks in flood hazard areas shall
be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads during conditions of the design flood,
including the effects of buoyancy assuming the tank is empty;
         (b)   Above-ground tanks, elevated. Above-ground tanks in flood hazard
areas shall be elevated to or above the regulatory flood protection elevation
on a supporting structure that is designed to prevent flotation, collapse or
lateral movement during conditions of the design flood. Tank-supporting
structures shall meet the foundation requirements of the applicable flood
hazard area;
         (c)   Above-ground tanks, not elevated. Above-ground tanks that do not
meet the elevation requirements of division (B)(2) of this section shall be
permitted in flood hazard areas provided the tanks are designed, constructed,
installed, and anchored to resist all flood-related and other loads, including
the effects of buoyancy, during conditions of the design flood and without
release of contents in the floodwaters or infiltration by floodwaters into the
tanks. Tanks shall be designed, constructed, installed, and anchored to resist
the potential buoyant and other flood forces acting on an empty tank during
design flood conditions.
         (d)   Tank inlets and vents. Tank inlets, fill openings, outlets and
vents shall be:
            1.   At or above the regulatory flood protection elevation or
fitted with covers designed to prevent the inflow of floodwater or outflow of
the contents of the tanks during conditions of the design flood; and
            2.   Anchored to prevent lateral movement resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy, during
conditions of the design flood.
      (10)   Other development.
         (a)   Fences in regulated floodways and NEAs that have the potential
to block the passage of floodwaters, such as stockade fences and wire mesh
fences, shall meet the limitations of §
150.45.
         (b)   Retaining walls, sidewalks and driveways in regulated floodways
and NEAs. Retaining walls and sidewalks and driveways that involve the
placement of fill in regulated floodways shall meet the limitations of §
150.45.
         (c)   Roads and watercourse crossings in regulated floodways and NEAs.
Roads and watercourse crossings, including roads, bridges, culverts, low-water
crossings and similar means for vehicles or pedestrians to travel from one side
of a watercourse to the other side, that encroach into regulated floodways
shall meet the limitations of §
150.45.
         (d)   Commercial storage facilities are not considered "limited
storage" as noted in this ordinance, and shall be protected to the regulatory
flood protection elevation as required for commercial structures.
(Ord. passed 2-10-2004; Ord. passed 6-29-2021) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.42 RESERVED.
§ 150.43 STANDARDS FOR FLOOD PLAINS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS.
   (A)   Generally. Within the Special Flood Hazard Areas designated as
Approximate Zone A and established in §
150.07, where no Base Flood Elevation (BFE) data has been provided by FEMA, the
following provisions, in addition to the provisions of §
150.40 shall apply:
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements, or new development shall be permitted within a distance of 20
feet each side from top of bank or five times the width of the stream,
whichever is greater, unless certification with supporting technical data by a
registered professional engineer is provided demonstrating that the
encroachments shall not result in any increase in flood levels during the
occurrence of the base flood discharge.
      (2)   The BFE used in determining the regulatory flood protection
elevation shall be determined based on the following criteria:
         (a)   When BFE data is available from other sources, all new
construction and substantial improvements within such areas shall also comply
with all applicable provisions of this chapter and shall be elevated or
floodproofed in accordance with standards in §§
150.40 and
150.41.
         (b)   When floodway or non-encroachment data is available from a
federal, state, or other source, all new construction and substantial
improvements within floodway and non-encroachment areas shall also comply with
the requirements of §§
150.41 and
150.45.
         (c)   All subdivision, manufactured home park and other development
proposals shall provide BFE data if development is greater than five acres or
has more than 50 lots/manufactured home sites. Such BFE data shall be adopted
by reference in accordance with §
150.07 and utilized in implementing this chapter.
         (d)   When BFE data is not available from a federal, state, or other
source as outlined above, the reference level shall be elevated or floodproofed
(non-residential) to or above the regulatory flood protection elevation, as
defined in §
150.05. All other applicable provisions of §
150.41 shall also apply.
(Ord. passed 2-10-2004; Ord. passed 6-29-2021) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.44 STANDARDS FOR RIVERINE FLOOD PLAINS WITH BFE, BUT WITHOUT ESTABLISHED
FLOODWAYS OR NON-ENCROACHMENT AREAS.
   Along rivers and streams where Base Flood Elevation (BFE) data is provided
by FEMA or is available from another source but neither floodway nor non-
encroachment areas are identified for a Special Flood Hazard Area on the FIRM
or in the FIS report, the following requirements shall apply to all development
within such areas:
   (A)   Standards of §§
150.40 and
150.41; and
   (B)   Until a regulatory floodway or non-encroachment area is designated, no
encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial improvements, or
other development, shall be permitted unless certification with supporting
technical data by a registered professional engineer is provided demonstrating
that the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined with all
other existing and anticipated development, will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point.
(Ord. passed 2-10-2004; Ord. passed 6-29-2021) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.45 FLOODWAYS AND NON- ENCROACHMENT AREAS.
      Areas designated as floodways or non-encroachment areas are located
within the Special Flood Hazard Areas established in §
150.07. The floodways and non-encroachment areas are extremely hazardous areas
due to the velocity of floodwaters that have erosion potential and carry debris
and potential projectiles. The following provisions, in addition to standards
outlined in §§
150.40 and
150.41, shall apply to all development within such areas:
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements and other developments shall be permitted unless:
      (1)   It is demonstrated that the proposed encroachment would not result
in any increase in the flood levels during the occurrence of the base flood
discharge, based on hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance
with standard engineering practice and presented to the Flood Plain
Administrator prior to issuance of flood plain development permit; or
      (2)   A Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR) has been approved by
FEMA. A Letter of Map Revision (LOMR) must also be obtained within six months
of completion of the proposed encroachment.
   (B)   If §
150.45(A) is satisfied, all development shall comply with all applicable flood
hazard reduction provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Manufactured homes may be permitted provided the following provisions
are met:
      (1)   The anchoring and the elevation standards of §
150.41(C); and
      (2)   The encroachment standards of §
150.45(A).
(Ord. passed 2-10-2004; Ord. passed 6-29-2021) Penalty, see §
150.99
LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS
§ 150.60 EFFECT ON RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES UNDER THE EXISTING FLOOD DAMAGE
PREVENTION ORDINANCE.
   This chapter in part comes forward by re-enactment of some of the provisions
of the flood damage prevention ordinance enacted 5-12-1998, as amended, and it
is not the intention to repeal but rather to re-enact and continue to enforce
without interruption of the existing provisions, so that all rights and
liabilities that have accrued thereunder are reserved and may be enforced. The
enactment of this chapter shall not affect any action, suit, or proceeding
instituted or pending. All provisions of the flood damage prevention ordinance
of the town enacted on 5-12-1998 as amended, which are not re-enacted herein
are repealed.
(Ord. passed 2-10-2004; Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
§ 150.61 EFFECT UPON OUTSTANDING FLOOD PLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMITS.
   Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the plans,
construction, size, or designated use of any development or any part thereof
for which a flood plain development permit has been granted by the Flood Plain
Administrator or his or her authorized agents before the time of passage of
this chapter; provided, however, that when construction is not begun under the
outstanding permit within a period of six months subsequent to the date of
issuance of the outstanding permit, construction or use shall be in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 2-10-2004; Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
§ 150.99 PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION.
   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with grants of variance or special exceptions, shall constitute a
Class 1 misdemeanor pursuant to G.S. § 143-215.58. Any person who violates this
chapter or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined not more than $100 or imprisoned for not more than 30 days,
or both. Each day such violation continues shall be considered a separate
offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the town from taking the other
lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. passed 2-10-2004; Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
CHAPTER 151: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Scope
   
151.02   Building Code and Building Code enforcement adopted
   
151.03   Primary fire district
   
151.04   Permit required
Minimum Housing Standards
   
151.40   Abatement
   
151.41   Definitions
   
151.42   Procedures
   
151.43   Standards
   
151.44   Service of complaints or orders
   
151.45   Appeals
   
151.46   Use of eminent domain or police power
   
151.47   Powers of public officer
   
151.48   Intent
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 SCOPE.
   The town shall perform the duties and responsibilities set forth in G.S. §
160D-1105 by arranging for Duplin County to perform inspection services within
the town’s jurisdiction as authorized by G.S. § 160D-1105 and G.S. § 160D-202.
(Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
§ 151.02 BUILDING CODE AND BUILDING CODE ENFORCEMENT ADOPTED.
   (A)   The North Carolina Building Code, made applicable throughout the state
by G.S. § 143-138(e), is hereby incorporated by reference.
   (B)   G.S. Ch. 160D, Art. 11 is hereby incorporated by reference and made
applicable within the town’s jurisdiction.
(Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
§ 151.03 PRIMARY FIRE DISTRICT.
   The following described territory shall constitute the fire limits for the
town: five road miles from the Rose Hill Fire Department’s fire station.
(Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
§ 151.04 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall commence or proceed with any activity set forth in G.S.
Chapter 160D-1110 without having first secured a building permit for such
activity.
(Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
MINIMUM HOUSING STANDARDS
§ 151.40 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Dwellings. The existence and occupation of dwellings that are unfit
for human habitation are inimical to the welfare and dangerous and injurious to
the health and safety of the people of the town. A public necessity exists for
the repair, closing, or demolition of such dwellings. The town finds that there
exists in its planning and development regulation jurisdiction dwellings that
are unfit for human habitation due to dilapidation; defects increasing the
hazards of fire, accidents or other calamities; lack of ventilation, light, or
sanitary facilities; or other conditions rendering the dwellings unsafe or
unsanitary, or dangerous or detrimental to the health, safety, morals, or
otherwise inimical to the welfare of the residents of the town.
   (B)   Abandoned structures. The town finds certain abandoned structures are
a health or safety hazard as a result of the attraction of insects or rodents,
conditions creating a fire hazard, dangerous conditions constituting a threat
to children, or frequent use by vagrants as living quarters in the absence of
sanitary facilities.
   (C)   Therefore, the town adopts this chapter to exercise the authority
given in G.S. Ch. 160D-1201 to provide for the repair, closing or demolition.
(Prior Code, § 9-1031) (Ord. passed 6-11-1974; Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
§ 151.41 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless otherwise specifically provided, or unless otherwise clearly required
by the context, the words and phrases defined in this chapter shall have the
meanings set forth in this section when used in this chapter. If a word or
phrase used in this chapter is not defined herein or elsewhere in this chapter,
to the extent such word or phrase is defined in G.S. Ch. 160D, that definition
shall control.
   DWELLING. Any building or structure, or part thereof, used and occupied for
human habitation or intended to be so used, and includes any outhouses and
appurtenances belonging thereto or usually enjoyed therewith.
   OWNER. The holder of the title in fee simple and every mortgagee of record.
   PARTIES IN INTEREST. All individuals, associations, and corporations that
have interests of record in a dwelling, and any who are in possession thereof.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Any housing authority or any officer who is in charge of
any department or branch of the government of the city, county, or state
relating to health, fire, building regulations, or other activities concerning
dwellings in the local government.
   PUBLIC OFFICER. The Town Administrator is designated as the public officer
authorized by this chapter to exercise the powers prescribed by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-1032) (Ord. passed 6-11-1974; Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
§ 151.42 PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Designation of enforcement officer. The town shall from time to time
by resolution identify a person or persons who shall serve as an enforcement
officer. The Town Administrator is designated as the enforcement officer.
   (B)   Investigation, complaint, hearing. Whenever a petition is filed with
the Town Administrator or designees by a public authority or by at least five
residents of the town charging that any dwelling is unfit for human habitation
or when it appears to the Town Administrator or designees that any dwelling is
unfit for human habitation, the Town Administrator or designees shall, if a
preliminary investigation discloses a basis for such charges, issue and cause
to be served upon the owner of and parties in interest in such dwellings a
complaint stating the charges in that respect and containing a notice that an
administrative hearing will be held before the Town Administrator or designees,
or his or her designated agent, at a place within the town. The hearing shall
be not less than ten days nor more than 30 days after the serving of the
complaint. The owner and parties in interest shall be given the right to file
an answer to the complaint and to appear in person, or otherwise, and give
testimony at the place and time fixed in the complaint. The rules of evidence
prevailing in courts of law shall not be controlling in administrative hearings
before the Town Administrator or designees.
   (C)   Orders. If, after notice and an administrative hearing, the Town
Administrator or designees determines that the dwelling under consideration is
unfit for human habitation, he or she shall state in writing findings of fact
in support of that determination and shall issue and cause to be served upon
the owner one of the following orders, as appropriate:
      (1)   If the repair, alteration, or improvement of the dwelling can be
made at a reasonable cost in relation to the value of the dwelling, requiring
the owner, within the time specified, to repair, alter, or improve the dwelling
in order to render it fit for human habitation. The ordinance may fix a certain
percentage of this value as being reasonable. The order may require that the
property be vacated and closed only if continued occupancy during the time
allowed for repair will present a significant threat of bodily harm, taking
into account the nature of the necessary repairs, alterations, or improvements;
the current state of the property; and any additional risks due to the presence
and capacity of minors under the age of 18 or occupants with physical or mental
disabilities. The order shall state that the failure to make timely repairs as
directed in the order shall make the dwelling subject to the issuance of an
unfit order under division (D) of this section.
      (2)   If the repair, alteration, or improvement of the dwelling cannot be
made at a reasonable cost in relation to the value of the dwelling, requiring
the owner, within the time specified in the order, to remove or demolish the
dwelling. The ordinance may fix a certain percentage of this value as being
reasonable.
   (D)   Repair, closing, and posting. If the owner fails to comply with an
order to repair, alter, or improve or to vacate and close the dwelling, the
Town Administrator or designees may cause the dwelling to be repaired, altered,
or improved or to be vacated and closed, and the Town Administrator or
designees may cause to be posted on the main entrance of any dwelling so closed
a placard with the following words: “This building is unfit for human
habitation; the use or occupation of this building for human habitation is
prohibited and unlawful.” Occupation of a building so posted shall constitute a
Class 1 misdemeanor. The duties of the Town Administrator or designees set
forth in this subdivision shall not be exercised until the town’s Board shall
have by ordinance ordered the Town Administrator or designees to proceed to
effectuate the purpose of this chapter with respect to the particular property
or properties that the Town Administrator or designees shall have found to be
unfit for human habitation and which property or properties shall be described
in the ordinance. This chapter shall be recorded in the office of the Register
of Deeds of Duplin County where the property or properties are located and
shall be indexed in the name of the property owner in the grantor index.
   (E)   Demolition. If the owner fails to comply with an order to remove or
demolish the dwelling, the Town Administrator or designees may cause such
dwelling to be removed or demolished. The duties of the Town Administrator or
designees set forth in this subdivision shall not be exercised until the town’s
Board shall have by ordinance ordered the Town Administrator or designees to
proceed to effectuate the purpose of this chapter with respect to the
particular property or properties that the Town Administrator or designees
shall have found to be unfit for human habitation and which property or
properties shall be described in the ordinance. No such ordinance shall be
adopted to require demolition of a dwelling until the owner has first been
given a reasonable opportunity to bring it into conformity with the housing
code. This chapter shall be recorded in the office of the Register of Deeds of
Duplin County where the property or properties are located and shall be indexed
in the name of the property owner in the grantor index.
   (F)   Abandonment of intent to repair. 
      (1)   If the dwelling has been vacated and closed for a period of one
year pursuant to an ordinance adopted pursuant to division (D) of this section
or after a Town Administrator or designee issues an order or proceedings have
commenced under the substandard housing regulations regarding a dwelling to be
repaired or vacated and closed as provided in this division, then the Town
Board may find that the owner has abandoned the intent and purpose to repair,
alter, or improve the dwelling in order to render it fit for human habitation
and that the continuation of the dwelling in its vacated and closed status
would be inimical to the health, safety, and welfare of the town in that the
dwelling would continue to deteriorate, would create a fire and safety hazard,
would be a threat to children and vagrants, would attract persons intent on
criminal activities, would cause or contribute to blight and the deterioration
of property values in the area, and would render unavailable property and a
dwelling that might otherwise have been made available to ease the persistent
shortage of decent and affordable housing in this state, then in such
circumstances, the Town Board may, after the expiration of such one-year
period, enact an ordinance and serve such ordinance on the owner, setting forth
the following:
         (a)   If it is determined that the repair of the dwelling to render it
fit for human habitation can be made at a cost not exceeding 50% of the then
current value of the dwelling, the ordinance shall require that the owner
either repair or demolish and remove the dwelling within 90 days.
         (b)   If it is determined that the repair of the dwelling to render it
fit for human habitation cannot be made at a cost not exceeding 50% of the then
current value of the dwelling, the ordinance shall require the owner to
demolish and remove the dwelling within 90 days.
      (2)   This chapter shall be recorded in the office of the Register of
Deeds of Duplin County and shall be indexed in the name of the property owner
in the grantor index. If the owner fails to comply with this chapter, the Town
Administrator or designees shall effectuate the purpose of the chapter.
   (G)   Liens.
      (1)   The amount of the cost of repairs, alterations, or improvements, or
vacating and closing, or removal or demolition by the Town Administrator or
designees shall be a lien against the real property upon which the cost was
incurred, which lien shall be filed, have the same priority, and be collected
as the lien for special assessment provided in G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 10.
      (2)   The amount of the cost is also a lien on any other real property of
the owner located within the city limits or within one mile thereof except for
the owner's primary residence. The additional lien provided in this division
(G) is inferior to all prior liens and shall be collected as a money judgment.
      (3)   If the dwelling is removed or demolished by the Town Administrator
or designees, the town shall sell the materials of the dwelling, and any
personal property, fixtures, or appurtenances found in or attached to the
dwelling, and shall credit the proceeds of the sale against the cost of the
removal or demolition, and any balance remaining shall be deposited in the
Superior Court by the Town Administrator or designees, shall be secured in a
manner directed by the Court, and shall be disbursed by the Court to the
persons found to be entitled thereto by final order or decree of the Court.
Nothing in this section shall be construed to impair or limit in any way the
power of the town to define and declare nuisances and to cause their removal or
abatement by summary proceedings or otherwise.
   (H)   Civil action. If any occupant fails to comply with an order to vacate
a dwelling, the Town Administrator or designees may file a civil action in the
name of the town to remove such occupant. The action to vacate the dwelling
shall be in the nature of summary ejectment and shall be commenced by filing a
complaint naming as defendant any person occupying such dwelling. The Clerk of
Superior Court shall issue a summons requiring the defendant to appear before a
magistrate at a certain time, date, and place not to exceed ten days from the
issuance of the summons to answer the complaint. The summons and complaint
shall be served as provided in G.S. § 42-29. If the summons appears to have
been duly served and if at the hearing the Town Administrator or designees
produces a certified copy of an ordinance adopted by the town pursuant to
division (E) of this section authorizing the officer to proceed to vacate the
occupied dwelling, the magistrate shall enter judgment ordering that the
premises be vacated and that all persons be removed. The judgment ordering that
the dwelling be vacated shall be enforced in the same manner as the judgment
for summary ejectment entered under G.S. § 42-30. An appeal from any judgment
entered hereunder by the magistrate may be taken as provided in G.S. § 7A-228,
and the execution of such judgment may be stayed as provided in G.S. § 7A-227.
An action to remove an occupant of a dwelling who is a tenant of the owner may
not be in the nature of a summary ejectment proceeding pursuant to this
division unless such occupant was served with notice at least 30 days before
the filing of the summary ejectment proceeding that the town has ordered the
Town Administrator or designees to proceed to exercise his duties under
divisions (D) and (E) of this section to vacate and close or remove and
demolish the dwelling.
   (I)   Additional notices to affordable housing organizations. Whenever a
determination is made pursuant to division (C) of this section that a dwelling
must be vacated and closed, or removed or demolished, under the provisions of
this section, notice of the order shall be given by first-class mail to any
organization involved in providing or restoring dwellings for affordable
housing that has filed a written request for such notices. A minimum period of
45 days from the mailing of such notice shall be given before removal or
demolition by action of the Town Administrator or designees, to allow the
opportunity for any organization to negotiate with the owner to make repairs,
lease, or purchase the property for the purpose of providing affordable
housing. The Town Administrator or designees or Clerk shall certify the mailing
of the notices, and the certification shall be conclusive in the absence of
fraud. Only an organization that has filed a written request for such notices
may raise the issue of failure to mail such notices, and the sole remedy shall
be an order requiring the Town Administrator or designees to wait 45 days
before causing removal or demolition.
(Prior Code, § 9-1033) (Ord. passed 6-11-1974; Ord. passed 6-29-2021) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 151.43 STANDARDS.
   The Town Administrator or designees may determine that a dwelling is unfit
for human habitation if the officer finds that conditions exist in the dwelling
that render it dangerous or injurious to the health, safety, or welfare of the
occupants of the dwelling, the occupants of neighboring dwellings, or other
residents of the jurisdiction. Defective conditions may include the following,
without limiting the generality of the foregoing: defects therein increasing
the hazards of fire, accident, or other calamities; lack of adequate
ventilation, light, or sanitary facilities; dilapidation; disrepair; structural
defects; or uncleanliness.
(Prior Code, § 9-1034) (Ord. passed 6-11-1974; Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
§ 151.44 SERVICE OF COMPLAINTS OR ORDERS.
   (A)   Complaints or orders issued by the Town Administrator or designees
pursuant to this chapter shall be served upon persons either personally or by
certified mail. When service is made by certified mail, a copy of the complaint
or order may also be sent by regular mail. Service shall be deemed sufficient
if the certified mail is unclaimed or refused but the regular mail is not
returned by the post office within ten days after the mailing. If regular mail
is used, a notice of the pending proceedings shall be posted in a conspicuous
place on the premises affected.
   (B)   If the identities of any owners or the whereabouts of persons are
unknown and cannot be ascertained by the Town Administrator or designees in the
exercise of reasonable diligence, or, if the owners are known but have refused
to accept service by certified mail, and the Town Administrator or designees
makes an affidavit to that effect, then the serving of the complaint or order
upon the owners or other persons may be made by publication in a newspaper
having general circulation in the
jurisdiction at least once no later than the time at which personal service
would be required under the provisions of this chapter. When service is made by
publication, a notice of the pending proceedings shall be posted in a
conspicuous place on the premises thereby affected.
(Prior Code, § 9-1035) (Ord. passed 6-11-1974; Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
§ 151.45 APPEALS.
   (A)   An appeal from any decision or order of the Town Administrator or
designees is a quasi-judicial matter and may be taken by any person aggrieved
thereby or by any officer, board, or commission of the local government. Any
appeal from the Town Administrator or designees shall be taken within ten days
from the rendering of the decision or service of the order by filing with the
Town Administrator or designees and with the Town Board a notice of appeal that
shall specify the grounds upon which the appeal is based. Upon the filing of
any notice of appeal, the Town Administrator or designees shall forthwith
transmit to the Board all the papers constituting the record upon which the
decision appealed from was made. When an appeal is from a decision of the Town
Administrator or designees refusing to allow the person aggrieved thereby to do
any act, the decision remains in force until modified or reversed. When any
appeal is from a decision of the Town Administrator or designees requiring the
person aggrieved to do any act, the appeal has the effect of suspending the
requirement until the hearing by the Board, unless the Town Administrator or
designees certifies to the Board, after the notice of appeal is filed with the
officer, that because of facts stated in the certificate, a copy of which shall
be furnished to the appellant, a suspension of the requirement would cause
imminent peril to life or property. In that case the requirement is not
suspended except by a restraining order, which may be granted for due cause
shown upon not less than one day's written notice to the Town Administrator or
designees, by the Board, or by a Court of record upon petition made pursuant to
this section.
   (B)   The Town Board shall fix a reasonable time for hearing appeals, shall
give due notice to the parties, and shall render its decision within a
reasonable time. Any party may appear in person or by agent or attorney. The
Board may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the decision or
order appealed from, and may make any decision and order that in its opinion
ought to be made in the matter, and, to that end, it has all the powers of the
Town Administrator or designees, but the concurring vote of four members of the
Board is necessary to reverse or modify any decision or order of the Town
Administrator or designees. The Board also has power in passing upon appeals,
when unnecessary hardships would result from carrying out the strict letter of
the ordinance, to adapt the application of the ordinance to the necessities of
the case to the end that the spirit of the ordinance is observed, public safety
and welfare secured, and substantial justice done.
   (C)   Every decision of the Town Board is subject to review by proceedings
in the nature of certiorari instituted within 15 days of the decision of the
Board, but not otherwise.
   (D)   Any person aggrieved by an order issued by the Town Administrator or
designees or a decision rendered by the Town Board may petition the Superior
Court for an injunction restraining the Town Administrator or designees from
carrying out the order or decision and the Court may, upon such petition, issue
a temporary injunction restraining the Town Administrator or designees pending
a final disposition of the cause. The petition shall be filed within 30 days
after issuance of the order or rendering of the decision. Hearings shall be had
by the Court on a petition within 20 days and shall be given preference over
other matters on the Court's calendar. The Court shall hear and determine the
issues raised and shall enter such final order or decree as law and justice may
require. It is not necessary to file bond in any amount before obtaining a
temporary injunction under this division.
   (E)   If any dwelling is erected, constructed, altered, repaired, converted,
maintained, or used in violation of G. S. Ch. 160, this chapter, or of any
ordinance or code adopted under authority of G.S. Ch. 160D or any valid order
or decision of the Town Administrator or designees or Board made pursuant to
any ordinance or code adopted under authority of this G.S. Ch. 160D, the Town
Administrator or designees or Board may institute any appropriate action or
proceedings to prevent the unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction,
alteration, or use; to restrain, correct, or abate the violation; to prevent
the occupancy of the dwelling; or to prevent any illegal act, conduct, or use
in or about the premises of the dwelling.
(Prior Code, § 9-1036) (Ord. passed 6-11-1974; Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
§ 151.46 USE OF EMINENT DOMAIN OR POLICE POWER.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed as preventing the owner or
owners of any property from receiving just compensation for the taking of
property by the power of eminent domain under the laws of this state, nor as
permitting any property to be condemned or destroyed except in accordance with
the police power of the state.
(Prior Code, § 9-1037) (Ord. passed 6-11-1974; Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
§ 151.47 POWERS OF PUBLIC OFFICER.
   An ordinance adopted by the Board may authorize the public officer to
exercise any powers necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the
purpose and provisions of this subchapter, including the following powers in
addition to others granted:
   (A)   To investigate the dwelling conditions in the town in order to
determine which dwellings therein are unfit for human habitations;
   (B)   To administer oaths, affirmations, examine witnesses, and receive
evidence;
   (C)   To enter upon the premises for the purpose of making examinations in a
manner that will do the least possible inconvenience to the persons in
possession;
   (D)   To appoint and fix the duties of officers, agents, and employees
necessary to carry out the purposes of the ordinances; and
   (E)   To delegate any of his or her functions and powers under the ordinance
to other officers and other agents.
(Prior Code, § 9-1038) (Ord. passed 6-11-1974; Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
§ 151.48 INTENT.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to abrogate or impair the
powers of the courts or of any department of the town to enforce any provisions
of its Charter or its ordinances or regulations, nor to prevent or punish
violations thereof; and the powers conferred by this subchapter shall be in
addition and supplemental to the powers conferred by any other law.
(Prior Code, § 9-1039) (Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
CHAPTER 152: VACANT BUILDINGS AND BLIGHTED PROPERTIES
Section
   
152.01   Declaration of policy
   
152.02   Definitions
   
152.03   Prohibition against creating or maintaining blighted properties
   
152.04   Prohibited lease provisions
   
152.05   Enforcement
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01 DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   (A)   The Town Board finds that there exists within the town a large number
of real properties containing vacant buildings that are poorly maintained.
   (B)   It is further found that these poorly maintained vacant buildings are
a major cause and source of blight in residential and nonresidential areas.
   (C)   It is further found that the existence of vacant and blighted
buildings adversely affects the economic well-being of the town, and is
inimical to the health, safety and welfare of town citizens, thereby
constituting a nuisance dangerous or prejudicial to the public health or public
safety.
   (D)   It is further found that many vacant and blighted buildings can be
rehabilitated and used to provide decent, safe facilities for the use(s) in
which the buildings were originally constructed, and their rehabilitation and
reuse would eliminate, remedy and prevent the adverse conditions described.
   (E)   It is further found that the abatement of vacant and blighted
buildings is a benefit to the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the
town.
(Ord. passed 11-9-2021)
§ 152.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BLIGHTED PROPERTY. Any vacant building, or any vacant portion of a building
that is a separate unit, where it has been determined by the town that the
building is neglected or otherwise poorly maintained. The following factors may
be considered in determining whether a building is poorly maintained: missing
or boarded windows or doors; collapsing or missing walls, roof or floors;
siding that is seriously damaged or missing; faulty or damaged foundation or
other structural components; or the exterior of the building fails to meet the
standards set forth below.
      (1)   The exterior and all areas exposed to public view shall be kept
free from deterioration and shall be in good state of repair. The surrounding
property shall be maintained so that the building and property reflect a
reasonable level of maintenance in keeping with the standards of the community
and does not constitute a blighting factor for town citizens.
      (2)   The maintenance of the building exterior and property shall
include, without limitation, the following.
         (a)   All building surfaces shall be maintained free of broken glass,
crumbling stone or brick, peeling paint or other finish material utilized to
prevent deterioration of materials susceptible to decay, graffiti or other
conditions that reflect overall deterioration or inadequate maintenance.
         (b)   The maintenance and appearance of the grounds and yards of
premises shall be such that they reflect the level of upkeep of surrounding
properties. This shall include, but not be limited to, dead or severely
overgrown trees and shrubs, dilapidated or abandoned materials or equipment,
deteriorating sidewalks, parking areas and other site improvements.
   VACANT BUILDING. Any building, or a portion thereof, that is without a
resident or occupant or that has not been put to a lawful use for a period of
60 days or longer.
(Ord. passed 11-9-2021)
§ 152.03 PROHIBITION AGAINST CREATING OR MAINTAINING BLIGHTED PROPERTIES.
   Any owner of real property in the town shall not cause or allow blighted
properties to be created, nor shall any owner allow the continued existence of
blighted properties.
(Ord. passed 11-9-2021) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.04 PROHIBITED LEASE PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Any lease provision contained in any lease or other instrument,
entered after the effective date of this chapter, that prevents or seeks to
prevent a landlord from immediately terminating the lease when the tenant has
vacated the leased premises, is hereby declared to be against public policy and
null and void, irrespective of the tenant’s willingness to continue to pay
monthly rent following vacation of the premises.
   (B)   Any lease provision contained in any lease or other instrument,
entered after the effective date of this chapter, that prevents, seeks to
prevent or limits a landlord from leasing the premises to any other person or
entity after termination of the tenant's tenancy, is hereby declared to be
against public policy and null and void.
(Ord. passed 11-9-2021) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.05 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   (1)   The Town Administrator, or his or her designee, as a Code
Enforcement Official, shall perform periodic inspections, subject to Town
Board’s directions, for vacant buildings within the town's planning
jurisdiction that may constitute a violation of this chapter.
      (2)   In exercising this power and upon presentation of proper
credentials, a Code Enforcement Official shall have a right to enter on any
premises at all reasonable hours for the purposes of inspection.
   (B)   When a Code Enforcement Official finds a blighted property in
violation of this chapter, it shall be his or her duty to issue and cause to be
served upon the property owner a complaint, stating the conditions present that
have resulted in this action, and containing a notice that a hearing will be
held before the Code Enforcement Official in the Town Hall, not less then ten
days nor more than 30 days after serving the complaint.
      (1)   Complaints shall be served upon owners either personally or by
certified mail, return receipt requested.
      (2)   The failure of the property owner to accept or claim a complaint
sent by certified mail shall not prevent further action under this section, but
will be presumed to have been received three days after the complaint is
deposited in the United States mail.
      (3)   The hearing shall provide the owner a right to file an answer to
the complaint, and to appear in person to give testimony, at the place and time
fixed in the complaint.
   (C)   If, after the notice and hearing, the Inspector determines that a
vacant building constitutes a blighted property in violation of this chapter,
he or she shall state his or her findings in a written notice of violation.
      (1)   The notice shall be served upon owners either personally or by
certified mail, return receipt requested, and contain a written order to cause
the property to be repaired, improved or demolished as necessary to abate the
violation within a specified time period, not to exceed 60 days.
      (2)   The failure of the property owner to accept or claim a notice of
violation sent by certified mail shall not prevent further action under this
section, but will be presumed to have been received three days after the notice
is deposited in the United States mail.
   (D)   Any owner who is aggrieved with a Code Official’s decision may file an
appeal to the Town Board, by giving notice of appeal in writing to the Code
Official and to the Town Clerk within ten days following the issuance of the
notice of violation.
      (1)   The Town Board shall hear and render a decision in an appeal within
a reasonable time period.
      (2)   The Town Board may affirm, modify and affirm, or revoke the order.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any building to fail, neglect,
or refuse to repair, improve or demolish blighted properties upon order of the
town official duly made and served, as herein provided, within the time period
specified in the notice of violation.
(Ord. passed 11-9-2021) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any act constituting a violation of this chapter shall subject the
offender to a civil penalty in the amount of $100.
   (B)   Each day that the violation continues shall constitute separate
violation of this chapter.
   (C)   If the offender fails to pay the penalty, the penalty, along with
court costs and attorney’s fees incurred by the town, may be recovered by the
town in a civil action in the nature of a debt.
   (D)   (1)   This chapter may also be enforced by any civil action instituted
by the town to prevent, restrain, correct or abate a violation of this chapter.
      (2)   If the action is taken by the town, the town shall be entitled to
recover all expenses incurred, including court costs and attorney’s fees.
(Ord. passed 11-9-2021)
CHAPTER 153: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
   
153.01   Purpose
   
153.02   Short title
   
153.03   Authority and enactment clause
   
153.04   Jurisdiction
   
153.05   Definitions
   
153.06   Procedure for securing approval of subdivision plat
   
153.07   Procedure for review of minor subdivisions and G.S. § 160D-802(c)
subdivisions
   
153.08   Design standards and requirements; general policy requirements
   
153.09   Design standards and requirements; streets
   
153.10   Design standards and requirements; blocks
   
153.11   Design standards and requirements; lots
   
153.12   Design standards and requirements; Health Director approval
   
153.13   Design standards and requirements; easements
   
153.14   Design standards and requirements; buffer strips
   
153.15   Improvements
   
153.16   Additional improvement requirements within town limits
   
153.17   Additional improvements within the one-mile jurisdictional area
   
153.18   Duty of Register of Deeds
   
153.19   Exceptions and variances
   
153.20   Amendments; procedure
   
153.21   Notice
   
153.22   Planning Board organization
   
153.23   Town Board
   
153.24   Quasi-judicial procedures
   
153.25   Appeals of administrative decisions
   
153.26   Conflicts of interest
   
153.27   Guarantees of improvement
 
   
153.99   Enforcement and penalties
Cross-reference:
   Building Regulations, see
Ch. 151
   Zoning Code, see
Ch. 154
§ 153.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish regulations and procedures for
the platting, recording, and development of subdivided land within the
corporate limits and extraterritorial jurisdiction of the town. These controls
are necessary in order to promote the orderly development of the town and its
environs; provide for the coordination and dedication of land necessary for the
continuation of the existing streets and public utilities; ensure the proper
installation of streets and utilities; distribute the population and traffic so
as to avoid congestion and overcrowding; ensure proper legal description,
identification, monumentation, and recording of subdivided properties; and
ultimately promote the public health, safety, and general welfare of the
community.
(Prior Code, § 9-3001) (Ord. passed 6-11-1974; Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
§ 153.02 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the Subdivision Regulations of the Town of
Rose Hill, North Carolina, and may be cited as the “subdivision regulations” or
“ordinance” or “chapter” herein.
(Prior Code, § 9-3002) (Ord. passed 6-11-1974; Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
§ 153.03 AUTHORITY AND ENACTMENT CLAUSE.
   The Town Board, pursuant to authority conferred by an act of the State
General Assembly (G.S. Ch. 160D) does hereby ordain and enact into law these
sections.
(Prior Code, § 9-3003) (Ord. passed 6-11-1974; Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
§ 153.04 JURISDICTION.
   These regulations shall govern all subdivisions of land lying within the
corporate limits and extraterritorial jurisdiction of the town as now or
hereafter established.
(Prior Code, § 9-3004) (Ord. passed 6-11-1974; Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
§ 153.05 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless otherwise specifically provided, or unless otherwise clearly required
by the context, the words and phrases defined in this section shall have the
meanings herein set forth when used in this chapter. If a word or phrase used
in this chapter is not defined by this section or elsewhere in this chapter, to
the extent such word or phrase is defined in G.S. Ch. 160D, that definition
shall control.
   G.S. Ch. 160D is applicable to this chapter. In the event of any conflict
between this chapter and G.S. Ch. 160D, the provisions of G.S. Ch. 160D shall
control. The words “written” or “in writing” are deemed to include electronic
documentation. Unless specified otherwise, in the absence of evidence to the
contrary, delivery by first-class mail shall be deemed received on the third
business day following deposit of the item for mailing with the United States
Postal Service, and delivery by electronic mail shall be deemed received on the
date sent.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE. A line parallel to the front property line in front
of which no structure shall be erected.
   DOUBLE FRONTAGE OR REVERSE FRONTAGE LOT. A continuous (through) lot of the
same depth as the width of a block and which may be accessible from both of the
streets upon which it fronts.
   EASEMENT. A grant by the property owner for use, by the public, a
corporation, or person(s) of a strip of land for specific reasons.
   JURISDICTIONAL AREA. Land located within the corporate limits of the town
and surrounding area within one mile of the corporate limits except land lying
within the Town of Teachey nor within Pender County.
   LOT. A portion of a subdivision or any other parcel of land intended as a
unit for transfer of ownership or for development or both. The word LOT
includes the word PLOT or PARCEL.
   MINOR SUBDIVISION. All divisions of a tract or parcel of land into not more
than five lots that abut an existing state or town maintained road and involve
no new public or private street(s), no new road(s), no new right-of-way
dedication, no new easement(s), no utility extension(s), and the resultant lots
are equal to or exceed the standards of the town.
   OFFICIAL MAPS OR PLANS. Any maps or plans officially adopted by the Town
Board as a guide for the development of the town and surrounding area.
   PLANNING BOARD. The Planning Board of the town established pursuant to G.S.
§ 160D-301.
   SHALL. Is always mandatory and not merely directory.
   SINGLE TIER LOT. A lot which backs upon a limited access highway, a
railroad, a physical barrier, or a nonresidential use and to which vehicular
access from the rear is usually prohibited.
   STREET. Any and all roads with a right-of-way for vehicular traffic as
defined in the current State Department of Transportation, Division of
Highways, Minimum Construction Standards for Subdivision Roads, provided that
all roads shall meet the current minimum construction standards of the Division
of Highways.
   SUBDIVIDER. A person, including a governmental agency or redevelopment
authority, who undertakes any subdivision of land and who is the landowner of
the property to be subdivided or who has been authorized by the landowner to
undertake such subdivision of that property.
   SUBDIVISION. Any division of a tract or parcel of land into two or more
lots, building sites, or other divisions when any one or more of those
divisions is created for the purpose of sale or building development, whether
immediate or future, and shall include all divisions of land involving the
dedication of a new street or a change in existing streets; but the following
shall not be included within this definition nor be subject to the regulations
authorized by G.S. Ch. 160D:
      (1)   The combination or recombination of portions of previously
subdivided and recorded lots where the total number of lots is not increased
and the resultant lots are equal to or exceed the standards of the town as
shown in this chapter;
      (2)   The division of land into parcels greater than ten acres where no
street right-of-way dedication is involved;
      (3)   The public acquisition by purchase of strips of land for the
widening or opening of streets or for public transportation system corridors;
      (4)   The division of a tract in single ownership whose entire area is no
greater than two acres into not more than three lots, where no street right-of-
way dedication is involved and where the resultant lots are equal to or exceed
the standards of the town, as shown in this chapter; and
      (5)   The division of a tract into parcels in accordance with the terms
of a probated will or in accordance with intestate succession under G.S. Ch.
29.
   SUBDIVISION ADMINISTRATOR. The town shall from time to time by resolution
identify a person or persons who shall serve as the Subdivision Administrator.
The Town Administrator or designees are designated as the Subdivision
Administrator.
   TOWN BOARD. The town’s duly elected Board of Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 9-3005) (Ord. passed 6-11-1974; Ord. passed 9-10-1996; Ord.
passed 9-8-1998; Ord. passed 7-10-2001; Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
§ 153.06 PROCEDURE FOR SECURING APPROVAL OF SUBDIVISION PLAT.
   (A)   Generally. No subdivision within the town’s planning and development
regulation jurisdiction shall be filed or recorded until it shall have been
submitted to and approved by the Planning Board and Town Board as herein
provided, and until this approval shall have been entered on the face of the
plat in writing by an authorized representative of the town. No person shall
commence or proceed with a subdivision of land without first securing approval
under this chapter from the town.
      (1)   The review officer, pursuant to G.S. § 47-30.2, shall not certify a
subdivision plat that has not been approved in accordance with this chapter nor
shall the Clerk of Superior Court order or direct the recording of a plat if
the recording would be in conflict with this chapter.
      (2)   A plat shall be prepared, approved and recorded pursuant to this
chapter whenever a subdivision of land takes place.
      (3)   No plat of a subdivision located within the subdivision territorial
jurisdiction of the town shall be accepted for record by the County Register of
Deeds until preliminary plat and final plat approval has been given by the
Planning Board and the Town Board.
   (B)   Specifically. To obtain final plat approval, the subdivider shall
follow these steps.
      (1)   Sketch design plan. Previous to the filing of an application for
approval of the preliminary plat, the subdivider shall submit to the Planning
Board a sketch design plan of the proposed subdivision. At this meeting, the
subdivider shall discuss his or her thoughts and ideas pertaining to the new
subdivision and also become familiar with the regulations affecting the land to
be subdivided. Included with the sketch design plan shall be a sketch vicinity
plan which shows the subdivision in relation to the surrounding area. This
procedure does not require a formal application or fee.
      (2)   Preliminary plat. The procedure for obtaining a preliminary plat
approval is as follows.
         (a)   The subdivider shall submit to the Town Clerk, at least 15 days
prior to a regularly scheduled Planning Board meeting:
            1.   At least six black or blueline prints of the proposed
subdivision prepared in accordance with the requirements of this chapter.
Additional prints shall be provided when deemed necessary;
            2.   Two signed statements describing the proposed use of the land
and a draft of any protective covenants to be applied to the subdivision;
            3.   Six copies of a contour map shall be required at a maximum
contour interval of one foot;
            4.   Copies of any additional information regarding the proposed
subdivision or of adjoining property may be required by the Planning Board or
Town Clerk in order to formulate an overall plan for any given section;
            5.   A statement from the County Health Director, or local public
utility, as appropriate, as to proposed water or sewerage systems;
            6.   A statement from the District Highway Engineer of the NCDOT as
to proposed state streets, state highways, and related drainage systems; and
            7.   The Town Planning Board at its discretion may waive any or all
of the requirements of this division (B)(2)(a) of a subdivision, when the
smallest lot is more than two acres and where no street right-of-way is
involved.
         (b)   The Planning Board shall schedule consideration of the
preliminary plat at the next Planning Board meeting.
         (c)   The developer and his or her engineer are welcome to attend the
Planning Board meeting to discuss any points which may arise in connection with
the submitted preliminary plat.
         (d)   After considering any report and/or recommendations received in
connection with all subdivisions in addition to any comments which the
subdivider may have, the Planning Board shall approve, approve conditionally,
or disapprove the preliminary plat and shall make its recommendations to the
Town Board. If approved conditionally, the conditions and reasons thereof shall
be stated and, if necessary, the Planning Board may require the subdivider to
submit a revised plat. If the Planning Board should disapprove the preliminary
plat, the reasons for the action shall be stated and recommendations made on
the basis of which the proposed subdivision could be approved. All decisions of
the Planning Board shall be advisory in nature.
         (e)   Failure on the part of the Planning Board to act within 50 days
after the preliminary plat is submitted to the Planning Board shall be deemed
as approval by the Planning Board.
         (f)   The Planning Board shall present the proposed subdivision along
with its recommendations to the Town Board at its next meeting.
         (g)   The Town Board shall approve, approve conditionally, or
disapprove the preliminary plat or sketch.
            1.   Approval of the preliminary plat or sketch should be noted on
the face of the plat in writing by an authorized representative of the town is
authorization for the subdivider to proceed with the construction of the
necessary improvements in preparation for submission of the final plat.
            2.   If the Town Board should disapprove the preliminary plat or
sketch, the reasons for the action shall be stated and recommendations made on
the basis of which the proposed subdivision could be approved.
            3.   The Town Board upon recommendation from the Planning Board,
may waive by variance, any or all of the requirements of the formal plat
pursuant to division (B)(2)(a) above.
      (3)   Final plat. The procedure for obtaining final plat approval is as
follows.
         (a)   The subdivider shall submit to the Planning Board at least 15
days prior to a regularly scheduled meeting at least six black or blueline
prints of the final plat and an original linen or mylar tracing or reproducible
copy on the same type of material in accordance with provisions of this chapter
within 18 months after approval of the preliminary plat by the Town Board,
otherwise the approval of the preliminary plat shall become null and void. In
the event that the subdivider allows the previously approved preliminary plat
to expire, he or she shall be required to resubmit the preliminary plat to the
Planning Board for reapproval in accordance with the procedure stated in this
section.
         (b)   The final plat shall conform substantially to the approved
preliminary plat. If the submitted final plat deviates in its overall design
from the approved preliminary plat, it shall be considered by the Planning
Board at its next regularly scheduled meeting as a preliminary plat.
         (c)   If the Planning Board fails to act on the final plat within 50
days after its submission, the subdivider may seek final approval of the plat
at the next regularly scheduled meeting of the Town Board.
         (d)   Before acting on the final plat, the Planning Board may request
reports from any person or agency directly affected by the proposed
development. The reports shall certify compliance with or note deviations from
the approved preliminary plat and the requirements of this chapter.
            1.   A final plat shall not be approved by the Planning Board nor
the Town Board until all necessary improvement requirements are complied with
by the subdivider.
            2.   Where the required improvements have not been completed prior
to the submission of the final plat, the Town Board may accept from the
subdivider a bond with surety or other guarantees satisfactory to the town in
accordance with the requirements of §
153.27 herein.
         (e)   After the Town Board has approved the final plat, such approval
shall be noted on the face of the plat by an authorized representative of the
town, and two prints of the plat shall be returned to the subdivider, the linen
or mylar tracing or reproducible copy on some type of material shall be
retained by the Planing Board for its files and one print shall be forwarded to
the County Clerk of the Superior Court to be used as a check print against the
final plat presented to him or her for recording by the landowner.
         (f)   The final plat must be recorded by the subdivider with the
County Register of Deeds within six months after approval by the Town Board,
otherwise the approval of the final plat becomes null and void.
(Prior Code, § 9-3006) (Ord. passed 6-11-1974; Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
§ 153.07 PROCEDURE FOR REVIEW OF MINOR SUBDIVISIONS AND G.S. § 160D-802(c)
SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Minor subdivisions generally. The following procedure(s) shall be
followed for the review of a subdivision classified as a minor subdivision.
   (B)   Minor subdivisions specifically.
      (1)   Sketch plan for minor subdivisions.
         (a)   The subdivision administrator shall review and act upon all
minor subdivisions submitted for approval. Prior to the submission of a final
plat, the subdivider shall submit to the subdivision administrator two copies
of a sketch plan of the proposed subdivision containing the following
information:
            1.   A sketch vicinity map showing the location of the subdivision
in relation to neighboring tracts, subdivisions, roads, and waterways;
            2.   The boundaries of the tract and the portion of the tract to be
subdivided;
            3.   The total acreage to be subdivided;
            4.   The existing and proposed uses of the land within the
subdivision and the existing uses of the land adjoining it;
            5.   The existing street layout and right-of-way width(s), lot
layout, and size of lots;
            6.   The name, address, and telephone number of the owner;
            7.   The name, if any, of the proposed subdivision;
            8.   The zoning classification of the tract and of adjacent
properties;
            9.   A statement from the County Health Director, or local public
utility, as appropriate, as to proposed water or sewerage systems; and
            10.   The District Highway Engineer of the NCDOT as to proposed
state streets, state highways, and related drainage systems.
         (b)   The subdivision administrator shall review the sketch plan for
general compliance with the requirements of this chapter and
Chapter 154; he or she shall advise the subdivider, or his or her authorized
agent, of the regulations pertaining to the proposed subdivision and the
procedures to be followed in the preparation and submission of the final plat.
         (c)   One copy of the sketch plan shall be retained by the subdivision
administrator and one copy shall be returned to the subdivider or his or her
authorized agent.
      (2)   Final plat for minor subdivisions.
         (a)   Upon approval of the sketch plan by the subdivision
administrator, the subdivider may proceed with the preparation of the final
plat in accordance with the requirements of this chapter.
         (b)   The final plat shall be prepared by a registered land surveyor
currently licensed and registered in the state. Six copies of the final plat
shall be submitted; two of these shall be on reproducible material and four
shall be black or blueline paper prints.
         (c)   The final plat shall be of a size suitable for recording with
the County Register of Deeds and shall be at a scale of not less than one inch
equals 200 feet. Maps may be placed on more than one sheet with appropriate
match lines.
         (d)   A filing fee of $35 shall be paid at the time the final plat is
submitted for review and approval.
         (e)   The final plat shall contain the information required in
division (B)(1) above as well as any other specific requirements noted by the
subdivision administrator during the sketch plan review. Upon a determination
that the final plat conforms substantially to the approved sketch plan, the
subdivision administrator shall approve the final plat and should note such
approval on the face of the plat in writing.
         (f)   The final plat shall contain both a certificate of ownership and
dedication and a certificate of accuracy.
   (C)   G.S. § 160D-802(c) subdivision. Only a plat for recordation may be
required for the division of a tract or parcel of land in single ownership if
all of the following criteria are met:
      (1)   The tract or parcel to be divided is not exempted under the
definition of SUBDIVISION contained in §
152.001 herein.
      (2)   No part of the tract or parcel to be divided has been divided under
this division in the ten years prior to division.
      (3)   The entire area of the tract or parcel to be divided is greater
than five acres.
      (4)   After division, no more than three lots result from the division.
      (5)   After division, all resultant lots comply with all of the
following:
         (a)   All lot dimension size requirements of the applicable land-use
regulation, if any.
         (b)   The use of the lots is in conformity with the applicable zoning
requirements, if any.
         (c)   A permanent means of ingress and egress is recorded for each
lot.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2001; Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
§ 153.08 DESIGN STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS; GENERAL POLICY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Land subject to flooding and land deemed by the Planning Board to be
uninhabitable for other reasons shall not be platted for residential occupancy,
nor for any other uses as may increase danger to health, life, or property, or
aggravate the flood hazard; but the land within a plan shall be set aside for
the uses that will not be endangered by periodic or occasional inundation, or
will not produce unsatisfactory living conditions. The precise boundaries of
the flood plain areas of the town should be determined by a detailed drainage
plan for the town and its jurisdictional area. Until the study is made and
exact dimensions have been determined, the Planning Board or a registered
professional engineer designated by the Town Board shall estimate the
boundaries of these flood plain areas. Past records of flood levels shall be
used to determine sufficient area from the centerline of streams to provide
adequate protection from the most severe flood of record.
   (B)   Where land is subdivided into larger parcels other than ordinary
building lots, the parcels shall be arranged so as to allow for the opening of
future streets and logical further resubdivision.
   (C)   Where a proposed subdivision contains or is adjacent to a major
highway, it shall be planned so as to avoid having lots fronting on the highway
in such a manner as to derive their access from the highway, preferably by
providing an access street for these lots or by backing the lots to the
highway.
   (D)   All telephone lines and power lines are recommended to be located
underground or at the rear property line of all subdivisions. The telephone
company and the electric power company shall be provided with copies of the
preliminary plat by the subdivider and be expected to work with the developer
in designing the utilities plan for the subdivision. Representatives from the
utility companies and the developer shall agree on the width of easements
needed to service lines which are located on the rear property line of the lots
proposed to be developed, but in no case may the easement requirement be
greater than 15 feet unless the developer is in agreement with a greater width.
The town does not obligate itself in assuming any costs incurred in developing
underground utilities but encourages developers, nevertheless, to investigate
the advantages of locating utility lines underground. Provided, however, no
developer or builder shall be required to bury power lines meeting all of the
following criteria:
      (1)   The power lines existed above ground at the time of first approval
of a plat or development plan by the town, whether or not the power lines are
subsequently relocated during construction of the subdivision or development
plan; and
      (2)   The power lines are located outside the boundaries of the parcel of
land that contains the subdivision or the property covered by the development
plan.
   (E)   Subdivisions showing reserve strips controlling access to public ways
will not be approved except when the control and disposition of land comprising
the strips is definitely placed within the town’s jurisdiction under conditions
meeting the approval of the Town Board.
   (F)   Unusable or reserve lots shall not be permitted in any subdivision.
All subdivided land shall be designated with a lot or parcel number and shall
be part of a usable lot.
   (G)   If the entire area shown on an approved preliminary plat is not to be
recorded at the same time as one unit, but, instead, sections or units of the
entire subdivision are to be recorded at subsequent intervals, then the unit
boundaries shall be so designated as to permit each unit recorded to function
independently of the unit to follow it in the proposed recording schedule of
the subdivider. Temporary turn-arounds shall be constructed by the developer,
as required by the town, at the ends of streets which are presently dead-end
but are planned as through streets when the adjacent unit is ultimately
recorded.
   (H)   Where a proposed subdivision contains or is adjacent to a railroad
right-of-way, it shall be planned, if possible, as to avoid having residential
lots front on a street which runs parallel and adjacent to the railroad right-
of-way.
   (I)   In cases where septic tanks are to be used in the one mile area, the
builder is encouraged to construct the houses to one extreme side of each lot,
thus providing space for one or more additional houses on the same lot at a
later date. This would make economically possible the financing of a public
sewer into this area at a later date.
   (J)   Acceptance of streets. No street shall be maintained by the town, nor
street dedication accepted for ownership and maintenance in any subdivision for
which a plat is required to be approved, unless and until such final plat has
been approved by the town. The approval of a plat shall not be deemed to
constitute the acceptance by the town or public of the dedication of any street
or other ground, public utility line, or other public facility shown on the
plat. However, the Town Board may by resolution accept any dedication made to
the public of lands or facilities for streets, parks, public utility lines, or
other public purposes, when the lands or facilities are located within its
planning and development regulation jurisdiction.
   (K)   The approvals and disapprovals set forth in this chapter shall be
communicated by the officer making the determination who shall in turn give
written notice to the owner of the property that is the subject of the
determination and to the party who sought the determination, if different from
the owner. The written notice shall be delivered by personal delivery,
electronic mail, or by first-class mail. The notice shall be delivered to the
last address listed for the owner of the affected property on the county tax
abstract and to the address provided in the application or request for a
determination if the party seeking the determination is different from the
owner.
(Prior Code, § 9-3007) (Ord. passed 6-11-1974; Ord. passed 6-29-2021) Penalty,
see §
153.99
§ 153.09 DESIGN STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS; STREETS.
   (A)   General standards.
      (1)   In any new subdivision, the street layout shall conform to the
arrangement width and location indicated by official plans or maps for the
town. In areas for which the plans have not been completed, the streets shall
be designed and located in proper relation to existing and proposed streets, to
the topography, to the natural features as streams and tree growth, to public
convenience and safety, and to the proposed use of land to be served by the
streets.
      (2)   The arrangements of streets in new subdivisions shall make
provision for the continuation of the principal existing streets in adjoining
subdivisions or, when adjoining property is not subdivided, their proper
protection insofar as they may be necessary for public requirements. In
general, the streets shall be at least as wide as the existing streets, except
that in no case shall the width be less than the minimum specified in division
(B) below. The street and alley arrangement must also be such as to cause no
hardship to owners of adjoining property when they plat their own land and seek
to provide for convenient access to it, and must provide for continuing a
reasonable number of through utility lines. When a new subdivision adjoins
unsubdivided land, then the new streets shall be carried to the boundaries of
the tract proposed to be subdivided except where it is determined by the
Planning Board that certain streets may not be required to be so extended.
      (3)   Proposed streets shall be adjusted to the contour of the land so as
to produce usable lots and streets of reasonable gradient.
   (B)   Design standards.
      (1)   Right-of-way widths. Any and all right-of-way widths shall be in
accordance with the current minimum construction standards of the State
Division of Highways for subdivision roads.
      (2)   Pavement widths. Any and all pavement widths shall be in accordance
with the current minimum construction standards of the State Division of
Highways for subdivision roads.
      (3)   Grades. Any and all street grades shall be in accordance with the
current, minimum construction standards of the State Division of Highways for
subdivision roads.
      (4)   Other standards. All other street design standards shall be in
accordance with the current minimum construction standards of the State
Division of Highways for subdivision roads, when deemed necessary by the town.
(Prior Code, § 9-3008) (Ord. passed 6-11-1974; Ord. passed 9-8-1998; Ord.
passed 6-29-2021) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.10 DESIGN STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS; BLOCKS.
   (A)   Generally. Blocks shall be laid out with special attention given to
the type of use contemplated.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   Intersecting streets shall be laid out at the intervals that block
lengths are not more than 800 feet except where, in the opinion of the Planning
Board, existing conditions justify a modification of this requirement.
      (2)   Blocks shall have sufficient width to provide for two tiers of lots
of appropriate depth, except where otherwise required, to separate residential
development from through traffic or nonresidential uses.
      (3)   Pedestrian ways or crosswalks, not less than ten feet in width,
shall be provided near the center and entirely across any block 900 feet or
more in length or at the end of cul-de-sacs, where deemed essential, in the
opinion of the Planning Board, to provide adequate pedestrian circulation or
access to schools, shopping areas, churches, parks, playgrounds,
transportation, or other similar facilities.
(Prior Code, § 9-3009) (Ord. passed 6-11-1974; Ord. passed 6-29-2021) Penalty,
see §
153.99
§ 153.11 DESIGN STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS; LOTS.
   (A)   All lots shall conform with
Chapter 154.
   (B)   Whenever there is a discrepancy between the minimum standards or
dimensions noted herein and those contained in
Chapter 154, building codes, or other official regulations, the highest
standards shall apply.
      (1)   General standards.
         (a)   Lot size, shape, and location shall be made with due regard to
topographic conditions, contemplated use, and the surrounding area.
         (b)   Every lot shall front or abut on a public street.
         (c)   Corner lots of less than 100 feet for residential use shall have
an extra width of 25 feet to permit adequate building setback from side
streets.
         (d)   Double frontage or reverse frontage lots shall be avoided except
where necessary to separate residential development from through traffic or
nonresidential use.
         (e)   Side lot lines shall be substantially at right angles or radial
to street lines.
         (f)   Flag-shaped lots shall not be permitted.
      (2)   Area, width, and depth requirements.
         (a)   Area.
            1.   Lots served by public utilities. All residential lots shall
have an area of not less than 7,000 square feet.
            2.   Lots not served by public utilities. Necessary areas shall be
determined by the County Health Department; however, the minimum lot area is as
follows.
               a.    Public water, but not public sewer is provided. In this
case, the lot shall be not less than 10,000 square feet in area.
               b.    Neither public water nor public sewer is provided. In this
case, the lot shall be not less than 20,000 square feet in area.
         (b)   Widths.
            1.   Lots served by public utilities. All residential lots shall
have a minimum width at the street line of not less than 70 feet.
            2.   Lots not served by public utilities. Lots shall meet the
following minimums unless otherwise determined by the Planning Board based on
County Health Department reports.
               a.    Public water, but not public sewer is provided. In this
case, the minimum lot frontage shall be not less than 100 feet.
               b.    Neither public water nor public sewer is provided. In this
case, the minimum lot frontage shall not be less than 120 feet.
         (c)   Depth. All residential lots shall have a minimum mean depth of
not less than 100 feet.
(Prior Code, § 9-3010) (Ord. passed 6-11-1974; Ord. passed 6-29-2021) Penalty,
see §
153.99
§ 153.12 DESIGN STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS; HEALTH DIRECTOR APPROVAL.
   If a public water system is not available for property proposed to be
subdivided, a written statement from the County Health Director shall be
submitted with the preliminary plan indicating that each lot has adequate land
area and suitable topography to accommodate the proposed methods of water
supply and sewage disposal. If percolation tests are required before Health
Director approval, then the cost of the test shall be borne by the developer or
owner of the property as the town shall assume no financial responsibility for
the test.
(Prior Code, § 9-3011) (Ord. passed 6-11-1974; Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
§ 153.13 DESIGN STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS; EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Easements centered on rear or side lot lines shall be provided for
utilities where necessary and shall be at least ten feet in width.
   (B)   Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainage way,
channel or stream, there shall be provided a storm water easement or drainage
right-of-way conforming substantially with the lines of the watercourse, and
the further width or construction, or both, as will be adequate for the
purpose. Parallel streets or frontage roads may be required in connection
therewith.
   (C)   Lakes, ponds, creeks, flood plains, and similar areas will be accepted
for maintenance only if sufficient land is dedicated as a public recreation
area or park or if the area constitutes a necessary part of the drainage
control system. The areas must be approved by the Planning Board before
approval of the final plat.
(Prior Code, § 9-3012) (Ord. passed 6-11-1974; Ord. passed 6-29-2021) Penalty,
see §
153.99
§ 153.14 DESIGN STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS; BUFFER STRIPS.
   It is recommended that in residential districts a buffer strip of at least
50 feet in depth in addition to the normal lot depth required be provided
adjacent to all railroads, limited access highways, and nonresidential
developments.
(Prior Code, § 9-3013) (Ord. passed 6-11-1974; Ord. passed 6-29-2021) Penalty,
see §
153.99
§ 153.15 IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Generally. Prior to approval of the final plat, the following
improvements shall be installed, bonded for, or otherwise guaranteed according
to §
153.27. The subdivider or developer shall assume the entire cost of all
improvements, whether they be sewer line extensions or street paving, listed in
this section. Any professional service required in this chapter as a condition
of approval of a subdivision plat, such as soil percolation tests, shall be
also paid for by the subdivider.
   (B)   General improvement requirements. All proposed subdivisions located
within the subdivision territorial jurisdiction of the town shall comply with
the following improvement requirements. Permanent monuments shall be placed at
the intersection of all street center lines, all points of curvature of street
center lines, all points of tangency of street center lines, and at all change
of direction of street center lines in the event that a curve is not used.
Where above street center line location for monuments are impractical due to
existing water and/or sewer lines or due to the existence of other physical
objects off-set reference monuments to the above points may be placed within
the street right-of-way at the locations as are practical with adequate
measurements being shown on the final plat for the location of the street
center line from these monuments. It is intended that these monuments shall be
placed at such a location as to avoid destruction by maintenance of water and
sewer lines. It is recommended that they be placed at least five feet from
existing water or sewer lines and it is recommended that, if possible, all off-
set monuments be placed on the same side of the street center line for the
purpose of leaving as much of the street right-of-way as is possible for water
or sewer lines or other utility lines. All monuments within the street rights-
of-way are to be buried so that the top of the monument is a minimum of one and
two-tenths feet below finished street grade elevation. It is recommended that
the town place prior to the paving of streets a metal casting and cap necessary
for access to these monuments. It is required by the town that within an area
of a five-foot radius around each monument shall not be disturbed by
installation or maintenance of any utility, road construction crews,
contractors’ construction crews, or utility company crews. In addition to the
above street center line monuments, a monument shall also be placed at all
corners at turns in the exterior boundary of the subdivision (these monuments
may project above the ground and inaccessible turns in boundary lines shall be
referenced by off-set monuments) and at the other points as may be necessary to
make the retracing of the lines as shown upon the final plat thereof reasonably
convenient. The location of all the monuments shall be clearly designated on
the final plat. All lot corners shall be marked by permanent markers or
monuments.
   (C)   Streets.
      (1)   All streets shall be cleared and graded so as to provide adequate
shoulders and pedestrian walk-ways. Finished grades, cross-section, and profile
shall be in accordance with the current minimum construction standards of the
State Division of Highways for subdivision roads.
      (2)   All street subgrade and/or base materials and the placement of
these materials shall meet the current minimum construction standards of the
State Division of Highways for subdivision roads.
      (3)   Streets shall be paved in accordance with the current minimum
construction standards of the State Division of Highways for subdivision roads.
   (D)   Surface water drainage.
      (1)   No surface water drainage shall empty into a sanitary sewer.
      (2)   Where, in the opinion of the Planning Board, a public storm water
sewer is reasonably accessible, before a subdivision is approved and accepted
by the town, the subdivider shall connect with the public storm sewer system by
providing all grading and all structures necessary to carry the water to the
storm drainage system. Drainage and construction of drainage structures shall
conform to town specifications and standards.
      (3)   Where a storm drainage system is not accessible, before a
subdivision is approved and accepted by the town, the subdivider shall do all
grading and provide all drainage structures necessary to properly carry the
water to locations which are acceptable to the town.
      (4)   Where drainage ditches are provided and grades exceed 4%, the
ditches shall be paved in accordance with the town standards.
   (E)   Sidewalks. Sidewalks shall be constructed on the street right-of-way
and installed in accordance with the following policy wherever the Planning
Board deems necessary.
      (1)   Sidewalks shall be constructed on all streets located within a one-
half mile radius of all public schools provided that these streets are likely
to be used by children in walking to school.
      (2)   Sidewalks shall be required on major streets and retail commercial
streets where considerable pedestrian traffic is expected, and may be required
on other streets where deemed necessary by the Planning Board.
      (3)   In those cases where sidewalks are required, they shall be
constructed on both sides of the street.
   (F)   Street trees. Although not required by these regulations, the planting
of street trees is considered a duty of the subdivider, as well as good
business practice. Street trees are a protection against excessive heat and
glare and enhance the attractiveness and value of property. Trees shall be
planted inside the property lines where they are less subject to injury,
decrease the chance of motor accidents, and enjoy more favorable conditions for
growth.
(Prior Code, § 9-3014) (Ord. passed 6-11-1974; Ord. passed 9-8-1998; Ord.
passed 6-29-2021) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.16 ADDITIONAL IMPROVEMENT REQUIREMENTS WITHIN TOWN LIMITS.
   (A)   Generally. When recommended by the Planning Board and directed by the
Town Board, the following additional improvements shall be required in those
new subdivisions which are located entirely within the corporate limits of the
town and are adjacent or connected to streets with existing curb and gutter.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   Curbs and gutters.
         (a)   Curbs and gutters shall be installed on streets in accordance
with the current minimum construction standards of the State Division of
Highways for subdivision roads.
         (b)   Curbs and gutters shall be a combination curb and gutter or
other construction as the Public Works Director may approve.
      (2)   Water supply. Construct or cause to be constructed adequate water
lines to serve every lot in accordance with town standards.
      (3)   Sewage disposal. Construct or cause to be constructed adequate
lines to serve every lot within the subdivision.
(Prior Code, § 9-3015) (Ord. passed 6-11-1974; Ord. passed 9-8-1998; Ord.
passed 6-29-2021) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.17 ADDITIONAL IMPROVEMENTS WITHIN THE ONE-MILE JURISDICTIONAL AREA.
   (A)   Generally. The following additional improvements shall be encouraged
in all new subdivisions located outside of the corporate limits of the town,
but within the subdivision territorial jurisdiction of the town.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   Water supply.
         (a)   When any part of a subdivision is located within the one-mile
jurisdictional area, the subdivider shall be encouraged to:
            1.   Construct or cause to be constructed adequate water lines to
serve every lot within the subdivision; and/or
            2.   Extend a line to connect with town water lines to take
advantage of the smaller lot area requirements of subdivisions having town
water service as opposed to having private water sources.
         (b)   When a subdivision is located more than 200 feet of water line
construction distance from an existing town water line, then the subdivider
shall be encouraged to extend a line to connect with town water lines to take
advantage of the smaller lot area requirements of subdivisions having town
water service as opposed to having private water sources.
      (2)   Sewage disposal. When any part of a subdivision is located within
the one-mile jurisdictional area, the subdivider shall be encouraged to:
         (a)   Construct or cause to be constructed adequate sewer lines to
serve every lot within the subdivision;
         (b)   Connect directly or extend a line to connect to the sewer system
of the town in accordance with plans and specifications acceptable to the town,
in order to take advantage of the smaller lot requirements, where public sewer
is available; and/or
         (c)   If required, by the County Board of Public Health, the
subdivider shall have percolation test conducted by a qualified engineer or
soil specialist in a manner satisfactory to the County Board of Health, to
determine the suitability of the soil for septic tank use. Approval of the soil
for the use of septic tanks by the County Health Director shall be a condition
of the final plat approval. The subdivider shall be encouraged to construct a
neighborhood collector system and a treatment plant according to the
requirements and specifications of the state, in lieu of septic tanks, to take
advantage of the lower lot area requirements.
      (3)   Construction guarantee. The owner of a subdivision shall require
the contractor constructing streets, curbs, gutters, drainage facilities, water
and sewer lines to give bond guaranteeing the work against defects for a period
of one year from the date of acceptance of the construction, unless the
Planning Board deems otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 9-3016) (Ord. passed 6-11-1974; Ord. passed 6-29-2021) Penalty,
see §
153.99
§ 153.18 DUTY OF REGISTER OF DEEDS.
   (A)   The town shall file a copy of this chapter with the County Register of
Deeds. The Register of Deeds shall not thereafter file or record a plat of a
subdivision located within the territorial jurisdiction of the town without
approval of the Town Board as required in this chapter and shown in writing on
the face of the plat. The landowner, whose name shall be shown on the
subdivision plat submitted for recording, or his or her authorized agent, shall
sign a statement on the plat stating whether or not any land shown thereon is
within the territorial jurisdiction of the town as defined herein. The filing
or recording of a plat of a subdivision without the approval of the Town Board
as required by this chapter shall be voidable. The Clerk of the Superior Court
of the county shall not order or direct the recording of a plat where the
recording would be in conflict with this subsection. Upon any subdivider
receiving notice that his or her or its proposed land division is in violation
of this chapter, any transfers of a portion of the division thereafter shall be
void, provided, however, an exact copy of the written notice be forwarded and
submitted for probate and recordation with the Clerk of Superior Court and
County Register of Deeds which is intended to give adequate notice to otherwise
bona fide purchasers for value of the land.
   (B)   The County Register of Deeds is requested to provide the town with a
copy of all legal descriptions and/or plats of partitioned land located within
the subdivision territorial jurisdiction of the town regardless of whether or
not they are considered “subdivisions,” as defined in §
153.05.
(Prior Code, § 9-3017) (Ord. passed 6-11-1974; Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
§ 153.19 EXCEPTIONS AND VARIANCES.
   (A)   Exceptions. Modification of the standards and requirements of this
chapter may be recommended by the Planning Board in the case of a plan or
program for a complete group development, in accordance with division (B)
herein, which, in the judgement of the Board, provides adequate light, air, and
service needs of the tract when fully developed and populated and which also
provides the covenants or other legal provisions as will assure conformity to
and achievement of the plan.
   (B)   Variances.  When unnecessary hardships would result from carrying out
the strict letter of a requirement of this chapter, the Planning Board may
recommend and the Town Board shall vary the requirement of this chapter upon a
showing of all of the following:
      (1)   Unnecessary hardship would result from the strict application of
the requirement. It shall not be necessary to demonstrate that, in the absence
of the variance, no reasonable use can be made of the property.
      (2)   The hardship results from conditions that are peculiar to the
property, such as location, size, or topography. Hardships resulting from
personal circumstances, as well as hardships resulting from conditions that are
common to the neighborhood or the general public, may not be the basis for
granting a variance. A variance may be granted when necessary and appropriate
to make a reasonable accommodation under the Federal Fair Housing Act for a
person with a disability.
      (3)   The hardship did not result from actions taken by the applicant or
the property owner. The act of purchasing property with knowledge that
circumstances exist that may justify the granting of a variance shall not be
regarded as a self-created hardship.
      (4)   (a)   The requested variance is consistent with the spirit,
purpose, and intent of the regulation, such that public safety is secured and
substantial justice is achieved.
         (b)   Appropriate conditions may be imposed on any variance, provided
that the conditions are reasonably related to the variance.
         (c)   In considering a variance, the Town Board shall follow the
quasi-judicial procedures outlined in Section §
154.279.
(Prior Code, § 9-3018) (Ord. passed 6-11-1974; Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
§ 153.20 AMENDMENTS; PROCEDURE.
   All amendments of this chapter have been made in accordance with §§
154.270 to 154.276 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 9-3020) (Ord. passed 6-11-1974; Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
§ 153.21 NOTICE.
   The approvals and disapprovals set forth in this chapter shall be
communicated by the officer making the determination who shall in turn give
written notice to the owner of the property that is the subject of the
determination and to the party who sought the determination, if different from
the owner. The written notice shall be delivered by personal delivery,
electronic mail, or by first-class mail. The notice shall be delivered to the
last address listed for the owner of the affected property on the county tax
abstract and to the address provided in the application or request for a
determination if the party seeking the determination is different from the
owner.
(Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
§ 153.22 PLANNING BOARD ORGANIZATION.
   The standards set forth in Chapter 154, Zoning Code, §
154.277 shall apply.
(Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
§ 153.23 TOWN BOARD.
   The standards set forth in Chapter 154, Zoning Code, §
154.278 shall apply.
(Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
§ 153.24 QUASI-JUDICIAL PROCEDURES.
   The standards set forth in Chapter 154, Zoning Code, §
154.279 shall apply.
(Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
§ 153.25 APPEALS OF ADMINISTRATIVE DECISIONS.
   The standards set forth in Chapter 154, Zoning Code, §
154.257 shall apply.
(Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
§ 153.26 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   The standards set forth in Chapter 154, Zoning Code, §
154.280 shall apply.
(Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
§ 153.27 GUARANTEES OF IMPROVEMENT.
   (A)   Final plats of a subdivision shall be approved by the Town Board after
the subdivider has installed all required improvements in accordance with the
requirements of this chapter or provided a performance guarantee in accordance
with division (B) below. If a subdivider requests final plat approval before
the completion of all required improvements, the final plat shall not be
approved until the subdivider provides a performance guarantee in accordance
with this section.
   (B)   Performance guarantees.  Final plats of a subdivision shall be
approved by the Town Board upon posting of a performance guarantee to assure
successful completion of required improvements.
   For purposes of this section, all of the following apply with respect to
performance guarantees:
      (1)   Type.  The type of performance guarantee shall be at the election
of the developer. The term "performance guarantee" means any of the following
forms of guarantee:
         (a)   Surety bond issued by any company authorized to do business in
this state.
         (b)   Letter of credit issued by any financial institution licensed to
do business in this state.
         (c)   Other form of guarantee that provides equivalent security to a
surety bond or letter of credit.
      (2)   Duration. The duration of the performance guarantee shall initially
be one year, unless the developer determines that the scope of work for the
required improvements necessitates a longer duration. In the case of a bonded
obligation, the completion date shall be set one year from the date the bond is
issued, unless the developer determines that the scope of work for the required
improvements necessitates a longer duration.
      (3)   Extension.  A developer shall demonstrate reasonable, good-faith
progress toward completion of the required improvements that are secured by the
performance guarantee or any extension. If the improvements are not completed
to the specifications of the town, and the current performance guarantee is
likely to expire prior to completion of the required improvements, the
performance guarantee shall be extended, or a new performance guarantee issued,
for an additional period. An extension under this subdivision shall only be for
a duration necessary to complete the required improvements. If a new
performance guarantee is issued, the amount shall be determined by the
procedure provided in subdivision (B)(5) and shall include the total cost of
all incomplete improvements.
      (4)   Release.  The performance guarantee shall be returned or released,
as appropriate, in a timely manner upon the acknowledgment by the town that the
improvements for which the performance guarantee is being required are
complete. The town shall return letters of credit or escrowed funds upon
completion of the required improvements to its specifications or upon
acceptance of the required improvements, if the required improvements are
subject to town acceptance. When required improvements that are secured by a
bond are completed to the specifications of the town, or are accepted by the
town, if subject to its acceptance, upon request by the developer, the town
shall timely provide written acknowledgment that the required improvements have
been completed.
      (5)   Amount. The amount of the performance guarantee shall not exceed
125% of the reasonably estimated cost of completion at the time the performance
guarantee is issued. The town may determine the amount of the performance
guarantee or use a cost estimate determined by the developer. The reasonably
estimated cost of completion shall include 100% of the costs for labor and
materials necessary for completion of the required improvements. Where
applicable, the costs shall be based on unit pricing. The additional 25%
allowed under this division includes inflation and all costs of administration
regardless of how such fees or charges are denominated. The amount of any
extension of any performance guarantee shall be determined according to the
procedures for determining the initial guarantee and shall not exceed 125% of
the reasonably estimated cost of completion of the remaining incomplete
improvements still outstanding at the time the extension is obtained.
      (6)   Timing. A performance guarantee required under this section shall
be posted at the time the plat is recorded.
      (7)   Coverage. The performance guarantee shall only be used for
completion of the required improvements and not for repairs or maintenance
after completion.
      (8)    Legal responsibilities.  No person shall have or may claim any
rights under or to any performance guarantee provided pursuant to this division
or in the proceeds of any such performance guarantee other than the following:
         (a)   The town.
         (b)   The developer at whose request or for whose benefit the
performance guarantee is give [text missing].
         (c)   The person or entity issuing or providing the performance
guarantee at the request of or for the benefit of the developer.
      (9)   Multiple guarantees.  The developer shall have the option to post
one type of a performance guarantee as provided for in division (A) of this
section, in lieu of multiple bonds, letters of credit, or other equivalent
security, for all development matters related to the same project requiring
performance guarantees.
      (10)      Performance guarantees associated with erosion control and
storm water control measures are not subject to the provision of this section.
(Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
§ 153.99 ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES.
   Any person who, being the owner or agent of the owner of any land located
within the territorial jurisdiction of this chapter, thereafter subdivides his
or her land in violation of this chapter or transfers or sells land by
reference to, exhibition of or any other use of a plat showing a subdivision of
the land before the plat has been properly approved under the terms of this
chapter and recorded in the office of the County Register of Deeds, shall be
guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor. The town may bring an action for injunction of
any illegal subdivision, transfer, conveyance, or sale of land, and the court
shall, upon appropriate findings, issue an injunction and order requiring the
offending party to comply with the subdivision regulation. Building permits may
be denied for illegal subdivisions. In addition to other remedies, the town may
institute any appropriate action or proceedings to prevent the unlawful
subdivision of land; to restrain, correct, or abate the violation; or to
prevent any illegal act or conduct. The Subdivision Administrator is also
entitled to exercise the remedies set forth in Chapter 154, Zoning Code, §
154.999.
(Prior Code, § 9-3019) (Ord. passed 6-11-1974; Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
CHAPTER 154: ZONING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
154.001   Short title
   
154.002   Definitions
   
154.003   Zoning affects every building and use
   
154.004   Bona fide farms exempt
   
154.005   Required yards not to be used by building
   
154.006   Relationship of building to lot
   
154.007   Street access
   
154.008   Reduction of lot and yard areas prohibited
   
154.009   Business uses of mobile homes and travel trailers
   
154.010   Temporary uses of manufactured homes
   
154.011   Official Zoning District Map
   
154.012   Remedies
   
154.013   Interpretation, purpose, and conflict
   
154.014   Density credits or severable development rights
   
154.015   Town of Rose Hill Comprehensive Plan
Zoning Districts and Boundaries
   
154.025   Zoning districts
   
154.026   District boundaries
   
154.027   Consideration given to boundary delineations
   
154.028   District boundaries established
   
154.029   Interpretation of district boundaries
District Regulations
   
154.040   Generally
   
154.041   R-1 Residential District
   
154.042   R-2 Residential District
   
154.043   R-3 Residential District
   
154.044   MH Manufactured Home Residential District
   
154.045   NB Neighborhood Business District
   
154.046   CB Central Business District
   
154.047   HB-1 Highway Business District
   
154.048   HB-2 Highway Business District
   
154.049   I-1 Industrial District
   
154.050   I-2 Industrial District
   
154.051   I-3 Industrial District
   
154.052   MU Mixed Use District
Exceptions and Modifications
   
154.065   Generally
   
154.066   Front yard modifications in residential districts
   
154.067   Other yard modifications
   
154.068   Height limit exceptions
Sign Regulations
   
154.080   Generally
   
154.081   Signs permitted in conjunction with nonconforming uses
   
154.082   Freestanding signs
   
154.083   Permanent wall signs
   
154.084   Commercial signs
   
154.085   Off-premise signs
   
154.086   Institutional signs
   
154.087   Unsafe and unlawful signs
   
154.088   Exemptions
   
154.089   Flashing signs
   
154.090   Flags and banners
Off-Street Parking
   
154.105   Generally
   
154.106   Certification of minimum parking requirements
   
154.107   Combination of required parking space
   
154.108   Remote parking space
   
154.109   Requirements for parking lots in residential districts
   
154.110   Minimum parking requirements
   
154.111   Mobile home and travel trailer parking and storing
   
154.112   Inoperative vehicles
Off-Street Loading Space
   
154.125   Generally
Buffers
   
154.140   Generally
Nonconforming Situations
   
154.155   Definitions
   
154.156   Continuation of nonconforming situations
   
154.157   Nonconforming lots
   
154.158   Extension or enlargement of nonconforming situations
   
154.159   Change in kind of nonconforming use
   
154.160   Abandonment and discontinuance of nonconforming situations
Special Uses
   
154.175   Purpose
   
154.176   Application and fees
   
154.177   Procedure for reviewing special use applications
   
154.178   General provisions concerning special use permits
Cemeteries
   
154.190   Generally
Planned Unit Developments
   
154.205   Generally
   
154.206   Purposes
   
154.207   Required information
   
154.208   Exceptions
   
154.209   Bulk regulations
   
154.210   Designation of permanent common open space
   
154.211   Minimum lot area in residential planned unit developments
Mobile Home Parks
   
154.225   Generally
   
154.226   Administration
   
154.227   Development standards
   
154.228   Nonconforming mobile home parks
Board of Adjustment
   
154.240   Establishment
   
154.241   Proceedings
   
154.242   Powers and duties
   
154.243   Appeal
Administration and Enforcement
   
154.255   Administrative Official
   
154.256   Permit administration
   
154.257   Appeals of administrative decisions
   
154.258   Building permit
   
154.259   Certificate of occupancy
Changes and Amendments
   
154.270   Generally
   
154.271   Action by the applicant
   
154.272   Amending the ordinance
   
154.273   Notice of hearing on proposed zoning map amendments
   
154.274   Citizen comments
   
154.275   Action by the Board of Adjustment
   
154.276   Action by the Town Board
   
154.277   Planning Board
   
154.278   Town Board of Commissioners
   
154.279   Quasi-judicial procedures
   
154.280   Conflicts of interest
 
   
154.999   Enforcement and penalties
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Zoning Code” or “ordinance” or
“chapter,” and the map herein referred to, which is identified by the title
“Zoning District Map,” shall be known as the “Zoning Map.”
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 4-8-2008; Ord. passed
12-9-2008; Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
§ 154.002 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless otherwise specifically provided, or unless otherwise clearly required
by the context, the words and phrases defined in G.S. Ch. 160D shall have the
meanings herein set forth when used in this chapter. If a word or phrase used
in this chapter is not defined by this section or elsewhere in this chapter, to
the extent such word or phrase is defined in G.S. Ch. 160D, that definition
shall control. All words used in the present tense shall include the future
tense; all words in the singular number shall include the plural number; and
all words in the plural number shall include the singular number unless the
natural construction of the wording indicates otherwise; the words USED FOR
shall include the meaning DESIGNED FOR; the word STRUCTURE shall include the
word BUILDING; the word LOT shall include the words PLOT and TRACT and the word
SHALL is mandatory.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING. A subordinate use building customarily incident to and
located upon the same lot occupied by the main use building.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal
use or building and located on the same lot with the principal use or building.
   ALLEY. A roadway which affords only a secondary means of access to abutting
property and not intended for general traffic circulation.
   APARTMENT. A room or, suite of one or more rooms, in a two-family dwelling
or multiple-family dwelling intended for use as a residence by a single family.
   APARTMENT HOUSE. See DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY and DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY.
   BOARDING HOUSE. A building other than a hotel or motel where, for
compensation, meals are served.
   BONA FIDE FARM PURPOSES. Agricultural activities as set forth in G.S. §
160D-903. The provisions of this chapter shall not affect property used for
bona fide farm purposes within the town’s extraterritorial jurisdiction;
provided, however, this chapter shall apply to the use of farm property for
nonfarm purposes. The provisions of G.S. § 160D-903 shall control whether the
use of property is for “bona fide farm purposes,” and the provisions of such
section are incorporated herein by reference as if set forth herein verbatim.
In the event of any conflict between this chapter and G.S. Ch. 160D, the
provisions of G.S. Ch. 160D shall control.
   BUILDING. Any structure enclosed and isolated by exterior walls constructed
or used for residence, business, industry, or other public or private purposes,
or accessory thereto, and including tents, lunch wagons, dining cars, trailers,
manufactured homes, and attached or unattached carports consisting of a roof
and supporting members, and similar structures whether stationary or mobile.
   BUILDING, HEIGHT OF. The vertical distance from the average sidewalk grade
or street grade, or finished grade at the building line, whichever is the
highest, to the highest point of the building.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE. A line establishing the minimum allowable distance
between the nearest portion of any building, excluding uncovered porches,
steps, eaves and gutters, and the nearest right-of-way line of any street when
measured perpendicularly thereto.
   DEVELOPER. A person, including a governmental agency or redevelopment
authority, who undertakes any development and who is the landowner of the
property to be developed or who has been authorized by the landowner to
undertake development on that property.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any of the following:
      (1)   The construction, erection, alteration, enlargement, renovation,
substantial repair, movement to another site, or demolition of any structure.
      (2)   The excavation, grading, filling, clearing, or alteration of land.
      (3)   The subdivision of land as defined in G.S. § 160D-802.
      (4)   The initiation or substantial change in the use of land or the
intensity of use of land.
   DISPLAY MODEL. An unoccupied and prefabricated building or structure (the
manufactured product) temporarily erected or located on the same lot with a
principal use or building for the primary purpose of notifying the general
public that this particular type of product is for sale.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, manufactured home, or mobile home, or
part thereof, used and occupied for human habitation or intended to be so used,
and includes any outhouses and appurtenances belonging thereto or usually
enjoyed therewith.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A detached building designed for or occupied
exclusively by three or more families living independently of each other and
doing their own cooking therein, including apartments, apartment hotels, and
group houses.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A detached building designed for or occupied
exclusively by one family.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A detached building designed for or occupied
exclusively by two families living independently of each other.
   FAMILY. Any number of individuals living together as a single housekeeping
unit.
   FAMILY CARE HOME. A home with support and supervisory personnel that
provides room and board, personal care, and habilitation services in a family
environment for not more than six resident persons with disabilities. For
purposes of this definition, “persons with disabilities” means persons with a
temporary or permanent physical, emotional, or mental disability, including,
but not limited to, mental retardation, cerebral palsy, epilepsy, autism,
hearing and sight impairments, emotional disturbances, and orthopedic
impairments but not including mentally ill persons who are dangerous to others
defined in G.S. § 122C-3(11)b.
   FILLING STATION. See SERVICE STATION.
   FRONTAGE. All the property abutting on one side of a street between two
intersecting streets, measured along the street line.
   FUEL PUMP ISLAND. A fuel pump island consists of any device or group of
devices used for dispensing motor fuel or similar petroleum products to the
general public. Any supportive structure (concrete or other types of bases)
physically connected to both a fuel pump and the ground shall be a part of the
FUEL PUMP ISLAND.
   GARAGE, COMMERCIAL. Any building or premises, except those described as a
private or parking garage, used for the storage or care of motor vehicles, or
where the vehicles are equipped for operation, repaired, or kept for
remuneration, hire, or sale.
   GARAGE, PARKING. Any building or premises, other than a private or
commercial garage, used exclusively for the parking or storage of motor
vehicles.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. A building or space used as an accessory to or a part of
the main building permitted in any residential district, and providing for the
storage of motor vehicles and in which no business, occupation, or service for
profit is in any way conducted.
   GAZEBO. A freestanding roofed structure that is open on all sides and does
not exceed 150 square feet in floor area (floor area can be wood, concrete,
gravel, or dirt), measured from the innermost edge(s) of the structure’s
supports; not considered for use as a motor vehicle parking garage/shelter or
an accessory building.
   GUEST HOUSE (TOURIST HOME). Any dwelling occupied by owner or operator in
which rooms are rented for guests and for lodging of transients and travelers
for compensation.
   HEAVY INDUSTRY. A use engaged in the basic processing and manufacturing of
materials or products, predominately from extracted or raw materials, or a use
engaged in storage of, or manufacturing processes using, flammable or explosive
materials, or storage or manufacturing processes that potentially involve
hazardous or commonly recognized offensive conditions.
   HOME OCCUPATION. Any profession or occupation carried on entirely within a
dwelling by one or more occupants thereof, providing that the use is clearly
incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling for dwelling purposes, that
no more than 25% of the total floor area is used for the purposes, that there
is no outside or window display, that no merchandise or commodity is sold on
the premises except such as may be produced by members of the immediate family
residing on the premises, that no mechanical equipment is installed or used
other than is normally used for domestic or professional purposes, and
providing that no person not a resident of the dwelling is employed in
connection with the HOME OCCUPATION.
   HOTEL (MOTEL). A building or other structure kept, used, maintained, or
advertised as or held out to the public to be a place where sleeping
accommodations are supplied for pay to transient or permanent guests or
tenants, where rooms are furnished for the accommodation of the guests; and
having or not having one or more dining rooms, restaurants, or cafes where
meals or lunches are served to the transient or permanent guests, the sleeping
accommodations and dining rooms, restaurants, or cafés, if existing, being
conducted in the same building or buildings in connection therewith.
   INOPERATIVE VEHICLE. Any vehicle, designed to be self-propelled, which, by
virtue of broken or missing component parts, is no longer capable of self-
propulsion. For the purposes of this chapter, any vehicle which is registered
with the State Division of Motor Vehicles and has a current state motor vehicle
registration license affixed to it shall not be considered INOPERATIVE.
   JUNK YARD. Any land or area used, in whole or in part, for storage and/or
sale of waste paper, rags, scrap metal, vehicles, or other junk, and including
storage of motor vehicles and dismantling of the vehicles or machinery.
   LIGHT INDUSTRY. A use engaged in the manufacture, predominantly from
previously prepared materials, of finished products or parts, including
processing, fabrication, assembly, treatment, packaging, incidental storage,
sales, and distribution of the products, but excluding basic industrial
processing such as the type(s) that exist(s) in heavy industrial uses.
   LOT. A parcel of land in single ownership occupied or intended for occupancy
by a building together with its accessory building, including the open space
required under this chapter. For the purpose of this chapter, the word LOT
shall be taken to mean any number of contiguous lots or portions thereof, upon
which one or more main structures for a single use are to be erected.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting upon two or more streets at their intersection.
   LOT, DEPTH OF A. The distance measured in the main direction of the side
lines of the lot from the midpoint of the front lot line to the midpoint of the
opposite main rear line of the lot.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot.
   LOT LINES. The lines bounding a lot.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is a part of a subdivision, a plat of which has
been recorded in the office of the County Register of Deeds, or a lot described
by metes and bounds, the description of which has been recorded in the office
of the Register of Deeds.
   LOT, THROUGH. An interior lot having frontage on two parallel streets.
   LOT WIDTH. The straight line distance between the points where the building
setback line intersects the two side lot lines.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure as defined in G.S. § 143-145(7) as which is
transportable in one or more sections, which in the traveling mode is eight
body feet or more in width, or 40 body feet or more in length, or, when erected
on site, is 320 or more square feet; and which is built on a permanent chassis
and designed to be used as a dwelling, with or without permanent foundation
when connected to the required utilities, including the plumbing, heating, air
conditioning and electrical systems contained therein. MANUFACTURED HOME
includes any structure that meets all of the requirements of this definition
except the size requirements and with respect to which the manufacturer
voluntarily files a certification required by the Secretary of HUD and complies
with the standards established under the Act. For manufactured homes built
before June 15, 1976, MANUFACTURED HOME means a portable manufactured housing
unit designed for transportation
on its own chassis and placement on a temporary or semipermanent foundation
having a measurement of over 32 feet in length and over eight feet in width.
MANUFACTURED HOME also means a double-wide manufactured home, which is two or
more portable manufactured housing units designed for transportation on their
own chassis that connects on site for placement on a temporary or semipermanent
foundation having a measurement of over 32 feet in length and over eight feet
in width.
      (1)   MANUFACTURED HOME, CLASS A. A manufactured home constructed after
7-1-1976 that meets or exceeds the construction standards promulgated by the
U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development that were in effect at the
time of construction and that satisfies the following additional criteria.
         (a)   The manufactured home has a length not exceeding four times its
width.
         (b)   The manufactured home has a minimum of 1,200 square feet of
enclosed living area.
         (c)   The pitch of the roof of the manufactured home has a minimum
vertical rise of two and two-tenths feet for each 12 feet of horizontal run and
the roof is finished with a type of shingle that is commonly used in standard
residential construction.
         (d)   All roof structures shall provide an eave projection of no less
than six inches, which may include a gutter.
         (e)   The exterior siding consists predominantly of vinyl or aluminum
horizontal lap siding (that does not exceed the reflectivity of gloss white
paint), wood, or hardboard, comparable in composition, appearance, and
durability to the exterior siding commonly used in standard residential
construction.
         (f)   The home is set up in accordance with the standards set by the
State Department of Insurance, and a continuous, permanent masonry foundation
or curtain wall, unpierced except for required ventilation and access, is
installed under the manufactured home.
         (g)   Stairs, porches, entrance platforms, ramps, and other means of
entrance and exit to and from the home shall be installed or constructed in
accordance with the standards set by the State Department of Insurance,
attached firmly to the primary structure and anchored securely to the ground.
         (h)   The moving hitch, wheels and axles, and transporting lights have
been removed.
      (2)   MANUFACTURED HOME, CLASS B. A manufactured home constructed that
meets or exceeds the construction standards promulgated by the U.S. Department
of Housing and Urban Development that were in effect at the time of
construction and that meet or exceed the criteria in divisions (f), (g), and
(h) for Class A homes.
      (3)   MANUFACTURED HOME, CLASS C. Any manufactured home that does not
meet the definitional criteria of a Class A or Class B manufactured home.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. Any site or tract of land of contiguous ownership
upon which manufactured home spaces are provided for manufactured home
occupancy, whether or not a charge is made for the service. This does not
include manufactured home sales lots on which unoccupied manufactured homes are
parked for the purpose of inspection and sales.
   MANUFACTURED HOME SPACE. A plot of land within a manufactured home park
designed for the accommodation of one manufactured home.
   MINI-STORAGE BUILDINGS. A building containing multiple storage spaces
available to the general public for rental so as to store various items,
equipment, and materials, but excluding any material that is inflammable or
explosive or that creates hazardous or commonly recognized offensive
conditions.
   MOBILE OR MANUFACTURED OFFICE. A structure identical to a manufactured home,
except that it has been converted, or originally designed and constructed, for
commercial or office use.
   MODULAR STRUCTURE. A structure as defined in G.S. § 105-164.3(143) as a
factory- built structure that is designed to be used as a dwelling, is
manufactured in accordance with the specifications for modular homes under the
North Carolina State Residential Building Code, and bears a seal or label
issued by the Department of Insurance pursuant to G.S. § 143-139.1.
   NONCONFORMING USE. The use of a building, mobile home, or land which does
not conform to the use regulations of this chapter or as a result of subsequent
amendments which may be incorporated into this chapter.
   OVERHEAD CANOPY. Any structure placed over, around, or near a fuel pump
island or bank drive-thru and intended to provide lighting and/or protection
from nature’s elements for island users.
   PARKING LOT. An area or plot of land used for the storage or parking of
vehicles.
   PARKING SPACE. A storage space of not less than nine feet by 18 feet for one
automobile, plus the necessary access space.
   PERSON. Includes an individual, partnership, firm, association, joint
venture, public or private corporation, trust, estate, commission, board,
public or private institution, utility, cooperative, interstate body, the State
of North Carolina and its agencies and political subdivisions, or other legal
entity.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. A form of development usually characterized by a
unified site design for a number of housing units, clustering buildings, and
providing common open space, density increases, and a mix of building types and
land uses.
   POULTRY FARM. A tract of land devoted to raising 500 or more poultry-type
animals.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR STREET. Any road or street, within a mobile home park, group
housing project, commercial center, industrial park, or other development which
is not publicly maintained and is used for access by the occupants of the
development, their guests, and the general public.
   QUASI-JUDICIAL DECISION. A decision involving the finding of facts regarding
a specific application of a development regulation and that requires the
exercise of discretion when applying the standards of the regulation. The term
includes, but is not limited to, decisions involving variances, special use
permits, and appeals of administrative determinations. Decisions on the
approval of subdivision plats and site plans are quasi-judicial in nature if
the regulation authorizes a decision- making board to approve or deny the
application based not only upon whether the application complies with the
specific requirements set forth in the regulation, but also on whether the
application complies with one or more generally stated standards requiring a
discretionary decision on the findings to be made by the decision-making board.
   SERVICE STATION. Any building or land used for the dispensing, sale, or
offering for sale at retail any automobile fuels, lubricants, tires, and
accessories, except that car washing, mechanical and electrical repairs, and
tire repairs are only performed incidental to the conduct of the service
station and performed indoors. Incidental activities shall not include tire
retreading, major body work, or major mechanical work.
   SHOPPING CENTER. A grouping of retail businesses and/or service uses on a
single site with common parking facilities.
   SIGN. Any words, lettering, figures, numerals, emblems, devices, trademarks,
or trade names, or any combination thereof, by which anything is made known and
which is designed to attract attention and/or convey a message.
   SPECIAL USE PERMIT. A permit issued to authorize development or land uses in
a particular zoning district upon presentation of competent, material, and
substantial evidence establishing compliance with one or more general standards
requiring that judgement and discretion be exercised as well as compliance with
specific standards pursuant to §§
154.175 to
154.178 herein.
   STABLE, PRIVATE. A stable on a lot not less than one acre in size which has
a capacity of not more than one horse for each 10,000 square feet of lot area
and where the horses are owned by the owners or occupants of the premises and
are not kept for remuneration, hire, or sale.
   STABLE, PUBLIC. A stable meeting the same requirements as a private stable,
except that the horses may be owned by persons other than the owners or
occupants of the premises and may be kept for remuneration, hire, or sale.
   STORY. The portion of a building included between the surface of any floor
and the surface of the next floor above it, or if there be no floor above it,
then the space between the floor and the ceiling next above it. In computing
the height of a building, the height of a basement or cellar, if below grade,
shall not be included.
   STREET. A thoroughfare which affords the principal means of access to
abutting property, including avenue, place, way, drive, land, boulevard,
highway, road, and any other thoroughfare, except an alley.
   STREET LINE. The line between the street and abutting property.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATION. Any change, except for repair or replacement, in the
supporting members of a building, such as bearing walls, columns, beams, or
girders.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
location on the land or attachment to something having a permanent location on
the land.
   SWINE FARM. A tract of land devoted to raising 250 or more animals of the
porcine species.
   TEMPORARY OPERATING PERMIT. A certificate issued by the Town Board
authorizing a nonconforming mobile home park to be maintained and operated for
a period of six months subject only to the provisions of this chapter made
expressly applicable to the park.
   TOURIST HOME. See GUEST HOUSE.
   TOWN BOARD. The Town Board of the Town of Rose Hill, North Carolina.
   TOWN OF ROSE HILL COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. A Comprehensive Plan that sets forth
goals, policies, and programs intended to guide the present and future
physical, social, and economic development of the town. This Plan is intended
to guide coordinated, efficient, and orderly development within the planning
and development regulation jurisdiction of the town based on an analysis of
present and future needs. Such planning analysis may address inventories of
existing conditions and assess future trends regarding demographics and
economic, environmental, and cultural factors. This Plan addresses many of the
factors set forth in G.S. § 160D-501(b), and future updates to such Plan may
address any or all of the factors therein described. The Comprehensive Plan
shall follow the process mandated for the adoption of zoning text amendments
set forth in §§
154.270 to
154.276 herein. All zoning regulations shall be made in accordance with the
Comprehensive Plan.
   TRAVEL TRAILER. Any vehicle or structure originally designed to be
transported and intended for human occupancy for short periods of time, the
vehicle usually containing limited or no kitchen and bathroom facilities.
TRAVEL TRAILERS shall include the following:
      (1)   CAMPING TRAILER. A folding structure manufactured of metal, wood,
canvas, and/or other materials, mounted on wheels and designed for travel,
recreation, and vacation use;
      (2)   HOUSE TRAILER. A vehicular, portable structure built on a wheeled
chassis, designed to be towed by a self-propelled vehicle for use for travel,
recreation, and vacation purposes, having a body width eight feet or less or a
body length 32 feet or less when equipped for road travel;
      (3)   MOTOR HOME. A portable, temporary dwelling to be used for travel,
recreation, and vacation, constructed as an integral part of a self-propelled
vehicle. This definition shall include vans or panel trucks equipped for
camping; and
      (4)   PICK-UP COACH. A portable structure for use as a temporary dwelling
for travel, recreation, and vacation, designed to be mounted on a truck chassis
for a temporary dwelling while either mounted or dismounted.
   WAREHOUSING AND DISTRIBUTION OPERATIONS. A use engaged in storage,
wholesale, and distribution of manufactured products, supplies, and equipment,
but excluding bulk storage of materials that are inflammable or explosive or
that create hazardous or commonly recognized offensive conditions.
   YARD. An open space on the same lot with a building, unoccupied and
unobstructed from the ground upward, except by trees or shrubbery or as
otherwise provided herein.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard across the full width of the lot, extending from the
front line of the building, excluding steps and uncovered porches, to the road
or street right-of-way.
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the full width of the lot and measured
between the rear line of the lot and the rear line of the main building.
   YARD, SIDE. An open unoccupied space on the same lot with a building between
the building and the side line of the lot extending through from the front
building line to the rear yard or to the rear line of the lot, where no rear
yard is required.
   ZONING MAP. The official zoning map of the Town of Rose Hill, North
Carolina, dated June 29, 2021 with all amendments subsequently adopted. The
official zoning map is hereby incorporated by reference, and made a part of
this chapter. The official zoning map shall be referenced to as “Zoning
District Map” or “Zoning Map.”
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
§ 154.003 ZONING AFFECTS EVERY BUILDING AND USE.
   (A)   No person shall commence or proceed with development without first
securing approval from the town as herein provided.
   (B)   As defined in G.S. § 160D(12), DEVELOPMENT means any of the following:
      (1)   The construction, erection, alteration, enlargement, renovation,
substantial repair, movement to another site, or demolition of any structure.
      (2)   The excavation, grading, filling, clearing, or alteration of land.
      (3)   The subdivision of land as defined in G.S. § 160D-802.
      (4)   The initiation or substantial change in the use of land or the
intensity of use of land.
   (C)   No building or land shall hereafter be used and no building or part
thereof shall be erected, moved, or altered, except in conformity with the
regulation herein specified for the district in which it is located. The
provisions of this chapter shall apply within the corporate limits of the town
and within its extraterritorial jurisdiction as now or hereafter fixed, as
shown on the zoning map. The town may exercise any power conferred by G.S. Ch.
160D and this chapter in its extraterritorial jurisdiction that it is
exercising within its corporate limits.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 6-29-2021) Penalty,
see §
154.999
§ 154.004 BONA FIDE FARMS EXEMPT.
   This chapter shall in no way regulate, restrict, prohibit, or otherwise
deter any bona fide farm and its related uses, except that any use of the
property for non-farm purposes shall be subject to the regulations.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
§ 154.005 REQUIRED YARDS NOT TO BE USED BY BUILDING.
   The minimum yards or other open spaces required by this chapter for each and
every building hereafter erected, moved, or structurally altered shall not be
encroached upon or considered as meeting the yard or open space requirements of
any other building. Where double frontage lots occur, the required front yard
shall be provided on both streets.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 6-29-2021) Penalty,
see §
154.999
§ 154.006 RELATIONSHIP OF BUILDING TO LOT.
   Every building hereafter erected, moved, or structurally altered shall be
located on a lot and in no case shall there be more than one principal building
and its customary accessory buildings on the lot, except as otherwise allowed.
Examples of where more than one principal building shall be allowed on one lot
are shopping centers, industrial complexes, residential planned unit
developments, mobile home parks, institutional and school complexes, and the
entire MU Mixed Use District. Within the MU Mixed Use District only, more than
one single-family dwelling, including Class A and Class B manufactured homes,
shall be allowed on one lot, provided, all single-family dwellings and their
respective accessory building(s) shall comply with the existing pertinent
dimensional requirements (including yard requirements) of this chapter as
though each building was on an individual lot. Any lot within the MU Mixed Use
District upon which are placed more than four Class A and/or Class B
manufactured homes shall be considered a mobile home park and regulated by §§
154.175 through
154.178 and
154.225 through
154.228; contiguous lots or tracts of land in common ownership shall be
considered as one lot for the purpose of determining the total number of
manufactured homes that exist on one lot.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 6-29-2021) Penalty,
see §
154.999
§ 154.007 STREET ACCESS.
   No building shall be erected on a lot which does not abut a street or have
access to a street, provided that in a designed shopping center in a business
district, or a planned project in a residential district, a building may be
erected adjoining a parking area or other dedicated open space, used in common
with other lots.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 6-29-2021) Penalty,
see §
154.999
§ 154.008 REDUCTION OF LOT AND YARD AREAS PROHIBITED.
   No yard or lot existing at the time of passage of this chapter shall be
reduced in size or area below the minimum requirements set forth herein. Yards
of lots created after the effective date of this chapter shall meet at least
the minimum requirements established by this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 6-29-2021) Penalty,
see §
154.999
§ 154.009 BUSINESS USES OF MOBILE HOMES AND TRAVEL TRAILERS.
   No mobile home or travel trailer shall be used as an office or in any manner
for business or commercial purposes except when used for temporary purposes,
such as construction offices, blood mobiles, book mobiles, traveling museums,
and political offices for no more than 48 hours at one site unless obtaining a
storage permit from the town or unless in conjunction with a permanent mobile
home sales lot.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 6-29-2021) Penalty,
see §
154.999
§ 154.010 TEMPORARY USES OF MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   Temporary use of a manufactured home as a residence shall be permitted in
any residential district in cases where the permanent home has been destroyed
through no fault of the owner or tenant. A temporary occupancy permit must be
obtained from the Administrative Official before the use of the manufactured
home is initiated. This occupancy permit shall be valid for a specified period
of time not to exceed six months while reconstruction takes place and may be
renewed no more than once.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 6-29-2021) Penalty,
see §
154.999
§ 154.011 OFFICIAL ZONING DISTRICT MAP.
   (A)   A new Zoning District Map is hereby adopted and made the Official
Zoning District Map and a part of this chapter. The Official Zoning District
Map shall be a map with the various zoned districts designated.
   (B)   The map shall be the legal document physically and graphically
describing the areas to be zoned under the provisions of this chapter. The map
shall be titled and denote any one or more of the various zoning land use
classifications of this chapter. The districts outlined by the map may be
changed by amending the map without change to the text of this chapter.
   (C)   The Official Zoning Map shall be maintained for public inspection in
the office of the Administrative Official. The official Zoning District Map
shall also be kept on file with the Clerk to the Town Board. Copies of the
Official Zoning District Map may be reproduced by any method of reproduction
that gives legible and permanent copies and, when certified by the Clerk to the
Town Board in accordance with G.S. § 160A-79, shall be admissible into evidence
and shall have the same force and effect as would the original map.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
§ 154.012 REMEDIES.
   In case any building or structure is erected, constructed, reconstructed,
altered, repaired, converted, or maintained, or any building, structure, or
land is used in violation of this chapter, the Administrative Official, or
appropriate authority or any adjacent or neighboring property owner who would
be affected by the violation, in addition to other remedies may institute
injunction, mandates, or other appropriate action in proceeding to prevent the
occupancy of the building, structure, or land.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
§ 154.013 INTERPRETATION, PURPOSE, AND CONFLICT.
   (A)   G.S. Ch. 160D is applicable to this chapter. In the event of any
conflict between this chapter and G.S. Ch. 160D, the provisions of G.S. Ch.
160D shall control.
   (B)   Application of certain terms.
      (1)   “Written” or “in writing” is deemed to include electronic
documentation.
      (2)   Unless specified otherwise, in the absence of evidence to the
contrary, delivery by first-class mail shall be deemed received on the third
business day following deposit of the item for mailing with the United States
Postal Service, and delivery by electronic mail shall be deemed received on the
date sent.
   (C)   In interpreting and applying the provisions of this chapter, they
shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public
safety, health, convenience, prosperity, and general welfare. It is not
intended by this chapter to interfere with, abrogate, or annul any easements,
covenants, or other agreements between parties; provided, however, that where
this chapter imposes a greater restriction upon the use of buildings or
premises or upon the height of buildings, or requires larger open spaces than
are imposed or required by other ordinances, rules, regulations, or by
easements, covenants, or agreements, the provisions of this chapter shall
govern. The Zoning Ordinance of 1957, plus amendments, and the Ordinance
Governing Mobile Home and Mobile Parks in the Town of Rose Hill, North Carolina
of 1968, are hereby repealed; however, nothing in this new Zoning Ordinance
shall be constructed to amend or repeal any other existing ordinances.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
§ 154.014 DENSITY CREDITS OR SEVERABLE DEVELOPMENT RIGHTS.
   Density credits or severable development rights for dedicated rights-of-way
shall be provided to a developer pursuant to G.S. § 136-66.10 or § 136-66.11.
The town reserves the right to determine whether density credits or severable
development rights shall be provided in any particular case.
(Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
§ 154.015 TOWN OF ROSE HILL COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
   (A)   The Town of Rose Hill Comprehensive Plan sets forth the goals,
policies, and programs intended to guide the present and future physical,
social, and economic development of the town. The Comprehensive Plan was
established by the Planning Board pursuant to G.S. § 160D-501 and adopted by
the Town Board.
   (B)   The Comprehensive Plan will be designed to guide and accomplish a
coordinated, adjusted, and harmonious development of the town that will best
promote health, safety, morals, and general welfare, as well as efficiency and
economy in the development process.
   (C)   The Comprehensive Plan shall be considered by the Planning Board and
the Town Board when considering proposed amendments to this chapter. The
Comprehensive Plan was created by the Planning Board and approved by the Town
Board. Any future amendment of the Comprehensive Plan shall follow the
procedures for consideration and approval of a text amendment, as set forth in
§§
154.270 through
154.276 herein.
(Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
ZONING DISTRICTS AND BOUNDARIES
§ 154.025 ZONING DISTRICTS.
   In order to achieve the purposes of this chapter as set forth in this
chapter, the town zoning area is hereby divided into the zoning districts
listed below:
   (A)   R-1 Residential District;
   (B)   R-2 Residential District;
   (C)   R-3 Residential District;
   (D)   MH Manufactured Home Residential District;
   (E)   NB Neighborhood Business District;
   (F)   CB Central Business District;
   (G)   HB-1 Highway Business District;
   (H)   HB-2 Highway Business District;
   (I)   I-1 Industrial District;
   (J)   I-2 Industrial District;
   (K)   I-3 Industrial District; and
   (L)   MU Mixed Use District.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
§ 154.026 DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   The boundaries of the zones are shown upon the map accompanying the
ordinance codified in this chapter and made a part hereof, entitled “Zoning
District Map, Town of Rose Hill, North Carolina.” The Zoning Map and all the
notations, references, and all amendments thereto, and other information shown
thereon is hereby made a part of this chapter the same as if the information
set forth on the map were all fully described and set out herein. The Zoning
Map properly attested is on file in the office of the Town Clerk and is
available for inspection by the public.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
§ 154.027 CONSIDERATION GIVEN TO BOUNDARY DELINEATIONS.
   In the creation, by this chapter, of the respective zones, the Town Board
has given due and careful consideration to the peculiar suitability of each and
every zone for the particular regulations applied thereto, and the necessary,
proper, and comprehensive groupings and arrangements of the various uses and
densities of population in accordance with a well-considered plan for the
development of the town.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
§ 154.028 DISTRICT BOUNDARIES ESTABLISHED.
   The boundaries of the zones as are shown upon the map adopted by this
chapter are hereby adopted and the provisions of this chapter governing the use
of land and buildings, the height of buildings, building site areas, the sizes
of yards about buildings, and other matters as hereinafter set forth are hereby
established and declared to be in effect upon all land included within the
boundaries of each and every zone shown upon the map.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
§ 154.029 INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   Generally. Where uncertainty exists as to boundaries of any zone shown
on the map, the following rules shall apply.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   Where the zone boundaries are indicated as approximately following
street lines, alley lines, and lot lines, the lines shall be construed to be
the boundaries.
      (2)   In unsubdivided property or where a zone boundary divides a lot,
the location of the boundary, unless the same is indicated by dimensions, shall
be determined by use of the scale appearing on the map.
      (3)   In case any further uncertainty exists, the Board of Adjustment
shall interpret the intent of the map as to location of the boundaries.
      (4)   Where any street or alley is hereafter officially vacated or
abandoned, the regulations applicable to each parcel of abutting property shall
apply to that portion of the street or alley added thereto by virtue of the
vacation or abandonment.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 154.040 GENERALLY.
   Within the districts as indicated on the Zoning Map, no building or land
shall be used and no building shall be erected or altered which is intended or
designed to be used in whole or in part for any use other than those listed as
permitted for that district in this section.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 6-29-2021) Penalty,
see §
154.999
§ 154.041 R-1 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Generally. This district is established as a district in which the
principal use of land is for low density residential purposes. In promoting the
general purpose of this chapter, the specific intent of this section is:
      (1)   To encourage the construction of and the continued use of the land
for residential purposes;
      (2)   To encourage the development of residential neighborhoods that
compliment one another in creating an overall balance in the community by
providing for a variety of dwellings suitable to all lifestyles and family
sizes;
      (3)   To prohibit commercial and industrial use of the land and to
prohibit any other use which would substantially interfere with development or
continuation of dwellings in the district;
      (4)   To encourage the discontinuance of existing uses that would not be
permitted as new uses under the provisions of this chapter;
      (5)   To discourage any use which would generate traffic on minor streets
other than normal traffic to serve residents on those streets; and
      (6)   To discourage any use which, because of its character or size,
would create requirements and costs for public services, such as police and
fire protection, water supply, and sewerage, substantially in excess of the
requirements and costs if the district were developed solely for residential
purposes.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Single-family dwellings, excluding Class A, Class B, and Class C
manufactured homes;
      (2)   Single-family homes and their accessory buildings used solely as a
bed and breakfast;
      (3)   Accessory building(s) to residential uses, provided that no
accessory building shall be rented or occupied for gain except in association
with a permitted bed and breakfast, and provided that no accessory building
shall be constructed or occupied upon a lot until the construction of the main
building has commenced;
      (4)   Home occupations;
      (5)   Child day-cares/nurseries/after-school care facilities with an
adequate fenced-in outdoor play area;
      (6)   Churches;
      (7)   Golf courses and country clubs;
      (8)   Tennis and swim clubs;
      (9)   Fire and police stations;
      (10)   Civic, charitable, fraternal, and social organizations;
      (11)   Community and neighborhood parks, playgrounds, and recreation
centers;
      (12)   Public schools and private schools having curricula approximately
the same as ordinarily given in public schools; and
      (13)   Public utility distribution lines and easements, but not
transmission lines or substations.
   (C)   Dimensional requirements. Within the R-1 District as shown on the
Zoning Map, all of the following dimensional requirements shall be complied
with:
      (1)   Minimum required lot area:    8,000 square feet;
      (2)   Minimum required lot width: 50 feet;
      (3)   Minimum required front yard: 30 feet;
      (4)   Minimum required side yard: the minimum required side yard for each
side of every principal building shall be at least ten feet, except that any
side yard abutting a street shall be at least 15 feet. The sum of the two side
yards shall not be less than 20 feet; and
      (5)   Minimum required rear yard: 15 feet.
   (D)   Building height limits. No building shall exceed 35 feet in height
unless the depth of the front yard and total width of the side yards, both
required herein, shall be increased five feet for each ten feet, or fraction
thereof, of building height in excess of 35 feet.
   (E)   Location of accessory buildings. No accessory building shall be
erected in any required yard; provided, accessory buildings shall be permitted
in the required side and rear yards on condition that the accessory buildings
shall be at least five feet from a street right-of-way and at least five feet
from any property line not located on a street right-of-way. In addition, all
permitted accessory buildings shall be located at least ten feet from the
principal building and shall not encroach into any required easement(s).
Furthermore, accessory building(s)/use(s) shall be allowed on a contiguous lot
or tract of land under common ownership from the principal building/use with
which it is associated if the principal building/use itself would also be
permitted on the lot/tract; all accessory buildings located on contiguous lots
shall not encroach into any required easement(s) and shall be at least five
feet from a street right-of-way and at least five feet from any property line
not located on a street right-of-way.
   (F)   Location of gazebos. Gazebos shall be allowed in any yard; provided,
the gazebo shall be located at least five feet from a street right-of-way and
at least five feet from any property line not located on a street right-of-way.
In addition, all permitted gazebos shall be located at least ten feet from the
principal dwelling and shall not encroach into any required easement(s).
Furthermore, one gazebo shall be allowed on a contiguous lot or tract of land
under common ownership from the principal building/use with which it is
associated if the principal building/use itself would also be permitted on the
lot/tract. All gazebos located on contiguous lots shall not encroach into any
required easement(s) and shall be at least five feet from a street right-of-way
and at least five feet from any property line not located on a street right-of-
way.
   (G)   Corner visibility. On a corner lot, within the area formed by a
triangle 25 feet from the intersection of street right-of-way lines, there
shall be no obstruction to vision between a height of two feet and a height of
ten feet above the average center line grade of each street.
   (H)   Signs. See §§
154.080 through
154.090.
   (I)   Off-street parking. See §§
154.105 through
154.112.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 6-29-2021) Penalty,
see §
154.999
§ 154.042 R-2 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Generally. This district is established as a district in which the
principal use of land is for medium density residential purposes. In promoting
the general purpose of this chapter, the specific intent of this section is:
      (1)   To encourage the construction of and the continued use of the land
for residential purposes;
      (2)   To encourage the development of residential neighborhoods that
compliment one another in creating an overall balance in the community by
providing for a variety of dwellings suitable to all lifestyles and family
sizes;
      (3)   To prohibit commercial and industrial use of the land and to
prohibit any other use which would substantially interfere with development or
continuation of dwellings in the district;
      (4)   To encourage the discontinuance of existing uses that would not be
permitted as new uses under the provisions of this chapter;
      (5)   To discourage any use which would generate traffic on minor streets
other than normal traffic to serve residents on those streets; and
      (6)   To discourage any use which because of its character or size would
create requirements and costs for public services, such as police and fire
protection and water supply and sewerage, substantially in excess of the
requirements and costs if the district were developed solely for residential
purposes.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Single-family dwellings, including Class A manufactured homes but
excluding Class B and Class C manufactured homes;
      (2)   Two-family dwellings or multiple-family dwellings, excluding Class
A, Class B, and Class C manufactured homes;
      (3)   Accessory building(s) to residential uses, provided that no
accessory building shall be rented or occupied for gain, and provided that no
accessory building shall be constructed upon a lot until the construction of
the main building has commenced;
      (4)   Guest houses and boarding houses;
      (5)   Home occupations;
      (6)   Child day-cares/nurseries/after-school care facilities with an
adequate fenced-in outdoor play area;
      (7)   Churches;
      (8)   Golf courses and country clubs;
      (9)   Tennis and swim clubs;
      (10)   Fire and police stations;
      (11)   Civic, charitable, fraternal, and social organizations;
      (12)   Community and neighborhood parks, playgrounds, and recreation
centers;
      (13)   Public schools and private schools having curricula approximately
the same as ordinarily given in public schools;
      (14)   Public utility distribution lines and easements but not
transmission lines or substations;
      (15)   Nursing homes, convalescent homes, homes for the aged, and homes
for children; and
      (16)   Public fire and/or police training facilities which incorporate
all types of buildings, or portions thereof, including Class A and Class B
manufactured homes.
   (C)   Special uses.
      (1)   Cemeteries, which comply with §§
154.175 through
154.178 and
154.190;
      (2)   Residential planned unit developments, which comply with §§
154.175 through
154.178 and
154.205 through
154.211; and
      (3)   Mobile home parks, which comply with §§
154.175 through
154.178 and
154.225 through
154.228.
   (D)   Dimensional requirements. Within the R-2 District as shown on the
Zoning Map, all of the following dimensional requirements shall be complied
with:
      (1)   Minimum required lot area for the first dwelling unit: 8,000 square
feet;
      (2)   Minimum required additional lot area for each dwelling unit in
excess of one: 3,000 square feet;
      (3)   Minimum required lot width for the first dwelling unit: 50 feet;
      (4)   Minimum required additional lot width for each dwelling unit in
excess of one: 20 feet;
      (5)   Minimum required front yard: 20 feet;
      (6)   Minimum required side yard: the minimum required side yard for each
side of every principal building shall be at least ten feet, except that any
side yard abutting a street shall be at least 15 feet. The sum of the two side
yards shall not be less than 20 feet; and
      (7)   Minimum required rear yard: 15 feet.
   (E)   Building height limits. No building shall exceed 35 feet in height
unless the depth of the front yard and total width of the side yards, both
required herein, shall be increased five feet for each ten feet, or fraction
thereof, of building height in excess of 35 feet.
   (F)   Location of accessory buildings. No accessory building shall be
erected in any required yard; provided, accessory buildings shall be permitted
in the required side and rear yards on condition that the accessory buildings
shall be at least five feet from a street right-of-way and at least five feet
from any property line not located on a street right-of-way. In addition, all
permitted accessory buildings shall be located at least ten feet from the
principal building and shall not encroach into any required easement(s).
Furthermore, accessory building(s)/use(s) shall be allowed on a contiguous lot
or tract of land under common ownership from the principal building/use with
which it is associated if the principal building/use itself would also be
permitted on the lot/tract; all accessory buildings located on contiguous lots
shall not encroach into any required easement(s) and shall be at least five
feet from a street right-of-way and at least five feet from any property line
not located on a street right-of-way.
   (G)   Location of gazebos. Gazebos shall be allowed in any yard; provided,
the gazebo shall be located at least five feet from a street right-of-way and
at least five feet from any property line not located on a street right-of-way.
In addition, all permitted gazebos shall be located at least ten feet from the
principal dwelling and shall not encroach into any required easement(s).
Furthermore, one gazebo shall be allowed on a contiguous lot or tract of land
under common ownership from the principal building/use with which it is
associated if the principal building/use itself would also be permitted on the
lot/tract. All gazebos located on contiguous lots shall not encroach into any
required easement(s) and shall be at least five feet from a street right-of-way
and at least five feet from any property line not located on a street right-of-
way.
   (H)   Corner visibility. On a corner lot, within the area formed by a
triangle 25 feet from the intersection of street right-of-way lines, there
shall be no obstruction to vision between a height of two feet and a height of
ten feet above the average center line grade of each street.
   (I)   Signs. See §§
154.080 through
154.090.
   (J)   Off-street parking. See §§
154.105 through
154.112.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 6-29-2021) Penalty,
see §
154.999
§ 154.043 R-3 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Generally. This district is established as a district in which the
principal use of land is for high density residential purposes. In promoting
the general purpose of this chapter, the specific intent of this section is:
      (1)   To encourage the construction of and the continued use of the land
for residential purposes;
      (2)   To encourage the development of residential neighborhoods that
compliment one another in creating an overall balance in the community by
providing for a variety of dwellings suitable to all lifestyles and family
sizes;
      (3)   To prohibit commercial and industrial use of the land and to
prohibit any other use which would substantially interfere with development or
continuation of dwellings in the district;
      (4)   To encourage the discontinuance of existing uses that would not be
permitted as new uses under the provisions of this chapter;
      (5)   To discourage any use which would generate traffic on minor streets
other than normal traffic to serve residents on those streets; and
      (6)   To discourage any use which because of its character or size would
create requirements and costs for public services, such as police and fire
protection, water supply and sewerage, substantially in excess of the
requirements and costs if the district were developed solely for residential
purposes.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Single-family dwellings, including Class A manufactured homes but
excluding Class B and Class C manufactured homes;
      (2)   Two-family dwellings or multiple-family dwellings, excluding Class
A, Class B and Class C manufactured homes;
      (3)   Accessory building(s) to residential uses, provided that no
accessory building shall be rented or occupied for gain, and provided that no
accessory building shall be constructed upon a lot until the construction of
the main building has commenced;
      (4)   Guest houses and boarding houses;
      (5)   Home occupations;
      (6)   Child day-cares/nurseries/after-school care facilities with an
adequate fenced-in outdoor play area;
      (7)   Churches;
      (8)   Golf courses and country clubs;
      (9)   Tennis and swim clubs;
      (10)   Fire and police stations;
      (11)   Civic, charitable, fraternal and social organizations;
      (12)   Community and neighborhood parks, playgrounds, and recreation
centers;
      (13)   Public schools and private schools having curricula approximately
the same as ordinarily given in public schools;
      (14)   Public utility distribution lines and easements but not
transmission lines or substations; and
      (15)   Nursing homes, convalescent homes, homes for the aged, and homes
for children.
   (C)   Special uses.
      (1)   Cemeteries, which comply with §§
154.175 through
154.178 and
154.190;
      (2)   Residential planned unit developments, which comply with §§
154.175 through
154.178 and
154.205 through
154.211; and
      (3)   Mobile home parks, which comply with §§
154.175 through
154.178 and
154.225 through
154.228.
   (D)   Dimensional requirements. Within the R-3 District, as shown on the
Zoning Map, all of the following dimensional requirements shall be complied
with:
      (1)   Minimum required lot area for the first dwelling unit: 8,000 square
feet;
      (2)   Minimum required additional lot area for each dwelling unit in
excess of one: 3,000 square feet;
      (3)   Minimum required lot width for the first dwelling unit: 50 feet;
      (4)   Minimum required additional lot width for each dwelling unit in
excess of one: 20 feet;
      (5)   Minimum required front yard: 15 feet;
      (6)   Minimum required side yard: the minimum required side yard for each
side of every principal building shall be at least ten feet, except that any
side yard abutting a street shall be at least 15 feet. The sum of the two side
yards shall not be less than 20 feet; and
      (7)   Minimum required rear yard: ten feet.
   (E)   Building height limits. No building shall exceed 35 feet in height
unless the depth of the front yard and total width of the side yards, both
required herein, shall be increased five feet for each ten feet, or fraction
thereof, of building height in excess of 35 feet.
   (F)   Location of accessory buildings. No accessory building shall be
erected in any required yard; provided, accessory buildings shall be permitted
in the required side and rear yards on condition that the accessory buildings
shall be at least five feet from a street right-of-way and at least five feet
from any property line not located on a street right-of-way. In addition, all
permitted accessory buildings shall be located at least ten feet from the
principal building and shall not encroach into any required easement(s).
Furthermore, accessory building(s)/use(s) shall be allowed on a contiguous lot
or tract of land under common ownership from the principal building/use with
which it is associated if the principal building/use itself would also be
permitted on the lot/tract. All accessory buildings located on contiguous lots
shall not encroach into any required easement(s) and shall be at least five
feet from a street right-of-way and at least five feet from any property line
not located on a street right-of-way.
   (G)   Location of gazebos. Gazebos shall be allowed in any yard; provided,
the gazebo shall be located at least five feet from a street right-of-way and
at least five feet from any property line not located on a street right-of-way.
In addition, all permitted gazebos shall be located at least ten feet from the
principal dwelling and shall not encroach into any required easement(s).
Furthermore, one gazebo shall be allowed on a contiguous lot or tract of land
under common ownership from the principal building/use with which it is
associated if the principal building/use itself would also be permitted on the
lot/tract. All gazebos located on contiguous lots shall not encroach into any
required easement(s) and shall be at least five feet from a street right-of-way
and at least five feet from any property line not located on a street right-of-
way.
   (H)   Corner visibility. On a corner lot, within the area formed by a
triangle 25 feet from the intersection of street right-of-way lines, there
shall be no obstruction to vision between a height of two feet and a height of
ten feet above the average center line grade of each street.
   (I)   Signs. See §§
154.080 through
154.090.
   (J)   Off-street parking. See §§
154.105 through
154.112.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 6-29-2021) Penalty,
see §
154.999
§ 154.044 MH MANUFACTURED HOME RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Generally. This district is established as a district in which the
principal use of land is for medium density manufactured home residential
purposes. In promoting the general purpose of this chapter, the specific intent
of this section is:
      (1)   To encourage the construction of and the continued use of the land
for manufactured home residential purposes;
      (2)   To encourage the development of residential neighborhoods that
compliment one another in creating an overall balance in the community by
providing for a variety of dwellings suitable to all lifestyles and family
sizes;
      (3)   To prohibit commercial and industrial use of the land and to
prohibit any other use which would substantially interfere with development or
continuation of dwellings in the district;
      (4)   To encourage the discontinuance of existing uses that would not be
permitted as new uses under the provisions of this chapter;
      (5)   To discourage any use which would generate traffic on minor streets
other than normal traffic to serve residents on those streets; and
      (6)   To discourage any use which, because of its character or size,
would create requirements and costs for public services, such as police and
fire protection and water supply and sewerage, substantially in excess of the
requirements and costs if the district were developed solely for residential
purposes.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Class A and Class B manufactured homes used as single-family
dwellings, but excluding Class C manufactured homes;
      (2)   Single-family dwellings (other than manufactured homes);
      (3)   Accessory building(s) to residential uses, provided that no
accessory building shall be rented or occupied for gain, and provided that no
accessory building shall be constructed upon a lot until the construction of
the main building has commenced;
      (4)   Home occupations;
      (5)   Fire and police stations;
      (6)   Community and neighborhood parks, playgrounds, and recreation
centers; and
      (7)   Public utility distribution lines and easements, but not
transmission lines or substations.
   (C)   Dimensional requirements. Within the MH District as shown on the
Zoning Map, all of the following dimensional requirements shall be complied
with:
      (1)   Minimum required lot area: 8,000 square feet;
      (2)   Minimum required lot width: 50 feet;
      (3)   Minimum required front yard: 20 feet;
      (4)   Minimum required side yard: the minimum required side yard for each
side of every principal building shall be at least ten feet, except that any
side yard abutting a street shall be at least 15 feet. The sum of the two side
yards shall not be less than 20 feet; and
      (5)   Minimum required rear yard: 15 feet.
   (D)   Building height limits. No building shall exceed 35 feet in height
unless the depth of the front yard and total width of the side yards, both
required herein, shall be increased five feet for each ten feet, or fraction
thereof, of building height in excess of 35 feet.
   (E)   Location of accessory buildings. No accessory building shall be
erected in any required yard; provided, accessory buildings shall be permitted
in the required side and rear yards on condition that the accessory buildings
shall be at least five feet from a street right-of-way and at least five feet
from any property line not located on a street right-of-way. In addition, all
permitted accessory buildings shall be located at least ten feet from the
principal building and shall not encroach into any required easement(s).
Furthermore, accessory building(s)/use(s) shall be allowed on a contiguous lot
or tract of land under common ownership from the principal building/use with
which it is associated if the principal building/use itself would also be
permitted on the lot/tract; all accessory buildings located on contiguous lots
shall not encroach into any required easement(s) and shall be at least five
feet from a street right-of-way and at least five feet from any property line
not located on a street right-of-way.
   (F)   Location of gazebos. Gazebos shall be allowed in any yard; provided,
the gazebo shall be located at least five feet from a street right-of-way and
at least five feet from any property line not located on a street right-of-way.
In addition, all permitted gazebos shall be located at least ten feet from the
principal dwelling and shall not encroach into any required easement(s).
Furthermore, one gazebo shall be allowed on a contiguous lot or tract of land
under common ownership from the principal building/use with which it is
associated if the principal building/use itself would also be permitted on the
lot/tract; all gazebos located on contiguous lots shall not encroach into any
required easement(s) and shall be at least five feet from a street right-of-way
and at least five feet from any property line not located on a street right-of-
way.
   (G)   Corner visibility. On a corner lot, within the area formed by a
triangle 25 feet from the intersection of street right-of-way lines, there
shall be no obstruction to vision between a height of two feet and a height of
ten feet above the average center line grade of each street.
   (H)   Signs. See §§
154.080 through
154.090.
   (I)   Off-street parking. See §§
154.105 through
154.112.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 6-29-2021) Penalty,
see §
154.999
§ 154.045 NB NEIGHBORHOOD BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Generally. This district is established as a district in which the
principal use of land is for commercial and service use to serve the
surrounding residential district(s) and in which traffic and parking congestion
can be reduced to a minimum in order to preserve residential values and promote
the general welfare of the surrounding residential district(s). In promoting
the general purpose of this chapter, the specific intent of this section is:
      (1)   To encourage the construction of and continued use of the land for
neighborhood commercial and service purposes;
      (2)   To prohibit residential, heavy commercial, and industrial use of
the land and to prohibit any other use which would substantially interfere with
the development or continuation of the commercial structures in the district;
and
      (3)   To discourage any use which, because of its character or size,
would interfere with the use of land surrounding the district as a residential
area.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Accessory uses and structures incidental to any permitted principal
use;
      (2)   Display models;
      (3)   Artist and craftspeople studios, displays, or shops;
      (4)   Assembly halls;
      (5)   Automobile parts and accessories (new);
      (6)   Automobile service stations;
      (7)   Automobile car wash;
      (8)   Bank, savings and loan company, and other financial institutions;
      (9)   Boarding house and bed and breakfast;
      (10)   Business and professional offices, including architects, real
estate, legal, engineers, accountants, and physicians;
      (11)   Personal service establishments, such as barber shops, beauty
shops, and styling salons;
      (12)   Clinic (medical and dental);
      (13)   Club or lodge (civic, charitable, and fraternal);
      (14)   Convenience store;
      (15)   Child day-cares/nurseries/after-school care facilities with an
adequate fenced-in outdoor play area;
      (16)   Fire, police, and emergency services station;
      (17)   Food store;
      (18)   Grounds and facilities for public recreation such as community
center buildings, parks, playgrounds, and similar facilities operated on a
nonprofit basis;
      (19)   Laundry (commercial);
      (20)   Laundry (customer self-service);
      (21)   Library;
      (22)   Public buildings (town, county, state, federal, or regional
authority);
      (23)   Restaurants; and
      (24)   Mini-storage buildings.
   (C)   Dimensional requirements. Within the NB District as shown on the
Zoning Map, all of the following dimensional requirements shall be complied
with:
      (1)   No NB District shall contain less than one-half acre or more than
ten acres;
      (2)   Minimum required lot area: 8,000 square feet;
      (3)   Minimum required front yard setback: 35 feet (unless otherwise
stipulated);
      (4)   The minimum required setback for the outermost section(s) of an
overhead canopy (attached or unattached) or the outer edge of any fuel pump
island shall be ten feet from a street, road, or highway right-of-way. The
minimum required setback for a display model shall be 15 feet from a street,
road, or highway right-of-way;
      (5)   Minimum required side yard: 20 feet (unless otherwise stipulated);
      (6)   The minimum required setback for the outermost section(s) of an
overhead canopy (attached or unattached) or the outer edge of any fuel pump
island shall be ten feet from a street, road, or highway right-of-way. The
minimum required setback for a display model shall be 15 feet from a street,
road, or highway right-of-way; and
      (7)   Minimum required rear yard: 20 feet.
   (D)   Building height limits. No building shall exceed 35 feet in height
unless the depth of the front and total width of the side yards required herein
shall be increased one foot for each two feet, or fraction thereof, of building
in excess of 35 feet.
   (E)   Location of accessory buildings. No accessory building shall be
erected in any required yard; provided, accessory buildings shall be permitted
in the required side and rear yards on condition that the accessory buildings
shall be at least five feet from a street right-of-way and at least five feet
from any property line not located on a street right-of-way. In addition, all
permitted accessory buildings shall be located at least ten feet from the
principal building and shall not encroach into any required easement(s).
Furthermore, accessory building(s)/use(s) shall be allowed on a contiguous lot
or tract of land so long as it remains under common ownership with the
principal building/use with which it is associated if the principal building/
use itself would also be permitted on such lot/tract; all accessory buildings
located on contiguous lots shall not encroach into any required easement(s) and
shall be at least five feet from a street right-of-way and at least five feet
from any property line not located on a street right-of-way.
   (F)   Location of gazebos. Gazebos shall be allowed in any yard; provided,
the gazebo shall be located at least five feet from a street right-of-way and
at least five feet from any property line not located on a street right-of-way.
In addition, all permitted gazebos shall be located at least ten feet from the
principal dwelling and shall not encroach into any required easement(s).
Furthermore, one gazebo shall be allowed on a contiguous lot or tract of land
under common ownership from the principal building/use with which it is
associated if the principal building/use itself would also be permitted on the
lot/tract. All gazebos located on contiguous lots shall not encroach into any
required easement(s) and shall be at least five feet from a street right-of-way
and at least five feet from any property line not located on a street right-of-
way.
   (G)   Corner visibility. On a corner lot, within the area formed by a
triangle 25 feet from the intersection of right-of-way lines, there shall be no
obstruction to vision between a height of two feet and a height of ten feet
above the average center line grade of each street.
   (H)   Off-street loading and unloading space. See §
154.125.
   (I)   Off-street parking. See §§
154.105 through
154.112.
   (J)   Signs. See §§
154.080 through
154.090.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 12-9-2008; Ord.
passed 6-29-2021) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.046 CB CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Generally. This district is established as a district in which the use
of the land shall be for commercial and service uses relating to an urban and
rural market area. In promoting the general purpose of this chapter, the
specific intent of this section is:
      (1)   To encourage the construction of and the continued use of the land
for downtown commercial and service uses;
      (2)   To provide for the orderly expansion of the uses within the CB
Central Business District as designated on the Zoning Map;
      (3)   To prohibit both heavier commercial uses and industrial uses of the
land and to prohibit uses which would substantially interfere with both the
continuation of the uses presently in the district or the orderly growth of the
district to meet the needs of an increased population in the market area;
      (4)   To encourage the discontinuance of existing uses that would not be
permitted as new uses under the provisions of this section; and
      (5)   To permit a concentrated, intensive development of the permitted
uses while maintaining a substantial relationship between the intensity of land
use and the capacity of utilities and streets.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Off-street automobile parking;
      (2)   Banks and financial institutions;
      (3)   Shopping centers;
      (4)   Professional and business offices;
      (5)   Retail sales establishments;
      (6)   Pool rooms and video game rooms/arcades;
      (7)   Parks;
      (8)   Child day-cares/nurseries/after-school care facilities with an
adequate fenced-in outdoor play area;
      (9)   Dry cleaning and laundry pickup stations, and laundry and dry
cleaning establishments, provided the noninflammable cleaning fluids are used,
and that there is no emission of toxic or offensive odors;
      (10)   Publishing and printing establishments;
      (11)   Restaurants;
      (12)   Motels, hotels, guest houses, and boarding houses;
      (13)   Florist shops;
      (14)   Food stores;
      (15)   Video rental stores;
      (16)   Indoor theaters;
      (17)   Laboratories;
      (18)   Repair shops for radio, television, appliances, shoes, and the
like;
      (19)   Automobile service stations;
      (20)   Artist and craftspeople studios, displays, or shops;
      (21)   Personal service establishments, such as barber shops, beauty
shops, and styling salons;
      (22)   Public buildings;
      (23)   Antique shops;
      (24)   Taxi stands limited to five taxis;
      (25)   Civic, charitable, political, fraternal, social, and religious
organizations;
      (26)   Churches;
      (27)   Radio and television broadcasting studios;
      (28)   Funeral homes;
      (29)   Upholstery shops;
      (30)   Display models;
      (31)   Accessory uses clearly incidental to a permitted use and which
will not create a nuisance or hazard; and
      (32)   Bingo parlors.
   (C)   Building height limits. In the CB Central Business District, every
building hereafter erected or structurally altered to exceed 50 feet in height
shall be set back from the front lot line on the ratio of one foot for each two
feet, or fraction thereof, of building height in excess of 50 feet, but in no
case shall the required front setback exceed ten feet.
   (D)   Location of accessory buildings.  
      (1)   No accessory building shall be erected in any required yard;
provided, accessory buildings shall be permitted in the required side and rear
yards on condition that the accessory buildings shall be at least five feet
from a street right-of-way and at least five feet from any property line not
located on a street right-of-way. In addition, all permitted accessory
buildings shall be located at least ten feet from the principal building and
shall not encroach into any required easement(s). Furthermore, accessory
building(s)/use(s) shall be allowed on a contiguous lot or tract of land so
long as it remains under common ownership with the principal building/use with
which it is associated if the principal building/use itself would also be
permitted on such lot/tract; all accessory buildings located on contiguous lots
shall not encroach into any required easement(s) and shall be at least five
feet from a street right-of-way and at least five feet from any property line
not located on a street right-of-way.
   (E)   Minimum lot requirements. No lot or yard requirements exist in the CB
Central Business District, except as noted in division (C) above and as stated
below. Where the rear of a lot abuts a residential district, there shall be a
rear yard of not less than 15 feet in width, and where the side of a lot abuts
a residential district, there shall be a side yard of not less than ten feet in
width. In these cases, a buffer, as described in §
154.140, shall be required in addition to the required yards.
   (F)   Off-street loading and unloading space. No off-street loading space is
required in the CB Central Business District, except for hotels, tourist homes,
and motor courts.
   (G)   Signs. See §§
154.080 through
154.090.
   (H)   Off-street parking. See §§
154.105 through
154.112.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 12-9-2008; Ord.
passed 5-13-2014; Ord. passed 6-29-2021) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.047 HB-1 HIGHWAY BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Generally. This district is established as a district in which the
principal use of land is for the retailing of durable goods, provision of
commercial services to industrial areas and the provision of services to
transients. In promoting the general purposes of this chapter, the specific
intent of this section is:
      (1)   To encourage the continued use of land for commercial
establishments which provide services to industrial areas and transients;
      (2)   To discourage any use which because of its character would
interfere with the use of land for other commercial activities;
      (3)   To discourage any use, which because of its character or size,
would create requirements and costs for public services, such as police and
fire protection, water supply and sewerage, substantially in excess of the
requirements and costs if the district were developed solely for commercial
uses.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   All uses permitted in the CB, Central Business District;
      (2)   Drive-in restaurants;
      (3)   Drive-in theaters;
      (4)   Greenhouses;
      (5)   Wholesale merchants;
      (6)   Public utility storage or service yards;
      (7)   Building materials sales and storage;
      (8)   Radio and television transmitting stations and towers;
      (9)   Animal hospitals;
      (10)   Motor freight terminals;
      (11)   Bus stations;
      (12)   Automobile sales, services, and body repair garages;
      (13)   Mobile home, travel trailer, boat, and motorcycle sales and
services;
      (14)   Community and neighborhood parks, playgrounds and recreation
centers; and
      (15)   Accessory uses clearly incidental to a permitted use and which
will not create a nuisance or hazard.
   (C)   Building height limits. No building shall exceed 35 feet in height
unless the depth of the front and total width of the side yards required herein
shall be increased one foot for each two feet, or fraction thereof, of building
in excess of 35 feet.
   (D)   Minimum lot requirements.
      (1)   Minimum required lot area: 10,000 square feet; and
      (2)   Minimum required lot width: 60 feet.
   (E)   Minimum yards.
      (1)   Minimum required front yard. Unless otherwise stipulated, the
minimum required setback shall be 20 feet from any street, road, or highway
right-of-way, provided, no signs, parking or any other object between a height
of two feet and a height of ten feet shall be allowed within the first five
feet from a street, road, or highway right-of-way which may provide an
obstruction to visibility. The minimum required setback for the outermost
section(s) of an overhead canopy (attached or unattached) or the outer edge of
any fuel pump island shall be ten feet from a street, road, or highway right-
of-way. The minimum required setback for a display model shall be 15 feet from
a street, road, or highway right-of-way.
      (2)   Minimum required side yards. Unless otherwise stipulated, the
minimum required setback(s) shall be six feet from any property line and 15
feet from any street, road or highway right-of-way. Where the side yard abuts
upon a residential district, the side yard shall be at least 15 feet wide. The
minimum required setback for the outermost section(s) of an overhead canopy
(attached or unattached) or the outer edge of any fuel pump island shall be ten
feet from a street, road or highway right-of-way. The minimum required setback
for a display model shall be 15 feet from a street, road, or highway right-of-
way.
      (3)   Minimum required rear yard. The minimum required rear yard shall be
six feet. Wherever a lot abuts residential property, a buffer, as described in
§
154.140, shall be required.
   (F)   Location of accessory buildings. No accessory building shall be
erected in any required yard; provided, accessory buildings shall be permitted
in the required side and rear yards on condition that the accessory buildings
shall be at least five feet from a street right-of-way and at least five feet
from any property line not located on a street right-of-way. In addition, all
permitted accessory buildings shall be located at least ten feet from the
principal building and shall not encroach into any required easement(s).
Furthermore, accessory building(s)/use(s) shall be allowed on a contiguous lot
or tract of land so long as it remains under common ownership with the
principal building/use with which it is associated if the principal building/
use itself would also be permitted on such lot/tract; all accessory buildings
located on contiguous lots shall not encroach into any required easement(s) and
shall be at least five feet from a street right-of-way and at least five feet
from any property line not located on a street right-of-way.
   (G)   Location of gazebos. Gazebos shall be allowed in any yard; provided,
the gazebo shall be located at least five feet from a street right-of-way and
at least five feet from any property line not located on a street right-of-way.
In addition, all permitted gazebos shall be located at least ten feet from the
principal dwelling and shall not encroach into any required easement(s) .
Furthermore, one gazebo shall be allowed on a contiguous lot or tract of land
under common ownership from the principal building/use with which it is
associated if the principal building/use itself would also be permitted on the
lot/tract; all gazebos located on contiguous lots shall not encroach into any
required easement(s) and shall be at least five feet from a street right-of-way
and at least five feet from any property line not located on a street right-of-
way.
   (H)   Corner visibility. On a corner lot, within the area formed by an arc
25 feet from the intersection of right-of-way lines, there shall be no
obstruction to vision between a height of two feet and a height to ten feet
above the average center line grade of each street.
   (I)   Off-street loading and unloading space. See §
154.125.
   (J)   Off-street parking. See §§
154.105 through
154.112.
   (K)   Signs. See §§
154.080 through
154.090.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 12-9-2008; Ord.
passed 6-29-2021) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.048 HB-2 HIGHWAY BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Generally. This district is established as a district in which the
principal use of land is for the retailing of durable goods, provision of
commercial services to industrial areas, and the provision of services to
transients along an interstate highway corridor. In promoting the general
purpose of this chapter, the specific intent of this section is:
      (1)   To encourage the continued use of land for commercial
establishments which provide services to industrial areas and transients;
      (2)   To discourage any use which because of its character would
interfere with the use of land for other commercial activities; and
      (3)   To discourage any use which, because of its character or size,
would create requirements and costs for public services, such as police and
fire protection, water supply, and sewerage, substantially in excess of the
requirements and costs if the district were developed solely for commercial
uses.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   All uses permitted in the CB Central Business District;
      (2)   Drive-in restaurants;
      (3)   Drive-in theaters;
      (4)   Greenhouses;
      (5)   Wholesale merchants;
      (6)   Public utility storage or service yards;
      (7)   Building materials sales and storage;
      (8)   Radio and television transmitting stations and towers;
      (9)   Animal hospitals;
      (10)   Motor freight terminals;
      (11)   Bus stations;
      (12)   Automobile sales, services, and body repair garages;
      (13)   Mobile home, travel trailer, boat, and motorcycle sales and
services;
      (14)   Community and neighborhood parks, playgrounds, and recreation
centers; and
      (15)   Accessory uses clearly incidental to a permitted use and which
will not create a nuisance or hazard.
   (C)   Building height limits. No building shall exceed 35 feet in height
unless the depth of the front and total width of the side yards required herein
shall be increased one foot for each two feet, or fraction thereof, of building
in excess of 35 feet.
   (D)   Minimum lot requirements.
      (1)   Minimum required lot area: 10,000 square feet; and
      (2)   Minimum required lot width: 60 feet.
   (E)   Minimum yards.
      (1)   Minimum required front yard: unless otherwise stipulated, the
minimum required setback shall be 20 feet from any street, road, or highway
right-of-way, provided, no signs, parking, or any other object between a height
of two feet and a height of ten feet shall be allowed within the first five
feet from a street, road, or highway right-of-way which may provide an
obstruction to visibility. The minimum required setback for the outermost
section(s) of an overhead canopy (attached or unattached) or the outer edge of
any fuel pump island shall be ten feet from a street, road, or highway right-
of-way. The minimum required setback for a display model shall be 15 feet from
a street, road, or highway right-of-way;
      (2)   Minimum required side yards: unless otherwise stipulated, the
minimum required setback(s) shall be six feet from any property line and 15
feet from any street, road, or highway right-of-way. Where the side yard abuts
upon a residential district, the side yard shall be at least 15 feet wide. The
minimum required setback for the outermost section(s) of an overhead canopy
(attached or unattached) or the outer edge of any fuel pump island shall be ten
feet from a street, road, or highway right-of-way. The minimum required setback
for a display model shall be 15 feet from a street, road, or highway right-of-
way;
      (3)   Minimum required rear yard: 6 feet; and
      (4)   Wherever a lot abuts residential property, a buffer, as described
in §
154.140, shall be required.
   (F)   Location of accessory buildings. No accessory building shall be
erected in any required yard; provided, accessory buildings shall be permitted
in the required side and rear yards on condition that the accessory buildings
shall be at least five feet from a street right-of-way and at least five feet
from any property line not located on a street right-of-way. In addition, all
permitted accessory buildings shall be located at least ten feet from the
principal building and shall not encroach into any required easement(s).
Furthermore, accessory building(s)/use(s) shall be allowed on a contiguous lot
or tract of land so long as it remains under common ownership with the
principal building/use with which it is associated if the principal building/
use itself would also be permitted on such lot/tract; all accessory buildings
located on contiguous lots shall not encroach into any required easement(s) and
shall be at least five feet from a street right-of-way and at least five feet
from any property line not located on a street right-of-way.
   (G)   Location of gazebos. Gazebos shall be allowed in any yard; provided,
the gazebo shall be located at least five feet from a street right-of-way and
at least five feet from any property line not located on a street right-of-way.
In addition, all permitted gazebos shall be located at least ten feet from the
principal dwelling and shall not encroach into any required easement(s).
Furthermore, one gazebo shall be allowed on a contiguous lot or tract of land
under common ownership from the principal building/use with which it is
associated if the principal building/use itself would also be permitted on the
lot/tract. All gazebos located on contiguous lots shall not encroach into any
required easement(s) and shall be at least five feet from a street right-of-way
and at least five feet from any property line not located on a street right-of-
way.
   (H)   Corner visibility. On a corner lot, within the area formed by an arc
25 feet from the intersection of right-of-way lines, there shall be no
obstruction to vision between a height of two feet and a height to ten feet
above the average center line grade of each street.
   (I)   Off-street loading and unloading space. See §
154.125.
   (J)   Off-street parking. See §§
154.105 through
154.112.
   (K)   Signs. See §§
154.080 through
154.090.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 12-9-2008; Ord.
passed 6-29-2021) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.049 I-1 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Generally. This district is established as a district in which the
principal use of land is for wholesale activities, industrial research,
warehousing and distribution operations, and manufacturing operations. In
promoting the general purpose of this chapter, the specific intent of this
section is:
      (1)   To encourage the construction of and the continued use of the land
for wholesale and industrial buildings, and related research facilities;
      (2)   To discourage the use of the land for heavy industry and to
prohibit any other use which would substantially interfere with the development
or continuation of desirable industrial establishments in the district;
      (3)   To encourage the discontinuance of existing uses that would not be
permitted as new uses under the provision of this section; and
      (4)   To prohibit the use of the land for residences for the purpose both
of preserving the area for its appropriate use and for preventing the location
of residences in an area inappropriate for residential use.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Accessory uses clearly incidental to a permitted use and which will
not create a nuisance or hazard;
      (2)   Display models;
      (3)   Building materials’ storage and sales;
      (4)   Greenhouses;
      (5)   Printing and publishing establishments;
      (6)   Public buildings, parks, and conservation areas;
      (7)   Electronic data processing;
      (8)   Motor freight terminals;
      (9)   Off-street parking facilities;
      (10)   Industrial research offices and laboratories;
      (11)   Any form of agricultural, horticultural, or husbandry uses,
excluding swine farms and poultry farms, but including the sale of products on
the property where produced;
      (12)   Warehousing and distribution operations;
      (13)   Poultry hatcheries;
      (14)   Poultry processing plants;
      (15)   Light industry; and
      (16)   Meeting and event center, including an entertainment complex and
various dining facilities.
   (C)   Minimum requirements.
      (1)   Minimum required lot area: 50,000 square feet;
      (2)   Minimum required lot width: 100 feet;
      (3)   Minimum required front yard: 40 feet (unless otherwise stipulated);
      (4)   The minimum required front yard setback for a display model shall
be 25 feet from a street, road, or highway right-of-way;
      (5)   Minimum required distance between buildings, including accessory
buildings (unless otherwise stipulated): ten feet;
      (6)   Minimum required distance between display models and all other
buildings, including accessory buildings, shall be ten feet. No minimum
distance shall be required between display models;
      (7)   Minimum required side yard: 15 feet;
      (8)   Minimum required rear yard: 15 feet; and
      (9)   Whenever an industrial lot abuts residential property, a buffer, as
described in §
154.140, shall be erected along the residential property line.
   (D)   Location of accessory buildings. No accessory building shall be closer
than 15 feet to any property line not a railroad property line.
   (E)   Off-street loading and unloading space. See §
154.125.
   (F)   Off-street parking. See §§
154.105 through
154.112.
   (G)   Signs. See §§
154.080 through
154.090.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 6-29-2021) Penalty,
see §
154.999
§ 154.050 I-2 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Generally. This district is established as a district in which the
principal use of land is for wholesale activities, industrial research,
warehousing and distribution operations, and manufacturing operations, all
within the interstate highway corridor. In promoting the general purpose of
this chapter, the specific intent of this section is:
      (1)   To encourage the construction of and the continued use of the land
for wholesale and industrial buildings, and related research facilities;
      (2)   To discourage the use of the land for heavy industry and to
prohibit any other use which would substantially interfere with the development
or continuation of desirable industrial establishments in the district;
      (3)   To encourage the discontinuance of existing uses that would not be
permitted as new uses under the provision of this section; and
      (4)   To prohibit the use of the land for residences for the purpose both
of preserving the area for its appropriate use and for preventing the location
of residences in an area inappropriate for residential use.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Accessory uses clearly incidental to a permitted use and which will
not create a nuisance or hazard;
      (2)   Building materials’ storage and sales;
      (3)   Greenhouses;
      (4)   Printing and publishing establishments;
      (5)   Public buildings, parks, and conservation areas;
      (6)   Electronic data processing;
      (7)   Motor freight terminals;
      (8)   Off-street parking facilities;
      (9)   Industrial research offices and laboratories;
      (10)   Any form of agricultural, horticultural, or husbandry uses,
excluding swine farms and poultry farms, but including the sale of products on
the property where produced;
      (11)   Warehousing and distribution operations;
      (12)   Poultry hatcheries;
      (13)   Poultry processing plants; and
      (14)   Light industry.
   (C)   Dimensional requirements.
      (1)   Minimum required lot area: 50,000 square feet;
      (2)   Minimum required lot width: 100 feet;
      (3)   Minimum required front yard: 40 feet;
      (4)   Minimum required distance between buildings, including accessory
buildings: ten feet;
      (5)   Minimum required side yard: 15 feet;
      (6)   Minimum required rear yard: 15 feet; and
      (7)   Whenever an industrial lot abuts residential property, a buffer, as
described in §
154.140, shall be erected along the residential property line.
   (D)   Location of accessory buildings. No accessory building shall be closer
than 15 feet to any property line not a railroad property line.
   (E)   Off-street loading and unloading space. See §
154.125.
   (F)   Off-street parking. See §§
154.105 through
154.112.
   (G)   Signs. See §§
154.080 through
154.090.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 6-29-2021) Penalty,
see §
154.999
§ 154.051 I-3 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Generally. This district is established as a district in which the
principal use of land is for heavy industry. In promoting the general purposes
of this chapter, the specific intent of this section is:
      (1)   To encourage the construction of and the continued use of the land
for heavy industry;
      (2)   To provide additional regulation on the use of the land for heavy
industry and to prohibit any other use which would substantially interfere with
the development or continuation of desirable industrial establishments in the
district;
      (3)   To encourage the discontinuance of existing uses that would not be
permitted as new uses under the provision of this subsection; and
      (4)   To prohibit the use of the land for residences for the purpose both
of preserving the area for its appropriate use and for preventing the location
of residences in an area inappropriate for residential use.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Heavy industry, provided:
         (a)   The minimum required lot area shall be ten acres;
         (b)   No building, including accessory buildings, shall be located
closer than 200 feet from any property line;
         (c)   A buffer strip around the perimeter, at the property line, shall
be established. The buffer may be the existing natural vegetation that has an
existing height of six feet and width of ten feet or an evergreen planting that
will normally be expected to reach a height of six feet within three years;
         (d)   Exterior lighting shall be limited to those fixtures which avoid
glare and do not spill over onto adjacent properties;
         (e)   Ingress and egress shall be designed to allow for safe movement
and to accommodate all vehicle types which are expected to use the facility and
meet DOT standards; and
         (f)   No industrial use shall be allowed which would have an injurious
effect on the town or neighborhood by posing a safety or fire hazard, or by
emitting/creating dust, toxic gases, offensive odors, smoke, noise, heat, or
glare.
      (2)   Any form of agricultural, horticultural, or husbandry uses,
including both the sale of products on the property where produced and any
necessary accessory uses clearly incidental to the principal use, but excluding
swine farms and poultry farms; and
      (3)   Public utility distribution lines, including service and storage
yards and transformer substations, and including any necessary accessory uses
clearly incidental thereto.
   (C)   Dimensional requirements for all permitted uses, except heavy
industry.
      (1)   Minimum required lot area: 50,000 square feet; and
      (2)   No building, including accessory buildings, shall be located closer
than ten feet to another building and 15 feet to a property line not a railroad
property line. A buffer, as described in §
154.140, shall be erected along all property lines abutting residential
property.
   (D)   Off-street loading and unloading space. See §
154.125.
   (E)   Off-street parking. See §§
154.105 through
154.112.
   (F)   Signs. See §§
154.080 through
154.090.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 6-29-2021) Penalty,
see §
154.999
§ 154.052 MU MIXED USE DISTRICT.
   (A)   Generally. This district is established to allow for a mixture of land
uses that can be made compatible. The district is intended for the area which
lies within the one-mile extraterritorial jurisdiction that has traditionally
experienced the siting of different land uses side by side in harmony. While
this area is expected to experience an accelerated rate of growth over the next
several years compared to its past, that growth is not expected to be at such a
density to discourage mixed use development. This district would allow for
mixed land uses, yet provide guidelines for siting different uses in close
proximity without being objectionable to its neighbor.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Single-family dwellings, including Class A and Class B manufactured
homes, but excluding Class C manufactured homes;
      (2)   Two-family dwellings or multiple-family dwellings, excluding Class
A, Class B, and Class C manufactured homes;
      (3)   Single-family homes with live-in help quarters and/or relative
quarters, excluding Class A, Class B, and Class C manufactured homes;
      (4)   Accessory buildings/uses clearly incidental to a permitted use and
which will not create a nuisance or hazard, provided that no accessory building
shall be rented or occupied for gain, and provided further that no accessory
building shall be constructed upon a lot until the construction of the main
building has commenced;
      (5)   Display models;
      (6)   Any form of agricultural, horticultural, or husbandry uses,
excluding swine farms and poultry farms, but including the sale of products on
the property where produced;
      (7)   Churches;
      (8)   Golf courses and country clubs;
      (9)   Tennis and swim clubs;
      (10)   Fire and police stations;
      (11)   Grounds and facilities for recreation and community center
buildings, lakes, parks, and similar facilities operated on a nonprofit basis,
but not including miniature golf courses;
      (12)   Public or private stables;
      (13)   Home occupations;
      (14)   Personal service establishments, such as barber shops, beauty
shops, and styling salons;
      (15)   Public buildings (town, county, city, state, federal, or regional
authority);
      (16)   Public schools and private schools, having a curricula
approximately the same as ordinarily given in public schools, including, but
not requiring, gymnasiums and assembly halls in conjunction herewith;
      (17)   Public utility distribution lines, but not service or storage
yards or transformer substations;
      (18)   Radio, television, and cellular telephone transmitting stations
and towers;
      (19)   Child day-cares/nurseries/after-school care facilities with an
adequate fenced-in outdoor play area;
      (20)   Family home care facilities (not to exceed six individuals being
cared for);
      (21)   Nursing homes (seven or more individuals being cared for),
provided no building so used shall be within 100 feet of any property line;
      (22)   Convalescent homes, homes for the aged, and homes for children;
      (23)   Retail/commercial uses and shopping centers (3,500 square feet of
gross floor area or less), provided:
         (a)   Unless otherwise stipulated, the minimum requirement for each
yard (front, side, and rear) shall be 30 feet from any street, road, or highway
right-of-way and 30 feet from any property line. The minimum setback for each
front and each side yard for the outermost section(s) of an overhead canopy
(attached or unattached) or the outer edge of any fuel pump island shall be ten
feet from a street, road, or highway right-of-way. The minimum setback for each
front and each side yard for a display model shall be 15 feet from a street,
road, or highway right-of-way;
         (b)   A buffer strip adjacent to residential property shall be
established. The buffer may be the existing natural vegetation that has an
existing height of six feet and width of five feet, or an evergreen planting
that will normally be expected to reach a height of six feet within three
years;
         (c)   Exterior lighting shall be limited to those fixtures which avoid
glare and do not spill over onto adjacent properties; and
         (d)   Ingress and egress points shall be designed to allow for safe
movement and meet DOT standards.
      (24)   Retail/commercial uses and shopping centers (more than 3,500
square feet of gross floor area), provided:
         (a)   Unless otherwise stipulated, the minimum requirement for each
yard (front, side, and rear) shall be 60 feet from any street, road, or highway
right-of-way and 60 feet from any property line. The minimum setback for each
front and each side yard for the outermost section(s) of an overhead canopy
(attached or unattached) or the outer edge of any fuel pump island shall be ten
feet from a street, road, or highway right-of-way. The minimum setback for each
front and each side yard for a display model shall be 15 feet from a street,
road, or highway right-of-way;
         (b)   A buffer strip adjacent to residential property shall be
established. The buffer may be the existing natural vegetation that has an
existing height of six feet and width of five feet, or an evergreen planting
that will normally be expected to reach a height of six feet within three
years;
         (c)   Exterior lighting shall be limited to those fixtures which avoid
glare and do not spill over onto adjacent properties; and
         (d)   Ingress and egress points shall be designed to allow for safe
movement and meet DOT standards.
      (25)   Office uses, provided:
         (a)   The minimum requirement for each yard (front, side, and rear)
shall be 30 feet from any street, road, or highway right-of-way and 25 feet
from any property line;
         (b)   Exterior lighting shall be limited to those fixtures which avoid
glare and do not spill over into adjacent properties; and
         (c)   Ingress and egress points shall be designed to allow for safe
movement and meet DOT standards.
      (26)   Privately owned cemeteries. Privately owned cemeteries that are
one and one-half acres or larger with a maximum total contiguous area less than
two acres, all under common ownership, provided, only one entrance from a
public road to the cemetery shall be allowed and a perimeter buffer strip/
setback (suitably planted so as to effectively screen the cemetery and
activities within from abutting properties and public rights-of-way) shall be
constructed and maintained around the entire cemetery to an interior depth of
20 feet from the cemetery property line(s); only one accessory use building
shall be allowed within the cemetery, provided, the building shall be under the
same ownership as the cemetery property
upon which it is located, is only accessible from within the cemetery (not from
a public street), and shall be at least 150 feet from any residential dwelling
located on land adjoining the cemetery. All privately owned cemeteries
described herein above shall also be constructed and maintained according to
all applicable North Carolina General Statutes governing the establishment and
operation of same.
   (C)   Special uses.
      (1)   Cemeteries, as provided in §§
154.175 through
154.178 and
154.190;
      (2)   Residential planned unit developments, as prescribed in §§
154.175 through
154.178 and
154.205 through
154.211; and
      (3)   Mobile home parks, as provided in §§
154.175 through
154.178 and
154.225 through
154.228.
   (D)   Building height limits. No building shall exceed 35 feet in height
unless the depth of the front and total width of the side yards required herein
shall be increased five feet for each ten feet, or fraction thereof, of
building height in excess of 35 feet.
   (E)   Minimum lot requirements.
      (1)   Minimum lot area:
         (a)   Where public utilities, either water or sewer, are available:
15,000 square feet;
         (b)   Where public utilities, both water and sewer, are available:
12,500 square feet; and
      (2)   Minimum lot width: 100 feet.
   (F)   Minimum yards.
      (1)   Minimum required front yard: 30 feet;
      (2)   Minimum required side yard: 15 feet; and
      (3)   Minimum rear yard: 15 feet.
   (G)   Location of accessory buildings. No accessory building shall be
erected in any required yard; provided, accessory buildings shall be permitted
in the required side and rear yards on condition that the accessory buildings
shall be at least five feet from a street right-of-way and at least five feet
from any property line not located on a street right-of-way. In addition, all
permitted accessory buildings shall be located at least ten feet from the
principal building and shall not encroach into any required easement(s).
Furthermore, accessory building(s)/use(s) shall be allowed on a contiguous lot
or tract of land under common ownership from the principal building/use with
which it is associated if the principal building/use itself would also be
permitted on the lot/tract; all accessory buildings located on contiguous lots
shall not encroach into any required easement(s) and shall be at least five
feet from a street right-of-way and at least five feet from any property line
not located on a street right-of-way.
   (H)   Location of gazebos. Gazebos shall be allowed in any yard; provided,
the gazebo shall be located at least five feet from a street right-of-way and
at least five feet from any property line not located on a street right-of-way.
In addition, all permitted gazebos shall be located at least ten feet from the
principal dwelling and shall not encroach into any required easement(s).
Furthermore, one gazebo shall be allowed on a contiguous lot or tract of land
under common ownership from the principal building/use with which it is
associated if the principal building/use itself would also be permitted on the
lot/tract. All gazebos located on contiguous lots shall not encroach into any
required easement(s) and shall be at least five feet from a street right-of-way
and at least five feet from any property line not located on a street right-of-
way.
   (I)   Corner visibility. On a corner lot, within the area formed by a
triangle 25 feet from the intersection of right-of-way lines, there shall be no
obstruction to vision between a height of two feet and a height of ten feet
above the average center line grade of each street.
   (J)   Off-street loading and unloading space. The requirements as
established in §
154.125 shall be followed for determining off-street loading and unloading
space requirements for uses within this district.
   (K)   Off-street parking. The requirements as established in §§
154.105 through
154.112 shall be followed for determining off-street parking space requirements
for uses within this district.
   (L)   Signs. See §§
154.080 through
154.090.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 4-8-2008; Ord. passed
6-29-2021) Penalty, see §
154.999
EXCEPTIONS AND MODIFICATIONS
§ 154.065 GENERALLY.
   The dimensional requirements of this chapter shall be complied with in all
respects, except that, under the specific conditions as outlined in this
chapter, the requirements may be waived or modified as stated; and in addition,
the dimensional requirements may be changed or modified by the Zoning Board of
Adjustment as provided for in §§
154.157 and
154.240 through
154.243.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
§ 154.066 FRONT YARD MODIFICATIONS IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   Where 40% or more of the frontage in any block face is composed of lots
which have been developed with buildings whose front yards are less than the
minimum required front yard as specified in §§
154.040 through
154.052, the required front yard shall be the average depth of front yard as
specified in §§
154.040 through
154.052, whichever is less. If any lot lies between two buildings which are
less than 100 feet apart, the required front yard for the lot shall be no
greater than the average front yard of the two adjoining lots.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 6-29-2021) Penalty,
see §
154.999
§ 154.067 OTHER YARD MODIFICATIONS.
   Architectural features such as open or enclosed fire escapes, cornices,
eaves, steps, gutters, buttresses, outside stairways, balconies, and similar
features, but not covered porches, may project no more than 30 inches into any
required side yard and no more than four feet into any required front yard or
any required rear yard. Unenclosed and detached carports and garages may extend
to five feet of a side property line.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 6-29-2021) Penalty,
see §
154.999
§ 154.068 HEIGHT LIMIT EXCEPTIONS.
   Public or semi-public buildings, hospitals, sanatoriums, schools, churches,
temples, chimneys, water tanks or towers, elevator bulkheads, stacks,
ornamental towers or spires, wireless or broadcasting towers, or monuments,
cupolas, domes, false mansards, parapet walls, and similar structures, and
necessary mechanical appurtenances, may be erected to a height exceeding the
maximum of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 6-29-2021) Penalty,
see §
154.999
SIGN REGULATIONS
§ 154.080 GENERALLY.
   The purpose of these regulations is to minimize any detrimental effects of
signs on adjacent land uses and to ensure that permitted signs do not become a
public nuisance or hazard. All signs erected, altered, relocated, or maintained
shall be in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 6-29-2021) Penalty,
see §
154.999
§ 154.081 SIGNS PERMITTED IN CONJUNCTION WITH NONCONFORMING USES.
   Any nonconforming use in any district may maintain any business signs as
would be allowed for the use in the most restrictive district in which the use
would be permitted or any signs as are existing at the time the use becomes
nonconforming, whichever is the more restrictive with regards to sign size.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 6-29-2021) Penalty,
see §
154.999
§ 154.082 FREESTANDING SIGNS.
   A FREESTANDING SIGN is defined as any sign supported wholly, or in part, by
some structure other than the building or buildings housing the business to
which the sign pertains or any sign which projects more than five feet from the
side of the building to which it is attached. No freestanding sign shall be
permitted in the CB Central Business District or as an adjunct to any business
which is a nonconforming use. Freestanding signs are further regulated in §§
154.084 and
154.085.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 6-29-2021) Penalty,
see §
154.999
§ 154.083 PERMANENT WALL SIGNS.
   A PERMANENT WALL SIGN is defined as any sign exposed to nature’s elements
and attached to the main business structure and/or any on-site canopy in common
ownership with the main business structure to which it pertains.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 3-12-2013; Ord.
passed 6-29-2021)
§ 154.084 COMMERCIAL SIGNS.
   (A)   All commercial signs, other than those described in §
154.085, shall be placed on the premises of the building housing the business
to which the sign pertains, and if the premises has no frontage on a public
street, the sign may be placed within 20 feet of the nearest intersection of
the drive to the premises with a public street, or immediately across the
public street from the intersection. No part of any sign, other than a
freestanding sign, shall be less than eight feet from the ground or pavement
under it. No sign shall project into any part of a public way or exceed the
permitted building height in each zoning district, except as otherwise allowed.
Except as otherwise allowed, a freestanding sign shall not exceed 110 square
feet in area per sign face per side, provided, the total square footage per
side may be created by either one sign or multiple signs. Only one freestanding
sign shall be permitted for each separate commercial lot regardless of the
number of businesses located on the lot, except as otherwise allowed. Two
freestanding signs shall be permitted for a commercial lot located on a corner
of two non-municipal streets (such as state or federal-aid highways),
regardless of the number of businesses located on the lot, except as otherwise
allowed. Unless otherwise stipulated, permanent wall signs shall be permitted
for each separate business establishment when the specific walls pertaining to
that particular business location can be determined. In the case of multiple
businesses sharing a common wall for the display of their signage, the sum
total of all the multiple businesses’ combined signage on the wall shall not
exceed the maximum number of signs and area stated hereinbelow for a single
business. Unless otherwise stipulated, the maximum number of permanent wall
signs allowed per side of the building to which they pertain shall be four, and
the total allowable sign area for all such signs shall not exceed two square
feet for each lineal foot of building wall to which the signs are attached, or
400 square feet, whichever is the lesser amount. Permanent wall signs located
in the CB Central Business District, the NB Neighborhood Business District and
the HB-2 Highway Business District (excluding permanent wall signs attached to
walls that are fronting on, and parallel with, Interstate 40) shall be limited
to a maximum of four signs per side of the business building to which they
pertain; provided, the total allowable sign area for all such signs shall not
exceed two square feet for each lineal foot of building wall to which the signs
are attached, or 200 square feet, whichever is the lesser amount. Permanent
wall signs located in the HB-2 Highway Business District that are attached to
building walls that front on, and are parallel with, Interstate 40 shall be
limited to a maximum of one sign per side of the business building to which it
pertains; provided, the total allowable sign area for the single sign shall not
exceed 100% of the building wall area to which the sign is attached, or 2,800
square feet, whichever is the lesser amount. Permanent wall signs located in
all residential zoning districts designated as either R-1, R-2, R-3 or MH shall
be limited to one sign per side of the business building to which it pertains,
and the size of the sign area shall not exceed one square foot for each lineal
foot of building wall to which it is attached.
   (B)   Freestanding on-premise signs that are located in the HB-2 Highway
Business District shall be allowed as prescribed below. Two freestanding on-
premise identification signs shall be allowed as follows on the premises of the
building housing the business, or businesses, to which the sign(s) pertain.
      (1)   One sign may be erected to a maximum height of 150 feet with a
maximum sign area per sign face of 400 square feet per side, provided, the
total square footage per side may be created by either one sign or a maximum of
two separate signs on the same pole.
      (2)   One sign may be erected to a maximum height of 35 feet with a
maximum sign area per sign face of 400 square feet per side. The total square
footage per side may be created by either one sign or multiple signs on the
same pole or other structural support.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 3-12-2013; Ord.
passed 6-29-2021) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.085 OFF-PREMISE SIGNS.
   (A)   Generally. Off-premise signs shall only be allowed in industrial
zoning districts, highway-business zoning districts, and the mixed use zoning
district as prescribed below.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   Off-premise signs that are located in the I-2 Industrial District
shall not exceed 400 square feet in area per sign face per side and necessary
structural supports and structural margin shall not exceed 36 inches in width
on each border of the sign. No off-premise sign shall be located closer than 35
feet to any residential zoning district line. No off-premise sign shall be
located closer than 300 feet from another sign (off-premise or on-premise).
      (2)   Off-premise signs that are located in the HB-2 Highway Business
District shall not exceed 400 square feet in area per sign face per side and
necessary structural supports and structural margin shall not exceed 36 inches
in width on each border of the sign. An off-premise sign shall be allowed on
the same pole as an on-premise sign; provided, the total number of signs shall
not exceed two and the total combined square footage for the area of both sign
faces shall not exceed 800 square feet per side. No off- premise sign shall be
located closer than 35 feet to any residential zoning district line. No
business shall erect, or attach in any manner, an off-premise sign if the same
business erects one or more on-premise signs that exceed 35 feet in height
(combined height if two signs are erected), as allowed in §
154.084.
      (3)   Off-premise signs that are located in the MU Mixed Use District,
the I-1 Industrial District, and the I-3 Industrial District shall be one-sided
or double-sided. Both sides of any particular double-sided off-premise sign
shall pertain to the same business. The off-premise signs shall not exceed 128
square feet in area per sign face and 35 feet in height, and an off-premise
sign shall not be located closer than 1,000 feet, in any direction, from
another off-premise sign.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 6-29-2021) Penalty,
see §
154.999
§ 154.086 INSTITUTIONAL SIGNS.
   Signs erected by schools, churches, hospitals, and other institutions are
permitted in all districts, but the size of the sign shall not be in excess of
24 square feet.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 6-29-2021) Penalty,
see §
154.999
§ 154.087 UNSAFE AND UNLAWFUL SIGNS.
   No sign shall be erected or maintained so as to obstruct free and clear
vision of pedestrian and automotive traffic, and in no case shall a
freestanding sign be closer than 20 feet to a street intersection measured from
the intersection of the two nearest street lines, except as otherwise allowed.
If the Town Administrator shall find any sign unsafe or a menace to the public,
or which is in violation of this chapter, he or she shall give written notice
of the violation to the owner or valet of the sign. If the person to whom
notice is given fails to remove or alter the structure so as to comply with the
required standards within 30 days after the notice, the sign may be removed or
altered by the Town Administrator so as to bring the sign into compliance with
the required standards, and the expense incurred by the town to obtain the
compliance shall be charged to the owner of the sign. Any sign which no longer
advertises any bona fide business conducted or product sold shall be taken down
and removed by the owner, agent, or person having the beneficial use of the
property upon which the sign is located.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 6-29-2021) Penalty,
see §
154.999
§ 154.088 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following signs are exempted from the foregoing sign regulations: all
town-owned signs; signs bearing the name of the occupant of the dwelling,
office, or other building or home occupation which do not exceed two square
feet in area per sign face and which, if lighted, are lighted only with
concealed light sources; signs advertising the sale, rental, or development of
property which are not in excess of 12 square feet per sign face; temporary
signs of artisans and contractors temporarily working on the premises and which
are not more than 12 square feet in area per sign face and which do not exceed
in number more than one sign for each 300 feet of frontage on a public way and
provided the signs are removed as soon as the work is completed; signs
pertaining to any civic or nonprofit organization or fraternal order which are
not in excess of 24 square feet in area per sign face; permanent freestanding
identification signs placed at the entrance of subdivisions and residential
developments not otherwise regulated, provided, the signs shall not exceed one
per major entrance and 24 square feet in area per sign face, shall be placed on
private property no closer than ten feet to any street right-of-way line, shall
not exceed five feet in height above ground level and shall be illuminated by
indirect lighting; signs located within planned unit developments and regulated
by planned unit development regulations or ordinances as they pertain to signs;
signs normally incidental to the operation of a business, such as small brand
name signs, sale signs, signs advertising “specials,” credit card signs, and
the like, as long as they are not freestanding signs; signs directing and
guiding traffic and parking on private property (including freestanding signs)
which are not in excess of eight square feet in area per sign face per side and
not in excess of three feet in height, except that any sign within five feet of
a street right-of-way shall not exceed two feet in height; signs cautioning
traffic on private property (including freestanding signs), such as clearance
warning signs at drive-thru ordering stations, which are not in excess of ten
square feet in area per sign face per side; signs designated for replaceable
product prices such as restaurant menu boards (when attached or freestanding
and not in excess of 60 square feet per sign face) and gasoline/diesel price
signs (when attached to the supports of an overhead canopy at a fuel pump
island and not in excess of 60 square feet per sign face); signs which cannot
be seen from a public street or right-of-way.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 6-29-2021) Penalty,
see §
154.999
§ 154.089 FLASHING SIGNS.
   Flashing signs shall be prohibited in all districts. These signs include any
sign containing an intermittent or flashing light source. The signs shall not
be deemed to include time and temperature signs or public message displays
using electronic switching.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 6-29-2021) Penalty,
see §
154.999
§ 154.090 FLAGS AND BANNERS.
   Flags, banners, and streamers shall be used only in special occasions, such
as in drawing attention to a grand opening, and only for a maximum time period
of one week. This provision shall not be deemed to include the display of the
United States or the state flags, or any other similar flag or banner which is
normally displayed at any time.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 6-29-2021) Penalty,
see §
154.999
OFF-STREET PARKING
§ 154.105 GENERALLY.
   At the time of the erection of any building, or at the time any principal
building is enlarged or increased in capacity by adding dwelling units, guest
rooms, seats, or floor area, or before conversion from one type of use or
occupancy to another, permanent off-street parking space shall be provided in
the amount specified by this subchapter. The parking space may be provided in a
parking garage or properly graded open space.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 6-29-2021) Penalty,
see §
154.999
§ 154.106 CERTIFICATION OF MINIMUM PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   Each application for a certificate of occupancy shall include information as
to the location and dimensions of off-street parking and the means of ingress
and egress to the space. This information shall be in sufficient detail to
enable the town to determine whether the requirements of this subchapter are
met.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
§ 154.107 COMBINATION OF REQUIRED PARKING SPACE.
   The required parking space for any number of separate uses may be combined
in one lot but the required space assigned to one use may not be assigned to
another use, except that one-half of the parking space required for churches,
theaters, or assembly halls whose peak attendance will be at night or on
Sundays may be assigned to a use which will be closed at night and on Sundays.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 6-29-2021) Penalty,
see §
154.999
§ 154.108 REMOTE PARKING SPACE.
   If the off-street parking space required by this chapter cannot be
reasonably provided on the same lot on which the principal use is located, the
space may be provided on any land within reasonable distance of the main
entrance to the principal use, provided the land is in the same ownership as
the principal use and in the same zoning district. The land shall be used for
no other purpose so long as no other adequate provisions of parking space
meeting the requirements of this chapter have been made for the principal use.
In those cases, the applicant for a permit for the principal use shall submit
with his or her application for a certificate of occupancy an instrument duly
executed and acknowledged, which subjects the land to parking use in connection
with the principal use for which it is made available. The instrument shall
become a permanent record and be attached to the certificate of occupancy
application. In the event the land is ever used for other than off-street
parking space for the principal which it is encumbered and no other off-street
parking space meeting the terms of this chapter is provided for the principal
use, the certificate of occupancy for the principal use shall become void.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 6-29-2021) Penalty,
see §
154.999
§ 154.109 REQUIREMENTS FOR PARKING LOTS IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Generally. Where parking lots for more than five cars are permitted or
required in residential districts, the following provisions shall be complied
with.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   The lot may be used only for parking and not for any type of
loading, sales, dead storage, repair work, dismantling, or servicing.
      (2)   All entrances, exits, barricades at sidewalks, and drainage plans
shall be approved and constructed before occupancy.
      (3)   A strip of land five feet wide adjoining any street line or any lot
zoned for residential uses shall be reserved as open space, guarded with wheel
bumpers and planted in grass and/or shrubs.
      (4)   Only one entrance and one exit sign no larger then two square feet
prescribing parking regulations may be erected at each entrance or exit. No
other signs shall be permitted.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 6-29-2021) Penalty,
see §
154.999
§ 154.110 MINIMUM PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Generally. The number of off-street parking spaces required by this
subchapter shall be provided on the same lot with the principal use, except as
provided in §
154.108 and the required number of off-street parking spaces specified for each
use shall be considered as the absolute minimum. In addition, a developer shall
evaluate his or her own needs to determine if they are greater than the minimum
specified by this chapter. For purposes of this chapter, an off-street parking
space shall be no less than 160 square feet in area plus adequate ingress and
egress provided for each off-street parking space.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   Single-family dwelling: two parking spaces per unit;
      (2)   Multi-family dwelling: one and one-half parking spaces per dwelling
unit;
      (3)   Rooming or boarding house: one parking space for each two rooms to
be rented;
      (4)   Tourist home, motel, and motor court: one parking space for each
room to be rented plus one additional parking space for each two employees;
      (5)   Hotels (not including any retail use): one parking space for each
four rooms to be rented plus one additional parking space for each two
employees;
      (6)   Professional office or home occupation in operator’s residence: one
parking space per office or home occupation in addition to residence
requirements;
      (7)   Hospitals: one parking space for each two beds, intended for
patient use, plus one parking space for each employee;
      (8)   Clinic: three parking spaces for each doctor plus one parking space
for each employee;
      (9)   Nursing home: one parking space for each five beds intended for
patient use;
      (10)   Church: one parking space for each four seats in the sanctuary;
      (11)   Elementary school and junior high school: one parking space for
each classroom and administrative office;
      (12)   Senior high school: one parking space for each 20 students for
which the building was designed plus one parking space for each classroom and
administrative office;
      (13)   Beauty and barber shops: one parking space for each service chair
plus one additional parking space for each employee;
      (14)   Eating and drinking establishments: one parking space for each
four seats at tables, one parking space for each two seats at counters or bars,
plus one parking space for each two employees;
      (15)   Stadium: one parking space for each eight spectator seats;
      (16)   Auditorium: one parking space for each four seats in the largest
assembly room;
      (17)   Public or private clubs: one parking space for each 200 square
feet of gross floor space;
      (18)   Public utility buildings: one parking space for each employee;
      (19)   Office: one parking space for each 200 square feet of gross floor
space;
      (20)   Bank: one parking space for each 200 square feet of gross floor
space, plus one space for each two employees;
      (21)   Filling station: five parking spaces for each grease rack and five
spaces for each wash rack;
      (22)   Theater: one parking space for each four seats in the auditorium;
      (23)   Funeral home: one parking space for each four seats in the chapel
or parlor;
      (24)   Retail use not otherwise listed: one parking space for each 300
square feet of gross floor area;
      (25)   Wholesale use: one parking space for each employee on the largest
shift;
      (26)   Warehouse: one parking space for each employee on the largest
shift plus one space for each 150 square feet of selling space;
      (27)   Industrial use: two parking spaces for each three employees on the
largest shift;
      (28)   Shopping center: one parking space for each 300 square feet of
gross floor area;
      (29)   Retail food store: one parking space for each 300 square feet of
gross floor area;
      (30)   Department store: one parking space for each 300 square feet of
gross floor area; and
      (31)   Convenience store: one parking space for each 200 square feet of
gross floor area.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 6-29-2021) Penalty,
see §
154.999
§ 154.111 MOBILE HOME AND TRAVEL TRAILER PARKING AND STORING.
   It shall be unlawful to park or otherwise store for any purpose whatsoever
any mobile home or travel trailer within the town, except as follows:
   (A)   At a safe, lawful, and nonobstructive location on a street, alley,
highway, or other public place, provided that the trailer or mobile home shall
not be parked overnight;
   (B)   Within a mobile home park, provided, however, the mobile home shall
either have the label of compliance permanently attached thereto or have a
certificate of compliance from the Town Administrator or designees if it has
been certified by the state to issue the certificate or shall have a
certificate of title or other satisfactory evidence on file with the State
Division of Motor Vehicles that the mobile home was manufactured prior to 9-1-
1971;
   (C)   On any other lot or plot, provided that:
      (1)   A storing permit for any mobile home to be parked or stored for
longer than 48 hours shall be obtained from the Administrative Official; and/or
      (2)   Travel trailers, as defined in §
154.002, may be stored, provided no facilities of the travel trailers be used
for storage of human or animal occupancy and providing as follows: house and
camping trailers shall be stored in a garage or carport or in the rear or side
yard; and pick-up coach and motor homes may be parked in the driveway as well,
but in no other portion of the required front yard.
   (D)   This section shall not be construed to prohibit the parking and/or
storing for the purpose of sale of any mobile home or trailer by any owner or
license dealer upon any lot, piece, or parcel of land upon which the sale of
the vehicle is permitted and/or licensed under the codes and ordinances of the
town, provided that no living quarters be maintained in any of the travel
trailers or mobile homes so parked.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 6-29-2021) Penalty,
see §
154.999
§ 154.112 INOPERATIVE VEHICLES.
   (A)   Residential districts. No inoperative vehicle shall be permitted to be
parked or stored longer than 72 hours, unless the vehicle is not visible from
any public right-of-way.
   (B)   Business districts. Inoperative vehicles shall be permitted to be
parked or stored while undergoing repairs in the CB Central Business District
and HB Highway Business Districts.
   (C)   Industrial districts. Inoperative vehicles shall only be permitted in
automobile junk yards.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 6-29-2021) Penalty,
see §
154.999
OFF-STREET LOADING SPACE
§ 154.125 GENERALLY.
   Where off-street loading space is required under the functional requirements
of a particular activity, one or more loading berths or other spaces shall be
provided for standing, loading, and unloading operations either inside or
outside a building and on the same or adjoining premises with every building or
structure erected after the enactment of this chapter. A loading berth shall
have minimum plan dimensions of 12 feet by 25 feet and 14 feet overhead
clearance. A loading space need not be necessarily a full berth but shall be
sufficient to allow normal loading operations of a kind and magnitude
appropriate to the property served thereby. In no case shall the use of the
space hinder the free movement of vehicles and pedestrians over a street,
sidewalk, or alley.
 
Use Classification                  Space Requirements
Retail sales operation              1 loading berth for every 20,000 square
                                    feet of floor area
Office buildings and hotels with a  1 loading berth for every 100,000 square
total usable floor area of 10,000   feet of floor area
square feet or more
Industrial and wholesale operations 1 loading berth for every 50,000 square
with a gross floor of 10,000 square feet of floor area
feet or more
 
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 6-29-2021) Penalty,
see §
154.999
BUFFERS
§ 154.140 GENERALLY.
   (A)   Each application for a building permit or certificate of occupancy
shall include, for those use districts where a buffer is required, information
as to the location and type of buffer to be erected. Once erected, a buffer
shall be properly maintained. The construction and maintenance of a buffer
shall be the responsibility of the land owner or developer.
   (B)   A buffer shall be a six-foot high attractive blind barrier which shall
not permit the passage of light from one side to the other and which will also
damper noise where needed. The barrier may be a decorative masonry wall, a wood
basket weave-type fence, an open type fence with evergreen vegetation planted
facing the adjoining property, or the like. No fence at all is necessary where
evergreen vegetation will be of a thickness and variety discouraging people
from pushing their way through. Where evergreens are used, a species shall be
planted which will normally be expected to reach a height of six feet in three-
years time.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 6-29-2021) Penalty,
see §
154.999
NONCONFORMING SITUATIONS
§ 154.155 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DIMENSIONAL NONCONFORMITY. A nonconforming situation that occurs when the
height, size, or minimum floor space of a structure or the relationship between
an existing building or buildings and other buildings or lot lines does not
conform to the regulations applicable to the district in which the property is
located.
   EXPENDITURE. A sum of money paid out in return for some benefit or to
fulfill some obligation. Whenever the term is used hereafter, it also includes
binding, contractual commitments to make future expenditures, as well as any
other substantial changes in position.
   LOT. A parcel of land whose boundaries have been established by some legal
instrument such as a deed or a recorded map and which is recognized as a
separate legal entity for purposes of transfer of title. If a public road
crosses a parcel of land otherwise characterized as a LOT by this definition,
the land on each side of the public road shall constitute a separate LOT.
   NONCONFORMING LOT. A lot existing at the effective date of this chapter or
any amendment to it (and not created for the purpose of evading the
restrictions of this chapter) that cannot meet the minimum area or lot-width
requirements of the district in which the lot is located.
   NONCONFORMING PROJECT. Any structure, development, or undertaking that is
incomplete at the effective date of this chapter and would be inconsistent with
any regulation applicable to the district in which it is located if completed
as proposed or planned.
   NONCONFORMING SITUATION. A situation that occurs when, on the effective date
of this chapter or any amendment to it, an existing lot or structure or use of
an existing lot or structure does not conform to one or more of the regulations
applicable to the district in which the lot or structure is located. Among
other possibilities, a nonconforming situation may arise because a lot does not
meet minimum acreage requirements, because structures do not satisfy maximum
height or minimum floor-space limitations, because the relationship between
existing buildings and the land (in such matters as density and setback
requirements) is not in conformity with this chapter, or because land or
buildings are used for purposes made unlawful by this chapter.
   NONCONFORMING USE. A nonconforming situation that occurs when property is
used for a purpose or in a manner made unlawful by the use regulations
applicable to the district in which the property is located. (For example, a
commercial office building in a residential district may be a nonconforming
use.) The term also refers to the activity that constitutes the use made of the
property. (For example, all the activity associated with running a bakery in a
residentially zoned area is a nonconforming use.)
   ORDINANCE.  This chapter, including any amendments. Whenever the effective
date of this chapter is referred to, the reference includes the effective date
of any amendment to it.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
§ 154.156 CONTINUATION OF NONCONFORMING SITUATIONS.
   Nonconforming situations that were otherwise lawful on the effective date of
this chapter may be continued, subject to the restrictions and qualifications
set forth in §§
154.157 through
154.160.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 6-29-2021) Penalty,
see §
154.999
§ 154.157 NONCONFORMING LOTS.
   (A)   When a nonconforming lot can be used in conformity with all of the
regulations (other than the area or width requirements) applicable to the
district in which the lot is located, the use may be made as of right.
Otherwise, the nonconforming lot may be used only in accordance with a special
use permit issued by the Board of Adjustment. The Board shall issue such a
permit if it finds that the proposed use is one permitted by the regulations
applicable to the district in which the property is located, and the property
can be developed as proposed without any significant negative impact on the
surrounding property or the public health, safety, or welfare. In issuing the
permit authorized by this division (A), the Board may allow by variance
deviations from applicable dimensional requirements (such as setback lines and
yard size minimum) if it finds that no reasonable use of the property can be
made without the deviations.
   (B)   Whenever this chapter creates a nonconforming lot and the owner of the
nonconforming lot also owns land adjacent to it, and a portion of this other
land can be combined with the nonconforming lot to create a conforming lot
(without thereby creating other nonconformities), the owner of the
nonconforming lot, or his or her successor in interest, may not take advantage
of the provisions of division (A) above.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 6-29-2021) Penalty,
see §
154.999
§ 154.158 EXTENSION OR ENLARGEMENT OF NONCONFORMING SITUATIONS.
   (A)   Any building which is nonconforming solely because of its encroachment
in a required yard area may be extended or enlarged as provided in this
section.
   (B)   Any other activity that causes an increase in the extent of
nonconformity of a nonconforming situation shall be unlawful except as provided
in this section.
      (1)   Subject to division (B)(3) below, a nonconforming use may be
extended throughout any portion of a completed building that, when the use was
made nonconforming by this chapter, was manifestly designed or arranged to
accommodate the use.
      (2)   A nonconforming use of open land may not be extended to cover more
land than was occupied by that use when it became nonconforming, except that a
use that involves the removal of natural materials from the lot (e.g., a
quarry) may be expanded to the boundaries of the lot where the use was
established at the time it became nonconforming, if 10% or more of the earth
products had already been removed at the effective date of this chapter.
      (3)   The volume, intensity, or frequency of use of property where a
nonconforming situation exists may be increased and the equipment or processes
used at a location where a nonconforming situation exists may be changed if
these or similar changes amount only to changes in the degree of activity
rather than changes in kind and no violations of other divisions of this
section occur.
      (4)   Physical alteration of structures or the placement of new
structures on open land are unlawful if they result in:
         (a)   An increase in the total amount of space devoted to a
nonconforming use;
         (b)   Greater nonconformity with respect to dimensional restrictions
such as yard requirements, height limitations, or density requirements; except
that existing structures that are nonconforming only in regard to encroachment
into setback requirements may be enlarged with the expansion occupying the same
degree of encroachment in the required setback yard as the existing structure;
         (c)   The enclosure of previously unenclosed areas, even though those
areas were previously used in connection with the nonconforming activity;
except that existing structures that are nonconforming only in regard to
encroachment into setback requirements may be enlarged with the expansion
occupying the same degree of encroachment in the required setback yard as the
existing structure. An area is unenclosed unless at least 75% of the perimeter
of the area is marked by a permanently constructed wall or fence.
      (5)   Minor repairs to and routine maintenance of property where
nonconforming situations exist are permitted and encouraged.
      (6)   Any structure used for single-family residential purposes and
maintained under a nonconforming use status may be enlarged or replaced with a
similar structure of a larger size, so long as the replacement does not create
new nonconformities or increase the extent of existing nonconformities with
respect to yard size and setback requirements. In particular, a mobile home may
be replaced with a larger mobile home, a “single-wide” mobile home may be
replaced with a “double-wide.” This division (B)(6) is subject to the
limitations stated in §
154.160 regarding abandonment and discontinuance of nonconforming situations.
      (7)   A structure that is nonconforming in any respect or a structure
that is used in a nonconforming manner may be reconstructed or replaced if
partially or totally destroyed, subject to the following restrictions:
         (a)   The total amount of space devoted to a nonconforming use may not
be increased, except that a larger, single-family residential structure may be
constructed in place of a smaller one and a larger mobile home intended for
residential use may replace a similar one;
         (b)   The reconstructed building may not be more nonconforming with
respect to dimensional restrictions such as yard requirements, height
limitations, or density requirements, and the dimensional nonconformities must
be eliminated if that can reasonably be accomplished without unduly burdening
the reconstruction process or limiting the right to continue the nonconforming
use of the building;
         (c)   The reconstructed building may not enclose areas that were
previously unenclosed, even though those areas were used in connection with the
nonconforming activity. An area shall be deemed to have been unenclosed unless
at least 75% or more of the perimeter of the area contained a permanently
constructed wall; and
         (d)   A building permit is obtained from the Town Administrator or
designees within one year from the time the damage or destruction took place.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 6-29-2021) Penalty,
see §
154.999
§ 154.159 CHANGE IN KIND OF NONCONFORMING USE.
   (A)   A nonconforming use may be changed to a conforming use. Thereafter,
the property may not revert to a nonconforming use.
   (B)   A nonconforming use may be changed to another nonconforming use only
in accordance with a special use permit issued by the Board of Adjustment. The
Board shall issue the permit if it finds that the proposed use will be more
compatible with the surrounding neighborhood than the use in operation at the
time the permit is applied for. If a nonconforming use is changed to any use
other than a conforming use without obtaining a special use permit pursuant to
this division (B), that change shall constitute a discontinuance of the
nonconforming use, with consequences as stated in §
154.160.
   (C)   If a nonconforming use and a conforming use, or any combination of
nonconforming uses, exist on one lot, the use made of the property may be
changed substantially (except to a conforming use), only in accordance with a
special use permit issued by the Board of Adjustment. The Board shall issue the
permit if it finds that the proposed use will be more compatible with the
surrounding neighborhood than the use or combination of uses in operation at
the time the permit is applied for.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 6-29-2021) Penalty,
see §
154.999
§ 154.160 ABANDONMENT AND DISCONTINUANCE OF NONCONFORMING SITUATIONS.
   (A)   When a nonconforming use is discontinued for a consecutive period of
180 days, or discontinued for any period of time without a present intention to
reinstate the nonconforming use, the property involved may thereafter be used
only for conforming purposes, except as provided in division (B) below.
   (B)   The Board of Adjustment may issue a special use permit to allow a
nonconforming use that has been discontinued for more than 180 consecutive days
to be reinstated if it finds that the nonconforming use has been discontinued
for less than two years, and the discontinuance resulted from factors that, for
all practical purposes, were beyond the control of the person maintaining the
nonconforming use.
   (C)   If the principal activity on property where a nonconforming situation
other than a nonconforming use exists is discontinued for a consecutive period
of 180 days, or discontinued for any period of time without a present intention
of resuming that activity, then that property may thereafter be used only in
conformity with all of the regulations applicable to the district in which the
property is located, unless the Board of Adjustment issues a special use permit
to allow the property to be used (for a conforming purpose) without correcting
the nonconforming situation. The Board shall issue the permit if it finds that
the nonconforming situation cannot be corrected without undue hardship or
expense, and the nonconforming situation is of a minor nature that does not
adversely affect the surrounding property or the general public to any
significant extent.
   (D)   For purposes of determining whether a right to continue a
nonconforming situation is lost pursuant to this section, all of the buildings,
activities, and operations maintained on a lot are generally to be considered
as a whole. For example, the failure to rent one apartment in a nonconforming
apartment building or one space in a nonconforming mobile home park for 180
days shall not result in a loss of the right to rent that apartment or space
thereafter so long as the apartment building or mobile home park as a whole is
continuously maintained. But if a nonconforming use is maintained in
conjunction with a conforming use, discontinuance of a nonconforming use for
the required period shall terminate the right to maintain it thereafter. And
so, if a mobile home is used as a nonconforming use on a residential lot where
a conforming residential structure also is located, removal of that mobile home
for 180 days terminates the right to replace it.
   (E)   When a structure or operation made nonconforming by this chapter is
vacant or discontinued at the effective date of this chapter, the 180-day
period for purposes of this section begins to run at the effective date of this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 6-29-2021) Penalty,
see §
154.999
SPECIAL USES
§ 154.175 PURPOSE.
   (A)   A special use permit is a permit issued to authorize development or
land uses in a particular zoning district upon presentation of competent,
material, and substantial evidence establishing compliance with one or more
general standards requiring that judgement and discretion be exercised as well
as compliance with specific standards.
   (B)   The development and execution of this chapter is based on the division
of the town into districts within the use of land and buildings and the bulk
and location of buildings and structures in relation to the land are
substantially uniform. It is recognized, however, that there are some land uses
which are basically in keeping with the intent and purpose of the district
where permitted, but which may have an impact on the area around them which can
only be determined by review of the specific proposal. These uses may be
established, under certain conditions and with proper controls, in such a
manner as to minimize any adverse effects. In order to ensure that these uses,
in their proposed locations, would be compatible with surrounding development
and in keeping with the purposes of the district in which they are located,
their establishment shall not be as a matter of right, but only after review
and approval of a special use permit as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 6-29-2021) Penalty,
see §
154.999
§ 154.176 APPLICATION AND FEES.
   Applications for special use permits, signed by the applicant, shall be
addressed to the Town Board. A fee for the application shall be $35 plus $.50/
letter or $5.50/certified letter.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
§ 154.177 PROCEDURE FOR REVIEWING SPECIAL USE APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   The special uses, as specified in the various districts, may be
established only after approval by the Town Board.
   (B)   The Town Board or Board of Adjustment (for issues involving
nonconforming situations), shall hold an evidentiary hearing using quasi-
judicial procedures on the application for a special use permit in accordance
with the procedures of §
154.279 herein.
   (C)   Town Board. The Board shall approve, modify, or deny the application
for special use permit following the evidentiary hearing. In granting a special
use permit, the Board, with due regard to the nature and state of all adjacent
structures and uses, the district within which same is located, shall make
written findings that the following are fulfilled:
      (1)   The use requested is listed among the special uses in the district
for which application is made; or is similar in character to those listed in
that district;
      (2)   The requested use will not impair the integrity or character of the
surrounding or adjoining districts, nor adversely affect the safety, health,
morals, or welfare of the community or of the immediate neighbors of the
property;
      (3)   The requested use is essential or desirable to the public
convenience or welfare;
      (4)   The requested use will be in conformity with the Land Use Plan;
      (5)   Adequate utilities, access roads, drainage, sanitation, and/or
other necessary facilities have been or are being provided;
      (6)   The adequate measures have been or will be taken to provide ingress
and egress so designed as to minimize traffic congestion in the public streets;
and
      (7)   The special use shall, in all other respects, conform to the
applicable regulations of the district in which it is located.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 6-29-2021) Penalty,
see §
154.999
§ 154.178 GENERAL PROVISIONS CONCERNING SPECIAL USE PERMITS.
   (A)   Compliance with other codes. Granting of a special use permit does not
exempt an applicant from complying with all of the requirements of building
codes and other ordinances.
   (B)   Revocation. In any case where the conditions of a special use permit
have not been or are not being complied with, the Town Administrator or
designees may utilize the remedies outlined in §
154.999 herein.
   (C)   Expiration. A special use permit shall expire one year after the date
of issuance if the work authorized by the approval has not been substantially
commenced. If after commencement the work or activity allowed under a special
use permit is discontinued for a period of 12 months after commencement, the
special use permit shall immediately expire. No work or activity authorized by
a special use permit that has expired shall thereafter be performed until a new
development approval has been secured.
   (D)   Duration of conditional use. Any conditions imposed on a special use
authorized and exercised shall be perpetually binding upon the property unless
expressly limited by the special use permit or subsequently changed or amended
by the Board after a public hearing.
   (E)   Conditions and guarantees. Prior to the granting of any special use,
the Board may stipulate any conditions and restrictions upon the establishment,
location, reconstruction, maintenance, and operation of special use as it
deemed necessary for the protection of the public interest and to secure
compliance with the standards and requirements specified in this chapter. In
all cases in which special uses are granted, the Board shall require the
evidence and guarantees as it may deem necessary as proof that the conditions
stipulated in connection therewith are being and will be complied with.
      (1)   The conditions may include a time limitation.
      (2)   Conditions may be imposed which require that one or more things be
done before the use requested can be initiated. For example, “that a solid
board fence be erected around the site to a height of six feet before the use
requested is initiated.”
      (3)   Conditions of a continuing nature may be imposed. For example,
“exterior loud speakers shall not be used between hours of 10:00 p.m. and 9:00
a.m.”
   (F)   Modification. If a proposed modification deviates from a special use
permit, the applicant should seek an amendment of the special use permit in
accordance with §
154.177 herein.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 6-29-2021) Penalty,
see §
154.999
CEMETERIES
§ 154.190 GENERALLY.
   (A)   As a condition for the approval and continuance of a special use
permit for a cemetery, the following shall apply.
   (B)   Public or privately owned perpetual care cemeteries which the Board
finds in conformance with the following minimum requirements:
      (1)   A cemetery shall contain not less than two acres of land in
contiguous ownership;
      (2)   There shall be only one entrance from the cemetery onto a public
road. The entrance shall be located at least 500 feet from the nearest
intersection of another public road;
      (3)   A perimeter buffer strip shall be maintained around the entire
cemetery to a depth of 20 feet from the cemetery property line. There shall be
no burial sites provided in this buffer strip. The required buffer strip shall
be suitably planted so as to effectively screen the cemetery and burial
activities therein from view from outside the cemetery so far as practicable;
      (4)   No monument, grave marker, or other structure within the cemetery
shall be allowed to protrude above the normal surface of the ground, except as
specifically permitted by this chapter;
      (5)   A gate or other means of closing the entrance to the cemetery shall
be provided, and shall be used to bar access to the cemetery at any time that
it is not attended by an employee of the cemetery;
      (6)   A chapel, mortuary, undertaking establishment, or crematorium may
be developed within the cemetery as an accessory use to the cemetery, provided
that the land upon which it is built shall be and shall remain, in the same
ownership as the cemetery, although the establishment itself may be conducted
by persons other than the owners of the cemetery. The establishments, if
developed, may be within the required perimeter buffer strip of the cemetery,
but shall be no closer than 150 feet to any residential dwelling on land
adjoining the cemetery;
      (7)   Access to the establishment shall be from within the cemetery, by
means of the single entrance to the cemetery. The establishment shall be
contained within a single building of not more than one story nor more than 20
feet in height. Only one building shall be permitted in any cemetery. The
design and plans for the building shall be subject to approval of the Board as
a condition of the special use permit and shall be submitted as a part of the
application;
      (8)   The proposed cemetery shall not be in conflict with any element of
the Land Use Plan or Thoroughfare Plan of the Town Planning Area, as approved
by the Town Board;
      (9)   Application for approval of this special use shall include a plan
of the proposed cemetery drawn at a scale of not less than one inch equal to
100 feet. The plan shall show the boundaries of the cemetery, all roads within
500 feet of the cemetery boundaries, all structures within 100 feet of the
cemetery boundaries, all property lines connecting to the cemetery boundary,
the names of the owners of the proposed cemetery, the names of all property
owners of land adjacent to the cemetery with identification as to their
respective property location, a north arrow, and the scale of the drawing. The
plan shall also show within the cemetery boundaries the entrance, the required
perimeter buffer strip, the number and location of all lots and burial sites,
all proposed roads, parking areas, easements, and drainage structures, any
other proposed roads, parking areas, easements, and drainage structures, and
any other proposed development which shall be a change from the original
topography, including grading and landscaping;
      (10)   The granting of a special use permit for this purpose shall be
conditional upon subsequent compliance by the cemetery owners with all North
Carolina General Statutes governing the establishment and operation of a
perpetual care cemetery; and
      (11)   Any cemeteries existing at the time of the adoption of this
chapter may be continued without a permit.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 6-29-2021) Penalty,
see §
154.999
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
§ 154.205 GENERALLY.
   Planned developments are of such substantially different character from
other special uses that specific and additional standards and exceptions are
hereby established to guide the recommendations of the Planning Board and the
action of the Town Board.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
§ 154.206 PURPOSES.
   Some specific purposes to the planned development procedure are: to offer
recreational opportunities close to home; to enhance the appearance of
neighborhoods by the conservation of streams and local spots of beauty; to add
to the sense of spaciousness through the preservation of natural green spaces;
to counteract the effects of urban monotony and congestion in the streets; to
encourage cooperative relationships between neighbors and participation by all
age groups in the use and care of local open space tracts in new residential
subdivisions; to promote harmonious architecture between adjacent dwellings or
institutional buildings; and to encourage the placement of structures in proper
relationship to the natural characteristics of the site.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
§ 154.207 REQUIRED INFORMATION.
   (A)   Generally. The developer shall be required to submit the following
information, and any other information that may be required by the Planning
Board or the Town Board.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   The site plan drawn to a scale of at least 400 feet to an inch
indicating the arrangement and tentative location of buildings, uses permitted,
land to be preserved as permanent common open space, parking and loading
spaces, and other special features of the development plan. The site plan shall
also show in detail the sizes and location of all utilities (water and sewer
lines) in conformance with and having the approval of the administration of the
town. The plan shall also show all necessary drainage systems for the
development and for the protection of adjoining properties;
      (2)   Determination shall be made on the impact of the development on the
existing services provided by the town, such as water and sewer lines, outside
the limits of the development that would require additional expenditures of tax
monies, either from the General Fund or bond issues;
      (3)   A draft of the proposed protective covenants whereby the owner
proposes to regulate land use and otherwise protect the proposed development;
      (4)   A draft of any proposed incorporation agreement and a draft of any
bylaws or easement declaration concerning maintenance of recreational and other
common facilities; and
      (5)   Data on the market potential necessary to support the location of
the site and the size of uses in any planned development.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
§ 154.208 EXCEPTIONS.
   The Planning Board may recommend and the Town Board may authorize that there
be in part of the area of the development, and for the duration of the
development, special uses not permitted by the use regulations of the district
in which the development is located, provided that the Planning Board and Town
Board shall find that:
   (A)   The uses permitted by the exception are necessary or desirable and are
appropriate with respect to the primary purpose of the development;
   (B)   The uses permitted by the exception are not of such a nature or so
located as to exercise a detrimental influence on the surrounding neighborhood;
   (C)   Not more than 30% of the ground area nor more than 50% of the gross
floor area of the development shall be devoted to the use permitted by the
exception; and
   (D)   If the sign regulations of this chapter are too restrictive for such a
planned unit development, in which case specific exceptions, both as to type
and degree, shall be set down in writing as conditions to the special use.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
§ 154.209 BULK REGULATIONS.
   In the case of any planned unit development, the Planning Board may
recommend and the Town Board may authorize exceptions to the applicable bulk
regulations of this chapter within the boundaries of the development, provided
that the Planning Board and Town Board shall find that:
   (A)   The exception shall be solely for the purpose of promoting an
integrated site plan no less beneficial to the residents or occupants of the
development as well as the neighboring property, than would be obtained under
the bulk regulations of this chapter for buildings developed on separate zoning
lots;
   (B)   Spacing between principal buildings shall be at least equivalent to
the spacing as would be required between buildings similarly developed under
the terms of this chapter on separate zoning lots. It does not apply in corner-
to-corner placement of buildings where perpendicular wall exposures do not
overlap, due consideration being given to the openness normally afforded by
intervening streets and alleys;
   (C)   Along the periphery of the planned unit developments, yards shall be
provided as required by the regulations of the district in which the
development is located; and
   (D)   In a residential planned unit development, the maximum number of
dwelling units permitted shall be determined by dividing the net development
area by the minimum lot area per dwelling unit required by the district or
districts in which the area is located, and then increasing this number by 15%.
Net
development area shall be determined by subtracting the area set aside for
nonresidential uses from the gross development area and deducting 10% of the
remainder for streets regardless of the amount of land actually required for
streets. The area of land set aside for common open or recreational use may be
included in determining the number of dwelling units permitted.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
§ 154.210 DESIGNATION OF PERMANENT COMMON OPEN SPACE.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      PERMANENT COMMON OPEN SPACE. Any land held and developed as permanent
open space or any land dedicated to the public as parks, playgrounds, parkway
medians, landscaped green space, schools, community centers, or other similar
areas held in public ownership or covered by an open space easement.
   (B)   Designation. No plan for a planned unit development shall be approved
unless the plan provides for permanent open space equivalent to 20% of the
total area in single-family residential planned unit developments, 30% in
multiple-family planned unit developments, and 5% in business and industrial
planned unit developments.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
§ 154.211 MINIMUM LOT AREA IN RESIDENTIAL PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS.
   Provided the overall number of dwelling units per acre (density) is not
increased beyond the provisions of §
154.209(D) and provided that the permanent common open space is in accord with
§
154.210, the planned unit development may include minimum lot areas per
dwelling unit which are less than required in the applicable zoning district.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
MOBILE HOME PARKS
§ 154.225 GENERALLY.
   As a condition for the approval and continuance of a special use permit for
mobile home parks, the following shall apply.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
§ 154.226 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Permits.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain or operate a mobile
home park within the jurisdiction of this chapter unless the person shall first
obtain from the Town Board a special use permit as described in §§
154.175 through
154.178.
      (2)   The special use permit shall be issued if the Planning Board and
Town Board finds that the applicable provisions of this chapter and all other
town ordinances are satisfactorily complied with and, at the time of the
initial special use request, if the Planning Board and Town Board finds that
the location of a proposed park is acceptable.
      (3)   No special use permit shall be issued for any mobile home park not
in operation upon the effective date of this chapter until the park plan has
been approved by the Town Board, as provided for in division (B) below.
   (B)   Construction or alteration of mobile home parks.
      (1)   No person shall construct or engage in the construction of any
mobile home park or make any addition or alteration to a mobile home park that
either alters the number of sites for mobile homes within the park or affects
the facilities required therein until he or she first secures a special use
permit authorizing the construction, addition, or alteration. The construction,
addition, or alteration shall be done in accordance with plans and
specifications submitted with the application and approved by the proper
authorities. Procedures for the applicant securing the permit are described in
§§
154.175 through
154.178. However, before the Town Board shall review the special use request, a
park plan, described below, must be submitted for review and approval by the
Planning Board. No plan is required to be prepared and approved for issuance of
a permit to make minor facility improvements in an existing mobile home park
where the number of mobile home sites within the park is not affected. When no
plan is required, application for a building permit may be made directly to the
Building Inspector.
      (2)   Four copies of the park plan shall be submitted and, upon approval
by the Town Board, each copy shall be signed by the Mayor and Town Clerk,
denoting town approval. One copy shall be returned to the park owner or
developer, one copy shall be submitted to the Town Clerk to be held for public
view, one copy shall be sent to the Inspections Department, and the fourth copy
shall be retained by the Town Board for its records.
      (3)   The approved park plan becomes part of the conditions for the
special use and must be constructed and maintained accordingly in order to
retain the permit. The Town Administrator or designees shall make an
examination of the construction at any reasonable time to determine whether the
work is being done according to approved plans and specifications, and the
owner shall make available any records, test data, or other information
essential to the determination.
      (4)   When all specified improvements have been made, the Town
Administrator or designees shall issue a certificate of occupancy and the
developer may begin moving in homes and begin operations.
   (C)   Site plan requirements.
      (1)   General information. Including topographical features, streams,
vegetation, soil types, flood-prone areas, historic sites, and other features;
      (2)   Timing of development. The proposed schedule of development,
including phases or stages likely to be followed;
      (3)   Public water and sewer system. Location of public water and sewer
lines presently in existence, connections to these lines, manholes, pumping
stations, fire hydrants, and other necessary features. All mobile home parks
must have public water and sewer service or approved treatment facilities as
required by the appropriate state or district authorities;
      (4)   Storm water drainage system. Proposed storm water drainage system;
      (5)   Streets, curbs and gutters, electrical systems, and street lights.
Proposed location and design of streets, curbs and gutters, electrical systems,
and street lights;
      (6)   Grading plan and sedimentation control measures. Proposed grading
plan and sedimentation control measures;
      (7)   Street access, easements, monuments, and property lines. Proposed
street access, easements, monuments, and property lines;
      (8)   Sidewalks. Proposed location and design of sidewalks.
      (9)   Parking, loading, and circulation. The proposed location and floor
plans of all proposed structures, including numbers and dimensions of all
mobile home spaces;
      (10)   Floor plans and building layouts. Proposed location and floor
plans of all proposed structures, including numbers and dimensions of all
mobile home spaces;
      (11)   Buffers. Proposed buffer strips, as required in §
154.140;
      (12)   Refuse collection. Proposed method of collection and location of
receptacles;
      (13)   Names. Name of park and names and addresses of the owner(s),
designer, or surveyor;
      (14)   Date. Date, scale, and north arrow;
      (15)   Tract boundaries. Boundaries of the tract with bearings,
distances, and metes and bounds; and
      (16)   Vicinity map. Vicinity map showing the location of the park,
surrounding land uses, and names and addresses of all adjoining property
owners.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 6-29-2021) Penalty,
see §
154.999
§ 154.227 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Minimum area. Each mobile home park shall be developed on a tract not
less than two acres in size and shall contain at least five mobile home spaces
available at first occupancy.
   (B)   Lot requirements. Each mobile home lot or space shall consist of a
minimum of 5,000 square feet and shall have a minimum width of 50 feet at the
street line. Each mobile home space shall be designated by permanent markers
located on the ground and may be occupied by one mobile home at any time. All
mobile home spaces or homes shall be numbered, with numerals visible from the
internal street. A density no greater than five mobile homes per gross acre is
permitted.
   (C)   Setbacks. No mobile home shall be located closer than:
      (1)   Forty feet from a state highway or city street right-of-way;
      (2)   Thirty feet from the exterior boundary of the park;
      (3)   Twenty feet from another mobile home; and/or
      (4)   Twenty feet from an internal street in the park. Distances shall be
measured from the outermost part of the unit, including tongue.
   (D)   Streets and driveways. All streets within the mobile home park shall
be paved. The access streets must be connected with a state or city street or
highway. All internal streets must have a paved width no less than 18 feet with
an eight-foot shoulder on at least one side of the street. Each mobile home
space must be served by a driveway, surfaced as per division (E) below,
connecting to an internal street. No space shall have direct access to a town
street or state highway. All streets shall meet town standards and must be
approved by the Public Works Director.
   (E)   Off-street parking. Each mobile home space shall have two off-street
parking spaces surfaced with pavement or a minimum of four inches of crushed
stone or gravel, extending to the internal street serving the space.
   (F)   Cul-de-sacs. Dead-end streets exceeding 300 feet shall be provided
with a cul-de-sac paved to a minimum of 45 feet in diameter.
   (G)   Signs. Permanent signs for identification of mobile home parks shall
be no more than 50 square feet in size, and no closer than 20 feet to any
property line. One sign per park is permitted. Illumination of the signs must
be indirect and nonflashing, and the source must not be visible from adjoining
property or public streets or roads.
   (H)   Buffer strip. The mobile home park shall have a buffer strip, as
required in §
154.140.
   (I)   Water and sewerage service. Mobile home parks shall install public
water and sewerage systems as per town sizes, standards, and specifications.
After construction, the systems shall be dedicated to the town for operation
and maintenance. If town water and sewerage services are not available or the
proposed park is outside the town boundary, the developer shall construct
approved systems which must be approved by the appropriate state agency prior
to the approval of park development plans by the Planning Board.
   (J)   Fire protection. Fire hydrants shall be installed to provide
unobstructed access within 500 feet from any mobile home space.
   (K)   Drainage. Each mobile home space shall be graded so as to provide
proper drainage. No mobile home space shall be located in an area subject to
flooding or seasonal high water table.
   (L)   Street lighting. All streets in the mobile home park shall be
adequately illuminated from sunset to sunrise. The minimum street light size
shall be 175-watt mercury vapor fixtures at not less than 250-foot intervals.
Underground electrical devices are required within the park.
   (M)   No mobile home sales within park. Mobile homes shall not be sold
within a mobile home park, except that an individual mobile home owner shall be
allowed to sell the mobile home in which he or she resides and except as set
out in division (O) below.
   (N)   Administrative office. Within a mobile home park, one mobile home may
be used for an administrative office.
   (O)   Mobile home sales; when permitted. The owner or operator of a mobile
home park shall not sell mobile homes on or within a mobile home park unless
the mobile home unit for sale shall be placed individually and separately upon
an existing mobile home space where all design standards and utilities have
been completed as specified by this chapter, and unless the mobile home is
being occupied as a residence.
   (P)   Garbage and refuse. All garbage and refuse in every mobile home park
shall be stored in suitable watertight and flytight receptacles which shall be
kept covered with closely fitting covers. The size and type of all garbage
receptacles shall be in conformance with town standards. No person shall throw
or leave garbage or refuse upon the grounds of any mobile home park. It shall
be the duty of the mobile home park operator to personally make certain that
all garbage and refuse are regularly disposed of in a sanitary manner. If the
mobile home park is located within the corporate limits, the town will pick up
and dispose of the garbage and refuse.
   (Q)   Foundations and the like. Each mobile home unit shall be secured by
adequate foundations, tie-downs, and anchors so as to conform to the state
regulations for mobile homes. All mobile homes shall be skirted with approved
materials if not placed on a permanent foundation.
   (R)   Registration of occupants. Every mobile home park owner or operator
shall maintain an accurate register containing a record of all occupants and
owners of mobile homes in the park. The register shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   Name of owner or occupant;
      (2)   Mobile home space number;
      (3)   Make, model, and registration number of mobile home; and
      (4)   Date when occupancy within the mobile home park begins and date
when occupancy within the mobile home park ceases.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 6-29-2021) Penalty,
see §
154.999
§ 154.228 NONCONFORMING MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   (A)   NONCONFORMING MOBILE HOME PARKS shall refer to any mobile home park
which does not conform to all of the provisions of development standards of
this chapter.
   (B)   Beginning with the passage of this chapter, a nonconforming mobile
home park shall not be enlarged or altered so as to create additional spaces
until the park has been made to conform to the provisions of this chapter, with
the exception of §
154.227(A).
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 6-29-2021) Penalty,
see §
154.999
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
§ 154.240 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   There shall be a Zoning Board of Adjustment (hereinafter called the
Board of Adjustment). This Board of Adjustment shall consist
of five members and two alternatives who shall receive no compensation for
their services. Four members shall be residents of the area within the town’s
corporate limits. All members of the Board of Adjustment shall be appointed by
the Town Board. One regular member of the five- member regular Board of
Adjustment, along with one of the two alternates, shall be residents of the
town’s one-mile extraterritorial jurisdiction. The Town Board shall from time
to time review and confirm the existence of proportional representation based
on population for residents of the town’s extraterritorial jurisdiction
pursuant to G.S. § 160D-307(a).
   (B)   The original appointment of the five members shall be made as follows:
one member shall be appointed for a term of one year; two members shall be
appointed for a term of two years; and two members shall be appointed for a
term of three years. All appointments to fill vacancies shall be for the
unexpired term.
   (C)   The town, at its discretion, may appoint not more than two alternate
members to serve on the Board of Adjustment in the absence, for any cause, of
any regular member. The alternate member or members shall be appointed for the
same term or terms as regular members, and shall be appointed in the same
manner as regular members and at regular times for appointment; provided,
however, that in the case of the first appointment of alternate members, the
appointment shall be for a term of any regular member expires. The alternate
member, while attending any regular or special meeting of the Board and serving
in the absence of any regular member, shall have and exercise all the powers
and duties of the regular member so absent.
   (D)   The Board of Adjustment shall have all powers and duties as set forth
in this chapter and is permitted by G.S. § 160D-302.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
§ 154.241 PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   Officers. The Board of Adjustment shall elect a Chairperson from its
membership and any other officers as the Board of Adjustment deems best.
   (B)   Meetings. Meetings of the Board of Adjustment shall be held pursuant
to a schedule adopted pursuant to law. Special or emergency meetings of the
Board of Adjustment may be held in accordance with the provisions of G.S. Ch.
143. Meetings of the Board of Adjustment shall be held at the call of the
Chairperson and at any other times as the Board of Adjustment may determine.
All meetings of the Board shall be held at a regular place and shall be open to
the public. The Board of Adjustment shall keep minutes of its proceedings in a
book maintained for that purpose only, showing the vote of each member upon
each question, or, if absent or failing to vote, an indication of the fact.
Final disposition of appeals shall be by recorded resolution indicating the
reasons of the Board of Adjustment therefore, all of which shall be a public
record. No final action shall be taken on any matter unless a quorum of the
Board of Adjustment is present.
   (C)   Appeals. An appeal to the Board of Adjustment may be taken by any
person, firm, or corporation aggrieved, or by any governmental officer,
department, board, or agency affected by any decision of the Administrative
Official, based in whole or in part upon the provisions of this chapter.
Appeals shall be taken pursuant to the requirements of §
154.275 herein.
   (D)   Voting. The concurring vote of a majority of the members of the Board
of Adjustment shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision,
or determination of any Administrative Official charged with enforcement of
this chapter or to decide in favor of the applicant any matter which it is
required to pass under this chapter a vote of four of the five members shall be
necessary to grant a variance.
   (E)   Rules of procedure. Rules of procedure that are consistent with the
provisions of this chapter may be adopted by the Town Board for the Board of
Adjustment. In the absence of action by the Town Board, the Board of Adjustment
is authorized to adopt its own rules of procedure that are consistent with the
provisions of G.S. Ch. 160D. A copy of any adopted rules of procedure shall be
maintained by the Clerk to the Town Board and shall be posted on the town’s
website.
   (F)   Quasi-judicial decisions. The Board of Adjustment shall follow the
procedures set forth in §
154.279 herein if making a decision or determination for which a quasi-judicial
hearing is required.
   (G)   All members appointed to the Board of Adjustment shall, before
entering their duties, qualify by taking an oath of office as required by G.S.
§ 160A-161.
   (H)   The Board of Adjustment shall keep permanent minutes of its
proceedings. The minutes shall record attendance of its members; its
resolutions, findings and recommendations; and final actions. The minutes of
the Board of Adjustment shall be public record.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
§ 154.242 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Administrative review. To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged
there is error in any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by
the Administrative Official in the enforcement of this chapter, the Board of
Adjustment may, so long as the action is in conformity with the terms of this
chapter, reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the order,
requirement, decision, or determination as ought to be made, and to that end
shall have powers of the Administrative Official from whom the appeal is taken.
   (B)   Variances.
      (1)   To authorize upon appeal in specific cases variance from the terms
of this chapter as will not be contrary to the public interest where, owing to
special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of this chapter
will result in undue hardship, and so that the spirit of this chapter shall be
observed and substantial justice done.
      (2)   In considering all proposed variances from this chapter, the Board
shall, before making any finding in a specified case, first determine that the
proposed variance will not constitute any change in the zones shown on the
Zoning Map and will not impair an adequate supply of light and air to adjacent
property, or materially increase the public danger of fire and safety, or
materially diminish or impair established property values within the
surrounding area, or in any other respect impair the public health, safety,
morals, and general welfare.
      (3)   Findings of fact. When unnecessary hardships would result from
carrying out the strict letter of a requirement of this chapter, the Board of
Adjustment shall vary the requirement of this chapter upon a showing of all of
the following:
         (a)   Unnecessary hardship would result from the strict application of
the requirement. It shall not be necessary to demonstrate that, in the absence
of the variance, no reasonable use can be made of the property.
         (b)   The hardship results from conditions that are peculiar to the
property, such as location, size, or topography. Hardships resulting from
personal circumstances, as well as hardships resulting from conditions that are
common to the neighborhood or the general public, may not be the basis for
granting a variance. A variance may be granted when necessary and appropriate
to make a reasonable accommodation under the Federal Fair Housing Act for a
person with a disability.
         (c)   The hardship did not result from actions taken by the applicant
or the property owner. The act of purchasing property with knowledge that
circumstances exist that may justify the granting of a variance shall not be
regarded as a self-created hardship.
         (d)   The requested variance is consistent with the spirit, purpose,
and intent of the regulation, such that public safety is secured and
substantial justice is achieved.    
      (4)   No nonconforming use of neighboring lands in the same district and
no permitted use of land in other districts shall be considered grounds for the
issuance of a variance.
      (5)   No change in permitted uses may be authorized by variance. Under no
circumstances shall the Board of Adjustment grant a variance to allow a use not
permissible under the terms of this chapter in the district involved, or any
use expressly or by implication prohibited by the terms of this chapter in the
district.
      (6)   Appropriate conditions may be imposed on any variance, provided
that the conditions are reasonably related to the variance. In granting a
variance, the Board of Adjustment may attach thereto any conditions regarding
the location, character, and other features of the proposed building,
structure, or use as it may deem advisable in furtherance of the purposes of
this chapter. Violation of the conditions and safeguards, when made a part of
the terms under which the variance is granted, shall be deemed a violation of
this chapter and punishable under §
154.999.
      (7)   The concurring vote of four-fifths of the Board of Adjustment shall
be necessary to grant a variance.
   (C)   Temporary uses.  The Board of Adjustment may permit a temporary
building for business in the residential zone, which is incidental to the
residential development, the permit to be issued for a period of not more than
one year.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 6-29-2021) Penalty,
see §
154.999
§ 154.243 APPEAL.
   Any appeal from a decision of the Board of Adjustment shall be made to the
Superior Court of Duplin County in accordance with the provisions of G.S. §
160D-1402.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 154.255 ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICIAL.
   (A)   The Town Board shall appoint the Town Administrator, or other person
as the Administrative Official to administer and enforce this chapter. The
assistance of any other persons may be provided as the Town Board may direct.
No person shall commence or proceed with development without first securing
approval from the town as herein provided.
   (B)   The Administrative Official and his or her staff may inspect work
undertaken pursuant to a development approval to assure that the work is being
done in accordance with applicable state and local laws and of the terms of the
approval. In exercising this power, staff are authorized to enter any premises
within the jurisdiction of the town at all reasonable hours for the purposes of
inspection or other enforcement action, upon presentation of proper
credentials; provided, however, that the appropriate consent has been given for
inspection of areas not open to the public or that an appropriate inspection
warrant has been secured. The Administrative Official shall have all rights of
enforcement as outlined in §
154.999 herein.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
§ 154.256 PERMIT ADMINISTRATION.
   A development approval shall be in writing and may contain a provision
requiring the development to comply with all applicable state and local laws.
The town may issue development approvals in print or electronic form. Any
development approval issued exclusively in electronic form shall be protected
from further editing once issued. Applications for development approvals may be
made by the landowner, a lessee or person holding an option or contract to
purchase or lease land, or an authorized agent of the landowner. An easement
holder may also apply for development approval for such development as is
authorized by the easement.
   (A)   Notice. Any approval or disapproval of an application for a zoning
permit made pursuant to this section shall be communicated by the
Administrative Official who shall in turn give written notice to the owner of
the property that is the subject of the determination and to the party who
sought the determination, if different from the owner. The written notice shall
be delivered by personal delivery, electronic mail, or by first-class mail. The
notice shall be delivered to the last address listed for the owner of the
affected property on the county tax abstract and to the address provided in the
application or request for a determination if the party seeking the
determination is different from the owner.
   (B)   Expiration of zoning permit. A zoning permit shall expire one year
after the date of issuance if the work authorized by the certificate has not
been substantially commenced. If after commencement the work or activity
allowed under a certificate is discontinued for a period of 12 months after
commencement, the certificate shall immediately expire.
   (C)   Any appeal from a decision of the Administrative Official may be made
in accordance with the provisions of §
154.257 herein.
   (D)   An approval made pursuant to this chapter attaches to and runs with
the land.
(Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
§ 154.257 APPEALS OF ADMINISTRATIVE DECISIONS.
   (A)   Applicability. Appeals of decisions made by the Administrative
Official or his/her deputy or staff under this chapter shall be made to the
Board of Adjustment. Appeals shall be heard by the Board of Adjustment, in
compliance with the quasi-judicial processes set forth in §
154.279 herein.
   (B)   Standing. Any person who has standing or the town may appeal an
administrative decision to the Board of Adjustment. An appeal is taken by
filing a notice of appeal with the Clerk to the Board. The notice of appeal
shall state the grounds for the appeal.
   (C)   Time to appeal. The owner or other party shall have 30 days from
receipt of the written notice of the determination within which to file an
appeal. Any other person with standing to appeal shall have 30 days from
receipt from any source of actual or constructive notice of the determination
within which to file an appeal. In the absence of evidence to the contrary,
notice given pursuant to division (A) of this section herein by first-class
mail shall be deemed received on the third business day following deposit of
the notice for mailing with the United States Postal Service.
   (D)   Record of decision. The official who made the decision shall transmit
to the Board of Adjustment all documents and exhibits constituting the record
upon which the decision appealed from is taken. The official shall also provide
a copy of the record to the appellant and to the owner of the property that is
the subject of the appeal if the appellant is not the owner.
   (E)   Stays. An appeal of a notice of violation or other enforcement order
stays enforcement of the action appealed from and accrual of any fines assessed
unless the official who made the decision certifies to the Board after notice
of appeal has been filed that, because of the facts stated in an affidavit, a
stay would cause imminent peril to life or property or, because the violation
is transitory in nature, a stay would seriously interfere with enforcement of
the development regulation. In that case, enforcement proceedings shall not be
stayed except by a restraining order, which may be granted by a court. If
enforcement proceedings are not stayed, the appellant may file with the
official a request for an expedited hearing of the appeal, and the Board shall
meet to hear the appeal within 15 days after such a request is filed.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, appeals of decisions granting a development
approval or otherwise affirming that a proposed use of property is consistent
with the development regulation shall not stay the further review of an
application for development approvals to use such property; in these
situations, the appellant or town may request and the Board may grant a stay of
a final decision of development approval applications, including building
permits affected by the issue being appealed.
   (F)   Appeals of decisions. Any appeal from the decision of the Board of
Adjustment shall be made to Superior Court of Duplin County, in accordance with
the provisions of G.S. § 160D-1402.
(Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
§ 154.258 BUILDING PERMIT.
   (A)   No building or other structure shall be erected, moved, extended,
enlarged, or structurally altered until a zoning permit has been issued by the
town and a building permit for the work has been issued by the County Building
Inspector. Each application for a building permit shall be accompanied by the
town zoning permit and the building plans or other information as may be
necessary to determine if the provisions of this chapter are being observed.
   (B)   The same shall be true of enlarging or structurally altering mobile
homes. No living compartment other than a “Florida room,” or other
prefabricated structure specifically designed by the manufacturer for mobile
home extension, shall be added to any mobile home parked within the
jurisdiction of this chapter unless a town zoning permit and a building permit
have been issued for the addition.
   (C)   No section of this chapter shall in any way prohibit, restrict, or
affect in any manner or form any person, firm, or corporation who has secured a
building permit issued by the county prior to the effective date of this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 6-29-2021) Penalty,
see §
154.999
§ 154.259 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   No land shall be used or occupied, except for agricultural purposes, and no
building hereafter structurally altered or erected shall be used or changed in
use until a zoning permit is issued by the town and a certificate of occupancy
shall have been issued by the County Building Inspector and Administrative
Official stating that the building and/or the proposed use thereof complies
with the provisions of this chapter. A zoning permit shall be issued for the
purpose of maintaining or renewing a nonconforming use. A certificate of
occupancy, either for the whole or a part of a building, shall be applied for
coincident with the application for a building permit and shall be issued
within ten days after the erection or structural alterations of the building or
part shall have been completed in conformity with the provisions of this
chapter. A record of all certificates shall be kept on file in the town or
county office, and copies shall be furnished on request, to any person having a
proprietary or tenancy interest in the building erected. No permit for
excavation for, or erection of, any building, or part of a building, or for
repairs to, or alteration of, a building shall be issued until after a
statement of its intended use has been filed by the applicant.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 6-29-2021) Penalty,
see §
154.999
CHANGES AND AMENDMENTS
§ 154.270 GENERALLY.
   The Town Board may amend, supplement, or change the text regulations and
zoning district lines according to the following procedures.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
§ 154.271 ACTION BY THE APPLICANT.
   (A)   Initiation of amendments. Proposed changes or amendments may be
initiated by the Town Board, Planning Board, Board of Adjustment, town
officials, or by one or more owners or lessees of property within the area
proposed to be changed or affected.
   (B)   Application. An application for any change or amendment shall contain
a description and/or statement of the present and proposed zoning regulation or
district boundary to be applied, and the names and addresses of the owner or
owners of the property. The application shall be filed not later than three
weeks prior to the meeting at which the application is to be considered.
   (C)   Fee.
      (1)   Zoning text amendment: $250 plus $.50/letter or $5.50/certified
letter;
      (2)   Rezoning request (less than 50 different property owners affected):
$250 plus $.50/ letter or $5.50/certified letter; and
      (3)   Rezoning request (50 or more different property owners affected):
$1,185 plus $.50/letter or $5.50/certified letter.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 12-9-2008; Ord.
passed 6-29-2021)
§ 154.272 AMENDING THE ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Hearing with published notice. Before adopting, amending, or repealing
any provision of this chapter, the Town Board shall hold a legislative hearing.
A notice of the hearing shall be given once a week for two successive calendar
weeks in a newspaper having general circulation in the area. The notice shall
be published the first time not less than ten days nor more than 25 days before
the date scheduled for the hearing. In computing such period, the day of
publication is not to be included but the day of the hearing shall be included.
   (B)   No amendment to this chapter or the Zoning Map of the Town of Rose
Hill that down-zones property shall be initiated nor is it enforceable without
the written consent of all property owners whose property is the subject of the
down-zoning amendment, unless the down-zoning amendment is initiated by the
town. For purposes of this prohibition, "down-zoning" means a zoning ordinance
that affects an area of land in one of the following ways: (a) by decreasing
the development density of the land to be less dense than was allowed under its
previous usage; or (b) by reducing the permitted uses of the land that are
specified in a zoning ordinance or land development regulation to fewer uses
than were allowed under its previous usage.
(Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
§ 154.273 NOTICE OF HEARING ON PROPOSED ZONING MAP AMENDMENTS.
   In addition to the published notice requirements of §
154.272 herein, the following shall apply to Zoning Map amendments:
   (A)   Mailed notice. The owners of affected parcels of land and the owners
of all parcels of land abutting that parcel of land shall be mailed a notice of
the hearing on a proposed zoning map amendment by first-class mail at the last
addresses listed for such owners on the county tax abstracts. For the purpose
of this section, properties are "abutting" even if separated by a street,
railroad, or other transportation corridor. This notice must be deposited in
the mail at least ten but not more than 25 days prior to the date of the
hearing.
   (B)   Optional notice for large-scale Zoning Map amendments. The first-class
mail notice required under division (A) of this section shall not be required
if the Zoning Map amendment proposes to change the zoning designation of more
than 50 properties, owned by at least 50 different property owners, and the
town elects to use the expanded published notice provided for in this division.
In this instance, the town may elect to make the mailed notice provided for in
division (A) of this section or, as an alternative, elect to publish notice of
the hearing as required by G.S. § 160D-601, provided that each advertisement
shall not be less than one-half of a newspaper page in size. The advertisement
shall only be effective for property owners who reside in the area of general
circulation of the newspaper that publishes the notice. Property owners who
reside outside of the newspaper circulation area, according to the address
listed on the most recent property tax listing for the affected property, shall
be notified according to the provisions of division (A) of this section.
   (C)   Posted notice. When a Zoning Map amendment is proposed, the town shall
prominently post a notice of the hearing on the site proposed for the amendment
or on an adjacent public street or highway right-of-way. The notice shall be
posted within the same time period specified for mailed notices of the hearing.
When multiple parcels are included within a proposed Zoning Map amendment, a
posting on each individual parcel is not required but the town shall post
sufficient notices to provide reasonable notice to interested persons.
(Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
§ 154.274 CITIZEN COMMENTS.
   If any resident or property owner in the town submits a written statement
regarding a proposed amendment, modification, or repeal to a zoning regulation,
including a text or map amendment, to the Clerk to the Town Board at least two
business days prior to the proposed vote on such change, the Clerk to the Board
shall deliver such written statement to the Town Board. If the proposed change
is the subject of a quasi-judicial proceeding under G.S. § 160D-705 or any
other statute, the Clerk shall provide only the names and addresses of the
individuals providing written comment, and the provision of such names and
addresses to all members of the Board shall not disqualify any member of the
Board from voting.
(Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
§ 154.275 ACTION BY THE BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   Zoning amendments. All proposed amendments to this chapter or Zoning
District Map shall be submitted to the Board of Adjustment for review and
comment. If no written report is received from the Board of Adjustment within
30 days of referral of the amendment to that Board, the Town Board may act on
the amendment without the Board of Adjustment report. The Town Board are not
bound by the recommendations, if any, of the Board of Adjustment.
   (B)   Plan consistency. When conducting a review of proposed zoning text or
map amendments pursuant to this section, the Board of Adjustment shall advise
and comment on whether the proposed action is consistent with any comprehensive
plan that has been adopted and any other officially adopted plan that is
applicable. The Board of Adjustment shall provide a written recommendation to
the Town Board that addresses plan consistency and other matters as deemed
appropriate by the Board of Adjustment, but a comment by the Board of
Adjustment that a proposed amendment is inconsistent with the comprehensive
plan shall not preclude consideration or approval of the proposed amendment by
the governing board. If a Zoning Map amendment qualifies as a "large-scale
rezoning" under §
154.273(B) the Board of Adjustment statement describing plan consistency may
address the overall rezoning and describe how the analysis and policies in the
relevant adopted plans were considered in the recommendation made.
   (C)   Separate Board required. Notwithstanding the authority to assign
duties of the Planning Board to the Town Board as provided by G.S. Ch. 160D,
the review and comment required by this section shall not be assigned to the
Town Board and must be performed by a separate Board.
   (D)   Reapplication for amendment. Application for amendment in this chapter
shall only be permitted once within any 12-month period. The Town Board, by
three-fourths vote of its total membership, may waive this restriction if it
finds any emergency exists.
(Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
§ 154.276 ACTION BY THE TOWN BOARD.
   (A)   When adopting or rejecting any zoning text or map amendment, the Town
Board shall approve a brief statement describing whether its action is
consistent or inconsistent with an adopted comprehensive plan. The requirement
for a plan consistency statement may also be met by a clear indication in the
minutes of the Town Board that at the time of action on the amendment the Town
Board was aware of and considered the Planning Board's recommendations and any
relevant portions of an adopted comprehensive plan. If a Zoning Map amendment
is adopted and the action was deemed inconsistent with the adopted plan, the
zoning amendment shall have the effect of also amending any future land-use map
in the approved plan, and no additional request or application for a plan
amendment shall be required. A plan amendment and a zoning amendment may be
considered concurrently. The plan consistency statement is not subject to
judicial review. If a Zoning Map amendment qualifies as a "large-scale
rezoning" under §
154.273(B), the Town Board statement describing plan consistency may address
the overall rezoning and describe how the analysis and policies in the relevant
adopted plans were considered in the action taken.
   (B)   Additional reasonableness statement for rezonings. When adopting or
rejecting any petition for a Zoning Map amendment, a statement analyzing the
reasonableness of the proposed rezoning shall be approved by the Governing
Board. This statement of reasonableness may consider, among other factors: (i)
the size, physical conditions, and other attributes of the area proposed to be
rezoned; (ii) the benefits and detriments to the landowners, the neighbors, and
the surrounding community; (iii) the relationship between the current actual
and permissible development on the tract and adjoining areas and the
development that would be permissible under the proposed amendment; (iv) why
the action taken is in the public interest; and (v) any changed conditions
warranting the amendment. If a Zoning Map amendment qualifies as a "large-scale
rezoning" under §
154.273(B), the Town Board statement on reasonableness may address the overall
rezoning.
   (C)   Single statement permissible. The statement of reasonableness and the
plan consistency statement required by this section may be approved as a single
statement.
(Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
§ 154.277 PLANNING BOARD.
   (A)   Establishment. The Planning Board is established pursuant to G.S. §
160D-301.
   (B)   Membership and vacancies. The Planning Board shall be composed of five
members. Four members shall be appointed by the Town Board. The fifth member
shall be a representative from the town's extra-territorial jurisdictions. The
Town Board may establish reasonable procedures to solicit, review, and make
appointments to the Planning Board. The Town Board will provide means of
proportional representation based on population for residents of the
extraterritorial jurisdictions.
   (C)   Organization. All meetings and hearings of the Planning Board shall be
held at a regular place and shall be open to the public and shall be conducted
in accordance with the rules of procedure of the Planning Board.
   (D)   Meetings of the Planning Board shall be held pursuant to a schedule
adopted pursuant to law. Special or emergency meetings of the Planning Board
may be held in accordance with the provisions of G.S. Ch. 143.
   (E)   Rules of procedure that are consistent with the provisions of this
chapter may be adopted by the Town Board for the Planning Board. In the absence
of action by the Town Board, the Planning Board is authorized to adopt its own
rules of procedure that are consistent with the provisions of G.S. Ch. 160D. A
copy of any adopted rules of procedure shall be maintained by the Clerk to the
Town Board and shall be posted on the town's website. Meetings of the Planning
Board shall be held pursuant to a schedule adopted pursuant to law. Special or
emergency meetings of the Planning Board may be held in accordance with the
provisions of G.S. Ch. 143. All meetings shall be open to the public.
   (F)   The Planning Board shall keep permanent minutes of all proceedings.
The minutes shall record attendance of its members, its resolutions, findings,
recommendations, and final actions.
   (G)   The minutes of the Planning Board shall be public record.
   (H)   Powers and duties. In execution of the provisions of this chapter, the
Planning Board shall have all powers and duties permitted by G.S. § 160D-301.
   (I)   Oath of office.  All members appointed to the Planning Board under
this chapter shall, before entering their duties, qualify by taking an oath of
office as required by G.S. § 160A-61.
   (J)   Quasi-judicial decisions. The Planning Board shall follow the
procedures set forth in §
154.279 herein if making a decision or determination for which a quasi-judicial
hearing is required.
(Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
§ 154.278 TOWN BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS.
   (A)   Powers and duties. In execution of the provisions of this chapter, the
Town Board may exercise the powers as may be described elsewhere in this
chapter.
   (B)   Final authority. The Town Board shall be responsible for final action
regarding the following:
      (1)   Zoning Code text amendments; and
      (2)   Zoning Map amendments (Rezoning).
   (C)   Minutes. The Town Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings.
   (D)   Quasi-judicial decisions. The Town Board shall follow the procedures
set forth in §
154.279 herein if making a decision or determination for which a quasi-judicial
hearing is required.
(Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
§ 154.279 QUASI-JUDICIAL PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Process required. The Planning Board, Board of Adjustment and Town
Board shall follow quasi-judicial procedures as directed in this chapter, and
in any event in determining appeals of administrative decisions, variances,
special use permits, and other quasi-judicial decisions.
   (B)   Notice of hearing.  Notice of evidentiary hearings conducted pursuant
to this chapter shall be mailed to the person or entity whose appeal,
application, or request is the subject of the hearing; to the owner of the
property that is the subject of the hearing if the owner did not initiate the
hearing; to the owners of all parcels of land abutting the parcel of land that
is the subject of the hearing; and to any other persons entitled to receive
notice as provided by this chapter. In the absence of evidence to the contrary,
the town may rely on the county tax listing to determine owners of property
entitled to mailed notice. The notice must be deposited in the mail at least
ten days, but not more than 25 days, prior to the date of the hearing. Within
that same time period, the town shall also prominently post a notice of the
hearing on the site that is the subject of the hearing or on an adjacent street
or highway right-of-way. The Board may continue an evidentiary hearing that has
been convened without further advertisement. If an evidentiary hearing is set
for a given date and a quorum of the Board is not then present, the hearing
shall be continued until the next regular meeting of the Board without further
advertisement.
   (C)   Administrative materials. The Administrative Official shall transmit
to the Board all applications, reports, and written materials relevant to the
matter being considered. The administrative materials may be distributed to the
members of the Board prior to the hearing if at the same time they are
distributed to the Board a copy is also provided to the appellant or applicant
and to the landowner if that person is not the appellant or applicant. The
administrative materials shall become a part of the hearing record. The
administrative materials may be provided in written or electronic form.
Objections to inclusion or exclusion of administrative materials may be made
before or during the hearing. Rulings on unresolved objections shall be made by
the Board at the hearing.
   (D)   Presentation of evidence. The applicant, the town, and any person who
would have standing to appeal the decision shall have the right to participate
as a party at the evidentiary hearing. Other witnesses may present competent,
material, and substantial evidence that is not repetitive as allowed by the
Board.
   (E)   Objections. Objections regarding jurisdictional and evidentiary
issues, including, but not limited to, the timeliness of an appeal or the
standing of a party, may be made to the Board. The Board Chair shall rule on
any objections, and the Chair's rulings may be appealed to the full Board.
These rulings are also subject to judicial review pursuant to G.S. § 160D-1402.
Objections based on jurisdictional issues may be raised for the first time on
judicial review.
   (F)   Appearance of official new issues. The official who made the decision
or the person currently occupying that position, if the decision maker is no
longer employed by the town, shall be present at the evidentiary hearing as a
witness. The appellant shall not be limited at the hearing to matters stated in
a notice of appeal. If any party or the town would be unduly prejudiced by the
presentation of matters not presented in the notice of appeal, the Board shall
continue the hearing.
   (G)   Oaths. The Chair of the Board or any member acting as Chair and the
Clerk to the Board are authorized to administer oaths to witnesses in any
matter coming before the Board. Any person who, while under oath during a
proceeding before the Board determining a quasi-judicial matter, willfully
swears falsely is guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor.
   (H)   Subpoena. The Board making a quasi-judicial decision under this
chapter through the Chair or, in the Chair's absence, anyone acting as Chair
may subpoena witnesses and compel the production of evidence. To request
issuance of a subpoena, the applicant, the town, and any person with standing
may make a written request to the Chair explaining why it is necessary for
certain witnesses or evidence to be compelled. The Chair shall issue requested
subpoenas he or she determines to be relevant, reasonable in nature and scope,
and not oppressive. The Chair shall rule on any motion to quash or modify a
subpoena. Decisions regarding subpoenas made by the Chair may be immediately
appealed to the full Board. If a person fails or refuses to obey a subpoena
issued pursuant to this division, the Board or the party seeking the subpoena
may apply to the General Court of Justice for an order requiring that its
subpoena be obeyed, and the court shall have jurisdiction to issue these orders
after notice to all proper parties.
   (I)   Voting.  The concurring vote of four-fifths of the Board shall be
necessary to grant a variance. A majority of the members shall be required to
decide any other quasi-judicial matter or to determine an appeal made in the
nature of certiorari. For the purposes of this division, vacant positions on
the Board and members who are disqualified from voting on a quasi-judicial
matter under this chapter shall not be considered members of the Board for
calculation of the requisite majority if there are no qualified alternates
available to take the place of such members.
   (J)   Decisions. The Board shall determine contested facts and make its
decision within a reasonable time. When hearing an appeal, the Board may
reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the decision appealed from
and shall make any order, requirement, decision, or determination that ought to
be made. The Board shall have all the powers of the official who made the
decision. Every quasi-judicial decision shall be based upon competent,
material, and substantial evidence in the record. Each quasi-judicial decision
shall be reduced to writing, reflect the Board's determination of contested
facts and their application to the applicable standards, and be approved by the
Board and signed by the Chair or other duly authorized member of the Board. A
quasi-judicial decision is effective upon filing the written decision with the
Clerk to the Board. The decision of the Board shall be delivered within a
reasonable time by personal delivery, electronic mail, or first-class mail to
the applicant, landowner, and any person who has submitted a written request
for a copy prior to the date the decision becomes effective. The person
required to provide notice shall certify to the town that proper notice has
been made, and the certificate shall be deemed conclusive in the absence of
fraud.
(Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
§ 154.280 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   (A)   Town Board. A Town Commissioner shall not vote on any legislative
decision regarding a development regulation under this chapter where the
outcome of the matter being considered is reasonably likely to have a direct,
substantial, and readily identifiable financial impact on the Commissioner.
   (B)   Planning Board and Board of Adjustment. Members of the Planning Board
and Board of Adjustment shall not vote on any advisory or legislative decision
regarding a development regulation under this chapter where the outcome of the
matter being considered is reasonably likely to have a direct, substantial, and
readily identifiable financial impact on the member.
   (C)   Administrative staff.  No staff member shall make a final decision on
an administrative decision regarding a development regulation under this
chapter if the outcome of that decision would have a direct, substantial, and
readily identifiable financial impact on the staff member or if the applicant
or other person subject to that decision is a person with whom the staff member
has a close familial, business, or other associational relationship. If a staff
member has a conflict of interest under this section, the decision shall be
assigned to the supervisor of the staff person or such other staff person as
may be designated by the development regulation or other ordinance.
   (D)   No staff member shall be financially interested or employed by a
business that is financially interested in a development subject to regulation
under this chapter unless the staff member is the owner of the land or building
involved. No staff member or other individual or an employee of a company
contracting with the town to provide staff support shall engage in any work
that is inconsistent with his or her duties or with the interest of the town,
as determined by the town.
   (E)   Quasi-judicial decisions. When the Board of Adjustment is exercising
quasi-judicial functions pursuant to this chapter, Board members shall not
participate in or vote on any quasi-judicial matter in a manner that would
violate affected persons' constitutional rights to an impartial decision maker.
Impermissible violations of due process include, but are not limited to, a
member having:
      (1)   A fixed opinion prior to hearing the matter that is not susceptible
to change;
      (2)   Undisclosed ex parte communications;
      (3)   A close familial, business, or other associational relationship
with an affected person; or
      (4)   A financial interest in the outcome of the matter.
   (F)   Resolution of objection.  If an objection is raised to a Board
member's participation at or prior to the hearing or vote on a particular
matter and that member does not recuse himself or herself, the remaining
members of the Board shall by majority vote rule on the objection.
   (G)   Familial relationship.  For purposes of this section, a CLOSE FAMILIAL
RELATIONSHIP means a spouse, parent, child, brother, sister, grandparent, or
grandchild. The term includes the step, half, and in-law relationships.
(Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
§ 154.999 ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES.
   This chapter shall be enforceable in accordance with provisions available in
the General Statutes of North Carolina Ch. 160D. This chapter may be enforced
by any remedy provided by G.S. §160A-175.
   (A)   Notice of violation.  When staff determines work or activity has been
undertaken in violation of this chapter or any approval issued hereunder, a
written notice of violation may be issued. The notice of violation shall be
delivered to the holder of the approval and to the landowner of the property
involved, if the landowner is not the holder of the approval, by personal
delivery, electronic delivery, or first-class mail and may be provided by
similar means to the occupant of the property or the person undertaking the
work or activity. The notice of violation may be posted on the property. The
person providing the notice of violation shall certify to the town that the
notice was provided, and the certificate shall be deemed conclusive in the
absence of fraud. A notice of violation may be appealed to the Board of
Adjustment, and the Board of Adjustment shall follow quasi-judicial processes
as set forth herein.
   (B)   Stop work orders.  Whenever any work or activity subject to regulation
pursuant to this chapter is undertaken in substantial violation of any state or
local law, or in a manner that endangers life or property, staff may order the
specific part of the work or activity that is in violation or presents such a
hazard to be immediately stopped. The order shall be in writing, directed to
the person doing the work or activity, and shall state the specific work or
activity to be stopped, the reasons therefor, and the conditions under which
the work or activity may be resumed. A copy of the order shall be delivered to
the holder of the development approval and to the owner of the property
involved (if that person is not the holder of the development approval) by
personal delivery, electronic delivery, or first-class mail. The person or
persons delivering the stop work order shall certify to the town that the order
was delivered, and that certificate shall be deemed conclusive in the absence
of fraud. A stop work order may be appealed to the Board of Adjustment, and the
Board of Adjustment shall follow quasi-judicial processes as set forth in §
154.279 herein. No further work or activity shall take place in violation of a
stop work order pending a ruling on the appeal. Violation of a stop work order
shall constitute a Class 1 misdemeanor.
   (C)   Revocation of development approvals. Development approvals may be
revoked by the town by notifying the holder in writing stating the reason for
the revocation. The town shall follow the same development review and approval
process required for issuance of the development approval, including any
required notice or hearing, in the review and approval of any revocation of
that approval. Development approvals shall be revoked for any substantial
departure from the approved application, plans, or specifications; for refusal
or failure to comply with the requirements of any applicable local development
regulation or any state law delegated to the town for enforcement purposes in
lieu of the state; or for false statements or misrepresentations made in
securing the approval. Any development approval mistakenly issued in violation
of an applicable state or local law may also be revoked. The revocation of a
development approval by a staff member may be appealed pursuant to §
154.257 herein. If an appeal is filed regarding a development regulation
adopted by the town pursuant to G.S. Ch. 160D, the provisions of §
154.257 herein regarding stays apply.
   (D)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates the provisions of this
chapter shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined
not exceeding $50 and/or imprisoned not exceeding 30 days. Each day of
violation shall be considered a separate offense.
   (E)   Civil remedies. If a building or structure is erected, constructed,
reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted, or maintained, or any building,
structure, or land is used or developed in violation of this chapter, the town,
in addition to other remedies, may institute any appropriate action or
proceedings to prevent the unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction,
alteration, repair, conversion, maintenance, use, or development; to restrain,
correct or abate the violation; to prevent occupancy of the building,
structure, or land; or to prevent any illegal act, conduct, business, or use in
or about the premises. The town may commence a civil action in the appropriate
division of the General Court of Justice for enforcement in accordance with
G.S. § 160A-175.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1985; Ord. passed 5-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-9-1999; Ord. passed
8-10-1999; Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 9-9-2003;
Ord. passed 9-13-2005; Ord. passed 9-12-2006; Ord. passed 6-29-2021)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
      Table
         
I.   ANNEXATIONS
         
II.   FRANCHISES
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Annexes land owned by George Edwin Hawes, Sr., located on
-        4-26-1994   Charity Road approximately one-tenth of a mile west of
                     Interstate 40
RHA97-1  3-11-1997   Annexes land beginning at iron stake located at
                     intersection of Newton and Center Streets (Tract A)
                     Annexes land beginning at iron stake located in a ditch
RHA97-2  3-11-1997   and at the old northeast corner of land conveyed to the
                     town (Tract B)
                     Annexes land beginning at iron pipe in the western right-
RHA98-1  1-13-1998   of-way line of U.S. Highway No. 117, owned by Duplin Wine
                     Cellars, Inc.
                     Annexes two tracts of land owned by Lucy Ellen Farrior and
RHA02-1  9-10-2002   located adjacent to the eastern side of Interstate 40 at
                     Firetower Road
                     Annexes land beginning at a point in the northern line of
RHA04-1  3-9-2004    property conveyed to Cornell Chasten, Jr., where it is
                     intersected by the eastern line of the original town
                     limits
RHA19-1  10-8-2019   Annexes land beginning and running with the centerline of
                     Charity Road and Charlie Teachey Road.
                    
 
TABLE II: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Amends ordinance granting cable television franchise to
-        - -         Univision Cable Systems of Richlands, Inc., by replacing
                     name of grantee to Univision Associates I
-        10-13-1981  Cable television franchise granted to Univision Cable
                     System
-        8-11-1998   Cable television franchise granted to Falcon Cable Media
-        12-12-2000  Amends cable television franchise granted to Charter
                     Communications
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to North Carolina General Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTES
G.S. Section                  Code Section
Ch. 7A                        150.29
7A-227                        151.42
7A-228                        151.42
                              35.99,
14-4                          90.01,
                              90.99
14-4(a)                       10.99
14-4(b)                       70.999
14-360                        90.01
18B-301                       110.01
Ch. 19A                       90.01
Ch. 20, Part 10               70.999
Ch. 20, Art. 7A               92.05
20-125.1(a), (b)              70.074
20-129(b)                     70.074
20-129(d)                     70.074
20-129(g)                     70.074
20-161                        Ch. 74, Sch. IV
20-219.9                      92.04
20-219.11(a),(b)              92.03
Ch. 29                        153.05
42-29                         151.42
42-30                         151.42
44A-1(1)                      Ch. 74, Sch. IV
44A-4                         92.05
44A-5                         92.05
44A-6                         92.05
47-30.2                       153.06
Ch. 105                       33.37
Ch. 105, Subchapter 1, Art. 5 33.37,
                              33.38
Ch. 105, Subchapter 1, Art. 9 33.37
105-164.3(7a)                 33.30
105-164.3(143)                154.002
105-187.1(3)                  33.30
105-187.1(5)                  33.30
105-349                       33.30
106-65.22                     90.05
113-274                       90.05
113-300.1 through 113-300.3   90.05
122C-3(11)b                   154.002
Ch. 130A, Art. 9              150.05
130A-184                      90.01
130A-290(a)(6)                150.05
130A-290(a)(35)               150.05
130A-290(a)(36)               150.05
136-66.10                     154.014
136-66.11                     154.014
Ch. 143                       154.241,
                              154.277
Ch. 143, Art. 21              53.102
143-138(e)                    151.02
143-139.1                     154.002
143-143.15                    150.41
143-145(7)                    154.002
143-213(18)                   53.002
143-215.1                     53.002,
                              53.051
143-215.1(b)                  53.051
143-215.1(d)                  53.002
143-215.1(g)                  53.051
143-215.3(a)(14)              53.002
143-215.3C                    53.095
143-215.6B                    53.102
143-215.6B(f)                 53.102
143-215.6B(g)                 53.102
143-215.6B(h)                 53.102
143-215.6B(i)                 53.102
143-215.58                    150.28,
                              150.99
143-434                       90.05
Ch. 153A, Art. 6              150.01
153A-123(d) and (e)           90.99
153A-275                      53.001
159-7 et seq.                 33.01,
                              33.37
159-30                        33.16
Ch. 160                       151.45
160-188                       90.01,
                              90.05
Ch. 160A, Art. 8              150.01
Ch. 160A, Art. 10             151.42
Ch. 160A, Art. 12             36.01
160A-61                       154.277
160A-67                       Ch. 30
160A-68                       Ch. 30
160A-69                       Ch. 30
160A-71                       Ch. 30
160A-74                       Ch. 30
160A-77                       Ch. 30
160A-78                       Ch. 30
160A-79                       Ch. 30
160A-148                      31.01
160A-161                      154.241
160A-171                      31.02
                              10.99,
160A-175                      70.999,
                              154.999
160A-186                      90.01
160A-193                      91.98
160A-208.1                    33.33
160A-211                      33.31
160A-215.1                    33.39
160A-215.1(b)                 33.36
160A-215.1(d)                 33.38
160A-215.1(e)(1)              33.30
160A-215.1(e)(2)              33.30
160A-215.1(f)                 33.37
160A-216 et seq.              94.005
160A-218                      94.011
160A-266(c)                   36.01
160A-288                      34.25
160A-296                      Ch. 94,
                              94.001
160A-297                      Ch. 94
160A-300.5 [repealed]         70.070
160A-300.6                    70.070
160A-303                      Ch. 92
160A-303.2                    Ch. 92
160A-303.2(a)                 92.02
160A-303.2(a)(1)              92.03
160A-303.2(a2)                92.03
160A-303.2(a3)                92.04
160A- 303.2(a3),(1),(2)       92.05
160A-303.2(a4)                92.05
160A-303.2(b)                 92.06
160A-312                      53.001
160A-361 [repealed]           32.20
160A-436 [repealed]           93.46
160A-437 [repealed]           93.46
                              151.41,
                              151.45,
                              153.03,
                              153.05,
                              154.002,
Ch. 160D                      154.003,
                              154.013,
                              154.241,
                              154.275,
                              154.277,
                              154.999
Ch. 160D, Art. 7              150.01
Ch. 160D, Art. 9              150.01
Ch. 160D, Art. 10             151.42
Ch. 160D, Art. 11             150.01,
                              151.02
160D(12)                      154.003
160D-79                       154.011
160D-202                      151.01
160D-301                      153.05,
                              154.277
160D-302                      154.240
160D-307(a)                   154.240
160D-501                      154.015
160D-501(b)                   154.002
160D-601                      154.273
160D-705                      154.274
160D-802                      154.002,
                              154.003
160D-802(c)                   153.07
160D-903                      154.002
160D-1105                     151.01
160D-1110                     151.04
160D-1201                     151.40
                              154.243,
160D-1402                     154.257,
                              154.279
166A-19.31                    130.01
                              
 
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section 2009 Code Section
Prior Code Section 2009 Code Section
2-1001             30.01
2-1002             30.02
2-1003             30.03
2-1004             30.04
2-1005             30.05
2-1006             30.06
2-1011             30.20
2-1012             30.21
2-1013             30.22
2-1014             30.23
2-1015             30.24
2-1016             30.25
2-1017             30.26
2-2001             31.01
2-2002             31.02
2-2003             31.03
2-4001             33.01
2-4002             33.02
2-4003             33.03
2-4021             33.15
2-4022             33.16
2-7001             32.01
2-7002             32.02
2-7003             32.03
2-7004             32.04
2-7005             32.05
2-7006             32.06
2-7007             32.07
2-7008             32.08
2-7009             32.09
2-7021             32.20
2-7022             32.21
2-7023             32.22
2-7024             32.23
2-7025             32.24
2-7026             32.25
2-7027             32.26
3-1001             34.01
3-1002             34.02
3-1003             34.03
3-1004             34.04
3-1005             34.05
3-1006             34.06
3-1007             34.07
3-1010             34.08
3-1013             34.09
3-1014             34.10
3-1021             34.25
3-1022             34.26
3-2001             93.01
3-2002             93.02
3-2003             93.03
3-2004             93.04
3-2005             93.05
3-2006             93.06
3-2007             93.07
3-2008             93.08
3-2009             93.09
3-2010             93.10
3-2011             93.11
3-2012             93.12
3-2013             93.13
3-2014             93.14
3-2015             93.15
3-2021             93.30
3-2031             93.45
3-2032             93.46
3-3001             35.01
3-3002             35.02
3-3003             35.99
4-1001             94.001
4-1002             94.002
4-1003             94.003
4-1004             94.004
4-1005             94.005
4-1006             94.006
4-1007             94.007
4-1008             94.008
4-1009             94.009
4-1010             94.010
4-1011             94.011
4-1012             94.012
4-1013             94.013
4-1014             94.014
4-1021             94.025
4-1022             94.026
4-1023             94.027
4-1024             94.028
4-1025             94.029
4-1026             94.030
4-1027             94.031
4-1028             94.032
4-1029             94.033
4-1030             94.034
4-1031             94.035
4-1032             94.036
4-1033             94.037
4-1034             94.038
4-1035             94.039
4-1036             94.040
5-1001             54.01
5-1002             54.02
5-1003             54.03
5-1004             54.04
5-1005             54.05
5-1006             54.06
5-1007             54.07
5-1008             54.08
5-1009             54.09
5-1010             54.10
5-1011             54.11
5-1012             54.12
5-1013             54.13
5-1014             54.14
5-1015             54.15
5-1016             54.16
5-1017             54.17
5-1018             54.18
5-1019             54.19
5-1020             54.20
5-1021             54.21
5-1022             54.23
5-1023             54.24
5-1024             54.25
5-1025             54.26
5-1026             54.27
5-3001             55.01
5-3011             55.15
5-3012             55.16
5-3013             55.17
5-3014             55.18
5-3015             55.19
5-3016             55.20
5-3017             55.21
5-3018             55.22
5-3019             55.23
5-3020             55.24
5-3021             55.25
5-3022             55.26
5-3023             55.27
5-3024             55.28
5-3025             55.29
5-3026             55.30
5-3031             55.45
5-3032             55.46
5-3034             55.48
6-2001             94.055
6-2002             94.056
6-2003             94.057
6-2004             94.058
6-2005             94.059
6-2006             94.060
6-2007             94.061
6-2011             94.075
6-2012             94.076
6-2013             94.077
6-2014             94.078
6-2015             94.999
6-2021             94.090
6-2022             94.091
6-2023             94.092
6-2024             94.093
6-2025             94.094
6-2026             94.095
6-2027             94.096
6-2028             94.097
6-2029             94.098
6-3001             95.01
6-3002             95.02
6-3003             95.03
6-3004             95.04
6-3005             95.05
6-3006             95.06
6-3007             95.07
6-3008             95.08
7-1001             70.001
7-1021             70.030
7-1022             70.031
7-1023             70.032
7-1025             70.033
7-1026             70.034
7-1031             70.050
7-1032             70.051
7-1033             70.052
7-1034             70.053
7-1035             70.054
7-1036             70.055
7-1037             70.056
7-1038             70.057
7-1039             70.058
7-1040             70.059
7-1052             Ch. 73, Sch. II
7-1061             71.01
7-1062             71.02
7-1063             71.03
7-1064             71.04
7-1065             71.05
7-1071             71.30
7-1072             71.31
7-1081             Ch. 73, Sch. III
7-1082             71.45
7-1083             Ch. 73, Sch. IV
7-1084             71.46
7-1085             71.47
7-1086             71.48
7-1087             71.49
7-1088             71.50
7-1091             71.65
7-1092             71.66
7-1093             71.67
7-1094             71.68
7-1095             71.69
7-1096             71.70
7-1097             71.71
7-1098             71.72
7-1099             Ch. 73, Sch. I
7-1101             70.090
7-1102             70.091
7-1103             70.092
7-1104             70.093
7-1105             70.094
7-1106             70.095
7-1107             70.096
7-1108             70.097
7-1111             70.110
7-1112             70.111
7-1113             70.112
7-1114             70.113
7-1115             70.114
7-1116             70.115
7-1117             70.116
7-1118             70.117
7-1120             70.118
7-1121             70.119
7-1131             72.01
7-1141             72.15
7-1142             72.16
7-1143             72.17
7-1145             72.18
7-1146             72.19
7-1147             72.20
7-1148             72.21
7-1149             72.22
7-1151             72.35
7-1152             Ch. 74, Sch. I
7-1153             72.36
7-1154             72.37
7-1155             72.38
7-1156             72.39
7-1161             72.50
7-1162             72.51
7-1163             Ch. 74, Sch. II
7-1165             72.52
8-1004             110.01,
                   110.99
8-6002             130.03
8-6006             130.04
8-6007             130.05
8-6008             130.06
8-6009             130.07
8-6010             130.08
8-6011             130.09
8-6012             130.10
8-6013             130.11
8-6014             130.12
8-6015             130.13
9-1031             151.40
9-1032             151.41
9-1033             151.42
9-1034             151.43
9-1035             151.44
9-1036             151.45
9-1037             151.46
9-1038             151.47
9-1039             151.48
9-3001             153.01
9-3002             153.02
9-3003             153.03
9-3004             153.04
9-3005             153.05
9-3006             153.06
9-3007             153.08
9-3008             153.09
9-3009             153.10
9-3010             153.11
9-3011             153.12
9-3012             153.13
9-3013             153.14
9-3014             153.15
9-3015             153.16
9-3016             153.17
9-3017             153.18
9-3018             153.19
9-3019             153.99
9-3020             153.20
App. I, § 114     Ch. 73, Sch. V
                   
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
–      5-9-1978    34.25
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
–      - -         TSO II
–      4-11-1950   71.01
–      5-15-1951   30.01
–      10-11-1955  93.46
–      6-12-1956   54.09
–      11-10-1959  55.16
–      12-13-1960  94.040
–      11-14-1961  33.16
–      4-12-1966   54.21
–      6-13-1967   33.02
–      4-9-1968    34.10
–      4-9-1968    130.08
–      4-14-1970   72.22
–      6-8-1971    Ch. 74, Sch. II
–      6-11-1974   151.40 -
                     151.47
                     153.01 -
                     153.06,
–      6-11-1974   153.08 -
                     153.20,
                     153.99
                     34.02 -
–      10-8-1974   34.05,
                     34.07
                     35.01,
–      12-10-1974  35.02,
                     35.99
–      3-11-1975   Ch. 73, Sch. I
–      5-9-1978    110.01,
                     110.99
–      6-10-1980   70.001,
                     70.034
–      10-13-1981  TSO II
–      11-13-1984  130.02,
                     130.99
–      3-2-1985    72.22
                     154.001 -
                     154.013,
                     154.025 -
                     154.029,
                     154.040 -
                     154.052,
                     154.065 -
                     154.068,
                     154.080 -
                     154.090,
                     154.105 -
                     154.112,
                     154.125,
                     154.140,
                     154.155 -
–      7-9-1985    154.160,
                     154.175 -
                     154.178,
                     154.190,
                     154.205 -
                     154.211,
                     154.225 -
                     154.228,
                     154.240 -
                     154.243,
                     154.255,
                     154.258,
                     154.259,
                     154.270,
                     154.271,
                     154.999
–      3-11-1986   54.21,
                     54.24
–      6-14-1988   11.01
–      12-13-1988  Ch. 73, Sch. I
                     154.001 -
                     154.013,
                     154.025 -
                     154.029,
                     154.040 -
                     154.052,
                     154.065 -
                     154.068,
                     154.080 -
                     154.090,
                     154.105 -
                     154.112,
                     154.125,
                     154.140,
                     154.155 -
–      5-10-1990   154.160,
                     154.175 -
                     154.178,
                     154.190,
                     154.205 -
                     154.211,
                     154.225 -
                     154.228,
                     154.240 -
                     154.243,
                     154.255,
                     154.258,
                     154.259,
                     154.270,
                     154.271,
                     154.999
–      11-19-1991  130.99
–      3-8-1994    54.21,
                     54.22
–      4-26-1994   TSO I
–      6-13-1995   54.26,
                     54.99
–      3-12-1996   36.02
–      8-20-1996   130.01,
                     130.99
–      9-10-1996   153.05
–      12-10-1996  35.01
RHA97-1  3-11-1997   TSO I
RHA97-2  3-11-1997   TSO I
–      6-10-1997   110.01
RHA98-1  1-13-1998   TSO I
–      8-11-1998   TSO II
                     153.05,
–      9-8-1998    153.09,
                     153.15,
                     153.16
                     154.001 -
                     154.013,
                     154.025 -
                     154.029,
                     154.040 -
                     154.052,
                     154.065 -
                     154.068,
                     154.080 -
                     154.090,
                     154.105 -
                     154.112,
                     154.125,
                     154.140,
                     154.155 -
–      3-9-1999    154.160,
                     154.175 -
                     154.178,
                     154.190,
                     154.205 -
                     154.211,
                     154.225 -
                     154.228,
                     154.240 -
                     154.243,
                     154.255,
                     154.258,
                     154.259,
                     154.270,
                     154.271,
                     154.999
–      7-13-1999   36.01
                     154.001 -
                     154.013,
                     154.025 -
                     154.029,
                     154.040 -
                     154.052,
                     154.065 -
                     154.068,
                     154.080 -
                     154.090,
                     154.105 -
                     154.112,
                     154.125,
                     154.140,
                     154.155 -
–      8-10-1999   154.160,
                     154.175 -
                     154.178,
                     154.190,
                     154.205 -
                     154.211,
                     154.225 -
                     154.228,
                     154.240 -
                     154.243,
                     154.255,
                     154.258,
                     154.259,
                     154.270,
                     154.271,
                     154.999
                     154.001 -
                     154.013,
                     154.025 -
                     154.029,
                     154.040 -
                     154.052,
                     154.065 -
                     154.068,
                     154.080 -
                     154.090,
                     154.105 -
                     154.112,
                     154.125,
                     154.140,
                     154.155 -
–      3-14-2000   154.160,
                     154.175 -
                     154.178,
                     154.190,
                     154.205 -
                     154.211,
                     154.225 -
                     154.228,
                     154.240 -
                     154.243,
                     154.255,
                     154.258,
                     154.259,
                     154.270,
                     154.271,
                     154.999
                     154.001 -
                     154.013,
                     154.025 -
                     154.029,
                     154.040 -
                     154.052,
                     154.065 -
                     154.068,
                     154.080 -
                     154.090,
                     154.105 -
                     154.112,
                     154.125,
                     154.140,
                     154.155 -
–      5-9-2000    154.160,
                     154.175 -
                     154.178,
                     154.190,
                     154.205 -
                     154.211,
                     154.225 -
                     154.228,
                     154.240 -
                     154.243,
                     154.255,
                     154.258,
                     154.259,
                     154.270,
                     154.271,
                     154.999
–      7-11-2000   33.30 -
                     33.40
–      12-12-2000  TSO II
                     52.01 -
–      3-13-2001   52.04,
                     52.99
–      7-10-2001   153.05,
                     153.07
–      4-9-2002    130.06,
                     130.07
RHA02-1  9-10-2002   TSO I
                     51.01 -
–      6-10-2003   51.17,
                     51.99
                     154.001 -
                     154.013,
                     154.025 -
                     154.029,
                     154.040 -
                     154.052,
                     154.065 -
                     154.068,
                     154.080 -
                     154.090,
                     154.105 -
                     154.112,
                     154.125,
                     154.140,
                     154.155 -
–      9-9-2003    154.160,
                     154.175 -
                     154.178,
                     154.190,
                     154.205 -
                     154.211,
                     154.225 -
                     154.228,
                     154.240 -
                     154.243,
                     154.255,
                     154.258,
                     154.259,
                     154.270,
                     154.271,
                     154.999
                     150.01 -
                     150.12,
                     150.25 -
                     150.29,
                     150.40,
–      2-10-2004   150.41,
                     150.43 -
                     150.45,
                     150.60,
                     150.61,
                     150.99
RHA04-1  3-9-2004    TSO I
                     154.001 -
                     154.013,
                     154.025 -
                     154.029,
                     154.040 -
                     154.052,
                     154.065 -
                     154.068,
                     154.080 -
                     154.090,
                     154.105 -
                     154.112,
                     154.125,
                     154.140,
                     154.155 -
–      9-13-2005   154.160,
                     154.175 -
                     154.178,
                     154.190,
                     154.205 -
                     154.211,
                     154.225 -
                     154.228,
                     154.240 -
                     154.243,
                     154.255,
                     154.258,
                     154.259,
                     154.270,
                     154.271,
                     154.999
                     154.001 -
                     154.013,
                     154.025 -
                     154.029,
                     154.040 -
                     154.052,
                     154.065 -
                     154.068,
                     154.080 -
                     154.090,
                     154.105 -
                     154.112,
                     154.125,
                     154.140,
                     154.155 -
–      9-12-2006   154.160,
                     154.175 -
                     154.178,
                     154.190,
                     154.205 -
                     154.211,
                     154.225 -
                     154.228,
                     154.240 -
                     154.243,
                     154.255,
                     154.258,
                     154.259,
                     154.270,
                     154.271,
                     154.999
                     50.01,
                     50.02,
–      10-9-2007   50.15 -
                     50.18,
                     50.99
                     70.070 -
–      12-11-2007  70.077,
                     70.999
–      4-8-2008    154.001,
                     154.052
                     154.001,
–      12-9-2008   154.045 -
                     154.048,
                     154.271
–      10-13-2009  54.14-5
                     50.01,
                     50.02,
–      6-8-2010    50.15 -
                     50.24,
                     50.99
–      5-8-2012    70.074,
                     70.076
–      6-26-2012   Ch. 73, Sch. I
–      8-14-2012   70.074
                     53.001,
                     53.002, 53.15 -
                     53.023,
                     53.035 -
                     53.038,
                     53.050,
–      2-12-2013   53.051,
                     53.065 -
                     53.078, 53.090 -
                     53.092,
                     53.095,
                     53.100 -
                     53.106
-        3-12-2013   154.083,
                     154.084
-        5-13-2014   154.046
-        - -         72.18
                     90.01 -
-        5-8-2018    90.06,
                     90.99
-        - -         30.20
-        10-8-2019   130.03
RHA19-1  10-8-2019   TSO I
-        10-13-2020  36.01
                     150.01 -
                     150.12,
                     150.25 -
                     150.29,
                     150.40,
                     150.41,
                     150.43 -
                     150.45,
                     150.60,
                     150.61,
                     150.99,
                     151.01 -
                     151.04,
                     151.41 -
                     151.48,
                     153.01 -
                     153.27,
                     153.99,
                     154.001 -
                     154.015,
                     154.025 -
                     154.029,
                     154.040 -
-        6-29-2021   154.052,
                     154.065 -
                     154.068,
                     154.080 -
                     154.090,
                     154.105 -
                     154.112,
                     154.125,
                     154.140,
                     154.155 -
                     154.160,
                     154.175 -
                     154.178,
                     154.190,
                     154.205 -
                     154.211,
                     154.225 -
                     154.228,
                     154.240 -
                     154.243,
                     154.255 -
                     154.259,
                     154.270 -
                     154.280,
                     154.999
                     152.01 -
-        11-9-2021   152.05,
                     152.99
-        4-11-2023   50.16
-        10-10-2023  70.999
-        2-13-2024   Ch. 74, Schs. III,
                     IV
-        4-9-2024    Ch. 73, Sch. I
                     70.999,
-        7-9-2024    Ch. 74, Schs. III,
                     IV
                    
 
