Roxboro, North Carolina
Code of Ordinances
2024 S-10 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through 12-12-23
State legislation current through 2023 A.L.S. #5
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
(800) 445-5588 www.amlegal.com
CITY OFFICIALS
2022 - 2025
Merilyn P. Newell
Mayor
CITY COUNCIL
Cynthia Petty
Tim Chandler
Shaina Outlaw
Mark Phillips
Peter Baker
Brooks Lockhart
City Manager
The Brough Law Firm
City Attorney
Lynda Clayton
City Clerk
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
AN ORDINANCE TO ENACT AND ADOPT A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CITY CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE CITY OF ROXBORO, NORTH CAROLINA AN ORDINANCE TO ENACT A NEW CODE OF
ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF ROXBORO, NORTH CAROLINA
ENACTING AS AN ORDINANCE, A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF ROXBORO, NORTH
CAROLINA REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING, AND COMPILING CERTAIN
EXISTING GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE CITY, DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SAID
CODE.
   WHEREAS, the present general ordinances of the City of Roxboro, NC are
incomplete and inadequate and the manner of arrangement, classification and
indexing thereof is insufficient to meet the immediate needs of the City; and
   WHEREAS, the Acts of the General Assembly of the State of North Carolina
empower and authorize the City Council of every city to revise, amend, restate,
codify and to compile any existing ordinance or ordinances and all new
ordinances not heretofore adopted or published and to incorporate said
ordinances into one ordinance in book form; and
   WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Roxboro, NC has authorized a
general compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the City of
Roxboro of a general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinances in
book form.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of the City of Roxboro,
NC that:
   Section 1.   The general ordinances of the City of Roxboro, NC as herein
revised, amended, restated, codified and compiled in book, form are adopted as
and shall constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the City of Roxboro, NC."
   Section 2.   Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist
of the following titles, to wit:
            CHARTER AND RELATED LAWS
            TITLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
            TITLE III. ADMINISTRATION
            TITLE V. PUBLIC WORKS
            TITLE VII. TRAFFIC CODE
            TITLE IX. GENERAL REGULATIONS
            TITLE XI. BUSINESS REGULATIONS
            TITLE XIII. GENERAL OFFENSES
            TITLE XV. LAND USAGE
            TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCE
            PARALLEL REFERENCES
            INDEX
   Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in
part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, rights to certain persons, authorizing public improvements,
authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing of money, authorizing the
purchase or sale of real or personal property, granting or accepting easements,
plat or dedication of land to public use, vacating or setting the boundaries of
streets or other  public places; nor shall such repeal affect any other
ordinance of a temporary or special nature or pertaining to subjects not
contained in or covered by the Code.
   Section 4.   Said Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the City Council of the City of Roxboro, NC is hereby
authorized and ordered to file a copy of said Code in the Office of the City
Clerk.
   Section 5.   Said Code shall be in full force and effect two weeks from the
date of its publication and filing thereof in the Office of the City Clerk, and
said Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein
contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed,
attested, recorded and approved and that any public hearings and notices'
thereof as required by law have been given.
   Section 6.   The City Council of the City of Roxboro publicly advertised and
did conduct the required Public Hearing and 1st reading on Thursday October 11,
2001. A 2nd reading was duly advertised conducted on Tuesday, November 13, 2001
prior to adopting a new Code of Ordinances.
   PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Roxboro, NC on this
the 13th day of November, 2001.
                                          Lois McIver Winstead /s/
                                          Mayor Lois McIver Winstead
ATTEST
Cheryl M. Barnette /s/
Cheryl M. Barnette
City Clerk
      APPROVED AS TO FORM:
ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CITY’S CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE
CITY OF ROXBORO, NORTH CAROLINA REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING, AND
COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE CITY, DEALING WITH
SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SAID CODE.
   WHEREAS, the present general ordinances of the City of Roxboro, NC were
incomplete and inadequate and the manner of arrangement, classification and
indexing thereof was insufficient to meet the immediate needs of the City; and
   WHEREAS, the Acts of the General Assembly of the State of North Carolina
empower and authorize the City Council of every city to revise, amend, restate,
codify and to compile any existing ordinance or ordinances and all new
ordinances not heretofore adopted or published and to incorporate said
ordinances into one ordinance in book form; and
   WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Roxboro, NC did so authorize a
general compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the City of
Roxboro of a general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinances in
book form on the 13th Day of November 2001; and
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of the City of Roxboro,
NC that:
   Section 1.   The general ordinances of the City of Roxboro, NC as herein
revised, amended, restated, codified and compiled in book form are adopted for
incorporation into the existing “Code of Ordinances of the City of Roxboro,
NC.”
   Section 2.   Such Supplements to the Code of Ordinances as adopted in
Section 1 shall consist of the following titles, to wit:
            TITLE/OFFICIALS PAGE
            ADOPTING ORDINANCES               1, 2
            TABLE OF CONTENTS               1, 2
            TITLE III. ADMINISTRATION            13 through 16
            TITLE V. PUBLIC WORKS               7 through 14D
            TITLE VII. TRAFFIC CODE               23, 24
            TITLE IX. GENERAL REGULATIONS         1 through 8
                                    23 through 26B
                                    51 through 54
            TITLE XI. BUSINESS REGULATIONS         1, 2
                                    45 through 48
            TITLE XV. LAND USAGE               3, 4
                                    33 through 38
                                    45, 46
            PARALLEL REFERENCES               3 through 12
                                    17 through 20
            INDEX                     3 through 18
                                    12, 24
   Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in
part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, rights to certain persons, authorizing public improvements,
authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing of money, authorizing the
purchase or sale of real or personal property, granting or accepting easements,
plat or dedication of land to public use, vacating or setting the boundaries of
streets or other public places; nor shall such repeal affect any other
ordinance of a temporary or special nature or pertaining to subjects not
contained in or covered by the Code.
   Section 4.   Said Code shall be deemed “updated and published” as of the day
of its adoption and approval by the City Council of the City of Roxboro, NC is
hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of said Code in the Office of the
City Clerk.
   Section 5.   Said Code shall be in full force and effect two weeks from the
date of its publication and filing thereof in the Office of the City Clerk, and
said Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein
contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed,
attested, recorded and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.
   Section 6.   The City Council of the City of Roxboro publicly advertised and
did conduct a Public Hearing on Tuesday, January 14, 2003 prior to adopting the
supplements to the Code of Ordinances.
   PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Roxboro, NC on this
the 14th day of January, 2003.
                                    Lois McIver Winstead /s/
                                    Mayor Lois McIver Winstead
ATTEST
Cheryl M. Barnette /s/
Cheryl M. Barnette
City Clerk
CHARTER OF THE CITY OF ROXBORO
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Section
Article I. Incorporation, Corporate Powers And Boundaries
   
1.1   Incorporation
   
1.2   Powers
   
1.3   Corporate Boundaries
Article II. Governing Body
   
2.1   City governing body; composition
   
2.2   City Council; composition; terms of office
   
2.3   Mayor; term of office; duties
   
2.4   Mayor pro tempore
   
2.5   Meetings; quorum
   
2.6   Meetings; voting
   
2.7   Qualification for office; compensation; vacancies
Article III: Elections
   
3.1   Regular municipal elections
   
3.2   Election of Mayor
   
3.3   Election of Council Members
   
3.4   Special elections and referenda
Article IV. Organization and Administration
   
4.1   Form of government
   
4.2   City Manager; appointment; powers and duties
   
4.3   City Clerk
   
4.4   Finance Director
   
4.5   Tax Collector
   
4.6   City Attorney
   
4.7   Other administrative officers and employees
Article V. Streets
   
5.1   Assessments for street improvements; petition unnecessary
   
5.2   Street improvement defined
   
5.3   Procedure; effect of assessment
   
5.4   Property owner's responsibility
   
5.5   City cutting and removal; costs become lien
Article VI. Sidewalks
   
6.1   Assessments for sidewalk improvements; petition unnecessary
   
6.2   Property owner's responsibility
   
6.3   City cleaning or repair; costs become lien
Article VII. Water and Sewer
   
7.1   Construction outside corporate limits
   
7.2   Acquisition of existing facilities
Article VIII. Taxation
   
8.1   Motor vehicles tax
Article IX. City Lake Regulations
   
9.1   Regulations of city lakes
Article X. Claims Against the City
   
10.1 Settlement of claims by City Manager
Article XI. Property Disposition
   11.1 Disposal of surplus personal property
GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF NORTH CAROLINA
1997 SESSION
S.L. 1997-282
HOUSE BILL 681
AN ACT TO REVISE AND CONSOLIDATE THE CHARTER OF THE CITY OF ROXBORO.
The General Assembly of North Carolina enacts:
   Section 1. The Charter of the City of Roxboro is revised and consolidated to
read as follows:
THE CHARTER
OF THE CITY OF ROXBORO
"ARTICLE I. INCORPORATION, CORPORATE POWERS AND BOUNDARIES.
"SECTION 1.1 INCORPORATION.
   The City of Roxboro, North Carolina, in Person County and the inhabitants
thereof shall continue to be a municipal body politic and corporate, under the
name of the ‘City of Roxboro,’ hereinafter at times referred to as the ‘City.’
"SECTION 1.2. POWERS.
   The City shall have and may exercise all of the powers, duties, rights,
privileges, and immunities conferred upon the City of Roxboro specifically by
this Charter or upon municipal corporations by general law. The term ‘general
law’ is employed herein as defined in G.S. § 160A-1.
"SECTION 1.3. CORPORATE BOUNDARIES BOUNDARIES.
   The corporate boundaries shall be those existing at the time of ratification
of this Charter, as set forth on the official map of the City and as they may
be altered from time to time in accordance with law. An official map of the
City, showing the current municipal boundaries, shall be maintained permanently
in the office of the City Clerk and shall be available for public inspection.
Upon alteration of the corporate limits pursuant to law, the appropriate
changes to the official map shall be made, and copies shall be filed in the
office of the Secretary of State, the Person County Register of Deeds, and the
appropriate board of elections.
"ARTICLE II. GOVERNING BODY.
"SECTION 2.1. CITY GOVERNING BODY; COMPOSITION.
   The City Council, hereinafter referred to as the ‘Council,’ and the Mayor
shall be the governing body of the City.
"SECTION 2.2. CITY COUNCIL; COMPOSITION; TERMS OF OFFICE.
   The Council shall be composed of five members to be elected by all the
qualified voters of the City voting at large for terms of four years, or until
their successors are elected and qualified.
"SECTION 2.3. MAYOR; TERM OF OFFICE OFFICE; DUTIES.
   The Mayor shall be elected by all the qualified voters of the City for a
term of four years or until a successor is elected and qualified. The Mayor
shall be the official head of the city government and shall preside at meetings
of the Council, shall have the right to vote only when there is an equal
division on any question or matter before the Council, and shall exercise the
powers and duties conferred by law or as directed by the Council.
"SECTION 2.4. MAYOR PRO TEMPORE.
   The Council shall elect one of its members as Mayor Pro Tempore to perform
the duties of the Mayor during the Mayor's absence or disability, in accordance
with general law. The Mayor Pro Tempore shall serve in such capacity at the
pleasure of the Council.
"SECTION 2.5. MEETINGS; QUORUM.
   In accordance with general law, the Council shall establish a suitable time
and place for its regular meeting. Special and emergency meetings may be held
as provided by general law. The quorum provisions of G.S. § 160A-74 shall
apply.
"SECTION 2.6. MEETINGS; VOTING.
   An affirmative vote equal to a majority of the members of the Council not
excused from voting on the issue (i.e., assuming no member is excused, three
Council members) shall be required to adopt an ordinance, take any action
having the effect of an ordinance, or make, ratify, or authorize any contract
on behalf of the City. In addition, no ordinance nor any action having the
effect of any ordinance may be finally adopted on the date on which it is
introduced except by an affirmative vote equal to or greater than two-thirds of
the actual membership of the Council (excluding vacant seats), unless the
Council has first held a public hearing on the ordinance. Therefore, assuming
no vacant seats, unless the Council first holds a public hearing on an
ordinance, that ordinance may not be adopted on the date it is introduced
except by an affirmative vote of four Council members. For purposes of this
section, an ordinance shall be deemed to have been introduced on the date the
subject matter is first voted on by the Council. This section does not modify
G.S. § 159-17.
"SECTION 2.7. QUALIFICATION FOR OFFICE OFFICE; COMPENSATION; VACANCIES. 
   The qualifications and compensation of the Mayor and Council members shall
be in accordance with general law. Vacancies shall be filled as provided in
G.S. § 160A-63.
"ARTICLE III. ELECTIONS.
"SECTION 3.1. REGULAR MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS.
   Regular municipal elections shall be held in each odd-numbered year in
accordance with the uniform municipal election laws of North Carolina.
Elections shall be conducted on a nonpartisan basis and the results determined
using the nonpartisan election and runoff election method as provided in G.S. §
163-279(a)(4) and G.S. § 163-293.
"SECTION 3.2. ELECTION OF MAYOR.
   A Mayor shall be elected in each regular municipal election.
"SECTION 3.3. ELECTION OF COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   Five Council members shall be elected in each regular municipal election.
"SECTION 3.4. SPECIAL ELECTIONS AND REFERENDA.
    Special elections and referenda may be held only as provided by general law
or applicable local acts of the General Assembly.
"ARTICLE IV. ORGANIZATION AND ADMINISTRATION.
"SECTION 4.1. FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The City shall operate under the council-manager form of government in
accordance with G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 7, Part 2.
"SECTION 4.2. CITY MANAGER; APPOINTMENT; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Council shall appoint a City Manager who shall be responsible for the
administration of all departments of the City government. The City Manager
shall have all the powers and duties conferred by general law, except as
expressly limited by the provisions of this Charter, and the additional powers
and duties conferred by the Council, so far as authorized by general law. The
Council may require the City Manager to reside within the City during the City
Manager's tenure of office. In case of the absence or disability of the City
Manager, the Council may designate a qualified administrative officer of the
City to perform the duties of the City Manager during such absence or
disability.
"SECTION 4.3. CITY CLERK.
   The Council shall appoint a City Clerk to keep a journal of the proceedings
of the Council, to maintain official records and documents, to give notice of
meetings, and to perform such other duties required by law or as the House Bill
681 Council may direct. The City Clerk shall be subject to the supervisory
authority of the City Manager.
"SECTION 4.4. FINANCE DIRECTOR.
   The City Manager shall appoint a Finance Director to perform the duties
designated in G.S. § 159-25 and such other duties as may be prescribed by law
or assigned by the Manager.
"SECTION 4.5. TAX COLLECTOR.
   The Council shall appoint a Tax Collector pursuant to G.S. § 105-349 to
collect all taxes owed to the City, subject to general law, this Charter, and
City ordinances.
"SECTION 4.6. CITY ATTORNEY.
   The Council shall appoint a City Attorney licensed to practice law in North
Carolina. It shall be the duty of the City Attorney to represent the City,
advise City officials, and perform other duties required by law or as the
Council may direct. The Council may appoint one or more Assistant City
Attorneys to assist the City Attorney and to serve in the City Attorney's
absence or incapacity and who shall have the same qualifications and duties as
the City Attorney.
"SECTION 4.7. OTHER ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   The Council may authorize other positions to be filled by appointment by the
City Manager and may organize the City government as deemed appropriate,
subject to the requirements of general law.
"ARTICLE V. STREETS.
"SECTION 5.1. ASSESSMENTS FOR STREET IMPROVEMENTS; PETITION UNNECESSARY.
   In addition to any authority granted by general law, the Council may,
without the necessity of a petition, order street improvements according to
standards and specifications of the City, and assess the total costs or a
portion thereof against abutting property, exclusive of the costs incurred at
street intersections, according to one or more of the assessment bases set
forth in G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 10, upon the following findings of fact:
   (1)   The street improvement project does not exceed 1,200 linear feet; and
   (2)   a.   The street or part thereof is unsafe for vehicular traffic or
creates a safety or health hazard, and it is in the public interest to make
such improvement; or
      b.   It is in the public interest to connect two streets or portions of a
street already improved; or
      c.   It is in the public interest to widen a street, or part thereof,
which is already improved. Assessments for widening any street or portion of a
street without a petition shall be limited to the cost of widening and
otherwise improving such street in accordance with street classification and
improvement standards established by the City's thoroughfare or major street
plan for the particular street or part thereof.
"SECTION 5.2. STREET IMPROVEMENT DEFINED.
   For the purposes of this Article, the term ‘street improvement’ shall
include grading, regrading, surfacing, resurfacing, widening, paving, repaving,
and the construction or reconstruction of curbs, gutters, and street drainage
facilities.
"SECTION 5.3. PROCEDURE; EFFECT OF ASSESSMENT.
   In ordering street improvements without a petition and assessing the costs
thereof under authority of this Article, the Council shall comply with the
procedures provided by G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 10, except those provisions relating
to petitions of property owners and the sufficiency thereof. The effect of
levying assessments under authority of this Article shall be the same as if the
assessments were levied under authority of G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 10.
"SECTION 5.4. PROPERTY OWNER'S RESPONSIBILITY.
   The Council shall have authority to require every property owner in the City
to cut and remove limbs, branches, and parts of trees or shrubbery extending
upon or overhanging the streets.
"SECTION 5.5. CITY CUTTING AND REMOVAL; COSTS BECOME LIEN.
   The Council may, by ordinance, establish a procedure whereby City forces may
cut and remove limbs, branches, and parts of trees or shrubbery extending upon
or overhanging the streets after failure of the abutting property owner after
10 days' notice to do so. In such event, the cost of such cutting and removal
shall become a lien upon the abutting property equal to the lien for ad valorem
taxes and may thereafter be collected either by suit in the name of the City or
by foreclosure of the lien in the same manner and subject to the same rules,
regulations, costs, and penalties as provided by law for the foreclosure of the
lien on real estate for ad valorem taxes.
"ARTICLE VI. SIDEWALKS
"SECTION 6.1. ASSESSMENTS FOR SIDEWALK IMPROVEMENTS; PETITION UNNECESSARY.
   In addition to any authority granted by general law, the Council may,
without the necessity of a petition, order sidewalk improvements or repairs
according to standards and specifications of the City, and assess the total
costs or a portion thereof against abutting property, according to one or more
of the assessment bases set forth in G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 10. Regardless of the
assessment basis or bases employed, the Council may order the costs of sidewalk
improve-ments made only on one side of a street to be assessed against property
abutting both sides of the street. In ordering sidewalk improvements or repairs
without a petition and assessing the costs thereof under authority of this
Article, the Council shall comply with the procedures provided by G.S. Ch.
160A, Art. 10, except those provisions relating to petitions of property owners
and the sufficiency thereof. The effect of levying assessments under authority
of this Article shall be the same as if the assessments were levied under
authority of G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 10.
"SECTION 6.2. PROPERTY OWNER'S RESPONSIBILITY.
   The Council shall have the authority to require every property owner in the
City to keep clean and free of debris, trash, and other obstacles or
impediments the sidewalks abutting the owner's property and to require every
property owner in the City to cut and remove limbs, branches, and parts of
trees or shrubbery extending upon or overhanging the sidewalks abutting the
owner's property.
"SECTION 6.3. CITY CLEANING OR REPAIR; COSTS BECOME LIEN.
   The Council may, by ordinance, establish a procedure whereby City forces may
clean any sidewalk, remove therefrom any debris or trash, or cut and remove
limbs, branches, and parts of trees or shrubbery extending upon or overhanging
any sidewalk after failure of the abutting property owner after 10 days' notice
to do so. In such event, the cost of the repair, cleaning, cutting, or removal
shall become a lien upon the abutting property equal to the lien for ad valorem
taxes and may thereafter be collected either by suit in the name of the City or
by foreclosure of the lien in the same manner and subject to the same rules,
regulations, costs, and penalties as provided by law for the foreclosure of the
lien on real estate for ad valorem taxes.
"ARTICLE VII. WATER AND SEWER.
"SECTION 7.1. CONSTRUCTION OUTSIDE CORPORATE LIMITS.
   In addition to any authority granted by general law, the City is authorized
to construct or reconstruct water and sewer lines and facilities outside the
corporate limits of the City as the Council may deem appropriate, to furnish
water and sewer services to industries outside the city limits, and to make
such charges for the services as the Council may deem reasonable.
"SECTION 7.2. ACQUISITION OF EXISTING FACILITIES.
   In addition to any authority granted by general law, the City is authorized
to acquire, by purchase, gift, or exchange existing water and sewer lines and
facilities located outside of the corporate limits of the City.
"ARTICLE VIII. TAXATION.
"SECTION 8.1. MOTOR VEHICLES TAX.
   The City may levy a license or privilege tax upon motor vehicles resident
therein in an amount up to ten dollars ($10.00) per year, or the amount
prescribed by G.S. § 20-97, whichever is greater.
"ARTICLE IX. CITY LAKE REGULATION.
"SECTION 9.1. REGULATION OF CITY LAKES.
   In addition to any authority granted by general law, the City is authorized,
by ordinance, to regulate, restrict, or prohibit the use of any lakes owned by
the City, to prescribe rules under which fishing, boating, and other uses may
be permitted thereon, to fix charges for such uses, and to otherwise provide
for their operation in accordance herewith. The provisions of any ordinance
adopted under authority of this section shall not conflict with applicable
State laws, rules, or regulations.
"ARTICLE X. CLAIMS AGAINST THE CITY.
"SECTION 10.1. SETTLEMENT OF CLAIMS BY CITY MANAGER.
   The Council may authorize the City Manager to settle claims against the City
for: (i) personal injuries or damages to property when the amount involved does
not exceed the sum of five thousand dollars ($5,000) and does not exceed the
actual loss sustained; and (ii) the taking of small portions of private
property which are needed for the rounding of corners at intersections of
streets when the amount involved in any such settlement does not exceed five
thousand dollars ($5,000) and does not exceed the actual loss sustained.
Settlement of a claim by the City Manager pursuant to this section shall
constitute a complete release of the City from any and all damages sustained by
the person involved in such settlement in any manner arising out of the
incident, occasion, or taking complained of. All settlements and all releases
shall be approved by the City Attorney.
"ARTICLE XI. PROPERTY DISPOSITION
"SECTION 11.1. DISPOSAL OF SURPLUS PERSONAL PROPERTY.
   The City may dispose of surplus personal property valued at less than two
thousand dollars ($2,000) for any one item or group of items using the
procedures authorized in G.S. § 160A-266(c)."
      Section 2. The purpose of this act is to revise the Charter of the City
of Roxboro and to consolidate certain acts concerning the property, affairs,
and government of the City. It is intended to continue without interruption
those provisions of prior acts which are expressly consolidated into this act,
so that all rights and liabilities which have accrued are preserved and may be
enforced.
      Section 3. This act does not repeal or affect any acts concerning the
property, affairs, or government of public schools or any acts validating
official actions, proceedings, contracts, or obligations of any kind.
      Section 4. The following acts, having served the purposes for which they
were enacted or having been consolidated into this act, are expressly repealed:
   Chapter 253, Private Laws of 1854-55
   Chapter 268, Private Laws of 1854-55
   Chapter 109, Private Laws of 1879
   Chapter 92, Private Laws of 1881
   Chapter 168, Private Laws of 1887
   Chapter 71, Private Laws of 1899
   Chapter 134, Private Laws of 1901
   Chapter 303, Private Laws of 1903
   Chapter 762, Public Laws of 1905
   Chapter 142, Private Laws of 1907
   Chapter 909, Public Laws of 1907
   Chapter 244, Private Laws of 1913
   Chapter 137, Private Laws of 1915
   Chapter 125, Private Laws, Extra Session of 1921
   Chapter 175, Private Laws of 1925
   Chapter 84, Private Laws of 1927
   Chapter 211, Public-Local Laws of 1941
   Chapter 288, Session Laws of 1943, except for Section 3
   Chapter 12, Session Laws of 1953
   Chapter 502, Session Laws of 1955
   Chapter 510, Session Laws of 1955
   Chapter 42, Session Laws of 1957
   Chapter 425, Session Laws of 1961,
   Chapter 619, Session Laws of 1963
   Chapter 643, Session Laws of 1965, except for Section 5
   Chapter 978, Session Laws of 1965.
      Section 5. The Mayor and Council members serving on the date of
ratification of this act shall serve until the expiration of their terms or
until their successors are elected and qualified.
      Section 6. This act does not affect any rights or interests which arose
under any provisions repealed by this act.
      Section 7. All existing ordinances, resolutions, and other provisions of
the City of Roxboro not inconsistent with the provisions of this act shall
continue in effect until repealed or amended.
      Section 8. No action or proceeding pending on the effective date of this
act by or against the City or any of its departments or agencies shall be
abated or otherwise affected by this act.
      Section 9. Whenever a reference is made in this act to a particular
provision of the General Statutes, and such provision is later amended,
superseded, or recodified, the reference shall be deemed amended to refer to
the amended General Statute, or to the General Statute which most clearly
corresponds to the statutory provision which is superseded or recodified.
      Section 10. This act is effective when it becomes law.
      In the General Assembly read three times and ratified this the 10th day
of July, 1997.
               s/   Dennis A. Wicker
               President of the Senate
               s/   Harold J. Brubaker
               Speaker of the House of Representatives
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Chapter
   
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time; computing time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinances
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the city of Roxboro shall be
designated as the Code of Roxboro, North Carolina, and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the inter-pretation of state
law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY. The City of Roxboro.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      COUNTY. Person County, North Carolina.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as applied to
any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of North Carolina.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have subchapters.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this city shall be by the following
rules, unless such construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance:
   (A)    AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
"and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, such
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of such act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, such
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered, unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express such intent, such spelling shall be corrected and such word
or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
such error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this city for the transaction of all
municipal business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME; COMPUTING TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of such act or the giving of such notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from
their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section containing the desired amendment substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of such chapter or section. In addition to such
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10,
passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-80; Am.
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   (1)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text
of the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example: (G.S. §
160A-11) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-80; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-85).
      (2)   A statutory cite set forth as a "statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
   § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This city shall make available to any person for inspection or copying
all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      For provisions concerning the inspection of public records, see G.S. §§
139-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the town published in 1990 and subsequently amended, the 1990
code section number shall be indicated in the history by "(`90 Code, §
      ).”
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of any
section or subsection of this code of ordinances for which no other penalty is
provided, or failing, neglecting or refusing to comply with same shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor and subject to a fine not to
exceed $500, or imprisonment not to exceed 30 days, and each day that any of
the provisions of this code of ordinances are violated shall constitute a
separate offense.
   (B)   A person may not be found responsible or guilty of a violation
punishable pursuant to division (A) of this section if, when tried for that
violation, the person produces proof of compliance with the provisions of this
code of ordinances through any of the following:
      (1)   No new alleged violations of the provision within 30 days from the
date of the initial alleged violation.
      (2)   The person provides proof of a good-faith effort to seek assistance
to address any underlying factors related to unemployment, homelessness, mental
health, or substance abuse that might relate to the person's ability to comply
with the provisions of this code of ordinances.
(G.S. § 14-4(a), (c))
Statutory reference:
   For provisions concerning enforcement of ordinances, see G.S. § 160A-175
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
Chapter
   
30.    MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
   
31.   CITY OFFICERS
   
32.   BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
   
33.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
   
34.   FIRE DEPARTMENT
   
35.   RESERVED
   
36.   PURCHASING
   
37.   CASH MANAGEMENT
   
38.   CIVIL EMERGENCIES
CHAPTER 30: MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Composition of Council
   
30.02   General duties of Mayor
   
30.03   Mayor pro tem
   
30.04   Resignation of Council members
   
30.05   Compensation
Council Meetings
   
30.15   Time and place
   
30.16   Calling and notice of special meetings
   
30.17   Adjourned meetings
   
30.18   Presiding officer
   
30.19   Quorum
   
30.20   Rules of procedure
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 COMPOSITION OF COUNCIL.
   The City Council shall consist of the Mayor and five Council members.
(`90 Code, § 2-51)
§ 30.02 GENERAL DUTIES OF MAYOR.
   The Mayor shall:
   (A)   Preside over all meetings of the City Council.
   (B)   Keep himself or herself informed as to the city’s business.
   (C)   See that all laws and ordinances are enforced.
(`90 Code, § 2-52)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. §§ 160A-67 and 160A-69
§ 30.03 MAYOR PRO TEM.
   The City Council shall designate one of their members to act as Mayor pro
tem. In case of the death, absence, resignation or permanent disability of the
Mayor, the Mayor pro tem shall act as Mayor. While acting as such, he or she
shall have all the rights and powers and shall perform all the duties of the
Mayor.
(`90 Code, § 2-53)
Cross-reference:
   Appointment of Mayor pro tem, see Charter, Article II, §
2.4
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. § 160A-70
§ 30.04 RESIGNATION OF COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   The resignation of any Council member shall be in writing and shall not be
acted on until the next regular meeting of the Council.
(`90 Code, § 2-54)
Statutory reference:
   Vacancies, see G.S. § 160A-63
§ 30.05 COMPENSATION.
   The salaries of the Council members and the Mayor shall be as determined
each year; any change shall not take place in the same fiscal year, of July 1
to June 13, as authorization of same.
(`90 Code, § 2-55)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see G.S. § 160A-64
COUNCIL MEETINGS
§ 30.15 TIME AND PLACE.
   The City Council shall hold a regular meeting in the City Hall at a time and
day as may be determined from time to time by resolution of the Council.
(`90 Code, § 2-61)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see G.S. § 160A-71
§ 30.16 CALLING AND NOTICE OF SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   A special meeting shall be called at any time by the Mayor or three Council
members; provided, that all Council members shall be notified in advance of the
time set for the meeting.
(`90 Code, § 2-62)
§ 30.17 ADJOURNED MEETINGS.
   Any regular or special meeting of the Council, and any adjourned meeting
thereof, may adjourn to such time prior to the next regular meeting date as may
be fixed by the Council.
(`90 Code, § 2-63)
§ 30.18 PRESIDING OFFICER.
   The Mayor shall preside at every meeting of the Council. In the absence of
the Mayor, the Mayor pro tem shall preside and, in the absence of both, some
member of the Council may be designated by the members present as presiding
officer for that meeting.
(`90 Code, § 2-64)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. § 160A-69
§ 30.19 QUORUM.
   Three members of the Council shall constitute a quorum. If a quorum fails to
attend, the meeting will stand adjourned until such time as shall be agreed
upon by the majority of the members present.
(`90 Code, § 2-65)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. § 160A-74
§ 30.20 RULES OF PROCEDURE.
   Except where otherwise provided by law or ordinance, the procedure of the
Council shall be governed by the most current edition of Robert’s Rules of
Order.
(`90 Code, § 2-66)
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICERS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Removal or resignation
City Manager
   
31.15   Appointment and term
   
31.16   Oath of office
   
31.17   Bond
   
31.18   General duties
Tax Collector
   
31.30   Appointment and term
   
31.31   Office to be held by City Manager
   
31.32   Bond
City Clerk
   
31.45   Appointment and term
   
31.46   Bond
   
31.47   General duties
City Attorney
   
31.60   Appointment and term
   
31.61   General duties
Finance Director
   
31.75   Appointment and term
   
31.76   Bond
   
31.77   General duties
   
31.78   Signatures on checks or drafts
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 REMOVAL OR RESIGNATION.
   The City Council may at any time remove any of the officers of the city
appointed by it, either with or without cause, provided that no such officer
shall be removed without cause except upon 30 days notice of the intended
removal, nor shall he or she be permitted to resign his or her office, except
upon 30 days notice of his or her intended resignation, unless the Council
shall expressly waive the notice.
(`90 Code, § 2-71)
CITY MANAGER
§ 31.15 APPOINTMENT AND TERM.
   The City Manager shall be appointed by the Council and shall hold office at
the pleasure of the City Council.
(`90 Code, § 2-86)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. § 160A-147
§ 31.16 OATH OF OFFICE.
   The City Manager shall take the same oath of office that is required of the
Mayor.
(`90 Code, § 2-87)
Statutory reference:
   Oath required, see G.S. § 160A-61
§ 31.17 BOND.
   The City Manager shall, before entering upon the discharge of the duties of
his or her office, enter into a bond with sureties in such sum as the City
Council may require, the bond to be payable to the city and conditioned upon
the faithful performance by the City Manager of all of his or her official
duties.
(`90 Code, § 2-88)
§ 31.18 GENERAL DUTIES.
   The City Manager shall:
   (A)   Be the administrative head of the city government.
   (B)   See that the laws of the state and that the provisions of this code
and other ordinances, resolutions and regulations of the City Council are
faithfully enforced and executed.
   (C)   Attend all meetings of the Council and recommend for adoption such
measures as he or she may deem expedient.
   (D)   Make reports to the Council from time to time of the affairs of the
city.
   (E)   Keep the Council fully advised of the financial condition of the city
and its future financial requirements.
   (F)   Make or have made an annual examination of the books and accounts of
all the city officers and departments of government.
   (G)   See that the conditions of all franchises and contracts granted and
entered into by the city are faithfully complied with and executed.
(`90 Code, § 2-89)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. § 160A-148
TAX COLLECTOR
§ 31.30 APPOINTMENT AND TERM.
   The City Council shall, at the first regular meeting in June of each year,
appoint a Tax Collector, who shall hold office at the pleasure of the Council.
(`90 Code, § 2-76)
§ 31.31 OFFICE TO BE HELD BY CITY MANAGER.
   Unless otherwise ordered by the Council, the City Manager shall perform the
duties and exercise the functions of the Tax Collector.
(`90 Code, § 2-77)
§ 31.32 BOND.
   The Tax Collector, before entering into the duties of his or her office,
shall execute a bond payable to the city in such sum as may be fixed by the
City Council, conditioned upon the faithful performance of the duties of his or
her office, and the proper accounting of all funds that may come into his or
her hands by virtue of his or her office. So long as the City Manager acts as
Tax Collector, the bond required by this section shall be in addition to the
bond required by §
31.17.
(`90 Code, § 2-78)
CITY CLERK
§ 31.45 APPOINTMENT AND TERM.
   The City Council shall appoint a City Clerk, who shall hold office at the
pleasure of the Council.
(`90 Code, § 2-96)
§ 31.46 BOND.
   The City Clerk may be required to give bond in such sum as the Council may
designate for the faithful performance of his or her duties, and for the
faithful accounting for all the funds belonging to the city that may come into
his or her hands by virtue of his or her office.
(`90 Code, § 2-97)
§ 31.47 GENERAL DUTIES.
   The City Clerk shall:
   (A)   Act as Secretary to the City Council.
   (B)   Keep a true record of all the proceedings of the Council.
   (C)   Keep the original of all ordinances in a book especially provided for
that purpose.
   (D)   Give notice of the meetings of the Council.
   (E)   Act as custodian for all books, papers, records and journals of the
city.
   (F)   Perform such other duties as may be required of him or her by law or
by the City Council.
(`90 Code, § 2-98)
CITY ATTORNEY
§ 31.60 APPOINTMENT AND TERM.
   The City Council shall appoint a City Attorney, who shall hold office at the
pleasure of the Council.
(`90 Code, § 2-106)
§ 31.61 GENERAL DUTIES.
   The City Attorney shall:
   (A)   Prosecute and defend all suits against and on behalf of the city.
   (B)   Advise the City Manager, City Council, Mayor and all other officers of
the city in regard to matters connected with the city’s business.
   (C)   Attend all meetings of the City Council.
   (D)   Prepare all deeds, contracts, bonds, notes and other instruments that
may be required for the proper conduct of the city’s business.
   (E)   Draw all ordinances granting franchises.
   (F)   Approve all proposed ordinances as to form before their introduction,
but his or her failure to so approve as to form any ordinance duly passed by
the Council shall not impair its validity.
(`90 Code, § 2-107)
FINANCE DIRECTOR
§ 31.75 APPOINTMENT AND TERM.
   The City Manager shall appoint a Finance Director, who shall hold office at
the pleasure of the City Council.
(`90 Code, § 2-111)
§ 31.76 BOND.
   The City Finance Director, before entering into the duties of his or her
office, shall execute a bond payable to the city in such sum as may be fixed by
the City Council, conditioned upon the faithful performance of the duties of
his or her office and the proper accounting of all funds that may come into his
or her hands by virtue of his or her office.
(`90 Code, § 2-112)
§ 31.77 GENERAL DUTIES.
   The Finance Director shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   He or she shall keep the accounts of the city in accordance with
generally accepted principles of governmental accounting and the rules and
regulations of the Local Government Commission, as set forth in G.S. § 159-1 et
seq.
   (B)   He or she shall disburse all funds of the city in strict compliance
with G.S. Ch. 159, the budget ordinance and each project ordinance, and shall
preaudit obligations and disbursements as required by G.S. Ch. 159.
   (C)   As often as may be requested by the City Council or Manager, he or she
shall prepare and file with the Council a statement of the financial condition
of the city.
   (D)   He or she shall receive and deposit all moneys accruing to the city,
or supervise the receipt and deposit of money by other duly authorized officers
and employees.
   (E)   He or she shall maintain all records concerning the bonded debt and
other obligations of the city, determine the amount of money that will be
required for debt service or the payment of other obligations during each
fiscal year, and maintain all sinking funds.
   (F)   He or she shall supervise the investment of idle funds of the city.
   (G)   He or she shall perform such other duties as may be assigned to him or
her by law, by the Manager or City Council, or by rules and regulations of the
Commission.
   (H)   He or she shall attend any training required by the Local Government
Commission under G.S. § 159-25.
   (I)   He or she shall contract with outside entities, including certified
public accountants in good standing with the North Carolina State Board of
Certified Public Accountant Examiners, bookkeeping firms, councils of
government, and other units of government, to ensure fulfillment of the duties
enumerated in this division, excluding division (F), except where specifically
allowed by law, and division (H). Regardless of the entity performing such
duties, the authority, powers, and duties of the finance officer shall not be
superseded, and the responsibility for accurate and timely fulfillment of
duties lies solely with the finance officer.
(G.S. § 159-25(a)) (`90 Code, § 2-113)
§ 31.78 SIGNATURES ON CHECKS OR DRAFTS.
   Except as otherwise provided by law, all checks or drafts on an official
depository shall be signed by the Finance Director and countersigned by the
City Manager or another official of the city designated for this purpose by the
City Council.
(`90 Code, § 2-114)
CHAPTER 32: BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
   
32.01   Adoption by reference
§ 32.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The Planning Board and Zoning Board of Adjustment ordinances are adopted and
incorporated in the Unified Development Ordinance which is a part of this code
of ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein. Copies of the Unified
Development Ordinance are on file in the office of the City Clerk.
(Ord. 05-2023, passed 5-9-23)
CHAPTER 33: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
33.01   Definitions
   
33.02   Chief of Police
   
33.03   Rules authorized
   
33.04   Code of ethics
   
33.05   Auxiliary police unit established
   
33.06   Authority of Chief; appointment and removal of members of auxiliary
police unit
   
33.07   Workers compensation for auxiliary police officers
   
33.08   Maximum number and insurance for auxiliary police officers
Cross Reference
   Rules and regulations for police alarm systems,
Ch. 98
§ 33.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHIEF and CHIEF OF POLICE. The Chief of the Police Department, and includes
any person designated Acting Chief by the CHIEF OF POLICE or by the City
Manager.
   COMMANDING OFFICER. An officer holding the rank of sergeant or above, or an
officer designated as a temporary or acting shift commander by the Chief of
Police or the City Manager.
   DEPARTMENT. The Police Department of the city.
   OFFICER. All sworn police officers and all other employees of the Police
Department.
   RULES. The rules of conduct and disciplinary procedure for law enforcement
personnel, as adopted and amended from time to time by the City Council.
(`90 Code, § 16-1)
§ 33.02 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   There is created the office of Chief of Police in and for the city. The
Chief of Police shall be appointed by the City Manager and shall serve at its
pleasure.
(`90 Code, § 16-2)
§ 33.03 RULES AUTHORIZED.
   The conduct and operation of the Police Department shall be governed and
controlled by such rules and regulations as the Chief of Police shall from time
to time adopt or amend, with the approval of the City Manager.
(`90 Code, § 16-3)
§ 33.04 CODE OF ETHICS.
   The law enforcement officer’s code of ethics shall be as follows:
   (A)   As a law enforcement officer, my fundamental duty is to serve mankind;
to safeguard lives and property; to protect the innocent against deception, the
weak against oppression or intimidation and the peaceful against violence or
disorder; and to respect the constitutional rights of all people.
   (B)   I will keep my private life untarnished as an example to all; maintain
calm in the face of ridicule; develop self-restraint; and be constantly mindful
of the welfare of others. I will obey the laws of the land and the regulations
of my Department.
   (C)   I will never permit personal feelings, prejudice or friendships to
influence my decisions. I will enforce the law without malice, never accepting
gratuities.
   (D)   I recognize the badge of my office as a symbol of public faith, and I
accept it as a public trust, to be held so long as I am true to the ethics of
police service. I will constantly strive to achieve these objectives and
ideals, dedicating myself to my chosen profession of law enforcement.
(`90 Code, § 16-4)
§ 33.05 AUXILIARY POLICE UNIT ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established within the police department an auxiliary police
unit known as the Roxboro Auxiliary Police Force. The auxiliary police unit
shall be an all-volunteer organization composed of as many members as may from
time to time be determined by the city council. Members of the auxiliary police
unit shall have the powers and duties of regular members of the police
department and shall supplement the current law enforcement needs and efforts
within the City of Roxboro.
(Ord. passed 2-14-12)
§ 33.06 AUTHORITY OF CHIEF; APPOINTMENT, AND REMOVAL OF MEMBERS OF AUXILIARY
POLICE UNIT.
   The auxiliary police unit shall be under the direct control of the chief of
police, acting under the general supervision of the city manager. All
appointments and removals of members of the auxiliary police unit shall be made
by the Chief of Police. The Chief of Police shall adopt special rules and
regulations governing the appointment, training, conduct and removal of members
of the auxiliary police unit.
(Ord. passed 2-14-12)
§ 33.07 WORKERS COMPENSATION FOR AUXILIARY POLICE OFFICERS.
   A member of the auxiliary police unit who is injured while undergoing
official training or while performing law enforcement duties on behalf of the
city shall be entitled to benefits pursuant to law under the North Carolina
Workers’ Compensation Act. Nothing in this section prohibits the city from
asserting a defense or from entering into negotiations with any party.
(Ord. passed 2-14-12)
§ 33.08 MAXIMUM NUMBER AND INSURANCE FOR AUXILIARY POLICE OFFICERS.
   The maximum number of auxiliary police officers and liability insurance for
those officers shall be established to the extent determined by the city
council.
(Ord. passed 2-14-12)
CHAPTER 34: FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   General powers
   
34.02   Right of entry to prevent or extinguish fire
   
34.03   Record of fires
   
34.04   Investigation of fires
Fire Chief
   
34.15   Appointed
   
34.16   General powers
   
34.17   General duties
   
34.18   Right of entry
   
34.19   Annual report
Cross-Reference
   Rules and regulations for fire alarm systems,
Ch. 98
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 GENERAL POWERS.
   It shall be the duty of all members of the Fire Department to enforce all
provisions of this Code and other laws and ordinances covering the following:
   (A)   The prevention of fires.
   (B)   The storage and use of explosives and flammables.
   (C)   The installation and maintenance of automatic and other private fire
alarm systems and fire extinguishing equipment.
   (D)   The maintenance and regulation of fire escapes.
   (E)   The means and adequacy of exits in all buildings regulated by the Fire
Prevention Code.
   (F)   The investigation of the cause, origin and circumstances of fire.
(`90 Code, § 8-56)
§ 34.02 RIGHT OF ENTRY TO PREVENT OR EXTINGUISH FIRE.
   Any member of the Fire Department, or any person acting under orders of the
Chief of the Department, shall have the right to enter any building or room and
insert the hose or turn on the water, whenever, in the judgment of the Fire
Chief or his or her designated representative, it shall be necessary to prevent
or extinguish fire.
(`90 Code, § 8-57)
§ 34.03 RECORD OF FIRES.
   The Chief of the Department shall keep a record of all fires and the facts
concerning the same, including statistics as to the extent of the fires and the
damages caused thereby, and whether the losses were covered by insurance. All
such records shall be public.
(`90 Code, § 8-58)
§ 34.04 INVESTIGATION OF FIRES.
   The Chief of the Department shall investigate or caused to be investigated
the cause, origin and circumstances of every fire occurring in the city by
which property has been destroyed and damaged and, so far as possible,
determine whether the fire is the result of carelessness or design. The
investigations shall be begun immediately upon the occurrence of such a fire.
(`90 Code, § 8-59)
FIRE CHIEF
§ 34.15 APPOINTED.
   There is created the office of Chief of the Fire Department, such Chief to
be appointed by the City Manager and to serve at the pleasure of the City
Manager.
(`90 Code, § 8-76)
§ 34.16 GENERAL POWERS.
   Subject to the supervision of the City Manager, the Chief of the Fire
Department shall have general control of the Department, the personnel and
apparatus.
(`90 Code, § 8-77)
§ 34.17 GENERAL DUTIES.
   The Chief of the Fire Department, personally or through his or her designee,
shall:
   (A)   Proceed immediately to the scene of any fire and take active charge of
the firefighting thereof and supervise and direct the extinguishing thereof.
   (B)   Maintain in good repair all equipment of the Fire Department.
   (C)   Compel, if necessary, all officers of the city to aid in the
extinguishing of fires.
   (D)   Enforce all rules and ordinances relative to fire prevention.
   (E)   Perform all duties assigned to the Fire Inspector.
   (F)   Oversee training of Fire Department personnel and trained volunteers.
(`90 Code, § 8-78)
§ 34.18 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The Chief of the Fire Department may enter any building or premises for the
purpose of making an inspection or investigation under the provisions of this
chapter under the following circumstances:
   (A)   When the owner or person lawfully occupying the property consents to
the inspection;
   (B)   Pursuant to a warrant obtained in accordance with G.S. § 15-27.2 et
seq.; or
   (C)   When the Chief determines that an emergency exists because the
premises to be investigated poses an immediate threat to the safety of persons
or property.
(`90 Code, § 8-79)
§ 34.19 ANNUAL REPORT.
   The Fire Chief shall report annually to the City Manager the name, residence
and occupation of all firefighters; the number of fire calls answered by each
firefighter and the totals for the Department; the value of property before
damage to fire and after for all fires answered; the total number of buildings
inspected, and such other information as may be requested from time to time.
(`90 Code, § 8-80)
CHAPTER 35: RESERVED
CHAPTER 36: PURCHASING
Section
   
36.01   Authority of City Manager or Chief Purchasing Officer
§ 36.01 AUTHORITY OF CITY MANAGER OR CHIEF PURCHASING OFFICER.
   The City Council shall delegate to the City Manager or his or her Chief
Purchasing Officer the authority to do the following:
   (A)   Award purchase bids.
   (B)   Reject bids.
   (C)   Re-advertise to receive bids.
   (D)   Waive bid bond or deposit requirements and performance and payment
bond requirements where this waiver is authorized by laws. The person to whom
authority is delegated must comply with all the requirements in the competitive
statutes. This basically allows the manager or his or her designee to award
purchase contracts of any amount, except construction or repair contracts in
the formal range, for the purchase of apparatus, supplies, materials and
equipment.
   (E)   Waive the bidding requirements for the purchase of apparatus,
supplies, materials or equipment from any person or entity that has, in the
previous 12 months, after having completed a public, formal bid process
substantially similar to that required by G.S. § 143-129, contracted to furnish
the apparatus, supplies, materials or equipment to:
      (1)   The United States of America or any federal agency;
      (2)   The State of North Carolina or any agency or political subdivision
of the state;
      (3)   Any other state or any agency or political subdivision of that
state, if the person or entity is willing to furnish the items at the same or
more favorable prices, terms and conditions as those provided under the
contract with the other unit or agency, under the procedures and circumstance
provided for in G.S. § 143-129(g)(3). This is commonly know as a "Piggybacking"
clause, if the person or entity is willing to furnish the items at the same or
more favorable pricing. The piggybacking authority has several restrictions.
Any item using this clause must be awarded at a regularly scheduled meeting,
and notice of intent to use this method of award must be published ten days
prior to the meeting. The provision authorizing the Council to delegate the
authority to award contracts does not apply to purchases made under this
authority.
   (F)   Increase the limits for receiving formal bids for the purchase of
apparatus, supplies, materials or equipment to $50,000, as allowed under state
statue.
   (G)   Declare as surplus, personal property valued at less than $5,000 for
any one item or group of items, set its fair market value and dispose of it by
private negotiation and sale or exchange, with the following exception; no city
employee, department head, elected city official or any person having
connections to the city may purchase city personal property declared surplus.
   (H)   To have the option to include in the specifications for the purchase
of apparatus, supplies, materials or equipment an opportunity for bidders to
purchase as "trade-in" specified personal property owned by the city, if
available, and approve the award of a contract for both the purchase of the
apparatus, supplies, materials or equipment and the sale of the trade-in
property.
   (I)   Waive the bidding requirements for the purchase of apparatus,
supplies, materials or equipment when the performance of price competition for
a product is not available; when a needed product is available from only one
source; or when standardization or compatibility is the overriding
consideration. Contracts awarded under the sole source award must also be
awarded at a regularly scheduled meeting. The provision authorizing the Council
to delegate the authority to award contracts does not apply to purchases under
this authority.
   (J)   No city surplus property shall be donated to any individual or
organization. All surplus property shall be sold by methods provided for in
G.S. Ch. 160A. Exception: any declared surplus property items left behind after
auction sales, whether sold or not, shall be disposed of by any means the city
sees fit, if left for five consecutive days or longer.
CHAPTER 37: CASH MANAGEMENT
Section
Policy
   
37.01   Function of plan
   
37.02   Auditor
   
37.03   Plan review; amendment
   
37.04   Deviation from plan
Cash Management Plan
   
37.15   Objectives
   
37.16   Cash receipts
   
37.17   Deposits
   
37.18   Billings
   
37.19   Utilities
   
37.20   Billing adjustment procedure
   
37.21   Tax
Cash Mobilization and Management of Available Resources (Investments)
   
37.35   Objective
   
37.36   Mobilization
   
37.37   Investments
Cash Disbursements
   
37.50   Objective
   
37.51   Procedure
Banking Relations
   
37.65   Objective
   
37.66   Analysis
   
37.67   Request for proposal for banking services (RFP)
Monitoring and Reporting on the Plan
   
37.80   Objective
   
37.81   Time schedules
POLICY
§ 37.01 FUNCTION OF PLAN.
   The City Council charges the Finance Director, with the cooperation of all
city departments and officials, to devise and implement a cash management plan
which addresses cash receipts, cash mobilization and management of available
resources (investments), cash disbursements, banking relations and monitoring
and reporting on the plan.
(`90 Code, Appendix A, § 1)
§ 37.02 AUDITOR.
   The independent auditor for the city shall monitor the city's compliance
with the established cash management plan and reports of the Finance Director
thereon. He or she shall report his or her findings and recommendations
annually to the Council as a part of the city audit.
(`90 Code, Appendix A, § 2)
§ 37.03 PLAN REVIEW; AMENDMENT.
   Each year the plan will be reviewed by the Finance Director during budget
preparation. The Finance Director shall amend the plan, as appropriate, to
further enhance the city's cash management program. All plan amendments shall
be presented to the City Manager and/or City Council for review at the next
Council meeting after the amendment has been made.
(`90 Code, Appendix A, § 3)
§ 37.04 DEVIATION FROM PLAN.
   All employees of the city shall follow the cash management plan and
provisions of this resolution, and the willful or continued failure to do so is
sufficient cause for immediate dismissal from city employment. Any deviations
from the plan by any official or employee shall be reported to the City Manager
and/or Council at the next Council meeting after the deviation has occurred.
(`90 Code, Appendix A, § 4)
CASH MANAGEMENT PLAN
§ 37.15 OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   This Cash Management Plan is being established pursuant to the city's
Cash Management Policy as adopted by the Council which requires such a plan to
be developed. The objectives of this plan are to increase the amount of idle
moneys invested, thus generating greater amounts of non-tax revenue through
increased earnings, and simultaneously providing adequate safety and liquidity
of the city's moneys. This plan will address five areas: cash receipts, cash
mobilization and management of available resources (investments), cash
disbursements, banking relations and monitoring and reporting on the plan.
   (B)   The Finance Director will ensure, whenever possible, separation of
duties of the investment procedure.
(`90 Code, Appendix A, § 21)
§ 37.16 CASH RECEIPTS.
   This section of the plan is designed to assist the Finance Director in
developing and implementing procedures for the receipt of moneys in order to
expedite the movement of those moneys into eligible investments, while ensuring
the safe handling of cash resources.
(`90 Code, Appendix A, § 22)
§ 37.17 DEPOSITS.
   (A)   The Finance Director shall devise and implement a central depository
system for the city. This system shall include the creation of three bank
accounts: a disbursement account, a payroll account, and a money market
account. The money market shall be in the form of an interest-bearing checking
account. These three accounts will be at the Central Carolina Bank & Trust
Company, the official depository approved by the City Council.
   (B)   Deposits are to be made every work day.
   (C)   For high-volume periods during the year, the Finance Director will
make personnel reassignments, if necessary, to assure that prompt deposits are
made.
   (D)   For checks received and deposited which are returned to the Finance
Director due to insufficient funds, prompt action will be undertaken to collect
good funds.
   (E)   Any adjustments or corrections for either overpayment or underpayment
will be made after the moneys have been deposited. For routine deposits, it is
very seldom necessary or appropriate to return a check because it was made out
in the wrong amount. Do not delay in depositing moneys for errors of this type
on regular receipts.
(`90 Code, Appendix A, § 23)
§ 37.18 BILLINGS.
   (A)   Applications and reports to the state or federal governments for
reimbursement of claims are to be filed promptly. All department heads who
administer programs that receive moneys from other governments are to meet with
the Finance Director to establish a cash flow schedule for those moneys. The
due dates of the reimbursements are listed below and are to be strictly adhered
to:
      (1)   Revenue sources.
         (a)   Intangible personal property tax.
         (b)   Beer and wine excise tax.
         (c)   Gasoline tax refund.
         (d)   Reimbursement of 15% of property tax less due to homestead.
         (e)   Refund of state sales and use tax.
         (f)   County reimbursements.
      (2)   Due date of claim.
         (a)   January 31.
         (b)   As soon as possible after receipt of August questionnaire.
         (c)   Due promptly at the end of each calendar quarter.
         (d)   September 1.
         (e)   Due promptly after June 30.
         (f)   Fifteenth day of month.
   (B)   For utility and tax billing, the objective will be to reduce the
processing time so payments will be received at an earlier date. Utility meters
and monthly billing will be in accordance with §
37.19.
(`90 Code, Appendix A, § 24)
§ 37.19 UTILITIES.
   (A)   (1)   Meter reading - Beginning the 20th day of each month until all
routes are read.
      (2)   Billing date - 20th day of each month.
      (3)   Payment due date - 5th day of the following month.
   (B)   If any of the dates in division (A) of this section fall on a weekend
or holiday, the above mentioned action will take place on the next business
day.
   (C)   A reconnection charge as approved in the annual budget ordinance will
be assessed against all delinquent accounts after 5:00 p.m. on the fifteenth
day of each month.
   (D)   All new customers will be required to make a deposit plus an
additional non-refundable service fee according to the schedule as approved in
the annual budget ordinance.
   (E)   These deposits will be returned to the customer after a period of 12
months continuous service and timely payments on account. If service is
terminated before the end of the five-year period, the deposit will be refunded
only if the account is paid in full. Otherwise, it will be applied toward the
last invoice. After applying amount due toward invoice, any remaining balance
will be refunded.
(`90 Code, Appendix A, § 25) (Ord. 96-C, passed 11-12-96; Am. Ord. 97-C, passed
3-17-97)
§ 37.20 BILLING ADJUSTMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   At times there are readings on water meters that show a considerable
increase in consumption for a one-month period and then return to normal the
following month.
   (B)   Administrative procedure:
      (1)   Check read meter.
      (2)   Have customer check for leaks.
      (3)   Have city personnel check for leaks if none found by customer.
   (C)   If no leak is detected and the account cannot be adjusted under the
leak policy, the following procedure shall apply:
      (1)   The City Manager or billing clerk may adjust one bill per account
per year for an unexplained high consumption. The charge shall be based on the
average consumption for the prior four months.
      (2)   Monthly report of adjustments will be provided to Council.
   (D)   When there is a proven leak between the water meter and plumbing
fixture discharge, the city will adjust one water bill per year according to
the following policy:
      (1)   Total consumption will be averaged over the past four months.
      (2)   (a)   The excess over the average will be settled as follows:
            1.   Customer pays 50% of the excess.
            2.   City Billing Clerk will release 50% of the excess.
         (b)   If the customer can provide substantial evidence to the Billing
Clerk that no water from the leak entered the city sewer system, there will be
no charge for sewer on the excess consumption.
      (3)   The customer shall provide the Billing Clerk with a statement from
a licensed plumber that repairs have been made. In an owner-occupied building,
a statement from the owner shall be adequate.
(`90 Code, Appendix A, § 26)
§ 37.21 TAX.
   (A)   Tax notices will be mailed as soon as possible after the budget is
adopted. This time will be determined by the availability of tax information
from Person County Tax Office and city processing time.
   (B)   Second notices will be mailed to all delinquent taxpayers after
January 10. Garnishment proceedings shall start February 10.
   (C)   The tax lien advertisement on real property for failure to pay tax
will be in accordance with G.S. § 105-369 as follows:
      (1)   "On the second Monday in February in each year, each municipal tax
collector shall report to the governing body the total amount of unpaid tax for
the current fiscal year that are liens on real property and the governing body
shall thereon order the tax collector to advertise such tax liens.”
      (2)   "The municipal tax collector shall advertise municipal tax liens by
posting a notice of the liens at the city or town hall and by publishing each
lien at least one time in one or more newspapers having general circulation in
the taxing unit. Advertisements of tax liens shall be made during the period
March 1 through June 30.”
      (3)   City Council shall set the advertisement date at the February
meeting.
      (4)   The Tax Collector will provide the City Council with a list of
unpaid real and personal property tax at the April meeting to receive
instructions as to further collection measures.
CASH MOBILIZATION AND MANAGEMENT OF AVAILABLE RESOURCES (INVESTMENTS)
§ 37.35 OBJECTIVE.
   This section of the plan is designed to place the city's money in a position
to be invested as quickly as possible at the highest reasonable yields
available while maintaining the safety and liquidity of those moneys.
(`90 Code, Appendix A, § 31)
§ 37.36 MOBILIZATION.
   (A)   The City Council shall authorize the city to establish as its official
depository Central Carolina Bank & Trust Company, Roxboro, North Carolina.
   (B)   Moneys shall be deposited into the official depository no later than
2:00 p.m., to ensure that the deposit will be credited for the day. The
deposits shall be made by the Finance Director or by department officers or
employees duly authorized to do so and supervised by the Finance Director.
(`90 Code, Appendix A, § 32)
§ 37.37 INVESTMENTS.
   (A)   Eligible investments shall be limited to obligations of the U.S.
government, such as treasury bills, bonds and notes, time deposits with any
bank or savings and loan whose principal offices are in North Carolina and the
North Carolina Cash Management Trust. Time deposits in excess of the federal
deposit insurance of $100,000 shall be placed with only those financial
institutions which have been analyzed and determined credit-worthy by the
Finance Director.
   (B)   For all deposits held in financial institutions which utilize the
Option 2 method of collateralization, the Finance Director shall maintain all
necessary documentation to show that the responsibility of monitoring
collateralization levels is now with the State Treasurer.
   (C)   Certificates of deposit purchased by the city shall be delivered to
the Finance Director.
   (D)   The Finance Director shall ensure proper diversification of the
investment portfolio in order to minimize risks brought on by economic and
market changes. To achieve this diversification:
      (1)   No more than 50% of the city's moneys shall be invested in a
particular investment vehicle.
      (2)   No less than 30% of the total investment portfolio shall mature
within 30 days. No less than 75% of the portfolio shall mature in 90 days and
100% of the portfolio shall mature within one year.
      (3)   No more than 50% of the city's total moneys shall be placed with a
single financial institution.
   (E)   The Finance Director shall daily review the cash position of the city
and decide what moneys can be invested for certain periods of time. If any
investments are to be made, the Finance Director will make this determination
by 11:00 a.m. each morning, and then institute a bidding process for city
moneys as follows:
      (1)   Approved financial institutions shall be contacted by the Finance
Director requesting bids on time deposits.
      (2)   All bids shall be submitted by 12:00 p.m., with interest rates
quoted on a 365-day basis.
      (3)   In the event of matching bids, the financial institutions will be
contacted, notified of similar bids, and asked if an upset bid will be placed.
      (4)   All certificates shall be delivered to the Finance Director by 2:00
p.m.
(`90 Code, Appendix A, § 33)
CASH DISBURSEMENTS
§ 37.50 OBJECTIVE.
   The objective of this subchapter of the city's cash management plan is to
retain the moneys for investment until the agreed upon contractual date of
payment, unless early payment provides a benefit to the city.
(`90 Code, Appendix A, § 36)
§ 37.51 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Finance Director shall appropriate and expend city moneys pursuant
to G.S. § 159-28(b).
   (B)   To create the maximum amount of funds available for investments, the
Finance Director shall pay the obligations of the city on the first and
twentieth day of the month. The Finance Director shall pay the obligations of
the city by the due date. The Finance Director shall determine whether or not
the discount for cash payment is more beneficial than payment on the billing's
due date. The Finance Director shall periodically review the disbursement
cycle, and changes shall be instituted if the disbursement cycle can be
extended.
   (C)   The Finance Director shall require that all departments consolidate
payments to one vendor. The Finance Director shall ensure that all departments
using the same vendor(s) receive the same due date and discount date.
(`90 Code, Appendix A, § 37)
BANKING RELATIONS
§ 37.65 OBJECTIVE.
   This section of the plan is designed to help the Finance Director develop
and implement procedures to create mutually beneficial banking relations with
local financial institutions.
(`90 Code, Appendix A, § 41)
§ 37.66 ANALYSIS.
   Should the value of the city's demand and time deposits exceed the federal
depository insurance coverage limits, the Finance Director shall determine the
financial soundness of banks and savings and loans with which the city desires
to do business by performing an analysis on each institution. Each analysis
shall examine historical trends, followed by ratio analysis to determine
capital adequacy, profitability, loan quality and liquidity.
(`90 Code, Appendix A, § 42)
§ 37.67 REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL FOR BANKING SERVICES (RFP).
   (A)   Those financial institutions which are deemed to be financially strong
shall receive an RFP. The RFP will solicit bids from financial institutions
which wish to obtain the city's banking business. The RFP shall require
information on what services can be provided to the unit and the costs
associated with such services. The RFPs shall be compared and the financial
institution selected as the official depository shall receive the city's bank
accounts for a period of five years. The city shall maintain only three bank
accounts; a disbursement account, a money market account and a payroll account.
The City Council will designate the selected financial institution as the
official depository for the city. The Finance Director shall sign for the city
a contract with the official depository, establishing the banking services and
costs that will be applicable to the city and what conditions will necessitate
termination of the contract.
   (B)   The Finance Director shall maintain either the average daily balance
in the official depository equal to one week's expenditures or an amount
sufficient to off-set the costs associated with the account, whichever is
greater. The Finance Director shall constantly review the activity on the
account to determine target balances which shall accomplish the objectives of
bank compensation and expenditure coverage. When the account balance exceeds
the target level, the Finance Director shall include the coverage in the amount
of moneys available for investment.
   (C)   The Finance Director shall periodically receive bids from financial
institutions desiring to invest city moneys in various time deposits. These
financial institutions shall undergo the same financial analysis as did those
institutions receiving the RFP if the amount of time deposits exceeds the
federal depository insurance coverage of $100,000.
(`90 Code, Appendix A, § 43)
MONITORING AND REPORTING ON THE PLAN
§ 37.80 OBJECTIVE.
   The objective of this section of the plan is to devise a systematic
reporting schedule to the governing body and to provide a schedule for the
systematic review of the plan itself to make necessary amendments and changes.
(`90 Code, Appendix A, § 46)
§ 37.81 TIME SCHEDULES.
   (A)   The Finance Director for the city shall report monthly to the City
Manager and/or City Council concerning the status of investments. The report
shall include the amount of city moneys invested, the average rate and
maturities, and the cost value and market value of those investments. The
Finance Director will report on the custody and safekeeping of city
investments, stating how the safekeeping arrangements are structured. Any
losses or potential losses on the liquidation of investments shall be disclosed
at the next Council meeting after the loss becomes known.
   (B)   The Finance Director shall report monthly to the City Manager and/or
City Council members concerning the adequate collateralization of city moneys.
The Finance Director will report on which deposits are covered under the Option
1 method of collateralization and those deposits covered under Option 2. The
Finance Director will report any cases where collateral held by an Option 1
financial institution has declined to a level that was materially less than the
value of deposits.
   (C)   The Finance Director shall report to the City Manager and/or City
Council any changes in bank service charges and the amount of additional moneys
required to off-set the increased banking costs. The Finance Director shall
also report to the City Manager and/or Council concerning the issuance of a
Request for Proposal for Banking Services (RFP) and recommendations or
selection of an official depository once the RFPs have been analyzed and
compared.
   (D)   The Finance Director shall report to the City Manager and/or Council
the status of delinquent tax payments and other revenues due to the city from
private persons.
   (E)   The Finance Director shall semi-annually submit the LGC-203, Report of
Cash Balance to the secretary of the Local Government Commission pursuant to
G.S. § 159-33. This information, with appropriate explanations, shall also be
reported to the City Manager and/or Council at the next scheduled Council
meeting after each report has been submitted to the Local Government
Commission.
   (F)   Each year the plan shall be reviewed by the Finance Director during
budget preparation. The Finance Director shall report to the City Manager and/
or City Council any amendments he or she has adopted, any procedural changes he
or she has made, and any actions he or she recommends the Council take to
enhance the cash management plan.
(`90 Code, Appendix A, § 47)
CHAPTER 38: CIVIL EMERGENCIES
Section
   
38.01   State of emergency defined
   
38.02   Proclamation authorized
   
38.03   Applicability; exceptions
   
38.04   End of emergency
   
38.05   Restrictions
   
38.06   Extension, alteration, repeal
   
38.07   Violation
§ 38.01 STATE OF EMERGENCY DEFINED.
   A state of emergency shall be deemed to exist whenever, during times of
great public crisis, disaster, rioting, catastrophe or similar public
emergency, for any reason, municipal public safety authorities are unable to
maintain public order or afford adequate protection for lives or property.
(`90 Code, § 7-1)
§ 38.02 PROCLAMATION AUTHORIZED.
   If an existing or threatened state of emergency endangers the lives, safety,
health and welfare of the people within the city, or threatens damage to or
destruction of property, the Mayor is authorized and empowered to issue a
public proclamation, declaring to all persons the existence of such a state of
emergency, and, in order to more effectively protect the lives and property of
people within the city, to place in effect any or all of the restrictions
authorized by the provisions of this chapter.
(`90 Code, § 7-2)
§ 38.03 APPLICABILITY; EXCEPTIONS.
   The Mayor is authorized and empowered to limit by the proclamation the
application of all or any part of such restrictions to any area specifically
designated or described within the corporate limits of the city and to specific
hours of the day or night, and to exempt from all or any part of such
restrictions law enforcement officers, firefighters and other public employees,
doctors, nurses, employees of hospitals and other medical facilities; on-duty
military personnel, whether state or federal; on-duty employees of public
utilities, public transportation companies and newspaper, magazine, radio
broadcasting and television broadcasting corporations operated for profit; and
such other classes of persons as may be essential to the preservation of public
order and immediately necessary to serve the safety, health and welfare needs
of the people within the city.
(`90 Code, § 7-3)
§ 38.04 END OF EMERGENCY.
   The Mayor shall proclaim the end of such state of emergency or all or any
part of the restrictions imposed as soon as circumstances warrant or when
directed to do so by the City Council.
(`90 Code, § 7-4)
§ 38.05 RESTRICTIONS.
   During the existence of a proclaimed state of emergency, the Mayor may
impose by proclamation any restriction listed in this section:
   (A)   Prohibit or regulate the possession off one's own premises of
explosives, firearms, ammunition or dangerous weapons of any kind, and prohibit
the purchase, sale, transfer or other disposition thereof.
   (B)   Prohibit or regulate the buying or selling of beer, wine or
intoxicating beverages of any kind and their possession or consumption off
one's own premises.
   (C)   Prohibit or regulate any demonstration, special event or similar
activity from taking place on city property, any public right-of-way or any
segment thereof, regardless of whether a permit has already been issued for the
activity.
   (D)   Prohibit or regulate the sale of gasoline, kerosene, naphtha or any
other explosive or inflammable fluids or substances.
   (E)   Prohibit or regulate travel upon any public street, alley or roadway,
or upon any other public property, except by those in search of medical
assistance, food or other commodity or service necessary to sustain the well-
being of themselves or their families or some member thereof.
   (F)   Prohibit or regulate the participation in or carrying on of any
business activity and prohibit or regulate the keeping open of places of
business, places of entertainment and any other places of public assembly.
(`90 Code, § 7-5) (Am. Ord. passed 8-9-05)
§ 38.06 EXTENSION, ALTERATION, REPEAL.
   Any proclamation may be extended, altered or repealed in any particular
during the continued or threatened existence of a state of emergency by the
issuance of a subsequent proclamation.
(`90 Code, § 7-6)
§ 38.07 VIOLATION.
   (A)   During the existence of a proclaimed state of emergency, it shall be
unlawful for any person to violate any provision of any restriction imposed by
any proclamation authorized by this chapter.
   (B)   The violation of any provision of this chapter, or of any provision of
any restriction imposed by any proclamation authorized by this chapter, shall
constitute a misdemeanor, punishable upon conviction by a fine or imprisonment
as provided by G.S. § 14-4.
(`90 Code, § 7-7)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
Chapter
   
50.   GARBAGE AND REFUSE
   
51.   WATER AND SEWER SERVICE
   
52.   SEWERS
   
53.   WATER SUPPLY WATERSHED PROTECTION AND MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE AND REFUSE
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Enforcement
Regulations
   
50.15   Leaves, shrubs, trimmings
   
50.16   Container criteria
   
50.17   Burning in can
   
50.18   Liquid drained, ashes quenched
   
50.19   Tampering with refuse or container
   
50.20   Cleaning and disinfecting
   
50.21   Location of receptacle
   
50.22   Unlawful accumulations
   
50.23   Hauling refuse
   
50.24   Use of landfill
   
50.25   Collection
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASHES. Refuse resulting from the burning of wood, coal, coke and other
combustible material.
   BUILDING RUBBISH. Rubbish from construction, remodeling and repair
operations on houses, commercial buildings and other structures, including but
not limited to excavated earth, stones, brick, plaster, lumber, concrete and
waste parts occasioned by installations and replacements.
   BUSINESS BUILDING. Any structure, whether private or public, that is adapted
for transaction of business, for rendering of professional services, for
amusement or for the display or sale or storage of goods, wares, merchandise,
articles or equipment, including hotels, apartment houses, rooming houses,
office buildings, public buildings, stores, theaters, markets, restaurants,
warehouses, sheds, barns and other structures, or premises used for or adapted
to business purposes.
   DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC SERVICES. The Director of Public Services of the city or
his or her agent.
   GARBAGE. Animal, fruit and vegetable matter resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooling and consumption of food, including a minimum amount of
liquid necessarily incident thereto, and all cans, glassware, crockery, bags
and other containers in which such matter has been kept or stored.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Sawdust, shavings, feathers, excelsior, cartons, boxes,
metal, glass, paper, wood, textiles, chemicals, plastic or other waste material
from processing plants, factories or manufacturing operations.
   REFUSE. Solid waste, including, but not limited to garbage, rubbish and
ashes.
   RUBBISH. Refuse, exclusive of garbage and ashes, including but not limited
to paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior, rubber, leather, tree, brush
and hedge branches, cutting and trimmings, grass, leaves, tin cans, metal (not
to exceed 50 pounds), small mineral matter, glass and dust.
   WASTE. Useless, unused, unwanted or dis-carded material resulting from
natural community activities, including solids, liquids and gases.
(`90 Code, § 9-1) (Ord. passed 6-11-74)
§ 50.02 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Director of Public Services shall enforce the provisions of this
chapter. He or she may call upon the Chief of Police, the Fire Chief or the
County Health Department for assistance in obtaining compliance with any orders
issued by him or her.
(`90 Code, § 9-10)
REGULATIONS
§ 50.15 LEAVES, SHRUBS, TRIMMINGS.
   (A)   No person shall throw, drop or deposit any leaves, shrubs or other
debris into any catch basin or manhole in the city.
   (B)   Any person may have leaves removed by the city if such leaves are
placed at the curbline so that they may be easily handled by the collector. No
tree limbs, shrubs or other material shall be mixed with the leaves.
   (C)   Any person desiring to place tree trimmings, hedge cuttings, grass or
similar materials for free collection shall cause the material to be placed at
the curbline for such pickup. Free collection shall include nothing more than
six inches in diameter and no more than 60 inches in length. Brush must be
placed with cut end towards curb, so it can be loaded into chippers. All wood
larger than three inches in diameter must be cut to a maximum length of 30
inches.
   (D)   No person shall burn leaves, shrubs, trees, limbs and the like on the
streets or sidewalks or on private property, except upon special permission of
the Fire Chief.
   (E)   Free collection of tree trimmings, hedge cuttings, or similar
materials shall be limited to incidental tree trimming, hedge cutting or
similar materials, not to exceed 200 pounds per week as determined by the
Public Services Director, that is in compliance with division (C) of this
section, provided that such material is placed at the curb by the property
owner or tenant. Whole or complete tree trimming, hedge cuttings, or large
trimmings of similar materials performed by the property owner, tenant, hired
professionals or other such persons shall be disposed of by the property owner,
tenant, hired professional or other such persons.
(`90 Code, § 9-2) (Ord. passed 6-11-74; Am. Ord. passed 4-12-05)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.16 CONTAINER CRITERIA.
   (A)   Every person occupying a house or residence in the residential area
where garbage or refuse exists shall provide containers made of galvanized
metal or plastic made for such use, or use a city-provided roll-out cart, in
which shall be deposited all garbage or refuse existing at the building or
premises.
   (B)   Each container shall be provided with handles and with a tight-fitting
cover of the same material as the container. Containers must not be less than
20-gallons or more than 30-gallons capacity.
   (C)   Each home and business building shall have a sufficient number of
containers to hold the refuse until collected.
   (D)   All persons doing business in a business building within the city
limits shall provide containers as outlined in §
50.25.
   (E)   No wooden boxes, pails or other wooden or cardboard containers shall
be used for garbage and refuse; if so used, the containers shall be confiscated
by the city.
(`90 Code, § 9-3) (Ord. passed 6-11-74)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.17 BURNING IN CAN.
   No person shall burn rubbish in any receptacle to be used for the disposal
of garbage or refuse through the city's collection service.
(`90 Code, § 9-4)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.18 LIQUID DRAINED, ASHES QUENCHED.
   All garbage and refuse shall have liquid drained before it is placed in the
container for collection. Ashes shall be thoroughly quenched and drained.
(`90 Code, § 9-5) (Ord. passed 6-11-74)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.19 TAMPERING WITH REFUSE OR CONTAINER.
   No person other than the owner thereof or an officer, employee or licensee
of the city shall remove or interfere with any garbage or refuse receptacle or
the contents thereof.
(`90 Code, § 9-6)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.20 CLEANING AND DISINFECTING.
   Every person required to maintain a garbage or refuse receptacle shall
periodically clean and disinfect the receptacle in order to assure easy
emptying by the collector and to eliminate flies, disease and pests.
(`90 Code, § 9-7)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.21 LOCATION OF RECEPTACLE.
   All refuse receptacles shall be kept in an accessible place on the ground
level and, when practical, to the rear of the front wall of the main residence
or building, unless otherwise designated by the Public Services Director:
   (A)   All refuse receptacles shall be placed adjacent to the street/curb for
collection on the scheduled garbage pick-up day, or after 4:00 p.m. on the
preceding day;
   (B)   After collection, all refuse receptacles shall be taken back to their
proper storage location, as referenced in division (A) above, by 6:00 p.m. on
the day following the scheduled garbage pick- up day; and
   (C)   In addition to or in lieu of the general penalty prescribed in §
10.99, a violation of any provision of this section shall also subject the
offender to a civil penalty of $25 which, if not paid by the offender within
ten days after being cited for the violation, may be recovered by the city in a
civil action in the nature of a debt, and each day that a violation continues
after notification that such violation exists shall constitute a separate
offense for the purposes of the foregoing criminal and civil penalties.
(`90 Code, § 9-8) (Am. Ord. passed 5-9-06; Am. Ord. Passed 6-12-12)
§ 50.22 UNLAWFUL ACCUMULATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall keep, accumulate or permit to be kept or accumulated
any garbage in or upon any public or private place unless the same shall be in
a container meeting the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   No person shall permit the accumulation of refuse to become or remain
offensive, unsightly, unsafe to public health or hazardous from fire.
(`90 Code, § 9-9)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.23 HAULING REFUSE.
   No person shall haul or attempt to haul any refuse in an open body vehicle
without some type of cover or container for the refuse, which effectively
prevents spillage on the streets of the city.
(`90 Code, § 9-11)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.24 USE OF LANDFILL.
   No person shall deposit or in any manner dispose of any garbage or refuse at
any place in the city except those sites holding approved permits by the
appropriate federal, state or local governing agency.
(`90 Code, § 9-12)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.25 COLLECTION.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter and except in the case of
conditions over which the Department of Public Services has no control, the
Department shall collect, remove and dispose of certain refuse in residential
sections at least once per week.
   (B)   Industrial waste shall be collected, removed and disposed of by the
operator of the factory, plant or enterprise creating or causing the same.
   (C)   Building rubbish shall be collected, removed and disposed of by the
contractor or builder or by the owner of the property.
   (D)   Each business building shall use a front-loading receptacle provided
by the city, except when, upon approval by the City Council, the Director of
Public Services may authorize a business to provide its own receptacle or use a
city-provided roll-out cart.
   (E)   Where it is feasible for more than one establishment to use the same
container, monthly billing will be apportioned among the several users. In
downtown business district, all retail businesses shall pay a flat rate for
their share of dump box. All offices, barber shops and beauty shops shall pay a
flat rate. Rate charges will be determined by the City Council and placed into
effect July 1 of each year. This will not be adjusted according to the number
using a box.
   (F)   It shall be the responsibility of the Director of Public Services to
schedule the various areas of the city for collection of refuse on specific
days of the week and to notify the people of the city of such collection days.
In the event of a holiday or in circumstances beyond the control of the
Department of Public Services, the Director of Public Services shall reschedule
all collections in the best interest of the city.
   (G)   Rubbish will be collected at the curbline on a schedule developed by
the Director of Public Services.
   (H)   All apartment complexes and mobile home parks having in excess of 12
units shall provide a front-loading container of the size directed by the
Director of Public Services. Apartment complexes and mobile home parks shall
provide concrete pads that are poured to support the front loading truck and
containers in a location where the truck can get off the street to dump. The
Director of Public Services can review specifications and locations of concrete
pads to ensure that they will accommodate the city's front loading trucks.
      (1)   The owners of apartment complexes and mobile home parks designed
for and occupied by senior citizens or other citizens needing assistance for
physical impairments, may request a waiver from the front loader container
requirement and be provided a roll out cart per unit. The request should be
addressed to the Director of Public Services and state any special conditions
or hardship which may be relevant. Appeal of the decision of the Public
Services Director may be made to the City Council and addressed to the City
Manager. The decision of the City Council shall be deemed conclusive, however
the owners may make a new request upon a substantial change in circumstances or
conditions. The owner of the apartment for which a waiver is granted will be
charged a fee per roll out cart. The fee may be changed as necessary in the
city's annual budget that begins on July 1 of each year. (A customer having
both commercial garbage collection and water/wastewater services provided by
the city will be billed jointly on a monthly bill. Failure to pay in full the
bill for any services billed on this account will result in all services
(trash, water, wastewater) being discontinued for this location.)
      (2)   Hardship for apartment and mobile home parks.
         (a)   Proposed apartments, more than 12 units or mobile home parks,
more than 12 units (complex), may request a waiver based upon division (H)(2)
(b)1. below. Division (H)(2)(b)2. shall not apply to new construction or
additions to existing complexes. Proposed apartments, more than 12 units or
mobile home parks, more than 12 units, shall designate an area for a future
dumpster location on the approved site plan, should the complex no longer meet
the requirements of division (H)(2)(b)1. The apartments or mobile home parks
shall obtain the waiver prior to obtaining a building permit.
         (b)   In order for an existing apartment complex, more than 12 units
or existing mobile home park, more than 12 units (complex), to be eligible for
roll out carts in-lieu of dumpsters, a waiver from the Public Services Director
shall be required. The Public Services Director will base the waiver on meeting
the following conditions:
            1.   The complex shall be designed to serve people that, because of
age or other physical impairment have a restricted or limited mobility;
            2.   The majority of the residents residing in the complex have
limited mobility due to age or other physical impairment; or
         (c)   Due to physical constraints beyond the control of the owner, a
dumpster pad cannot be sited and constructed within the complex and the complex
was constructed prior to July 2015, or the dumpster truck is unable to service
the boxes and the residential garbage route that serves the complex has
capacity.
         (d)   Complexes requesting a hardship waiver shall send a letter to
the Public Services Director stating how the complex meets one of the above
conditions. If the request for a waiver is denied, the owner of the complex may
appeal the decision as outlined in this division.
         (e)   Complexes that receive a waiver shall pay a monthly fee per cart
as set in the city annual budget. The fee shall be billed to the owners or
management of the complex.
(`90 Code, § 9-13) (Ord. passed 6-11-74; Am. Ord. passed 4-14-15)
CHAPTER 51: WATER AND SEWER SERVICE
Section
General Provisions
   
51.001   Control of waterworks system
   
51.002   Director of Public Services
   
51.003   City standard specifications
Connections
   
51.015   When connections required
   
51.016   Connection; permit, fee, supervision
   
51.017   Water mains; extension, tapping, control
   
51.018   Charge for water connections
   
51.019   Water meters
   
51.020   Right to shut off water in mains
   
51.021   Occupancy after water shut off
Water Emergency
   
51.033   Emergency response determination
   
51.034   Emergency response defined
   
51.035   City Manager to inform Mayor
   
51.036   Proclamation of Mayor
   
51.037   Nonessential use of water
   
51.038   Duration
Water Shortage
   
51.040   Water shortage proclamation
   
51.041   Conditions deemed emergency
   
51.042   Restrictions, limitations imposed
   
51.043   Proclamation, restrictions to be in writing
   
51.044   Lifting or modifying restrictions
   
51.045   Enforcement
   
51.046   Stages of conservation measures
   
51.047   Violation; penalty
Service Charges
   
51.050   Rates for water service
   
51.051   Sprinkler system
   
51.052   Determination of amount
   
51.053   Failure to pay
   
51.054   Maintenance of service pipe and fixtures
   
51.055   Claims against city
Extensions of Water and Sewer Service
   
51.065   Basis for assessment
   
51.066   Reservation of authority
Extension to Developed Property Within City Limits
   
51.080   Request for extension
   
51.081   Preliminary assessment resolution
   
51.082   Public notice
   
51.083   Notice to property owners
   
51.084   Cost estimate
   
51.085   Public hearing
   
51.086   Authorization to commence project
   
51.087   Scope not to be increased
   
51.088   Assessment procedure
Extension to Proposed Developments or Subdivisions Within City Limits
   
51.100   Application
   
51.101   Ownership
Extensions Outside City Limits
   
51.115   Declaration of policy
   
51.116   Private lines, maintenance and replacement
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.001 CONTROL OF WATERWORKS SYSTEM.
   The waterworks system owned by the city shall be under the control of the
City Manager and City Council, and the duty of securing and enforcing full
compliance with all rules and regulations governing all connections with the
mains shall be vested in the Council or in their authorized agent, who is the
Director of Public Services.
(`90 Code, § 20-1)
§ 51.002 DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC SERVICES.
   The Director of Public Services shall have under his or her special charge
the municipal waterworks and sewerage system, and all property connected
therewith. He or she shall be in charge of the inspection of the waterworks and
the sewerage system, and perform such other duties as may be required of him or
her by the City Manager or the City Council.
(`90 Code, § 20-2)
§ 51.003 CITY STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS.
   All water and sewer design and installations shall be in accordance with the
city standard specifications.
(`90 Code, § 20-151)
CONNECTIONS
§ 51.015 WHEN CONNECTIONS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every person owning a house, building or other structure used for
human habitation or occupancy in the city and located on a lot which abuts or
adjoins a street or alley along which is located a public gravity sanitary
sewer, which is accessible within 200 feet of the lot, and a water line, which
is accessible within 200 feet of the lot, shall make an approved water and
sewer connection with the house, building or structure; provided, however, that
no person shall be required to cross the private property of any other person
to make the water and sewer connections.
   (B)   Every house, building or other structure used for human habitation or
occupancy in the city which is located on a lot where no public sanitary sewer
line is accessible, as defined in division (A) of this section, shall be
connected to a septic tank approved by the State Board of Health.
   (C)   No person shall maintain, use or operate any privy, cesspool or any
other means or system of sewage disposal within the city, except as provided in
this section.
(`90 Code, § 20-3)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.016 CONNECTION; PERMIT, FEE, SUPERVISION.
   (A)   No person shall connect any residence or other building or structure
with the sewer system of the city without first obtaining the permission of the
City Council or its designated agent or officer, and the necessary work in
connection therewith, including the laying of pipes and the construction of
approaches to the connection, shall be subject to the general supervision of
the City Council through its properly designated agents and employees. There
shall be a charge for each connection with the sewer system, to be paid by the
owner of the property connected therewith.
   (B)   In the event of a failing on-site wastewater treatment system, a
person, firm, business or corporation may request of the city to connect to
existing pressure sewer main at the expense of the person, firm, business or
corporation. In the event that a person, firm, business or corporation is
located within a newly annexed area and wishes to receive sewer service prior
to the installation of gravity sewer, they may request of the city to connect
to an existing pressure sewer main at the expense of the person, firm, business
or corporation.
      (1)   The person, firm, business or corporation shall comply with all
federal, state and local regulations concerning sewer pumps, pressure lines and
equipment necessary to connect to existing pressure sewer lines.
      (2)   The person, firm, business or corporation shall pay the cost for
the connection, and shall also be responsible for the maintenance of any and
all equipment and private pressure sewer lines necessary to maintain the proper
flow to the city's pressure main. Further, when the connection is completed,
the person, firm, business or corporation shall have executed a contract with
the city which states that the person, firm, business or corporation shall be
fully responsible for the repair, maintenance and/or replacement of equipment
necessary to the continued operation of the connection.
      (3)   When and if the city installs a gravity flow sewer line, then the
person, firm, business or corporation shall disconnect at their expense from
the existing pressure sewer main and connect to the gravity flow sewer main.
Further, the person, firm, business or corporation shall enter into a contract
with the city at the time of the initial connection, that when a gravity flow
sewer main becomes available, then the person, firm, business or corporation
shall bear all the cost for disconnecting from the pressure sewer main and
reconnecting to the gravity flow sewer line.
      (4)   When the city annexes an area with a pressure sewer line and
installs a gravity flow sewer line, then the person, firm, business or
corporation shall be responsible for their pro rata share and assessment for
the gravity flow sewer line, if any.
      (5)   Disconnection shall be at the city's discretion and done according
to all pertinent federal, state and local specifications.
      (6)   The city will provide, at the connection or property line, a valve
in an accessible enclosure for the person, firm, business or corporation to
connect to.
      (7)   Any person, firm, business or corporation connecting to an existing
pressure sewer line shall provide the city with plans, specifications and pump
designs prepared by a professional engineer.
(`90 Code, § 20-4) (Am. Ord. passed 10-12-93)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.017 WATER MAINS; EXTENSION, TAPPING, CONTROL.
   The city reserves the privilege of tapping the water mains for any and all
connections, and will extend all service pipes to the curbing or property
limits, where a stop box will be placed over a stop cock, all of which shall be
under the exclusive control of the officers of the city.
(`90 Code, § 20-5)
§ 51.018 CHARGE FOR WATER CONNECTIONS.
   Each person for whom a water connection is made shall pay to the city a
charge as set from time to time by the City Council.
(`90 Code, § 20-6)
§ 51.019 WATER METERS.
   No premises shall be connected to the water system of the city unless there
is first installed a water meter. All such meters shall be installed by the
city under the direction of the Director of Public Services, and they shall
remain, at all times, the property of the city.
(`90 Code, § 20-7)
Penalty, see § 10.99
Statutory reference:
   Interfering with water meter, see G.S. § 14-151.1
§ 51.020 RIGHT TO SHUT OFF WATER IN MAINS.
   The city reserves the right at any time to shut off the water in the mains
in case of accident or emergency, or for the purpose of making connections,
alterations or repairs, and the Director of Public Services shall make
reasonable effort to notify all consumers within the district to be shut off at
least one hour previous to the shutting off, except in case of accident or
emergency, in which case the water shall be shut off without notice.
(`90 Code, § 20-8)
§ 51.021 OCCUPANCY AFTER WATER SHUT OFF.
   No person shall occupy any house or building for human habitation within the
city after the water supply thereto has been shut off, except in cases where
the supply is shut off temporarily, as provided in § 51.020.
(`90 Code, § 20-9)
WATER EMERGENCY
§ 51.033 EMERGENCY RESPONSE DETERMINATION.
   In the event of a natural disaster, staffing shortage or other major threat
to the safety, health or welfare of the people or staff of the city, the City
Manager or his or her designee may determine an emergency response.
(Ord. passed 4-14-20)
§ 51.034 EMERGENCY RESPONSE DEFINED.
   (A)   Under an emergency response the City Manager or his or her designee
may suspend meter reading services as outlined in §
37.19(A)(1). In the absence of meter reading in any month, utility billing will
be estimated by the fiscal management software of the city.
   (B)   Under an emergency response the City Manager or his or her designee
may suspend the disconnection of services as outlined in §
51.053(B)(3). This temporary suspension of disconnection services would result
in no application of fees as outlined in §
37.19(C) or in §
51.053(C). Such an action would be required to apply to all water and sewer
accounts.
(Ord. passed 4-14-20)
§ 51.035 CITY MANAGER TO INFORM MAYOR.
   The City Manager shall inform the Mayor when, in his or her opinion, it
appears probable that, without conservation measures, certain of the water
lines leading from the reservoir might become empty.
(`90 Code, § 20-31)
§ 51.036 PROCLAMATION OF MAYOR.
   Immediately upon receipt of information from the City Manager, as provided
for in §
51.035, the Mayor shall proclaim a water emergency and see that widespread
announcement of the water emergency is made.
(`90 Code, § 20-32)
§ 51.037 NONESSENTIAL USE OF WATER.
   When any water emergency is proclaimed, no person shall use water from the
city water supply for the purposes of washing vehicles, watering lawns or
gardens, filling pools or jacuzzis, or any other nonessential use for the
duration of the water emergency.
(`90 Code, § 20-33)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.038 DURATION.
   Unless renewed by further proclamation by the Mayor, the duration of any
water emergency shall be 72 hours. Nothing in this section shall be construed
to prevent the Mayor from declaring a new water emergency based on information
from the City Manager.
(`90 Code, § 20-34)
WATER SUPPLY SHORTAGE
§ 51.040 WATER SHORTAGE PROCLAMA-TION.
   In the event of an existing or threatening state of emergency endangering
the safety, health or welfare of the people of the city, or threatening damage
or destruction of property, arising from the shortage or threatened shortage of
water, the city is hereby authorized and empowered to issue a public
proclamation declaring the existence of such state of emergency, and to define
and impose such appropriate prohibitions and restrictions resulting from the
water shortage applicable to all persons within the jurisdiction of the city in
order to meet the exigencies of the predetermined state of emergency.
(Ord. passed 10-8-02)
§ 51.041 CONDITIONS DEEMED EMERGENCY.
   A state of emergency shall be deemed to exist whenever, in the opinion of
the City Council, the availability and supply of water is critical so that a
mechanical malfunction or breakdown of the city's pumps or a rapid draw down of
the water supply would so deplete the water supply and availability of water as
to threaten or cause to threaten the availability of water for human
consumption, for firefighting purposes and other protection of lives and
property, and the conservation of water is necessary in order to protect lives,
safety and property within the city.
(Ord. passed 10-8-02)
§ 51.042 RESTRICTIONS, LIMITATIONS IMPOSED.
   (A)   The Council is hereby authorized and empowered to issue a public
proclamation declaring to all persons the existence of such state of emergency.
   (B)   Such proclamation may specify the authorized uses of water within the
city, and may place limitations, prohibitions and restrictions upon the usage
of water for residential, business, and commercial uses. Such proclamation may
limit the use of water for non-crucial uses such as the watering of lawns,
washing of automobiles, and similar activities and may be expanded thereafter
to include other activities. The proclamation will use predetermined stages of
water restrictions found in § 51.046.
(Ord. passed 10-8-02)
§ 51.043 PROCLAMATION, RESTRICTIONS TO BE IN WRITING.
   Upon the declaration of a proclaimed state of emergency arising from the
availability or shortage of water, such proclamation and all restrictions,
prohibitions, and limitations on the use of water shall be in writing and duly
signed by the mayor or any person authorized to act in his or her stead. All
restrictions, prohibitions, and limitations upon the use of water during the
proclaimed state of emergency shall be in writing and specifically described
and identified so that the citizens and the residents of the city shall have
available the specific activities authorized and the specific activities
prohibited.
(Ord. passed 10-8-02)
§ 51.044 LIFTING OR MODIFYING RESTRICTIONS.
   When authorized by the City Council, the Mayor shall proclaim the end of
such state of emergency and shall have the authority to modify, lift or suspend
any restrictions, limitations or prohibitions stated in such proclamation of
emergency as soon as the circumstances warrant.
(Ord. passed 10-8-02)
§ 51.045 ENFORCEMENT.
   Upon the declaration of mandatory conservation, water shortage emergency, or
rationing, the City Manager and his or her designee and every police officer of
the city may enforce any restrictions or bans imposed on the use of water.
(Ord. passed 10-8-02)
§ 51.046 STAGES OF CONSERVATION MEASURES.
   The City Council may initiate the following stages of water conservation
measures to avoid or lessen the impact of a water shortage. The City Council
shall base their action upon a review of all factors that affect the city's
water supply, including, but not limited to, current water supply, seasonal
effect on water supply and current consumption rates. The City Manager or his
designee may recommend to the City Council one of four escalating stages of
water conservation, which shall be effective upon being signed and posted in
city hall and a copy placed with the City Clerk.
   (A)   Stage I - Voluntary conservation. In Stage I of water conservation,
the city shall publicize and encourage the public voluntarily to comply with
the following water conservation measures:
      (1)   Limit lawn watering to that which is necessary for plants to
survive.
      (2)   Water shrubbery the minimum amount required, reusing household
water when possible.
      (3)   Limit vehicle washing to the minimum.
      (4)   Refrain from washing down outside areas such as sidewalks, patios,
etc.
      (5)   Use showers for bathing rather than bathtubs, and limit showers to
no more than four minutes.
      (6)   Refrain from leaving faucets running while shaving or while rinsing
dishes.
      (7)   Limit use of clothes washers and dishwashers and when used, operate
fully loaded.
      (8)   Install water-flow restrictive devices in showerheads.
      (9)   Use disposable and biodegradable dishes.
      (10)   Install water-saving devices such as bricks, plastics, bottles or
commercial units in toilet tanks.
   (B)   Stage II - Moderate mandatory conservation. In Stage II of water
conservation, the city shall continue all recommendations of Stage I and the
following measures shall be mandatory:
      (1)   No watering of lawns, grass, shrubbery, trees, flowers or vegetable
gardens except between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 10:00 p.m. Monday through
Friday.
      (2)   No filling of newly constructed swimming and/or wading pools and
existing pools which have been drained. A minimal amount of water may be added
to maintain continued operation of pools which are in operation at the time the
provisions of Stage II are placed into effect.
      (3)   No washing of automobiles, trucks, trailers, boats, or any other
type of mobile equipment. Commercial car wash facilities are not included.
      (4)   No washing down of outside areas such as streets, driveways,
service station aprons, parking lots, office buildings, exterior of existing or
newly constructed homes or apartments, sidewalks or patios, or use of water for
other similar purposes.
      (5)   No introducing water into any ornamental fountain, pool or pond or
other structure making similar use of water.
      (6)   No serving of drinking water in restaurants, cafeterias or other
food establishments, except upon request.
      (7)   No using water from public or private fire hydrants for any purpose
other than fire suppression or other public emergency.
      (8)   No using water for dust control or compaction.
      (9)   No using water for any unnecessary purpose or intentionally wasting
water.
   (C)   Stage III - Severe mandatory conservation. In Stage III of water
conservation, all the provisions of Stages I and II apply and, in addition, the
following measures shall be mandatory:
      (1)   No watering of lawns, grass, shrubbery, trees, flowers or vegetable
gardens.
      (2)   No nonessential use of water for commercial or public use, and the
use of single service plates and utensils is encouraged and recommended in
restaurants.
      (3)   No using water outside of structures for any use other than
emergencies involving fire.
      (4)   No introducing water into swimming pools.
      (5)   Commercial car washes are not allowed to use city water.
   (D)   Stage IV--Rationing. In Stage IV of water conservation, all provisions
of Stages I through III apply and, in mandatory:
      (1)   Fire protection will be maintained, but where possible, tank trucks
shall use raw water.
      (2)   All other uses of water will be limited to those uses necessary to
meet essential health and safety needs of customers.
(Ord. passed 10-8-02)
Penalty, see § 51.047
§ 51.047 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation. It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any
provision of this subchapter, including any mandatory water conservation
measure.
   (B)   Civil penalties. Any person who violates this subchapter is subject to
a civil penalty as described below in division (G) per violation, per day, for
as long as the violation exists. The city shall serve a written citation on the
violator and the customer, if different, by personal delivery or by certified
or registered mail, return receipt requested. The citation shall describe the
violation and shall specify the amount of the civil penalty levied. If a person
fails to pay a civil penalty within ten days after receiving written notice of
such violation, then the city may recover the penalty through a civil action in
the nature of a debt, including all further accruing penalties for continuing
violations.
   (C)   Continuing violation. Each day that a violation continues shall
constitute an additional and separate offense for the purpose of criminal and
civil penalties.
   (D)   Discontinuance of service. The city may discontinue service to a
customer upon a determination by the City Manager that the customer violated a
provision of this subchapter. Prior to discontinuance of service, the City
Manager or his or her designee shall give the customer written notice of the
violation and an opportunity to contest the discontinuance of service within 48
hours. However, the City Manager in his or her opinion, reserves the right,
when such violation poses an interment threat to the water supply, may waive
the 48 hour notice.
   (E)   Multiple remedies. The city may seek to enforce this subchapter
through any appropriate equitable or legal action or through any combination of
the remedies set forth in this subchapter.
   (F)   Appeal. A person who is assessed civil penalties or whose service is
discontinued may appeal to the City Council by serving written notice on the
City Manager or his designee within ten days of the person being served with a
citation or notice of discontinuance. An order of discontinuance is not stayed
pending appeal to the board.
   (G)   Fines. Civil penalties for violations to this subchapter will result
in fines as set forth:
   Stage I            No Fines
   Stage II         $100
   Stage III         $250
   Stage IV         $1,000
(Ord. passed 10-8-02)
SERVICE CHARGES
§ 51.050 RATES FOR WATER SERVICE.
   All persons using city water or sewers shall pay therefor in accord with the
rates established from time to time by the City Council and kept on file in the
office of the Utility Billing Clerk.
(`90 Code, § 20-51)
§ 51.051 SPRINKLER SYSTEM.
   All persons maintaining a sprinkler system within the city and connected to
the city’s water system shall pay for such service a sum per month for each
10,000 square feet or fraction thereof of the sprinkler system, as set from
time to time by the City Council. For sprinkler systems located outside the
city limits, the charge shall be double the rate.
(`90 Code, § 20-52)
§ 51.052 DETERMINATION OF AMOUNT.
   The amount of the water and sewer service charge due from any customer and
any refunds therefor shall be determined in accordance with the cash management
policy, as set forth in Chapter 37.
(`90 Code, § 20-54)
§ 51.053 FAILURE TO PAY.
   (A)   If any person fails or refuses to pay any water or sewer service
charge on or before the fifteenth day of the month in which it is due, the
Director of Public Services is authorized to shut off water service to the
premises in accordance with the provisions of this section, and to take such
other action as is provided by the cash management policy. When water has been
shut off under this section, it shall be unlawful for any person to turn on or
restore the service.
(`90 Code, § 20-55)
   (B)   (1)   If any bill is not paid by or before the date specified in
division (A) of this section, a second bill will be mailed containing a notice
that if the bill is not paid within ten days of the mailing of the second bill,
service will be discontinued for nonpayment.
      (2)   Any customer disputing the correctness of the bill shall have a
right to a hearing, at which time the customer may be represented in person and
by counsel or any other person of the customer's choosing, and may present
orally or in writing any complaints and contentions to the city official in
charge of utility billing. Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be
entertained; only questions of proper and correct billing will be considered.
The official in charge of utility billing shall be authorized to order that the
customer's service not be discontinued, and shall have the authority to make a
final determination of the customer's complaint.
      (3)   In the absence of payment of the bill rendered or resort to the
hearing procedure provided herein, service will be discontinued at the time
specified, but in no event until the charges have been due and unpaid for at
least 15 days.
   (C)   When it becomes necessary for the city to discontinue utility service
to a customer for nonpayment of a bill, service will be reinstated only after
all past-due bills for service have been paid, along with a late fee charge in
the sum of $30.
(Am. Ord. passed 9-14-10)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.054 MAINTENANCE OF SERVICE PIPE AND FIXTURES.
   Persons taking water from the city's mains must keep their service pipe and
all fixtures connected therewith in good repair and protected from frost, at
their own expense.
(`90 Code, § 20-56)
§ 51.055 CLAIMS AGAINST CITY.
   It is expressly stipulated by and between the city and its water customers
that no claims shall be made against the city on account of the bursting or
breaking of any water main or service pipe, any attachment to the waterworks,
or for any incidental failure in the supply of water or temporary interruption
of water service.
(`90 Code, § 20-57)
EXTENSIONS OF WATER AND SEWER SERVICE
§ 51.065 BASIS FOR ASSESSMENT.
   The city shall, by resolution, have authority to extend its water and sewer
systems and to defray the expense of the extensions by an assessment upon the
properties abutting upon the project, made on the basis of the frontage
abutting on the project, at an equal rate per foot of frontage.
(`90 Code, § 20-77) (Ord. passed 2-14-89)
§ 51.066 RESERVATION OF AUTHORITY.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to prohibit the city from
constructing water and sewer extensions with its own funds, or entering into a
contract with the county or any other organization for funds for the
construction of water transmission lines or sewage collection lines or outfall
sewers either inside or outside the city for the purpose of serving industry or
any general purpose facility or area, under such terms or conditions as the
City Council may from time to time determine appropriate. 
(`90 Code, § 20-78) (Ord. passed 2-14-89)
EXTENSION TO DEVELOPED PROPERTY WITHIN CITY LIMITS
§ 51.080 REQUEST FOR EXTENSION.
   Upon receipt of a request for water or sewer extension, the City Council
shall hear the request and determine if it is in the best interest of the city
to extend the system. Upon a favorable determination by the City Council, the
procedure specified in this subchapter shall be followed.
(`90 Code, § 20-91) (Ord. passed 2-14-89)
§ 51.081 PRELIMINARY ASSESSMENT RESOLUTION.
   The City Council shall adopt a preliminary assessment resolution containing
a statement of intent to undertake the project, a general description of the
nature and location of the project, a statement as to the interest rate charged
per annum on any financed portion of assessment, a statement as to the terms of
payment of the assessment, and an order setting a time and place for a public
hearing on the preliminary assessment resolution. The public hearing must be
held between three and ten weeks from the date of the adoption of the
preliminary assessment resolution.
(`90 Code, § 20-92) (Ord. passed 2-14-89)
§ 51.082 PUBLIC NOTICE.
   At least ten days prior to the public hearing date set in the preliminary
assessment resolution, the City Clerk shall cause to be published in the local
newspaper a notice stating the time and place of the public hearing, along with
a general description and location of the proposed project.
(`90 Code, § 20-93) (Ord. passed 2-14-89)
§ 51.083 NOTICE TO PROPERTY OWNERS.
   At least ten days prior to the public hearing date set in the preliminary
assessment resolution, the City Clerk shall mail to all property owners subject
to assessment a copy of the preliminary assessment resolution, and certify to
the City Council that the copies were mailed first-class mail, and the date of
mailing.
(`90 Code, § 20-94) (Ord. passed 2-14-89)
§ 51.084 COST ESTIMATE.
   Prior to the date of the public hearing set in the preliminary assessment
resolution, the City Manager or his or her representative shall prepare an
estimate of the cost of the project for consideration by the City Council at
the public hearing.
(`90 Code, § 20-95) (Ord. passed 2-14-89)
§ 51.085 PUBLIC HEARING.
   The City Council shall hold the public hearing at the place and time
advertised in the preliminary assessment resolution, and hear all interested
persons that appear with respect to any matter covered by the preliminary
assessment resolution.
(`90 Code, § 20-96) (Ord. passed 2-14-89)
§ 51.086 AUTHORIZATION TO COMMENCE PROJECT.
   After the public hearing and an affirmative vote by the City Council, the
Council shall adopt a resolution directing that the project or specified
portion thereof be undertaken.
(`90 Code, § 20-97) (Ord. passed 2-14-89)
§ 51.087 SCOPE NOT TO BE INCREASED.
   After the City Council passes a resolution to undertake the project, the
project scope, assessment percentage and assessment payment period shall not be
increased without a new preliminary assessment resolution.
(`90 Code, § 20-98) (Ord. passed 2-14-89)
§ 51.088 ASSESSMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Upon completion of the improvement project, the City Manager or his or
her representative shall determine the total project cost. The total project
cost shall include engineering, materials, labor, equipment, legal fees,
interest paid by city during construction, right-of-way cost and cost of
publications.
   (B)   The City Council shall then pass a resolution declaring cost and
ordering preparation of the preliminary assessment roll and setting a time and
place for a public hearing on same.
   (C)   The City Clerk shall then prepare the preliminary assessment roll, and
same shall be maintained in the Clerk's office for public inspection.
   (D)   Ten days prior to the date of public hearing on the preliminary
assessment roll resolution, the City Clerk shall cause to be published a public
notice in the local paper, stating a description of the project, noting the
assessment roll is available in the Clerk's office for public inspection, and
the time and place of the public hearing on the assessment roll.
   (E)   The City Clerk shall mail a notice to each property owner, stating the
time and place of the assessment roll public hearing, at least ten days prior
to the hearing.
   (F)   The assessment roll public hearing shall be held at the announced time
and place, at which time the City Council shall hear all contentions and
objections from all interested persons. After the public hearing, the City
Council shall adopt a resolution confirming the assessment roll and levying the
assessment.
(`90 Code, § 20-99) (Ord. passed 2-14-89)
EXTENSION TO PROPOSED DEVELOPMENTS OR SUBDIVISIONS WITHIN CITY LIMITS
§ 51.100 APPLICATION.
   (A)   An application requesting the extension of water or sanitary sewer
service or both to a proposed development or subdivision within the city limits
shall consist of the following:
      (1)   A preliminary plan of the proposed development or subdivision.
      (2)   A schedule setting forth proposed beginning and completion dates
for all phases of the project.
   (B)   If the application is approved by the City Council, the applicant
shall submit the plan and profile drawing with written specification in
accordance with city standards to the Director of Public Services for approval.
(`90 Code, § 20-111)
§ 51.101 OWNERSHIP.
   All water or sewer facilities and easements constructed and acquired
pursuant to this subchapter shall be owned by the city, and the developer shall
agree to this provision and provide the city with appropriate recorded
easements.
(`90 Code, § 20-113)
EXTENSIONS OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS
§ 51.115 DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   All extensions of water and sewer outside the city limits, installed by
other than the city, shall be in accordance with "The City and County Joint
Water and Sewer Agreement.”
(`90 Code, § 20-131)
§ 51.116 PRIVATE LINES, MAINTENANCE AND REPLACEMENT.
   (A)   Application. The city shall identify all private waterlines located
outside the city limits, the ownership of which is unknown or for which there
is no known person or entity that has assumed responsibility for maintenance
and repair of such waterlines.
      (1)   Any city water user being served through a private waterline as
described above shall pay for the water three times the rate charged to inside-
the-city users.
      (2)   The city shall set aside in a special utility fund one-third of the
funds collected from the water users described in this section. The fund shall
be used to pay the costs of repair and maintenance of the private waterlines as
determined necessary by the city. Additionally, the fund may be used to pay the
costs of private waterline replacements as such are determined necessary by the
city, and as funds to finance same are available from the special utility fund.
      (3)   In all instances where new waterlines are installed to replace old
private waterlines in accordance with the provisions of this section, the new
waterlines shall become the exclusive property of the city, and any persons or
entities owning property traversed by the replacement waterline shall be
required to grant a 15-foot wide permanent easement to the city to accommodate
the city's future ownership and maintenance responsibility as to the line.
   (B)   Contractual agreements. In those instances where there are
identifiable owners of private waterlines outside the city limits, and the
owners are willing to be fully responsible for the repair, maintenance and
replacement of their waterlines, then the owners shall be required to enter
into a contract with the city which would guarantee the repair, maintenance and
replacement of the private waterlines at no cost to the city, and all persons
or entities served by the private waterlines shall pay only two times the
standard inside-the-city-limits water rate for all city water used.
(`90 Code, § 20-137) (Ord. 91-03, passed 5-14-91)
CHAPTER 52: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
52.001   Purpose and policy
   
52.002   Definitions and abbreviations
General Sewer Use Requirements
   
52.015   Prohibited discharge standards
   
52.016   National categorical pretreatment standards
   
52.017   Local limits
   
52.018   State requirements
   
52.019   Right of revision
   
52.020   Dilution
   
52.021   Pretreatment of wastewater
   
52.022   Accidental discharge/slug control plans
   
52.023   Hauled wastewater
Fees
   
52.035   Purpose
   
52.036   User charges
   
52.037   Surcharges
   
52.038   Pretreatment program administration charges
Wastewater Discharge Permit Application and Issuance
   
52.050   Wastewater dischargers
   
52.051   Wastewater permits
Reporting Requirements
   
52.065   Baseline monitoring reports
   
52.066   Compliance schedule progress reports
   
52.067   Reports on compliance with categorical pretreatment standard; deadline
   
52.068   Periodic compliance reports
   
52.069   Reports of changed conditions
   
52.070   Reports of potential problems
   
52.071   Reports from unpermitted users
   
52.072   Notice of violation; repeat sampling and reporting
   
52.073   Notification of the discharge of hazardous waste
   
52.074   Analytical requirements
   
52.075   Grab and composite sample collection
   
52.076   Timing
   
52.077   Record keeping
   
52.078   Electronic reporting
Compliance Monitoring
   
52.090   Monitoring facilities
   
52.091   Inspection and sampling
   
52.092   Search warrants
Confidential Information
   
52.105   Confidential information
Enforcement and Administration
   
52.120   Administrative remedies
   
52.121   Other available remedies
   
52.122   Remedies non-exclusive
   
52.123   Annual publication of significant non-compliance
   
52.124   Adjudicatory hearings
Affirmative Defenses to Discharge Violations
   
52.135   Upset
   
52.136   Prohibited discharge standards defense
   
52.137   Bypass
 
   
52.999   Penalty
§ 52.001 PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   (A)   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for direct and indirect
contributors into the wastewater collection and treatment system for the City
of Roxboro, hereafter referred to as the city, and enables the city to comply
with all applicable state and federal laws, including the Clean Water Act (33
U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.) and the general pretreatment regulations (40 CFR, Part
403).
   (B)   The objectives of this chapter are;
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants and wastewater discharges
into the municipal wastewater system which will interfere with the operation of
the system or contaminate the resulting sludge;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants and wastewater discharges
into the municipal wastewater system which will pass through the system,
inadequately treated, into any waters of the state or otherwise be incompatible
with the system;
      (3)   To promote reuse and recycling of industrial wastewater and sludges
from the municipal system;
      (4)   To protect both municipal personnel who may be affected by sewage,
sludge, and effluent in the course of their employment as well as protecting
the general public;
      (5)   To provide for equitable distribution of the cost of operation,
maintenance and improvement of the municipal wastewater system; and
      (6)   To ensure that the municipality complies with its NPDES or non-
discharge permit conditions, sludge use and disposal requirements and any other
federal or stale laws to which the municipal wastewater system is subject.
   (C)   This chapter provides for the regulation of direct and indirect
contributors to the municipal wastewater system, through the issuance of
permits to certain non-domestic users and through enforcement of general
requirements for the other users, authorizes monitoring and enforcement
activities, requires user reporting and provides for the setting of fees for
the equitable distribution of costs resulting from the program established
herein.
   (D)   This chapter shall apply to all users of the municipal wastewater
system, as authorized by G.S. § 160A-312 and/or G.S. § 153A-275. The city shall
designate an administrator of the publicly owned treatment works or POTW and
pretreatment program hereafter referred to as the POTW Director. Except as
otherwise provided herein, the POTW Director shall administer, implement, and
enforce the provisions of this chapter. Any powers granted to or imposed upon
the POTW Director may be delegated by the POTW Director to other city
personnel.
   (E)   By discharging wastewater into the city wastewater system, industrial
users located outside the city limits agree to comply with the terms and
conditions established in this chapter, as well as any permits, enforcement
actions, or orders issued hereunder.
(Ord. passed 3-19-12)
§ 52.002 DEFINITIONS AND ABBREVIATIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACT or THE ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as
the Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
      APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The Director of the Division of Water Quality of the
North Carolina Department of Environment and Natural Resources or his or her
designee.
      AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE INDUSTRIAL USER.
         (a)   If the industrial user is a corporation, AUTHORIZED
REPRESENTATIVE shall mean:
            1.   The president, secretary, or a vice-president of the
corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who
performs similar policy or decision-making functions for the corporation; or
            2.   The manager of one or more manufacturing, production, or
operation facilities, provided, the manager is authorized to make management
decisions which govern the operation of the regulated facility including having
the explicit or implicit duty of making major capital investment decisions, and
initiate and direct comprehensive measures to assure long-term environmental
compliance with environmental laws and regulations; can ensure that the
necessary systems are established or actions taken to gather complete and
accurate information for control mechanism requirements, and where authority to
sign documents has been assigned or delegated to the manager in accordance with
corporate procedures.
         (b)   If the industrial user is a partnership or sole proprietorship,
an AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE shall mean a general partner or the proprietor,
respectively.
         (c)   If the industrial user is a federal, state or local government
facility, an AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE shall mean a director or highest
official appointed or designated to oversee the operation and performance of
the activities of the government facility, or their designee.
         (d)   The individuals described in divisions (a) through (c) above may
designate another AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE if the authorization is in writing,
the authorization specifies the individual or position responsible for the
overall operation of the facility from which the discharge originates or having
overall responsibility for environmental matters for the company and the
written authorization is submitted to the city.
         (e)   If the designation of an AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE is no longer
accurate because a different individual or position has responsibility for the
overall operation of the facility, or overall responsibility for environmental
matters for the company, a new authorization satisfying the requirements of
this section must be submitted to POTW Director prior to or together with any
reports to be signed by an authorized representative.
      BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures
for five days at 20° centigrade, usually expressed as a concentration (e.g. mg/
l).
      BUILDING SEWER. A sewer conveying wastewater from the premises of a user
to the POTW.
      BYPASS. The intentional diversion of waste streams from any portion of a
user’s treatment facility.
      CATEGORICAL STANDARDS. National categorical pretreatment standards or
pretreatment standard.
      CONTROL AUTHORITY. Refers to the POTW organization if the POTW
organization’s pretreatment program approval has not been withdrawn.
      ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY or EPA. The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency, or where appropriate the term may also be used as a designation for the
Administrator or other duly authorized official of the agency.
      GRAB SAMPLE. A sample which is taken from a waste stream on a one-time
basis without regard to the flow in the waste stream and over a period of time
not to exceed 15 minutes.
      HOLDING TANK WASTE. Any waste from holding tanks, including but not
limited to such holding tanks as vessels, chemical toilets, campers, trailers,
septic tanks, and vacuum-pump tank trucks.
      INDIRECT DISCHARGE or DISCHARGE. The discharge or the introduction from
any nondomestic source regulated under section 307(b), (c), or (d) of the Act,
(33 U.S.C. § 1317), into the POTW (including holding tank waste discharged into
the system).
      INDUSTRIAL USER OR USER. Any person which is a source of indirect
discharge.
      INTERFERENCE. The inhibition, or disruption of the POTW collection
system, treatment processes, operations, or its sludge process, use, or
disposal, winch causes or contributes to a violation of any requirement of the
POTW’s NPDES, collection system, or non-discharge permit or prevents sewage
sludge use or disposal in compliance with specified applicable state and
federal statutes, regulations, or permits. The term includes prevention of
sewage sludge use or disposal by the POTW in accordance with section 405 of the
Act, (33 U.S.C. § 1345) or any criteria, guidelines, or regulations developed
pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA) (42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.),
the Clean Air Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Marine Protection
Research and Sanctuary Act (MPRSA) or more stringent state criteria (including
those contained in any state sludge management plan prepared pursuant to Title
IV of SWDA) applicable to the method of disposal or use employed by the POTW.
      MEDICAL WASTE. Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and blood
products, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding,
surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes, and dialysis
wastes.
      NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD or CATEGORICAL STANDARD. Any
regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by EPA in
accordance with sections 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1317) which
applies to a specific category of industrial users, and which appears in 40 CFR
Chapter 1, Subchapter N, Parts 405-471.
      NATIONAL POLLUTION DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM, or NPDES, PERMIT.  A
permit issued pursuant to section 402 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1342), or
pursuant to G.S. § 143-215.1 by the state under delegation from EPA.
      NATIONAL PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE STANDARD or PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE
STANDARD. Absolute prohibitions against the discharge of certain substances;
these prohibitions appear in §
52.015 of this chapter and are developed under the authority of 307(b) of the
Act and 40 CFR § 403.5.
      NEW SOURCE.
         (a)   Any building, structure, facility, or installation from which
there may be a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced
after the publication of proposed categorical pretreatment standards under
section 307(c) of the Act which will be applicable to such source if such
standards are thereafter promulgated in accordance with section 307(c),
provided that:
            1.   The building, structure, facility, or installation is
constructed at a site at which no other source is located;
            2.   The building, structure, facility, or installation totally
replaces the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of
pollutants at an existing source; or
            3.   The production or wastewater generating processes of the
building, structure, facility, or installation are substantially independent of
an existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are
substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant and the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source, should
be considered.
         (b)   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located
results in a modification rather than a new source if the construction does not
create a new building, structure, facility, or installation meeting the
criteria of division (a)1. or 3. above but otherwise alters, replaces, or adds
to existing process or production equipment.
         (c)   For purposes of this definition, construction of a new source
has commenced if the owner or operator has:
            1.   Begun, or caused to begin, as part of a continuous on-site
construction program:
               i.   Any placement, assembly, or installation of facilities or
equipment; or
               ii.   Significant site preparation work including clearing,
excavation, or removal of existing buildings, structures or facilities which is
necessary for the placement, assembly, or installation of new source facilities
or equipment; or
            2.   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase
of facilities or equipment which is intended to be used in its operation within
a reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts which can be terminated or
modified without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility, engineering,
and design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation under this
definition.
      NON-CONTACT COOLING WATER. Water used for cooling which does not come
into direct contact with any raw material, intermediate product, waste product,
or finished product.
      NON-DISCHARGE PERMIT. A permit issued by the state pursuant to G.S. §
143-215.1(d) for a waste which is not discharged directly to surface waters of
the Stale or for a wastewater treatment works which does not discharge directly
to surface waters of the state.
      PASS THROUGH. A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the state
in quantities or concentrations which, alone or with discharges from other
sources, causes a violation, including an increase in the magnitude or duration
of a violation, of the Control Authority’s (and/or POTW’s, if different from
the Control Authority) NPDES, collection system, or non-discharge permit, or a
downstream water quality standard.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity or any other legal entity, or their legal representatives, agents or
assigns. This definition includes all federal, state, and local government
entities.
      pH. A measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a substance, expressed as
standard units, and calculated as the logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of
the concentration of hydrogen ions expressed in grains per liter of solution.
      POLLUTANT. Any “waste” as defined in G.S. § 143-213(18) and dredged
spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage, garbage, sewage sludge,
munitions, medical wastes, chemical wastes, biological materials, radioactive
materials, heat, wrecked or discarded equipment, rock, sand, cellar  dirt and
industrial, municipal, and agricultural waste and certain characteristics of
wastewater (e.g., pH, temperature, TSS, turbidity, color, metals, BOD, COD,
toxicity, or odor).
      POTW DIRECTOR. The chief administrative officer of the Control Authority
or his or her delegate.
      POTW TREATMENT PLANT. That portion of the POTW designed to provide
treatment to wastewater.
      PRETREATMENT or TREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the
elimination of pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant
properties in wastewater prior to or in lieu of discharging or otherwise
introducing such pollution into a POTW. The reduction or alteration can be
obtained by physical, chemical or biological processes, or process changes or
other means, except by diluting the concentration of the pollutants unless
allowed by an applicable pretreatment standard.
      PRETREATMENT PROGRAM. The program for the control of pollutants
introduced into the POTW from non-domestic sources which was developed by the
city in compliance with 40 CFR 403.8 and approved by the approval authority as
authorized by G.S.§ 143-215.3(a)(14) in accordance with 40 CFR 403.11.
      PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement
related to pretreatment, other than a pretreatment standard.
      PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. Any prohibited discharge standards, categorical
standards, or local limits which applies to an industrial user.
      PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW) or MUNICIPAL WASTEWATER SYSTEM. A
treatment works as defined by section 212 of the Act, (33 U.S.C. § 1292) which
is owned in this instance by the city. This definition includes any devices or
systems used in the collection, storage, treatment, recycling, and reclamation
of municipal sewage or industrial wastes of a liquid nature. It also includes
sewers, pipes, and other conveyances only if they convey wastewater to the POTW
treatment plant. For the purposes of this chapter, POTW shall also include any
sewers that convey wastewaters to the POTW from persons outside the city who
are, by contract or agreement with the city, or in any other way, users of the
POTW of the city.
      SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE. Substantial physical damage to property, damage
to the user’s treatment facilities which causes them to become inoperable, or
substantial and permanent loss of natural resources which can reasonably be
expected to occur in the absence of a bypass. SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE does not
mean economic loss caused by delays in production.
      SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER (SIU). Any industrial user that discharges
wastewater into a publicly owned treatment works and that:
         (a)   Discharges an average of 25,000 gallons per day or more of
process wastewater to the POTW (excluding sanitary, noncontact cooling and
boiler blowdown wastewaters);
         (b)   Contributes more than 5% of any design or treatment capacity
(i.e., allowable pollutant load) of the wastewater treatment plant receiving
the indirect discharge;
         (c)   Is subject to categorical pretreatment standards under 40 CFR
Part 403.6 and 40 CFR chapter I, Subchapter N. Parts 405-471; or
         (d)   Is found by the city, the Division of Water Quality or the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to have the potential for impact, either
singly or in combination with other contributing industrial users, on the
wastewater treatment system, the quality of sludge, the system’s effluent
quality, or compliance with any pretreatment standards or requirements.
      SIGNIFICANT NON-COMPLIANCE or SNC.  The status of non-compliance of a
significant industrial user when one or more of the following criteria are met.
Additionally, any industrial user which meets the criteria in divisions (c),
(d) or (h) of this definition shall also be SNC.
         (a)   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here
as those in which 66% or more of all the measurements taken for the same
pollutant parameter (not including flow) during a six month period exceed (by
any magnitude) a numeric pretreatment standard or requirement including
instantaneous limits, as defined by 40 CFR Part 403 3(1);
         (b)   Technical review criteria (TRC) violations, defined here as
those in which 33% or more of all the measurements taken for the same pollutant
parameter during a six-month period equal or exceed the product of the numeric
pretreatment standard or requirement including instantaneous limits, as defined
by 40 CFR Part 403.3(1) multiplied by the applicable TRC; (TRC = 1.4 for BOD,
TSS fats oil and grease, 1.2 for all other pollutants (except flow and pH));
         (c)   Any other violation of a pretreatment standard or requirement as
defined by 40 CFR Part 403.3(1) (daily maximum, long-term average,
instantaneous limit, or narrative standard) that the Control Authority and/or
POTW determines has caused, alone or in combination with other discharges,
interference or pass through (including endangering the health of POTW
personnel or the general public);
         (d)   Any discharge of a pollutant or wastewater that has caused
imminent endangerment to human health, welfare or to the environment or has
resulted in either the Control Authority’s or the POTW’s, if different from the
Control Authority, exercise of its emergency authority under 40 CFR Part 403.8
(f)(l)(vi)(B) and §
52.120(E) to halt or prevent such a discharge;
         (e)   Violations of compliance schedule milestones, contained in a
pretreatment permit or enforcement order, for starting construction, completing
construction, and attaining final compliance by 90 days or more after the
schedule date;
         (f)   Failure to provide reports for compliance schedule, self-
monitoring data, baseline monitoring reports, 90-day compliance reports, and
periodic compliance reports within 45 days from the due date;
         (g)   Failure to accurately report non-compliance; or
         (h)   Any other violation or group of violations that the Control
Authority and/or POTW determines will adversely affect the operation or
implementation of the local pretreatment program.
      SLUG LOAD OR DISCHARGE. Any discharge at a flow rate or concentration
which has a reasonable potential to cause interference or pass-through, or in
any other way violates the POTW’s regulations, local limits, or industrial user
permit conditions. This can include but is not limited to spills and other
accidental discharges; discharges of a non-routine, episodic nature; a non-
customary batch discharge; or any other discharges that can cause a violation
of the prohibited discharge standards in §
52.015.
      STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC). A classification pursuant to
the Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the Executive Office of
the President, Office of Management and Budget, 1987.
      STORM WATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting there from.
      SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The total suspended matter that floats on the surface
of, or is  suspended in, water, wastewater or other liquids, and which is
removable by laboratory filtering.
      UPSET. An exceptional incident in which there is unintentional and
temporary non-compliance with categorical pretreatment standards because of
factors beyond the reasonable control of the user. An UPSET does not include
non-compliance to the extent caused by operational error, improperly designed
treatment facilities, inadequate treatment facilities lack of preventive
maintenance, or careless or improper operation.
      WASTEWATER. The liquid and water-carried industrial or domestic wastes
from dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities, mobile sources,
treatment facilities and institutions, together with any groundwater, surface
water, and storm water that may be present, whether treated or untreated, which
are contributed into or permitted to enter the POTW.
      WASTEWATER PERMIT. As set forth in §
52.051.
      WATERS OF THE STATE. All streams, rivers, brooks, swamps, sounds, tidal
estuaries, bays, creeks, lakes, waterways, reservoirs and all other bodies or
accumulations of water, surface or underground, natural or artificial, public
or private, which are contained within, flow through, or border upon the State
or any portion thereof.
   (B)   This chapter is gender neutral and the masculine gender shall include
the feminine and vice-versa.
   (C)   SHALL is mandatory; MAY is permissive or discretionary.
   (D)   The use of the singular shall be construed to include the plural and
the plural shall include the singular as indicated by the context of its use.
   (E)   The following abbreviations when used in this chapter shall have the
designated meanings:
      (1)   BOD   Biochemical Oxygen Demand
      (2)   CFR   Code of Federal Regulations
      (3)   COD   Chemical Oxygen Demand
      (4)   EPA   Environmental Protection Agency
      (5)   gpd      Gallons per day
      (6)   l      Liter
      (7)   mg      Milligrams
      (8)   mg/l   Milligrams per liter
      (9)   G.S.   North Carolina General Statutes
      (10)   NPDES   National Pollution Discharge Elimination System
      (11)   O&M   Operation and Maintenance
      (12)   POTW   Publicly Owned Treatment Works
      (13)   RCRA   Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
      (14)   SIC   Standard Industrial Classification
      (15)   SWDA   Solid Waste Disposal Act
      (16)   TSS   Total Suspended Solids
      (17)   TKN   Total Kjeldahl Nitrogen
      (18)   U.S.C.   United States Code.
(Ord. passed 3-19-12)
GENERAL SEWER USE REQUIREMENTS
§ 52.015 PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS. 
   (A)   General prohibitions. No user shall contribute or cause to be
contributed into the POTW, directly or indirectly, any pollutant or wastewater
which causes interference or pass through. These general prohibitions apply to
all users of a POTW whether or not the user is a significant industrial user or
subject to any national, state, or local pretreatment standards or
requirements.
   (B)   Specific prohibitions. No user shall contribute or cause to be
contributed into the POTW the following pollutants, substances, or wastewater:
      (1)   Pollutants which create a fire or explosive hazard in the POTW.
including, but not limited to, waste streams with a closed cup flashpoint of
less than 140°F (60°C) using the test methods specified in 40 CFR 261.21;
      (2)   Solid or viscous substances in amounts which will cause obstruction
of the flow in the POTW resulting in interference but in no case solids greater
than one half inch (1/2") in any dimension;
      (3)   Petroleum oil, non-biodegradable cutting oil, or products of
mineral oil origin, in amounts that will cause interference or pass through;
      (4)   Any wastewater having a pH less than 5.0 or more than 10.5 or
wastewater having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage to the
POTW or equipment;
      (5)   Any wastewater containing pollutants, including oxygen-demanding
pollutants, (BOD and the like) in sufficient quantity, (flow or concentration)
cither singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to cause interference
with the POTW;
      (6)   Any wastewater having a temperature greater than 150°F (66°C), or
which will inhibit biological activity in the POTW treatment plant resulting in
interference, but in no case wastewater which causes the temperature at the
introduction into the treatment plant to exceed 104°F (40°C);
      (7)   Any pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors
or fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems;
      (8)   Any trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points
designated by the POTW Director in accordance with §
52.023;
      (9)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, or solids or other
wastewater which, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are
sufficient to create a public nuisance or hazard to life or are sufficient to
prevent entry into the sewers for maintenance and repair;
      (10)   Any substance which may cause the POTW’s effluent or any other
product of the POTW such as residues, sludges, or scums, to be unsuitable for
reclamation and reuse or to interfere with the reclamation process. In no case,
shall a substance discharged to the POTW cause the POTW to be in non-compliance
with sludge use or disposal regulations or permits issued under section 405 of
the Act; the Solid Waste Disposal Act, the Clean Air Act, the Toxic Substances
Control Act, or State criteria applicable to the sludge management method being
used;
      (11)   Any wastewater which imparts color which cannot be removed by the
treatment process, including, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions, which consequently imparts sufficient color to the treatment
plant’s effluent to render the waters injurious to public health or secondary
recreation or to aquatic life and wildlife or to adversely affect the
palatability of fish or aesthetic quality or impair the receiving waters for
any designated uses;
      (12)   Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes
except as specifically approved by the POTW Director in compliance with
applicable state or federal regulations;
      (13)   Storm water, surface water, ground water, artesian well water,
roof runoff, subsurface drainage, swimming pool drainage, condensate, deionized
water, non-contact cooling water and unpolluted industrial wastewater, unless
specifically authorized by the POTW Director;
      (14)   Fats, oils, or greases of animal or vegetable origin in
concentrations greater than one hundred (100) mg/l, unless authorized by the
POTW Director;
      (15)   Any sludges, screenings or other residues from the pretreatment of
industrial wastes;
      (16)   Any medical wastes, except as specifically authorized by the POTW
Director in a wastewater discharge permit;
      (17)   Any material containing ammonia, ammonia salts, or other chelating
agents which will produce metallic complexes that interfere with the municipal
wastewater system;
      (18)   Any material that would be identified as hazardous waste according
to 40 CFR Part 261 if not disposed of in a sewer except as may be specifically
authorized by the POTW Director;
      (19)   Any wastewater causing (he treatment plant effluent to violate
State Water Quality Standards for toxic substances as described in 15A NCAC 2B
.0200;
      (20)   Wastewater causing, alone or in conjunction with other sources,
the treatment plant’s effluent to fail a toxicity test;
      (21)   Recognizable portions of the human or animal anatomy;
      (22)   Any wastes containing detergents, surface active agents, or other
substances which may cause excessive foaming in the municipal wastewater
system; or
      (23)   At no time, shall two successive readings on an explosion hazard
meter, at the point of discharge into the system (or at any point in the
system) be more than 5% nor any single reading over 10% of the lower explosive
limit (LEL) of the meter.
   (C)   Pollutants, substances, wastewater, or other wastes prohibited by this
section shall not be processed or stored in such a manner that they could be
discharged to the municipal wastewater system. All floor drains located in
process or materials storage areas must discharge to the industrial user’s
pretreatment facility before connecting with the system.
   (D)   When the POTW Director determines that a user(s) is contributing to
the POTW, any of the above enumerated substances in such amounts which may
cause or contribute to interference of POTW operation or pass through, the
[POTW Director] shall:
      (1)   Advise the user(s) of the potential impact of the contribution on
the POTW in accordance with §
52.120; and
      (2)   Take appropriate actions in accordance with §§
52.050 and
52.051 for such user to protect the POTW from interference or pass through.
(Ord. passed 3-19-12) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.016 NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   Users subject to categorical pretreatment standards are required to comply
with applicable standards as set out in 40 CFR Chapter 1, Subchapter N, Paris
405-471 and incorporated herein.
   (A)   Where a categorical pretreatment standard is expressed only in terms
of either the mass or the concentration of a pollutant in wastewater, the POTW
Director may impose equivalent concentration or mass limits in accordance with
40 CFR 403.6(c).
   (B)   When wastewater subject to a categorical pretreatment standard is
mixed with wastewater not regulated by the same standard, the POTW Director
shall impose an alternate limit using the combined wastestream formula in 40
CFR 403.6(e).
   (C)   A user may obtain a variance from a categorical pretreatment standard
if the user can prove, pursuant to the procedural and substantive provisions in
40 CFR 403.13, that factors relating to its discharge are fundamentally
different from the factors considered by EPA when developing the categorical
pretreatment standard.
   (D)   A user may obtain a net gross adjustment to a categorical standard in
accordance with 40 CFR 403.15.
   (E)   A user may request a removal credit adjustment to a categorical
standard in accordance with 40 CFR 403.7.
(Ord. passed 3-19-12)
§ 52.017 LOCAL LIMITS.
   (A)   An industrial waste survey is required prior to a user discharging
wastewater containing in excess of the following average discharge limits.
      BOD         250 mg/l
      TSS         250 mg/l
      NH3         25 mg/l
      Arsenic      0.003 mg/l
      Cadmium      0.003 mg/l
      Chromium      0.05 mg/l (total chromium)
      Copper         0.061 mg/l
      Cyanide      0.015 mg/l
      Lead         0.049 mg/l
      Mercury      0.0003 mg/l
      Nickel         0.021 mg/l
      Silver         0.005 mg/l
      Zinc         0.175 mg/l
   (B)   Industrial waste survey information will be used to develop user-
specific local limits when necessary to ensure that the POTW’s maximum
allowable headworks loading are not exceeded for particular pollutants of
concern. User-specific local limits for appropriate pollutants of concern shall
be included in wastewater permits. The POTW Director may impose mass based
limits in addition to, or in place of concentration based limits.
(Ord. passed 3-19-12)
§ 52.018 STATE REQUIREMENTS.
   State requirements and limitations on discharges shall apply in any case
where they are more stringent than federal requirements and limitations or
those in this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-19-12)
§ 52.019 RIGHT OF REVISION.
   The city reserves the right to establish limitations and requirements which
are more stringent than those required by either state or federal regulation if
deemed necessary to comply with the objectives presented in §
52.001 or the general and specific prohibitions in § 52.015, as is allowed by
40 CFR 403.4.
(Ord. passed 3-19-12)
§ 52.020 DILUTION.
   No user shall ever increase the use of process water or, in any way, attempt
to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in the national
categorical pretreatment standards, unless expressly authorized by an
applicable pretreatment standard, or in any other pollutant-specific limitation
developed by the city or state.
(Ord. passed 3-19-12) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.021 PRETREATMENT OF WASTEWATER.
   (A)   Pretreatment facilities. Users shall provide wastewater treatment as
necessary to comply with this chapter and wastewater permits issued under §
52.051 and shall achieve compliance with all national categorical pretreatment
standards, local limits, and the prohibitions set out in § 52.015 within the
time limitations as specified by EPA, the state, or the POTW Director,
whichever is more stringent. Any facilities necessary for compliance shall be
provided, operated, and maintained at the user’s expense. Detailed plans
showing the pretreatment facilities and operating procedures shall be submitted
to the city for review, and shall be approved by the POTW Director before
construction of the facility. The review of such plans and operating procedures
shall in no way relieve the user from the responsibility of modifying the
facility as necessary to produce an effluent acceptable to the city under the
provisions of this chapter. Any subsequent changes in the pretreatment
facilities or method of provided, operated, and maintained at the user’s
expense. Detailed plans showing the pretreatment facilities and operating
procedures shall be submitted to the city for review, and shall be approved by
the POTW Director before construction of the facility. The review of such plans
and operating procedures shall in no way relieve the user from the
responsibility of modifying the facility as necessary to produce an effluent
acceptable to the city under the provisions of this chapter. Any subsequent
changes in the pretreatment facilities or method of operation shall be reported
to and be approved by the POTW Director prior to the user’s initiation of the
changes.
   (B)   Additional pretreatment measures.
      (1)   Whenever deemed necessary, the POTW Director may require users to
restrict their discharge during peak flow periods, designate that certain
wastewater be discharged only into specific sewers, relocate and/or consolidate
points of discharge, separate sewage wastestreams from industrial wastestreams,
and such other conditions as may be necessary to protect the POTW and determine
the user’s compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   The POTW Director may require any person discharging into the POTW
to install and maintain, on their property and at their expense, a suitable
storage and flow-control facility to ensure equalization of flow. A wastewater
discharge permit may be issued solely for flow equalization.
      (3)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the POTW Director, they are necessary for the proper handling of
wastewater containing excessive amounts of grease and oil, or sand; except that
such interceptors shall not be required for residential users. All interception
units shall be of type and capacity approved by the POTW Director and shall be
so located to be easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. Such
interceptors shall be inspected, cleaned, and repaired regularly, as needed, by
the user at their expense.
      (4)   Users with the potential to discharge flammable substances may be
required to install and maintain an approved combustible gas detection meter.
(Ord. passed 3-19-12)
§ 52.022 ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE/SLUG CONTROL PLANS.
   (A)   The POTW Director shall evaluate whether each significant industrial
user needs a plan or other action to control and prevent slug discharges and
accidental discharges as defined in § 52.002(A). All SIUs must evaluated within
one year of being designated an SIU. The POTW Director may require any user to
develop, submit for approval, and implement such a plan or other specific
action. Alternatively, the POTW Director may develop such a plan for any user.
   (B)   All SIUs are required to notify the POTW immediately of any changes at
its facility affecting the potential for spills and other accidental discharge,
discharge of a non-routine, episodic nature, a non-customary batch discharge,
or a slug load. Also see §§
52.069 and
52.070.
   (C)   An accidental discharge/slug control plan shall address, at a minimum,
the following:
      (1)   Description of discharge practices, including non-routine batch
discharges;
      (2)   Description of stored chemicals;
      (3)   Procedures for immediately notifying the POTW Director of any
accidental or slug discharge, as required by §
52.070; and
      (4)   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or slug
discharge. Such procedures include, but are not limited to, inspection and
maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and
unloading operations, control of plant site runoff, worker training, building
of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic organic
pollutants, including solvents, and/or measures and equipment for emergency
response.
(Ord. passed 3-19-12)
§ 52.023 HAULED WASTEWATER.
   (A)   Septic tank waste may be introduced into the POTW only at locations
designated by the POTW Director, and at such times as are established by the
POTW Director. Such waste shall not violate §§
52.015 through
52.023 or any other requirements established by the city. The POTW Director may
require septic tank waste haulers to obtain wastewater discharge permits.
   (B)   The POTW Director shall require haulers of industrial waste to obtain
wastewater discharge permits. The POTW Director may require generators of
hauled industrial waste to obtain wastewater discharge permits. The POTW
Director also may prohibit the disposal of hauled industrial waste. The
discharge of hauled industrial waste is subject to all other requirements of
this chapter.
   (C)   Industrial waste haulers may discharge loads only at locations
designated by the POTW Director. No load may be discharged without prior
consent of the POTW Director, The POTW Director may collect samples of each
hauled load to ensure compliance with applicable standards. The POTW Director
may require the industrial waste hauler to provide a waste analysis of any load
prior to discharge.
   (D)   Industrial waste haulers must provide a waste-tracking form for every
load. This form shall include, at a minimum, the name and address of the
industrial waste hauler, permit number, truck identification, names and
addresses of sources of waste, and volume and characteristics of waste. The
form shall identify the type of industry, known or suspected waste
constituents, and whether any wastes are RCRA hazardous wastes.
(Ord. passed 3-19-12) Penalty, see §
52.999
FEES
§ 52.035 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter to provide for the recovery of costs
from users of the wastewater disposal system of the city for the implementation
of the program established herein. The applicable charges or fees shall be set
forth in a schedule of sewer use charges and fees by the POTW Director and
approved by the City Board. A copy of these charges and fees will be made
available from the POTW Director.
(Ord. passed 3-19-12)
§ 52.036 USER CHARGES.
   A user charge shall be levied on all users including, but not limited to,
persons, firms, corporations or governmental entities that discharge, cause or
permit the discharge of sewage into the POTW.
   (A)   The user charge shall reflect, at least, the cost of debt service,
operation and maintenance (including replacement) of the POTW.
   (B)   Each user shall pay its proportionate cost based on volume of flow.
   (C)   The Manager of the city shall review annually the sewage contributions
of users, the total costs of debt service, operation and maintenance of the
POTW and will make recommendations to the Council or Board serving the city for
adjustments in the schedule of charges and fees as necessary.
   (D)   Charges for flow to the POTW not directly attributable to the users
shall be distributed among all users of the POTW based upon the volume of flow
of the users.
(Ord. passed 3-19-12)
§ 52.037 SURCHARGES.
   The amount of the surcharges will be based upon the volume of flow and the
character and concentration of the constituents of the wastewater.
   (A)   The volume of flow used in determining the total discharge of
wastewater for payment of user charges and surcharges shall be based on the
following:
      (1)   Metered water consumption as shown in the records of meter readings
maintained by the city; or
      (2)   If required by the city or at the individual discharger’s option,
other flow monitoring devices which measure the actual volume of wastewater
discharged to the sewer. Such devices shall be accessible and safely located,
and the measuring system shall be installed in accordance with plans approved
by the city. The metering system shall be installed and maintained at the
user’s expense according to arrangements that may be made with the city.
      (3)   Where any user procures all or part of his or her water supply from
sources other than the city, the user shall install and maintain at his or her
own expense a flow measuring device of a type approved by the city.
   (B)   The character and concentration of the constituents of the wastewater
used in determining surcharges shall be determined by samples collected and
analyzed by the city. Samples shall be collected in such a manner as to be
representative of the actual discharge and shall be analyzed using procedures
set forth in 40 CFR Part 136.
   (C)   The determination of the character and concentration of the
constituents of the wastewater discharge by the POTW Director or his or her
duly appointed representatives shall be binding as a basis for charges.
(Ord. passed 3-19-12)
§ 52.038 PRETREATMENT PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION CHARGES.
   The schedule of charges and fees adopted by the city may include charges and
fees for:
   (A)   Reimbursement of costs of setting up and operating the pretreatment
program;
   (B)   Monitoring, inspections and surveillance procedures;
   (C)   Reviewing slug control plans, including accidental and/or slug load
discharge procedures and construction plans and specifications;
   (D)   Permitting; and
   (E)   Other fees as the city may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements of the pretreatment program.
(Ord. passed 3-19-12)
WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT APPLICATION AND ISSUANCE
§ 52.050 WASTEWATER DISCHARGERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to connect or discharge to the POTW
without first obtaining the permission of the city. When requested by the POTW
Director, a user must submit information on the nature and characteristics of
its wastewater within 30 days of the request. The POTW Director is authorized
to prepare a form for this purpose and may periodically require users to update
this information.
(Ord. passed 3-19-12) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.051 WASTEWATER PERMITS.
   All significant industrial users shall obtain a significant industrial user
permit prior to the commencement of discharge to the POTW. Existing industrial
users who are determined by the POTW Director to be significant industrial
users shall obtain a significant industrial user permit within 180 days of
receiving notification of the POTW Director’s determination. Industrial users
who do not fit the significant industrial user criteria may at the discretion
of the POTW Director be required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit for
non-significant industrial users.
   (A)   Significant industrial user determination. All persons proposing to
discharge non-domestic wastewater, or proposing to change the volume or
characteristics of an existing discharge of non-domestic wastewater shall
request from the POTW Director a significant industrial user determination. If
the POTW Director determines or suspects that the proposed discharge fits the
significant industrial user criteria he or she will require that a significant
industrial user permit application be filed.
   (B)   Significant industrial user permit application. Users required to
obtain a significant industrial user permit shall complete and file with the
city, an application in the form prescribed by the POTW Director, and
accompanied by an application fee in the amount prescribed in the schedule of
charges and fees. Significant industrial users shall apply for a significant
industrial user permit within 90 days after notification of the POTW Director’s
determination in division (A) of this section, the application shall include at
a minimum;
      (1)   Name of industrial user;
      (2)   Address of industrial user;
      (3)   Standard industrial classification (SIC) codes(s) or expected
classification and industrial user category;
      (4)   Wastewater flow;
      (5)   Types and concentrations (or mass) of pollutants contained in the
discharge;
      (6)   Major products manufactured or services supplied;
      (7)   Description of existing on-site pretreatment facilities and
practices;
      (8)   Locations of discharge points;
      (9)   Raw materials used or stored at the site;
      (10)   Flow diagram or sewer map for the industrial user;
      (11)   Number of employees;
      (12)   Operation and production schedules; and
      (13)   Description of current and projected waste reduction activities in
accordance with G.S. § 143-215.1(g);
   (C)   Application signatories and certification. All wastewater discharge
permit applications and user reports must be signed by the current authorized
representative of the user on file with the Control Authority and/or
Municipality as defined in §
52.002(A) and contain the following certification statement:
   “I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments were
prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system designed
to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the information
submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage the system,
or those persons directly responsible for gathering the information, the
information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true,
accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for
submitting false information, including the possibility of fine and
imprisonment for knowing violations.”
   (D)   Application review and evaluation. The POTW Director will evaluate the
data furnished by the user and may require additional information.
      (1)   The POTW Director is authorized to accept applications for the city
and shall refer all applications to the POTW staff for review and evaluation.
      (2)   Within 30 days of receipt the POTW Director shall acknowledge and
accept the complete application; or if not complete, shall return the
application to the applicant with a statement of what additional information is
required.
   (E)   Tentative determination and draft permit.
      (1)   The POTW staff shall conduct a review of the application and an on-
site inspection of the significant industrial user, including any pretreatment
facilities, and shall prepare a written evaluation and tentative determination
to issue or deny the significant industrial user permit.
      (2)   If the staffs tentative determination in division (E)(1) of this
section is to issue the permit, the following additional determinations shall
be made in writing:
         (a)   Proposed discharge limitations for Uiose pollutants proposed to
be limited;
         (b)   A proposed schedule of compliance, including interim dates and
requirements, for meeting the proposed limitations; and
         (c)   A brief description of any other proposed special conditions
which will have significant impact upon the discharge described in the
application.
      (3)   The staff shall organize the determinations made pursuant to
divisions (E)(1) and (2) of this section and the general permit conditions of
the city into a significant industrial user permit.
   (F)   Permit supporting documentation. The Control Authority staff shall
prepare the following documents for all significant industrial user permits.
      (1)   An allocation table (AT) listing permit information for all
significant industrial users, including but not limited to permit limits,
permit effective and expiration dates, and a comparison of total permitted
flows and loads with division approved maximum allowable loadings of the POTW,
including flow, on forms or in a format approved by the division. The AT shall
be updated as permits are issued or renewed, and as permits are modified where
the permitted limits or other AT infonnation is revised.
      (2)   The basis, or rationale, for the pretreatment limitations,
including the following:
         (a)   Documentation of categorical determination, including
documentation of any calculations used in applying categorical pretreatment
standards; and
         (b)   Documentations of the rationale of any parameters for which
monitoring has been waived under 40 CFR Part 403.12(e)(2).
   (G)   Final action on significant industrial user permit applications.
      (1)   The POTW Director shall take final action on all applications not
later than 90 days following receipt of a complete application.
      (2)   The POTW Director is authorized to:
         (a)   Issue a significant industrial user pennit containing such
conditions as are necessary to effectuate the purposes of this chapter and G.S.
§ 143-215.1;
         (b)   Issue a significant industrial user permit containing time
schedules for achieving compliance with applicable pretreatment standards and
requirements;
         (c)   Modify any permit upon not less than 60 days notice and pursuant
to division (I) of this section;
         (d)   Revoke any permit pursuant to §
52.120;
         (e)   Suspend a permit pursuant to §
52.120;
         (f)   Deny a permit application when in the opinion of the POTW
Director such discharge may cause or contribute to pass-through or interference
of the wastewater treatment plant or where necessary to effectuate the purposes
of G.S. § 143-215.1.
   (H)   Permit modification.
      (1)   Modifications of permits shall be subject to the same procedural
requirements as the issuance of permits except as listed below. Any changes or
new conditions in the permit shall include a reasonable time schedule for
compliance:
         (a)   Changes in the ownership of the discharge when no other change
in the permit is indicated;
         (b)   A single modification of any compliance schedule not in excess
of four months; and
         (c)   Modification of compliance schedules (construction schedules) in
permits for new sources where the new source will not begin to discharge until
control facilities are operational.
      (2)   Within nine months of the promulgation of a national categorical
pretreatment standard, the wastewater discharge permit of users subject to such
standards shall be revised to require compliance with such standard within the
time frame prescribed by such standard. Where a user, subject to a national
categorical pretreatment standard, has not previously submitted an application
for a wastewater discharge permit as required by division (B) of this section,
the user shall apply for a wastewater discharge permit within 180 days after
the promulgation of the applicable National categorical pretreatment standard.
      (3)   A request for a modification by the permittee shall constitute a
waiver of the 60-day notice required by G.S. § 143-215.1(b) for modifications.
   (I)   Permit conditions.
      (1)   The POTW Director shall have the authority to grant a permit with
such conditions attached as he or she believes necessary to achieve the purpose
of this chapter and G.S. § 143-215.1. Wastewater permits shall contain, but are
not limited to, the following:
         (a)   A statement of duration (in no case more than five years);
         (b)   A statement of non-transferability;
         (c)   Applicable effluent limits based on categorical standards or
local limits or both;
         (d)   Applicable monitoring, sampling, reporting, notification, and
record keeping requirements. These requirements shall include an identification
of pollutants to be monitored, sampling location, sampling frequency, and
sample type based on federal, state and local law;
         (e)   requirements for notifying the POTW in the event of an
accidental discharge or slug load as defined in §
52.002(A);
         (f)   Requirements to implement a plan or other controls for
prevention of accidental discharges and/or slug loads as defined in §
52.002(A), if determined by the POTW Director to be necessary for the user; and
         (g)   Requirements for immediately notifying the POTW of any changes
at its facility affecting the potential for spills and other accidental
discharges, or slug load as defined in §
52.002(A). Also see §§
52.069 and
52.070;
         (h)   A statement of applicable civil and/or criminal penalties for
violation of pretreatment standards and requirements and any applicable
compliance schedule.
      (2)   In addition, permits may contain, but are not limited to, the
following.
         (a)   Limits on the average and/or maximum rate of discharge, and/or
requirements for flow regulation and equalization.
         (b)   Limits on the instantaneous, daily and/or monthly average and/or
maximum concentration, mass, or other measure of identified wastewater
pollutants or properties.
         (c)   Requirements for the installation of pretreatment technology or
construction of appropriate containment devices, and the like, designed to
reduce, eliminate, or prevent the introduction of pollutants into the treatment
works.
         (d)   Development and implementation of waste minimization plans to
reduce the amount of pollutants discharged to the municipal wastewater system.
         (e)   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
management of the wastewater discharged to the system.
         (f)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities and equipment.
         (g)   Specifications for monitoring programs which may include
sampling locations, frequency of sampling, nirmber, types, and standards for
tests, and reporting schedules.
         (h)   Requirements for immediate reporting of any instance of non-
compliance and for automatic resampling and reporting within 30 days where
self-monitoring indicates a violation(s).
         (i)   Compliance schedules for meeting pretreatment standards and
requirements.
         (j)   Requirements for submission of periodic self-monitoring or
special notification reports.
         (k)   Requirements for maintaining and retaining plans and records
relating to wastewater discharges as specified in §
52.077 and affording the POTW Director, or his or her representatives, access
thereto.
         (l)   Requirements for prior notification and approval by the POTW
Director of any new introduction of wastewater pollutants or of any significant
change in the volume or character of the wastewater prior to introduction in
the system.
         (m)   Requirements for the prior notification and approval by the POTW
Director of any change in the manufacturing and/or pretreatment process used by
the permittee.
         (n)   A statement that compliance with the permit does not relieve the
permittee of responsibility for compliance with all applicable federal and
state pretreatment standards, including those which become effective during the
terms of the permit.
         (o)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the POTW Director to
ensure compliance with this chapter, and state and federal laws, rules, and
regulations.
   (J)   Permit duration. Permits shall be issued for a specified time period,
not to exceed five years. A permit may be issued for a period less than a year
or may be stated to expire on a specific date.
   (K)   Permit transfer. Wastewater permits are issued to a specific user for
a specific operation. A wastewater discharge permit shall not be reassigned or
transferred or sold to a new owner, new user, different premises, or a new or
changed operation.
   (L)   Permit reissuance. A significant industrial user shall apply for
permit reissuance by submitting a complete permit application in accordance
with §
52.051 a minimum of 180 days prior to the expiration of the existing permit.
(Ord. passed 3-19-12) Penalty, see §
52.999
REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
§ 52.065 BASELINE MONITORING REPORTS.
   (A)   Within either 180 days after the effective date of a categorical
pretreatment standard, or the final administrative decision on a category
determination under 40 CFR 403.6(a)(4), whichever is later, existing
categorical users currently discharging to or scheduled to discharge to the
POTW shall submit to the POTW Director a report which contains the information
listed in division (B) of this section. At least 90 days prior to commencement
of their discharge, new sources, and sources that become categorical users
subsequent to the promulgation of an applicable categorical standard, shall
submit to the POTW Director a report which contains the information listed in
division (B) of this section. A new source shall report the method of
pretreatment it intends to use to meet applicable categorical standards. A new
source also shall give estimates of its anticipated flow and quantity of
pollutants to be discharged.
   (B)   Users described above shall submit the information set forth below.
      (1)   Identifying information. The name and address of the facility,
including the name of the operator and owner.
      (2)   Environmental permits. A list of any environmental control permits
held by or for the facility.
      (3)   Description of operations. A brief description of the nature,
average rate of production, and standard industrial classifications of the
operation(s) carried out by such user. This description should include a
schematic process diagram which indicates points of discharge to the POTW from
the regulated processes.
      (4)   Flow measurement. Information showing the measured average daily
and maximum daily flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW from regulated process
streams and other streams, as necessary, to allow use of the combined waste
stream formula set out in 40 CFR 403.6(e).
      (5)   Measurement of pollutants.
         (a)   The categorical pretreatment standards applicable to each
regulated process.
         (b)   The results of sampling and analysis identifying the nature and
concentration, and/or mass, where required by the standard or by the POTW
Director, of regulated pollutants in the discharge from each regulated process.
Instantaneous, daily maximum, and long-term average concentrations, or mass,
where required, shall be reported. The sample shall be representative of daily
operations and shall be analyzed in accordance with procedures set out in §
52.074.
         (c)   Sampling must be performed in accordance with procedures set out
in §
52.075 and 40 CFR 403.12(b) and (g), including 40 CFR 403.12(g)(4).
      (6)   Certification. A statement, reviewed by the user’s current
authorized representative as defined in §
52.002(A) and certified by a qualified professional, indicating whether
pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis, and, if not,
whether additional operation and maintenance (O&M) and/or additional
pretreatment is required to meet the pretreatment standards and requirements.
      (7)   Compliance schedule. If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will be
required to meet the pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the
user will provide such additional pretreatment and/or O&M. The completion dale
in this schedule shall not be later than the compliance date established for
the applicable pretreatment standard. A compliance schedule pursuant to this
section must meet the requirements set out in §
52.066.
      (8)   Signature and certification. All baseline monitoring reports must
be signed and certified in accordance with §
52.051(C).
(Ord. passed 3-19-12) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.066 COMPLIANCE SCHEDULE PROGRESS REPORTS.
   The following conditions shall apply to the compliance schedule required by
§
52.065(B)(7):
   (A)   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of dates
for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction
and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to meet the
applicable pretreatment standards (such events include, but are not limited to,
hiring an engineer, completing preliminary and final plans, executing contracts
for major components, commencing and completing construction, and beginning and
conducting routine operation);
   (B)   No increment referred to above shall exceed nine months:
   (C)   The user shall submit a progress report to the POTW Director no later
than 14 days following each date in the schedule and the final date of
compliance including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress, the reason for any delay, and, if appropriate, the steps
being taken by the user to return to the established schedule; and
   (D)   In no event shall more than nine months elapse between such progress
reports to the POTW Director.
(Ord. passed 3-19-12)
§ 52.067 REPORTS ON COMPLIANCE WITH CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD;
DEADLINE.
   Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with applicable
categorical pretreatment standards, or in the case of a new source following
commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any user subject
to such pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to the POTW
Director a report containing the information described in §
52.065(B)(4) through (6). For users subject to equivalent mass or concentration
limits established in accordance with the procedures in 40 CFR 403.6(c), this
report shall contain a reasonable measure of the user’s long-term production
rate. For all other users subject to categorical pretreatment standards
expressed in terms of allowable pollutant discharge per unit of production (or
other measure of operation), this report shall include the user’s actual
production during the appropriate sampling period. All compliance reports must
be signed and certified in accordance with §
52.051(C).
(Ord. passed 3-19-12)
§ 52.068 PERIODIC COMPLIANCE REPORTS.
   Municipalities may sample and analyze user discharges in lieu of requiring
the users to conduct sampling and analysis.
   (A)   All significant industrial users shall, at a frequency determined by
the POTW Director but in no case less than once every six months, submit a
report indicating the nature and concentration of pollutants in the discharge
which are limited by pretreatment standards and the applicable flows for the
reporting period. Sampling and analysis must be performed in accordance with
procedures set out in §§
52.074 and
52.075. All periodic compliance reports must be signed and certified in
accordance with §
52.051(C).
   (B)   If a user subject to the reporting requirement in this section
monitors any pollutant more frequently than required by the POTW Director,
using the procedures prescribed in §§
52.074 and
52.075, the results of this monitoring shall be included in the report.
(Ord. passed 3-19-12)
§ 52.069 REPORTS OF CHANGED CONDITIONS.
   Each user must notify the POTW Director of any planned significant changes
to the user’s operations or system which might alter the nature, quality, or
volume of its wastewater at least 30 days before the change. The permittee
shall not begin the changes until receding written approval from the Control
Authority and/or Municipality. See §
52.070(D) for other reporting requirements.
   (A)   The POTW Director may require the user to submit such information as
may be deemed necessary to evaluate the changed condition, including the
submission of a wastewater discharge permit application under §
52.051.
   (B)   The POTW Director may issue a wastewater discharge permit under §
52.051 or modify an existing wastewater discharge permit under §
52.051 in response to changed conditions or anticipated changed conditions.
   (C)   For purposes of this requirement, significant changes include, but are
not limited to, flow or pollutant increases of 20% or greater, and the
discharge of any previously unreported pollutants increases or decreases to
production; increases in discharge of previously reported pollutants; discharge
of pollutants not previously reported to the Control Authority and/or
Municipality; new or changed product lines; new or changed manufacturing
processes and/or chemicals; or new or changed customers.
(Ord. passed 3-19-12) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.070 REPORTS OF POTENTIAL PROBLEMS.
   (A)   In the case of any discharge, including, but not limited to,
accidental discharges, discharges of a non-routine, episodic nature, a non-
customary batch discharge, or a slug load as defined in §
52.002(A), that may cause potential problems for the POTW, the user shall
immediately telephone and notify the POTW Director of the incident. This
notification shall include the location of the discharge, type of waste,
concentration and volume, if known, and corrective actions taken by the user.
   (B)   Within five days following such discharge, the user shall, unless
waived by the POTW Director, submit a detailed written report describing the
cause(s) of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user to prevent
similar future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the user of any
expense, loss, damage, or other liability which may be incurred as a result of
damage to the POTW, natural resources, or any other damage to person or
property; nor shall such notification relieve the user of any fines, penalties,
or other liability which may be imposed pursuant to this chapter.
   (C)   A notice shall be permanently posted on the user’s bulletin board or
other prominent place advising employees who to call in the event of a
discharge described in division (A) of this section. Employers shall ensure
that all employees, who may cause such a discharge to occur, are advised of the
emergency notification procedure.
   (D) All SIUs are required to notify the POTW immediately of any changes at
its facility affecting the potential for spills and other accidental discharge,
discharge of a non-routine, episodic nature, a non-customary batch discharge,
or a slug load as defined in §
52.002(A).
(Ord. passed 3-19-12) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.071 REPORTS FROM UNPERMITTED USERS.
   All users not required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit shall provide
appropriate reports to the POTW Director as the POTW Director may require.
(Ord. passed 3-19-12)
§ 52.072 NOTICE OF VIOLATION; REPEAT SAMPLING AND REPORTING.
   (A)   If sampling performed by a user indicates a violation, the user must
notify the POTW Director within 24 hours of becoming aware of the violation.
The user shall also repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the results of
the repeat analysis to the POTW Director within 30 days after becoming aware of
the violation. If allowed by the POTW Director, the user is not required to
resample:
      (1)   If the POTW Director monitors at the user’s facility at least once
a month; or
      (2)   If the POTW Director samples between the user’s initial sampling
and when the user receives the results of this sampling.
   (B)   If the POTW Director has performed the sampling and analysis in lieu
of the industrial user and the POTW sampling of the user indicates a violation,
the POTW Director shall repeat the sampling and obtain the results of the
repeat analysis within 30 days after becoming aware of the violations, unless
one of the following occurs.
      (1)   The POTW Director monitors at the user’s facility at least once a
month;
      (2)   The POTW Director samples the user between their initial sampling
and when the POTW receives the results of this initial sampling; or
      (3)   The POTW Director requires the user to perform sampling and submit
the results to the POTW Director within the 30 day deadline of the POTW
becoming aware of the violation.
(Ord. passed 3-19-12) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.073 NOTIFICATION OF THE DISCHARGE OF HAZARDOUS WASTE.
   The city prohibits the discharge of any hazardous wastes without
notification to and approval by the POTW Director.
   (A)   Any user who commences the discharge of hazardous waste shall notify
the POTW, the EPA Regional Waste Management Division Director, and state
hazardous waste authorities, in writing, of any discharge into the POTW of a
substance which, if otherwise disposed of, would be a hazardous waste under 40
CFR Part 261. Such notification must include the name of the hazardous waste as
set forth in 40 CFR Part 261, the EPA hazardous waste number, and the type of
discharge (continuous, batch, or other). If the user discharges more than 100
kilograms of such waste per calendar month to the POTW, the notification also
shall contain the following information to the extent such information is known
and readily available to the user: an identification of the hazardous
constituents contained in the wastes, an estimation of the mass and
concentration of such constituents in the wastestream discharge during the
calendar month, and an estimation of the mass and concentration of such
constituents in the wastestream expected to be discharged during the following
12 months. All notifications must take place no later than 180 days before the
discharge commences. The user shall not begin the discharge until receiving
written approval from the city. Any notification under this division need be
submitted only once for each hazardous waste discharge. However, notifications
of changed conditions must be submitted under §
52.069. The notification requirement in this section does not apply to
pollutants already reported by users subject to categorical pretreatment
standards under the self-monitoring requirements of §§
52.065,
52.067, and
52.068.
   (B)   Dischargers are exempt from the requirements of division (A) of this
section, during a calendar month in which they discharge no more than 15
kilograms of hazardous wastes, unless the wastes are acute hazardous wastes as
specific in 40 CFR 261.30(d) and 261.33(e). Discharge of more than 15 kilograms
of non-acute hazardous wastes in a calendar month, or of any quantity of acute
hazardous wastes as specified in 40 CFR 261.30(d) and 261.33(e), requires a
one-time notification. Subsequent months during which the user discharges more
than such quantities of any hazardous waste do not require additional
notification.
   (C)   In the case of any new regulation under § 3001 of RCPA identifying
additional characteristics of hazardous waste or listing any additional
substance as a hazardous waste, the user must notify the POTW Director, the EPA
Regional Waste Management Waste Division Director, and State hazardous waste
authorities of the discharge of such substance within 90 days of the effective
date of such regulations.
   (D)   In the case of any notification made under this section, the user
shall certify that it has a program in place to reduce the volume and toxicity
of hazardous wastes generated to the degree it has determined to be
economically practical.
   (E)   This provision does not create a right to discharge any substance not
otherwise permitted to be discharged by this chapter, a permit issued there
under, or any applicable federal or state law.
(Ord. passed 3-19-12) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.074 ANALYTICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   All pollutant analyses, including sampling techniques, to be submitted as
part of a wastewater discharge permit application or report shall be performed
by a laboratory certified by the state to perform the wastewater analysis in
accordance with the techniques prescribed in 40 CFR Part 136, unless otherwise
specified in an applicable categorical pretreatment standard or unless
otherwise performed in accordance with procedures approved by EPA or city. If
40 CFR Part 136 does not contain sampling or analytical techniques for the
pollutant in question, sampling and analyses must be performed in accordance
with procedures approved by EPA and city.
(Ord. passed 3-19-12)
§ 52.075 GRAB AND COMPOSITE SAMPLE COLLECTION.
   (A)   All wastewater samples must be representative of the user’s discharge.
Wastewater monitoring and flow measurement facilities shall be properly
operated, kept clean, and maintained in good working order at all times. The
failure of a user to keep its monitoring facility in good working order shall
not be grounds for the user to claim that sample results are unrepresentative
of its discharge.
   (B)   Grab samples must be used for pH, cyanide, total phenols, oil and
grease, sulfide, volatile organic compounds, and any other pollutants as
required by 40 CFR 136. The POTW shall determine the number of grabs necessary
to be representative of the user’s discharge. See 40 CFR 403.12(g)(5) for
additional grab sample number requirements for BMR and 90 day compliance
reports. Additionally, the POTW Director may allow collection of multiple grabs
during a 24 hour period which are composited prior to analysis as allowed under
40 CFR 136.
   (C)   Composite samples. All wastewater composite samples shall be collected
with a minimum of hourly aliquots or grabs for each hour that there is a
discharge. All wastewater composite samples shall be collected using flow
proportional composite collection techniques, unless time-proportional
composite sampling or grab sampling is authorized by the POTW Director. When
authorizing time-proportional composites or grabs, the samples must be
representative and the decision to allow the alternative sampling must be
documented.
(Ord. passed 3-19-12)
§ 52.076 TIMING.
   Written reports will be deemed to have been submitted on the date
postmarked. For reports which are not mailed, postage prepaid, into a mail
facility serviced by the United States Postal Service, the date of receipt of
the report shall govern.
(Ord. passed 3-19-12)
§ 52.077 RECORD KEEPING.
   Users subject to the reporting requirements of this chapter shall retain,
and make available for inspection and copying, all records of information
obtained pursuant to any monitoring activities required by this chapter and any
additional records of information obtained pursuant to monitoring activities
undertaken by the user independent of such requirements. Records shall include
the date, exact place, method, and time of sampling, and the name of the person
(s) taking the samples, the dates analyses were performed; who performed the
analyses; the analytical techniques or methods used; and the results of such
analyses. These records shall remain available for a period of at least three
years. This period shall be automatically extended for the duration of any
litigation concerning the user or the city, or where the user has been
specifically notified of a longer retention period by the POTW Director.
(Ord. passed 3-19-12)
§ 52.078 ELECTRONIC REPORTING.
   The POTW Director may develop procedures for receipt of electronic reports
for any reporting requirements of this chapter. Such procedures shall comply
with 40 CFR Part 3. These procedures shall be enforceable under §§
52.120 through
52.122.
(Ord. passed 3-19-12)
COMPLIANCE MONITORING
§ 52.090 MONITORING FACILITIES.
   (A)   The city requires the user to provide and operate at the user’s own
expense, monitoring facilities to allow inspection, sampling, and flow
measurement of the building sewer and/or internal drainage systems. The
monitoring facility should normally be situated on the user’s premises, but the
city may, when such a location would be impractical or cause undue hardship on
the user, allow the facility to be constructed in the public street or sidewalk
area and located so that it will not be obstructed by landscaping or parked
vehicles.
   (B)   There shall be ample room in or near such sampling manhole or facility
to allow accurate sampling and preparation of samples for analysis. The
facility, sampling, and measuring equipment shall be maintained at all times in
a safe and proper operating condition at the expense of the user.
   (C)   Whether constructed on pnblic or private property, the sampling and
monitoring facilities shall be provided in accordance with the requirements of
the city and all applicable local construction standards and specifications.
Construction shall be completed within 90 days following written notification
by the city.
(Ord. passed 3-19-12)
§ 52.091 INSPECTION AND SAMPLING.
   The city will inspect the facilities of any user to ascertain whether the
purpose of this chapter is being met and all requirements are being complied
with. Persons or occupants of premises where wastewater is created or
discharged shall allow the city, approval authority and EPA or their
representative ready access at all reasonable times to all parts of the
premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, records examination and
copying or in the performance of any of their duties. The city, approval
authority and EPA shall have the right to set up on the user’s property such
devices as are necessary to conduct sampling, inspection, compliance monitoring
and/or metering operations. Where a user has security measures in force which
would require proper identification and clearance before entry into their
premises, the user shall make necessary arrangements with their security guards
so that upon presentation of suitable identification, personnel from the city,
approval authority and EPA will be permitted to enter, without delay, for the
purposes of performing their specific responsibilities. Denial of the city’s
approval authority’s, or EPA’s access to the user’s premises shall be a
violation of this chapter. Unreasonable delays may constitute denial of access.
(Ord. passed 3-19-12) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.092 SEARCH WARRANTS.
   If the city, approval authority, or EPA has been refused access to a
building, structure, or property, or any part thereof, and is able to
demonstrate probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of this
chapter, or that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine
inspection and sampling program of the city designed to verify compliance with
this chapter or any permit or order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall
public health, safety and welfare of the community, then the city, approval
authority, or EPA may seek issuance of a search warrant from the court having
jurisdiction within the city.
(Ord. passed 3-19-12)
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION
§ 52.105 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   Information and data on a user obtained from reports, questionnaires,
permit applications, permits and monitoring programs and from inspections shall
be available to the public or other governmental agency without restriction
unless the user specifically requests and is able lo demonstrate to the
satisfaction of the POTW Director that the release of such information would
divulge information, processes or methods of production entitled to protection
as trade secrets of the user. Any such request must be asserted at the time of
submission of the information or data.
   (B)   When requested by the person furnishing a report, the portions of a
report which might disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made
available for inspection by the public, but shall be made available upon
written request to governmental agencies for uses related to this chapter, the
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit, non-discharge
permit and/or the pretreatment programs; provided, however, that such portions
of a report shall be available for use by the state or any state agency in
judicial review or enforcement proceedings involving the person furnishing the
report. Wastewater constituents and characteristics will not be recognized as
confidential information.
   (C)   All records relating to compliance with pretreatment standards shall
be made available to officials of the approval authority and EPA upon request.
(Ord. passed 3-19-12)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 52.120 ADMINISTRATIVE REMEDIES.
   (A)   Notification of violation. Whenever the POTW Director finds that any
industrial user has violated or is violating this chapter, wastewater permit,
or any prohibition, limitation or requirements contained therein or any other
pretreatment requirement the POTW Director may serve upon such a person a
written notice stating the nature of the violation. Within 30 days from the
date of this notice, an explanation for the violation and a plan for the
satisfactory correction thereof shall be submitted to the city by the user.
Submission of this plan does not relieve the discharger of liability for any
violations occurring before or after receipt of the notice of violation.
   (B)   Consent orders. The POTW Director is hereby empowered to enter into
consent orders, assurances of voluntary compliance, or other similar documents
establishing an agreement with the person responsible for the non-compliance.
Such orders will include specific action to be taken by the discharger to
correct the non-compliance within a time period also specified by the order.
Consent orders shall have the same force and effect as an administrative order
issued pursuant to division (D) of this section.
   (C)   Show cause hearing.
      (1)   The POTW Director may order any industrial user who causes or is
responsible for an unauthorized discharge, has violated this chapter or is in
non-compliance with a wastewater discharge permit to show cause why a proposed
enforcement action should not be taken. In the event the POTW Director
determines that a show cause order should be issued, a notice shall be served
on the user specifying the time and place for the hearing, the proposed
enforcement action, the reasons for such action, and a request that the user
show cause why this proposed enforcement action should not be taken. The notice
of the hearing shall be served personally or by registered or certified mail
(return receipt requested) at least ten days before the hearing. Service may be
made on any agent or officer of a corporation.
      (2)   The POTW Director shall review the evidence presented at the
hearing and determine whether the proposed enforcement action is appropriate.
      (3)   A show cause hearing under this section is not a prerequisite to
the assessment of a civil penalty under §
52.999 nor is any action or inaction taken by the POTW Director under this
section subject to an administrative appeal under §
52.124.
   (D)   Administrative orders. When the POTW Director finds that an industrial
user has violated or continues to violate this chapter, permits or orders
issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment requirement the POTW Director may
issue an order to cease and desist all such violations and direct those persons
in non-compliance to do any of the following:
      (1)   Immediately comply with all requirements;
      (2)   Comply in accordance with a compliance rime schedule set forth in
the order;
      (3)   Take appropriate remedial or preventive action in the event of a
continuing or threatened violation; or
      (4)   Disconnect unless adequate treatment facilities, devices or other
related appurtenances are installed and properly operated within a specified
time period.
   (E)   Emergency suspensions.
      (1)   The POTW Director may suspend the wastewater treatment service and/
or wastewater permit when such suspension is necessary in order to stop an
actual or threatened discharge which presents or may present an imminent or
substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons or the
environment, interferes with the POTW or causes the POTW to violate any
condition of its NPDES or non-discharge permit.
      (2)   Any user notified of a suspension of the wastewater treatment
service and/or the wastewater permit shall immediately stop or eliminate the
contribution. A hearing will be held within 15 days of the notice of suspension
to determine whether the suspension may be lifted or the user’s waste discharge
permit terminated. In the event of a failure to comply voluntarily with the
suspension order, the POTW Director shall take such steps as deemed necessary
including immediate severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize
damage to the POTW system or endangerment to any individuals. The POTW Director
shall reinstate the wastewater permit and the wastewater treatment service upon
proof of the elimination of the non-compliant discharge. The industrial user
shall submit a detailed written statement describing the causes of the harmful
contribution and the measures taken to prevent any future occurrence to the
POTW Director prior to the date of the above-described hearing.
   (F)   Termination of permit or permission to discharge.
      (1)   The POTW Director may revoke a wastewater discharge permit or
permission to discharge for good cause, including, but not limited to, the
following reasons:
         (a)   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of his or her discharge;
         (b)   Failure to report significant changes in operations, or
wastewater constituents and characteristics;
         (c)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user’s premises for the
purpose of inspection or monitoring; or
         (d)   Violation of conditions of the permit or permission to
discharge, conditions of this chapter, or any applicable state and federal
regulations.
      (2)   Noncompliant industrial users will be notified of the proposed
termination of their wastewater permit and will be offered an opportunity to
show cause under §
52.120 why the proposed action should not be taken.
(Ord. passed 3-19-12)
§ 52.121 OTHER AVAILABLE REMEDIES.
   Remedies, in addition to those previously mentioned in this chapter, are
available to the POTW Director who may use any single one or combination
against a non-compliant user. Additional available remedies include, but are
not limited to;
   (A)   Criminal violations. The district attorney for the applicable judicial
district may, at the request of the city, prosecute noncompliant users who
violate the provisions of G.S. § 143-215.6B. Note; under North Carolina law, it
is a crime to negligently violate any term, condition, or requirement of a
pretreatment permit, or negligently fail to apply for a pretreatment permit,
issued by local governments (G.S. § 143-215.6B(f)), to knowingly and willfully
violate any term, condition, or requirement of a pretreatment permit, or
knowingly and willfully fail to apply for a pretreatment permit, issued by
local governments (G.S. § 143-215.6B(g)), to knowingly violate any term,
condition, or requirement of a pretreatment permit issued by local governments,
or knowingly fail to apply for a pretreatment permit, knowing at the time that
a person is placed in imminent danger of death or serious bodily injury, (G.S.
§ 143-215.6B(h)), and to falsify information required under Article 21 of
Chapter 143 of the General Statutes (G.S. § 143-215.6B(i)).
   (B)   Injunctive relief. Whenever a user is in violation of the provisions
of this chapter or an order or permit issued hereunder, the POTW Director,
through the City Attorney, may petition the Superior Court of Justice for the
issuance of a restraining order or a preliminary injunction which restrains or
compels the activities in question.
   (C)   Water supply severance. Whenever an industrial user is in violation of
the provisions of this chapter or an order or permit issued hereunder, water
service to the industrial user may be severed and service will only recommence,
at the user’s expense, after it has satisfactorily demonstrated ability to
comply.
   (D)   Public nuisances. Any violation of the prohibitions or effluent
limitations of this chapter or of a permit or order issued hereunder, is hereby
declared a public nuisance and shall be corrected or abated as directed by the
POTW Director. Any person(s) creating a public nuisance shall be subject to the
provisions of the appropriate ordinances of the city governing such nuisances,
including reimbursing the POTW for any costs incurred in removing, abating or
remedying the nuisance.
(Ord. passed 3-19-12)
§ 52.122 REMEDIES NON-EXCLUSIVE.
   The remedies provided for in this chapter are not exclusive. The POTW
Director may take any, all, or any combination of these actions against a
noncompliant user. Enforcement of pretreatment violations will generally be in
accordance with the city’s enforcement response plan. However, the POTW
Director may take other action against any user when the circumstances warrant.
Further, the POTW Director is empowered to lake more than one enforcement
action against any non-compliant user.
(Ord. passed 3-19-12)
§ 52.123 ANNUAL PUBLICATION OF SIGNIFICANT NON-COMPLIANCE.
   At least annually, the POTW Director shall publish in a newspaper of general
circulation that provides meaningful public notice within the jurisdiction(s)
served by the POTW, a list of those industrial users which were found to be in
significant non-compliance, also referred to as reportable non-compliance, in
15A NCAC 2H .0903(b)(10), with applicable pretreatment standards and
requirements, during the previous 12 months.
(Ord. passed 3-19-12)
§ 52.124 ADJUDICATORY HEARINGS.
   Hearings. The local government may conduct hearings in accordance with its
regular hearing procedure.
   (A)   Adjudicatory hearing.
      (1)   An applicant whose permit is denied, or is granted subject to
conditions he deems unacceptable, a pennittee/user assessed a civil penalty
under §
52.999, or one issued an administrative order under §
52.120 shall have the right to an adjudicatory hearing before the POTW Director
or other hearing officer appointed by the POTW Director upon making written
demand, identifying the specific issues to be contested, lo the POTW Director
within 30 days following receipt of the significant industrial user permit,
civil penalty assessment, or administrative order. Unless such written demand
is made within the time specified herein, the action shall be final and binding
and further appeal is barred. For modified permits, only those parts of the
permit being modified may be adjudicated.
      (2)   The hearing officer shall make a final decision on contested
penalties within 90 or less days of the receipt of the written demand for a
hearing. The hearing officer shall make a final decision on contested permits
or orders within 90 days of the receipt of the written demand for a hearing.
The POTW Director shall transmit a copy of the hearing officer’s decision by
registered or certified mail as described in division (B) of this section. The
decision is a final decision for the purposes of seeking judicial review. The
terms and conditions of a permit under appeal shall be as follows:
         (a)   New permits. Upon appeal, including judicial review in the
General Courts of Justice, of the terms or conditions of a newly issued permit,
the terms and conditions of the entire permit are stayed and the permit is not
in effect until either the conclusion of judicial review or until the parties
reach a mutual resolution.
         (b)   Renewed permits. Upon appeal, including judicial review in the
General Courts of Justice, of the terms or conditions of a renewed permit, the
terms and conditions of the existing permit remain in effect until either the
conclusion of judicial review or until the parties reach a mutual resolution.
         (c)   Terminated permits. Upon appeal, including judicial review in
the General Courts of Justice, of a terminated permit, no permit is in effect
until either the conclusion of judicial review or until the parties reach a
mutual resolution.
   (B)   Official record. When a final decision is issued under division (A) of
this section, the hearing officer shall prepare an official record of the case
that includes:
      (1)   All notices, motions, and other like pleadings;
      (2)   A copy of all documentary evidence introduced;
      (3)   A certified transcript of all testimony taken, if testimony is
transcribed. If testimony is taken and not transcribed, then a narrative
summary of any testimony taken; and
      (4)   A copy of the final decision of the hearing officer.
   (C)   Judicial review. Any person against whom a final order or decision of
the hearing officer is entered, pursuant to the hearing conducted under
division (A) of this section, may seek judicial review of the order or decision
by filing a written request for review by the Superior Count of Person County
within 30 days after receipt of notice by registered or certified mail of the
order or decision, but not thereafter, along with a copy to the city. Within 30
days after receipt of the copy of the written request for review by the
(Ord. passed 3-19-12)
AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES TO DISCHARGE VIOLATIONS
§ 52.135 UPSET.
   (A)   An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an action brought
for non-compliance with categorical pretreatment standards if the requirements
of division (B) of this section, are met.
   (B)   A user who wishes to establish the affirmative defense of upset shall
demonstrate, through properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs, or other
relevant evidence that:
      (1)   An upset occurred and the user can identify the cause(s) of the
upset;
      (2)   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
workman-like manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures; and
      (3)   The user has submitted the following information to the POTW
Director within 24 hours of becoming aware of the upset if this information is
provided orally, a written submission must be provided within five days:
         (a)   A description of the indirect discharge and cause of non-
compliance;
         (b)   The period of non-compliance, including exact dates and times
or, if not corrected, the anticipated time the non-compliance is expected to
continue; and
         (c)   Steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate, and
prevent recurrence of the non-compliance.
   (C)   In any enforcement proceeding, the user seeking to establish the
occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof.
   (D)   Users will have the opportunity for a judicial determination on any
claim of upset only in an enforcement action brought for non-compliance with
categorical pretreatment standards.
   (E)   Users shall control production of all discharges to the extent
necessary to maintain compliance with categorical pretreatment standards upon
reduction, loss, or failure of its treatment facility until the facility is
restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement
applies in the situation where, among other things, the primary source of power
of the treatment facility is reduced, lost, or fails.
(Ord. passed 3-19-12)
§ 52.136 PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS DEFENSE.
   A user shall have an affirmative defense to an enforcement action brought
against it for non-compliance with the general prohibitions in §
52.015(A) or the specific prohibitions in §
52.015(B)(2), (3), (5) through (7), and (9) through (23) if it can prove that
it did not know, or have reason to know, that its discharge, alone or in
conjunction with discharges from other sources, would cause pass through or
interference and that either:
   (A)   A local limit exists for each pollutant discharged and the user was in
compliance with each limit directly prior to, and during, the pass through or
interference; or
   (B)   No local limit exists, but the discharge did not change substantially
in nature or constituents from the user’s prior discharge when the city was
regularly in compliance with its NPDES permit, and in the case of interference,
was in compliance with applicable sludge use or disposal requirements.
(Ord. passed 3-19-12)
§ 52.137 BYPASS.
   (A)   A user may allow any bypass to occur which does not cause pretreatment
standards or requirements to be violated, but only if it also is for essential
maintenance to assure efficient operation. These repasses are not subject to
the provision of divisions (B) and (C) of this section.
   (B)   (1)   If a user knows in advance of the need for a bypass, it shall
submit prior notice to the POTW Director, at least ten days before the date of
the bypass, if possible.
      (2)   A user shall submit oral notice to the POTW Director of an
unanticipated bypass that exceeds applicable pretreatment standards within 24
hours from the time it becomes aware of the bypass. A written submission shall
also be provided within five days of this time the user becomes aware of the
bypass. The written submission shall contain a description of the bypass and
its cause, the duration of the bypass, including exact dates and times, and, if
the bypass has not been corrected, the anticipated time it is expected to
continue; and steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate, and prevent
reoccurrence of the bypass. The POTW Director may waive the written report on a
case-by-case basis if the oral report has been received within 24 hours.
   (C)   (1)   Bypass is prohibited, and the POTW Director may take an
enforcement action against a user for a bypass, unless:
         (a)   Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury,
or severe property damage;
         (b)   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the
use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes, or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate back-up equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventive maintenance; and
         (c)   The user submitted notices as required under division (B) of
this section.
      (2)   The POTW Director may approve an anticipated bypass, after
considering its adverse effects, if the POTW Director determines that it will
meet the three conditions listed in division (C)(1) of this section.
(Ord. passed 3-19-12)
§ 52.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any user who is found to have failed to comply with any
provision of this chapter, or the orders, rules, regulations and permits issued
hereunder, may be assessed a civil penalty up to $25,000 per day per violation.
      (2)   Penalties between $10,000 and $25,000 per day per violation may be
assessed against a violator only if:
         (a)   For any class of violation, only if a civil penalty has been
imposed against the violator with in the five years preceding the violation; or
         (b)   In the case of failure to file, submit, or make available, as
the case may be, any documents, data, or reports required by this chapter, or
the orders, rules, regulations and permits issued hereunder, only if the POTW
Director determines that the violation was intentional and a civil penalty has
been imposed against the violator within the five years preceding the
violation.
   (B)   In determining the amount of the civil penalty, the POTW Director
shall consider the following:
      (1)   The degree and extent of the harm to the natural resources, to the
public health, or to public or private property resulting from the violation;
      (2)   The duration and gravity of the violation;
      (3)   The effect on ground or surface water quantity or quality or on air
quality;
      (4)   The cost of rectifying the damage;
      (5)   The amount of money saved by non-compliance;
      (6)   Whether the violation was committed willfully or intentionally;
      (7)   The prior record of the violator in complying or failing to comply
with the pretreatment program;
      (8)   The costs of enforcement to the city.
   (C)   Appeals of civil penalties assessed in accordance with this section
shall be as provided in §
52.124.
(Ord. passed 3-19-12)
CHAPTER 53: WATER SUPPLY WATERSHED PROTECTION AND MANAGEMENT
Section
Authority and General Regulations
   
53.001   Authority and enactment
   
53.002   Jurisdiction
   
53.003   Exceptions to applicability
   
53.004   Remedies
   
53.005   Definitions
   
53.006   Word interpretation
Subdivision Regulations
   
53.020   General provisions
   
53.021   Subdivision application and review procedure
   
53.022   Subdivision standards and required improvements
   
53.023   Construction procedures
   
53.024   Penalties for transferring lots in unapproved subdivisions
Development Regulations
   
53.035   Establishment of watershed areas
   
53.036   Watershed areas described
   
53.037   Cluster development
   
53.038   Buffer areas required
   
53.039   Rules governing the interpretation of watershed area boundaries
   
53.040   Application of regulations
   
53.041   Existing development
   
53.042   Watershed protection permits
   
53.043   Building permit required
   
53.044   Watershed protection occupancy permit
   
53.045   Special non-residential intensity allocation
Public Health Regulations
   
53.060   Public health in general
   
53.061   Abatement
Administration, Enforcement and Appeals
   
53.075   Watershed Administrator and duties thereof
   
53.076   Appeal from the Watershed Administrator
   
53.077   Changes and amendments to the watershed protection ordinance
   
53.078   Public notice and hearing required
   
53.079   Establishment of Watershed Review Board
   
53.080   Rules of conduct for members
   
53.081   Powers and duties of the Watershed Review Board
   
53.082   Appeals from the Watershed Review Board
Stormwater Regulations for New Development; Illicit Discharge Detection and
Elimination
Division 1. General Provisions  
   
53.100   Title
   
53.101   Authority
   
53.102   Findings
   
53.103   Purpose
   
53.104   Applicability and jurisdiction
   
53.105   Interpretation
   
53.106   Design manual
   
53.107   Relationship to other laws, regulations and private agreements
   
53.108   Definitions
   
53.109   Severability
   
53.110   Effective date and transitional provisions
Division 2. Administration and Procedures
   
53.120   Review and decision-making entities
   
53.121   Review procedures
   
53.122   Applications for approval
   
53.123   Approvals
   
53.124   Appeals
Division 3. Standards
   
53.130   General standards
   
53.131   Phase II standards
   
53.132   Falls Lake watershed standards
   
53.133   Water supply watershed standards
   
53.134   Control and treatment of runoff volume
   
53.135   Water quantity reduction
   
53.136   Evaluation of standards for stormwater control measures
   
53.137   Dedication of BMPS, facilities and improvements
   
53.138   Variances
Division 4. Maintenance
   
53.150   General standards for maintenance
   
53.151   Operation and maintenance agreement
   
53.152   Inspection program
   
53.153   Performance security for installation and maintenance
   
53.154   Notice to owners
   
53.155   Records of installation and maintenance activities
   
53.156   Nuisance
   
53.157   Maintenance easement
Division 5. Illicit Discharge Detection and Elimination
   
53.180   Definitions
   
53.181   Illicit discharges and connections
   
53.182   Right of entry
   
53.183   Enforcement
Division 6. Enforcement and Violations
   
53.190   General
   
53.191   Remedies and penalties
   
53.192   Procedures
 
   
53.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A:    Application forms
   
Appendix B:   Watershed protection permit plan checklist
AUTHORITY AND GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 53.001 AUTHORITY AND ENACTMENT.
   The Legislature of the State of North Carolina has, in Chapter 160A, Article
8, Section 174, General Ordinance Authority; and in Chapter 143, Article 21,
Watershed Protection Rules, delegated the responsibility or directed local
governmental units to adopt regulations designed to promote the public health,
safety, and general welfare of its citizenry. The Governing Board of the City
of Roxboro does hereby ordain and enact into law the following articles as the
Watershed Protection Ordinance of The City of Roxboro, North Carolina.
(Ord. passed 6-18-10)
§ 53.002 JURISDICTION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply within the areas designated as a
public water supply watershed by the North Carolina Environmental Management
Commission and shall be defined and established on the map entitled, “Watershed
Protection Map of Roxboro, North Carolina”, which is adopted simultaneously
herewith. The watershed map and all explanatory matter contained thereon
accompanies and is hereby made a part of this chapter. This chapter shall be
permanently kept on file in the office of the City Clerk.
(Ord. passed 6-18-10)
§ 53.003 EXCEPTIONS TO APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Nothing contained herein shall repeal, modify, or amend any federal or
state law or regulation, or any ordinance or regulation pertaining thereto
except any ordinance which these regulations specifically replace; nor shall
any provision of this chapter amend, modify, or restrict any provision of the
Code of Ordinances of the City of Roxboro at the time of the adoption of this
chapter that may be construed to impair or reduce the effectiveness of this
chapter or to conflict with any of its provisions.
   (B)   It is not intended that these regulations interfere with any easement,
covenants or other agreements between parties. However, if the provisions of
these regulations impose greater restrictions or higher standards for the use
of building or land, then the provisions of these regulations shall control.
   (C)   Existing development, as defined in this chapter, is not subject to
the requirements of this chapter. Expansion to structures classified as
existing development must meet the requirements of this chapter; however, the
built-upon area of the existing development is not required to be included in
the density calculations.
   (D)   A pre-existing lot owned by an individual prior to the effective date
of this chapter, regardless of whether or not a vested right has been
established, may be developed for single family residential proposes without
being subject to the restrictions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-18-10)
§ 53.004 REMEDIES.
   (A)   If any subdivision, development and/or land use is found to be in
violation of this chapter, the City of Roxboro Governing Body may, in addition
to all other remedies available either in law or in equity, institute a civil
penalty in the amount of $10,000 subject to setoff per G.S. § 143-215.6A,
action or proceedings to restrain, correct, or abate the violation; to prevent
occupancy of the building, structure, or to prevent any illegal act, conduct,
business, or use in or about the premises. In addition, the North Carolina
Environmental Management Commission may assess civil penalties in accordance
with G. S. § 143-215.6A. Each day that the violation continues shall constitute
a separate offense.
   (B)   If the Watershed Administrator finds that any of the provisions of
this chapter are being violated, he or she shall notify in writing the person
responsible for such violation, indicating the nature of the violation, and
ordering the action necessary to correct it. He or she shall order
discontinuance of the illegal use of land, buildings or structures; removal of
illegal buildings or structures, or of additions, alterations or structural
changes thereto; discontinuance of any illegal work being done; or shall take
any action authorized by this chapter to ensure compliance with or to prevent
violation of its provisions. If a ruling of the Watershed Administrator is
questioned, the aggrieved party or parties may appeal such ruling to the
Watershed Review Board.
(Ord. passed 6-18-10)
§ 53.005 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGRICULTURAL USE. The use of waters for stock watering, irrigation, and
other farm purposes.
   ANIMAL UNIT. A unit of measurement developed by the U. S. Environmental
Protection Agency that is used to compare different types of animal operations.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP). A structural or non-structural management-
based practice used singularly or in combination to reduce non-point source
inputs to receiving waters in order to achieve water quality protection goals.
   BUFFER. An area of natural or planted vegetation through which storm water
runoff flows in a diffuse manner so that the runoff does not become channelized
and which provides for infiltration of the runoff and filtering of pollutants.
The buffer is measured landward from the normal pool elevation of impounded
structures and from the bank of each side of streams or rivers.
   BUILDING. Any structure having a roof supported by columns or by walls, and
intended for shelter, housing or enclosure of persons, animals or property. The
connection of two BUILDINGS by means of an open porch, breezeway, passageway,
carport or other such open structure, with or without a roof, shall not be
deemed to make them a BUILDING.
   BUILT-UPON AREA. Shall include that portion of a development project that is
covered by impervious or partially impervious cover including buildings,
pavement, gravel roads, recreation facilities (e.g. tennis courts), and the
like. (Note: wooden slatted decks and the water area of a swimming pool are
considered pervious.)
   CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT. The grouping of buildings in order to conserve land
resources and provide for innovation in the design of the project. This term
includes non-residential development as well as single-family residential
subdivisions and multi-family development that do not involve the subdivision
of land.
   COMPOSTING FACILITY. A facility in which only stumps, limbs, leaves, grass
and untreated wood collected from land clearing or landscaping operations is
deposited.
   CRITICAL AREA. The area adjacent to a water supply intake or reservoir where
risk associated with pollution is greater than from the remaining portions of
the watershed. The CRITICAL AREA is defined as extending either one-half mile
from the normal pool elevation of the reservoir in which the intake is located
or to the ridge line of the watershed (whichever comes first); or one-half mile
upstream from the intake located directly in the stream of river (run-of -the-
river), or the ridge line of the watershed (whichever comes first). Local
governments may extend the critical area as needed. Major landmarks such as
highways or property lines may be used to delineate the outer boundary of the
CRITICAL AREA if these landmarks are immediately adjacent to the appropriate
outer boundary of one-half mile.
   CUSTOMARY HOME OCCUPATIONS. Any use conducted entirely within a dwelling and
carried  on by the occupants thereof, which use is clearly incidental and
secondary to the use of the dwelling for residential purposes and does not
change the character thereof. Provided further that no mechanical equipment is
installed or used except as is normally used for domestic or professional
purposes, and that not over 50% of the area of one floor of the dwelling is
used for the occupation. No home occupation shall be conducted in any accessory
building except for the storage and service of a vehicle that is driven off
site, such as a service repair truck, delivery truck, and the like.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any land disturbing activity which adds to or changes the
amount of impervious or partially impervious cover on a land area or which
otherwise decreases the infiltration of precipitation into the soil.
   DISCHARGING LANDFILLS. A facility with liners, monitoring equipment and
other measures to detect and/or prevent leachate from entering the environment
to a receiving stream.
   DWELLING UNIT. A building, or portion thereof, providing complete permanent
living facilities for one family.
   EXISTING DEVELOPMENT. Those projects that are built or those projects that
at a minimum have established a vested right under North Carolina zoning law as
of the effective date of this chapter based on at least one of the following
criteria:
      (1)   Substantial expenditures of resources (time, labor, money) based on
a good faith reliance upon having received a valid local government approval to
proceed with the project;
      (2)   Having an outstanding valid building permit as authorized by the
General Statutes (G.S. § 160A-385.1); or
      (3)   Having expended substantial resources (time, labor, money) and
having an approved site specific or phased development plan as authorized by
the General Statutes (G.S.§ 160A-385.1).
   EXISTING LOT (LOT OF RECORD). A lot which is part of a subdivision, a plat
of which has been recorded in the office of the Register of Deeds prior to the
adoption of this chapter, or a lot described by metes and bounds, the
description of which has been so recorded prior to the adoption of this
chapter.
   FAMILY. One or more persons occupying a single dwelling unit, provided that
unless all members are related by blood or marriage or adoption, no such family
shall contain over five persons, but further provided that domestic servants
employed or living on the premises may be housed on the premises without being
counted as a family or families.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIAL. Any substance listed as such in: SARA Section 302,
Extremely Hazardous Substances, CERCLA Hazardous Substance, or Section 311 of
CWA (oil and hazardous substances).
   INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT. Any non-residential development that requires a
NPDES permit for an industrial discharge and/or requires the use or storage of
any hazardous material for the purpose of manufacturing, assembling, finishing,
cleaning or developing any product or commodity.
   LANDFILL. A facility for the disposal of solid waste on land in a sanitary
manner in accordance with G.S. Chapter 130A, Article 9. For the purpose of this
chapter this term does not include composting facilities.
   LOT. A parcel of land occupied or capable of being occupied by a building or
group of buildings devoted to a common use, together with the customary
accessories and open spaces belonging to the same.
   MAJOR VARIANCE.  A variance that results in any one or more of the
following:
      (1)   The complete waiver of a management requirement;
      (2)   The relaxation, by a factor of more than 10% of any management
requirement that takes the form of a numerical standard;
      (3)   The relaxation of any management requirement that applies to a
development proposal intended to qualify under the high density option.
   MINOR VARIANCE. A variance that does not qualify as a major variance.
   NON-RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT. All development other than residential
development, agriculture and silviculture.
   PLAT. A map or plan of a parcel of land which is to be, or has been
subdivided.
   RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT. Buildings for residence such as attached and
detached single-family dwellings, apartment complexes, condominiums,
townhouses, cottages, and the like, and their associated outbuildings such as
garages, storage buildings, gazebos, and the like and customary home
occupations.
   SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL. Any development where:
      (1)   No building contains more than one dwelling unit;
      (2)   Every dwelling unit is on a separate lot; and
      (3)   Where no lot contains more than one dwelling unit.
   STREET (ROAD). A right-of-way for vehicular traffic which affords the
principal means of access to abutting properties.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, including but not limited to
buildings, which requires  location on the land or attachment to something
having permanent location on the land.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person, firm or corporation who subdivides or develops any
land deemed to be a subdivision as herein defined.
   SUBDIVISION. All divisions of a tract or parcel of land into two or more
lots, building sites, or other divisions for the purpose of sale or building
development (whether immediate or future) and shall include all division of
land involving the dedication of a new street or a change in existing streets;
but the following shall not be included within this definition nor be subject
to the regulations authorized by this chapter:
      (1)   The combination or recombination of portions of previously
subdivided and recorded lots where the total number of lots is not increased
and the resultant lots are equal to or exceed the standards of this chapter;
      (2)   The division of land into parcels greater than ten acres where no
street right-of-way dedication is involved;
      (3)   The public acquisition by purchase of strips of land for the
widening or opening of streets;
      (4)   The division of a tract in single ownership whose entire area is no
greater than two acres into not more than three lots, where no street right-of-
way dedication is involved and where the resultant lots are equal to or exceed
the standards of this chapter; and
      (5)   The division of a tract into plots or lots used as a cemetery.
   TOXIC SUBSTANCE. Any substance or combination of substances (including
disease causing agents), which after discharge and upon exposure, ingestion,
inhalation, or assimilation into any organism, either directly from the
environment or indirectly by ingestion through food chains, has the potential
to cause death, disease, behavioral  abnormalities, cancer, genetic mutations,
physiological malfunctions (including malfunctions or suppression in
reproduction or growth) or physical deformities in such organisms or their off
spring or other adverse health effects.
   VARIANCE. A permission to develop or use property granted by the Watershed
Review Board relaxing or waiving a Water Supply Watershed Management
requirement adopted by the Environmental Management Commission that is
incorporated into this chapter.
   WATER DEPENDENT STRUCTURE. Any structure for which the use requires access
to or proximity to or siting within surface waters to fulfill its basic
purpose, such as boat ramps, boat houses, clocks and bulkheads. Ancillary
facilities such as restaurants, outlets for boat supplies, parking lots and
commercial boat storage areas are not WATER DEPENDENT STRUCTURES.
   WATERSHED. The entire land area contributing surface drainage to a specific
point (e.g. the water supply intake).
   WATERSHED ADMINISTRATOR. An official or designated person of the City of
Roxboro responsible for administration and enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-18-10)
§ 53.006 WORD INTERPRETATION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, certain words shall be interpreted as
follows:
   (A)   Words in the present tense include the future tense.
   (B)   Words used in the singular number include the plural, and words used
in the plural number include the singular, unless the natural construction of
the wording indicates otherwise.
   (C)   The word “person” includes a firm, association, corporation, trust,
and company as well as an individual.
   (D)   The word “structure” shall include t he word “building”.
   (E)   The word “lot” shall include the words, “plot”, “parcel,” or “tract”.
   (F)   The word “shall” is always mandatory and not merely directory. The
word “will” is always mandatory and not merely directory.
(Ord. passed 6-18-10)
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
§ 53.020 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   NOTE: Provisions in this subchapter are derived in part from G.S. Chapter
160A, Article 19, Part 2.
   (A)   Development in the City of Roxboro may be subject to Neuse River
Riparian Buffer Rules (Rule 15A NCAC 02B.0233) in addition to requirements of
this chapter. Written authorization from the North Carolina Division of Water
Quality may be needed for activities that are proposed to occur within the 50-
foot Neuse River riparian buffer. Local watershed program approvals do not
authorize activities with the Neuse River riparian buffer. Whenever conflicts
exist between federal, state or local laws, ordinances or rules, the more
restrictive provisions shall apply.
   (B)   No subdivision plat of land within the public water supply watershed
shall be filed or recorded by the Register of Deeds until it has been approved
in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter. Likewise, the Clerk of
Superior Court shall not order or direct the recording of a plat if the
recording of such plat would be in conflict with this subchapter.
   (C)   The approval of a plat does not constitute or effect the acceptance by
the City of Roxboro or the public of the dedication of any street or other
ground, easement, right-of-way, public utility line, or other public facility
shown on the plat and shall not be construed to do so.
   (D)   All subdivisions shall conform with the mapping requirements contained
in G. S. § 47-30.
   (E)   All subdivisions of land within the jurisdiction of the City of
Roxboro after the effective date of this chapter shall require a plat to be
prepared, approved, and recorded pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-18-10)
§ 53.021 SUBDIVISION APPLICATION AND REVIEW PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All proposed subdivisions shall be reviewed prior to recording with
the Register of Deeds by submitting a vicinity map to the Watershed
Administrator to determine whether or not the property is located within the
designated Public Water Supply Watershed. Subdivisions that are not within the
designated watershed area shall not be subject to the provisions of this
chapter and may be recorded provided the Watershed Administrator initials the
vicinity map. Subdivisions within the designated watershed area shall comply
with the provisions of this subchapter and all other state and local
requirements that may apply.
   (B)   Subdivision applications shall be filed with the Watershed
Administrator. The application shall include a completed application form, two
copies of the plat and supporting documentation deemed necessary by the
Watershed Administrator or the Watershed Review Board (see
Appendix A).
   (C)   The Watershed Administrator shall review the completed application and
submit recommendations to the Watershed Review Board for further review and
final action. The Watershed Review Board shall either approve, approve
conditionally or disapprove each application by a majority vote of the members
present and voting. First consideration of the application shall be at the next
regularly scheduled meeting of the Board after the application is submitted.
The Board shall take final action within 45 days of its first consideration.
The Watershed Administrator or the Board may provide public agencies an
opportunity to review and make recommendations. However, failure of the
agencies to submit their comments and recommendations shall not delay the
Board’s action within the prescribed time limit. The public agencies may
include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   The District Highway Engineer with regard to proposed streets and
highways;
      (2)   The State Division of Environmental Management with regard to
proposed sewer systems normally approved by the division, engineered storm
water controls or storm water management in general; and
      (3)   Any other agency or official designated by the Watershed
Administrator or Watershed Review Board.
   (D)   If the Watershed Review Board approves the application, such approval
shall be indicated on both copies of the plat by the following certification
and signed by the chairman or other authorized member of the Board:
Certificate of Approval for Recording
I certify that the plat shown hereon complies with the Watershed Protection
Ordinance and is approved by the Watershed Review Board for recording in the
Register of Deeds office.
                                                               
   Date   Chairman, Watershed Review Board
NOTICE: This property is located within a Public Water Supply Watershed -
development restrictions may apply.
   (E)   If the Watershed Review Board disapproves or approves conditionally
the application, the reason for such action shall be stated in writing for the
applicant and entered in the minutes. The subdivider may make changes and
submit a revised plan which shall constitute a separate request for the purpose
of review.
   (F)   All subdivision plats shall comply with the requirements for recording
of the County Register of Deeds.
   (G)   Vegetative riparian buffers, on both perennial an intermittent waters,
to be depicted/ recorded on the final plat.
   (H)   The Subdivider shall provide the Watershed Administrator with evidence
that the plat has been recorded with the Register of Deeds within five working
days of its being recorded.
(Ord. passed 6-18-10)
§ 53.022 SUBDIVISION STANDARDS AND REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   All lots shall provide adequate building space in accordance with the
development standards contained in §§
53.035 through
53.045. Lots which are smaller than the minimum required for residential lots
shall be identified on the plat as, “NOT FOR RESIDENTIAL PROPOSES”.
   (B)   For the purpose of calculating built-upon area, total project area
shall include total acreage in the tract on which the project is to be
developed.
   (C)   Storm water drainage facilities. The application shall be accompanied
by a description of the proposed method of providing storm water drainage. The
subdivider shall provide a drainage system that diverts storm water runoff away
from surface waters and incorporates best management practices to minimize
water quality impact.
   (D)   Erosion and (D) sedimentation control. The application shall, where
required, be accompanied by a written statement that a sedimentation and
erosion control plan has been submitted to and approved by the Division of Land
Quality.
   (E)   Roads constructed in critical areas and watershed buffer areas. Where
possible, roads should be located outside of critical areas and watershed
buffer areas. Roads constructed within these areas shall be designed and
constructed so as to minimize their impact on water quality.
(Ord. passed 6-18-10)
§ 53.023 CONSTRUCTION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   No construction or installation of improvements shall commence in a
proposed subdivision until a subdivision plat has been approved by the
Watershed Review Board.
   (B)   No building or other permits shall be issued for erection of a
structure on any lot not of record at the time of adoption of this chapter
until all requirements of this chapter have been met. The subdivider, prior to
commencing any work within the subdivision, shall make arrangements with the
Watershed Administrator to provide for adequate inspection.
(Ord. passed 6-18-10) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.024 PENALTIES FOR TRANSFERRING LOTS IN UNAPPROVED SUBDIVISIONS.
   Any person who, being the owner or agent of the owner of any land located
within the jurisdiction of the City of Roxboro, thereafter subdivides his or
her land in violation of this chapter or transfers or sells land by reference
to, exhibition of, or any other use of a plat showing a subdivision of the land
before the plat has been properly approved under this chapter and recorded in
the office of the Register of Deeds, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. The
description by metes and bounds in the instrument of transfer or other document
used in the process of selling or transferring land shall not exempt the
transaction from this penalty. The City of Roxboro may bring an action for
injunction of any illegal subdivision, transfer, conveyance, or sale of land,
and the court shall, upon appropriate findings, issue an injunction and order
requiring the offending party to comply with this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-18-10)
DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS
§ 53.035 ESTABLISHMENT OF WATERSHED AREAS.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to list and describe the watershed area
herein adopted.
(Ord. passed 6-18-10)
§ 53.036 WATERSHED AREAS DESCRIBED.
   (A)   WS-III watershed areas - balance of watershed (WS-III-BW). In order to
maintain a low to moderate land use intensity pattern, single family detached
uses shall develop at a maximum of two dwelling units per acre or have a
maximum built upon area of 24%. All other residential and non-residential
development shall be allowed a maximum of 24% built-upon area. In addition,
non-residential uses may occupy 10% of the watershed with a 70% built-upon area
when approved as a special non-residential intensity allocation (SNIA). The
Watershed Administrator is authorized to approve SNIAs consistent with the
provisions of this chapter (see §
53.045). Projects must minimize built-upon surface area, direct storm water
away from surface waters and incorporate best management practices to minimize
water quality impacts. Non-discharge landfills and sludge application sites are
allowed.
      (1)   Allowed uses.
         (a)   Agriculture, subject to the provisions of the Food Security Act
of 1985 and the Food, Agricultural, Conservation and Trade Act of 1990.
         (b)   Silviculture, subject to the provisions of the Forest Practices
Guidelines Related to Water Quality (15 NCAC 11.6101.0209).
         (c)   Residential development.
         (d)   Non-residential development excluding discharging landfills and
the storage of toxic and hazardous materials unless a spill containment plan is
implemented.
      (2)   Density and built-upon limits.
         (a)   Single family residential — development shall not exceed two
dwelling units per acre or 24% built-upon area, as defined on a proj ect by
project basis.
         (b)   All other residential and non-residential development shall not
exceed 24% built-upon area on a project by project basis except that up to 10%
of the balance of the watershed may be developed for nonresidential uses to 70%
built-upon area on a proj ect by proj ect basis. For the purpose of calculating
built-upon area, total project area shall include total acreage in the tract on
which the proj ect is to be developed.
      (3)   (a)   Pursuant to North Carolina administrative codes and this
chapter, all projects that utilize the low-density opti on must first be
determined if transportation of storm water by vegetative conveyances is
practical. If transportation of storm water on the site can be practically done
by the use of vegetated conveyances, the standard curb and gutter and storm
water drain collection systems are not allowed. That is, the below listed
vegetative swale specifications are required.
            1.   Vegetative swale requirements.
               i.   A vegetated conveyance device such as swale shall be used
to provide transportation of storm water runoff. The construction of the swale
must provide for even distribution of runoff across the width of the vegetated
swale;
               ii.   The slope and length of the vegetative swale shall be
designed, constructed and maintained so as to provide a non-erosive velocity of
flow through the swale for the ten-year storm and shall have a slope of 5% or
less, where practical; and
               iii.   Vegetation in the swale may be natural vegetation,
grasses, or artificially-planted wetland vegetation appropriate for the site
characteristics.
            2.   In lieu of use of only vegetative swales in these setting,
curb and gutter collection system may be used if below listed curb outlet
systems are employed:
         (b)   Curb outlet system.
            1.   Projects that meet the low density provisions may use curb and
gutter with outlets to ccnvey the storm water to vegetated areas;
            2.   The curb outlets shall be located such that swale or vegetated
area can carry the pea k flow from the ten-year storm and the velocity of the
flow shall be non erosive;
            3.   The side slopes of the swales or vegetated areas shall not be
steeper than 5:1 (horizontal to vertical). Where this is not practical due to
physical constraints, devices to slow the rate of runoff and to encourage
infiltration to reduce delivery shall be provided; and
            4.   The swales or vegetated areas for curb outlet systems should
be designed to extend the maximum length practical (e.g. 100-foot filter
length).
(Ord. passed 6-18-10)
§ 53.037 CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT.
   Clustering of development is allowed in the WS-III-BW watershed area.
   (A)   Minimum lot sizes are not applicable to single family cluster
development projects; however, the total number of lots shall not exceed the
number of lots allowed for single family detached developments in §
53.036. Built-upon area or storm water control requirements of the project
shall not exceed that allowed for the critical area or balance of watershed,
whichever applies.
   (B)   All built-upon area shall be designed and located to minimize storm
water runoff impact to the receiving waters and minimize concentrated storm
water flow.
   (C)   The remainder of the tract shall remain in a vegetated or natural
state. Where the development has an incorporated property owners association,
the title of the open space area shall be conveyed to the association for
management. Where a property association is not incorporated, a maintenance
agreement shall be filed with the property deeds.
(Ord. passed 6-18-10)
§ 53.038 BUFFER AREAS REQUIRED.
   (A)   A minimum 100 foot vegetative buffer is required for all new
development activities that exceed the low density option; otherwise, a minimum
30 foot vegetative buffer for development activities is required along all
perennial waters indicated on the most recent versions of U.S.G.S. 1:24,000
(7.5 minute) scale topographic maps or as determined by local government
studies. Desirable artificial stream bank or shoreline stabilization is
permitted.
   (B)   No new development is allowed in the buffer except for water
dependent: structures and public project s such as road crossings and greenways
where no practical alternatives exist. These activities should minimi ze built-
upon surface area, direct runoff away from the surface waters and maximize the
utilization of storm water best management practices.
(Ord. passed 6-18-10)
§ 53.039 RULES GOVERNING THE INTERPRETATION OF WATERSHED AREA BOUNDARIES.
   Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of the watershed a reas as
shown on the watershed map, the following rules shall apply.
   (A)   Where area boundaries are indicated as approximately following the
street, alley, railroad or highway lines or centerlines thereof, such lines
shall be construed to be the boundaries.
   (B)   Where area boundaries are indicated as approximately following lot
lines, such lot lines shall be construed to be the boundaries. However, a
surveyed plat prepared by a registered land surveyor may be submitted to the
city as evidence that one or more properties along these boundaries do not lie
within the watershed area.
   (C)   Where the watershed area boundaries lie at a scaled distance more than
25 feet from any parallel lot line, the location of watershed area boundaries
shall be determined by use of the scale appearing on the watershed map.
   (D)   Where the watershed area boundaries lie at a scale of 25 feet or less
from any parallel lot line, the location of watershed area boundaries shall be
construed to be the lot line.
   (E)   Where other uncertainty exists, the Watershed Administrator shall
interpret the Watershed Map as to the location of such boundaries. This
decision may be appealed to the Watershed Review Board.
(Ord. passed 6-18-10)
§ 53.040 APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No building or land shall hereafter be used and no development shall
take place except in conformity with the regulations herein specified for the
watershed area in which it is located.
   (B)   No area required for the purpose of complying with the provisions of
this chapter shall be included in the area required for another building.
   (C)   (1)   Every residentia1 building hereafter erected, moved or
structurally altered shall be located on a lot which conforms to the
regulations herein specified, except as permitted in §
53.041.
      (2)   If a use or class of use is not specifically indicated as being
allowed in a watershed area, such use or class of use is prohibited.
(Ord. passed 6-18-10) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.041 EXISTING DEVELOPMENT.
   Any existing development as defined in this chapter may be continued and
maintained subject to the provisions provided herein. Expansions to structures
classified as existing development must meet the requirements of this chapter,
however, the built-upon area of the existing development is not required to be
included in the density calculations.
   (A)   Vacant lots. 
      (1)   This category consists of vacant lots for which plats or deeds have
been recorded in the office of the Register of Deeds of Person County. Lots may
be used for any of the uses allowed in the watershed area in which it is
located.
      (2)   Where the lot area is below the minimum specified in this chapter
the Watershed Administrator is authorized to issue a watershed protection
permit.
   (B)   Occupied lots. This category consists of lots, occupied for
residential purposes at the time of the adoption of this chapter.
   (C)   Uses of land. This category consists of uses existing at the time of
adopti on of this chapter where such use of the land is not permitted to be
established hereafter in the watershed area in which it is located. Such uses
may be continued except as follows:
      (1)   When such use of land has been changed to an allowed use, it shall
not thereafter revert to any prohibited use.
      (2)   Such use of land shall be changed only to an allowed use.
      (3)   When such use ceases for a period of at least one year, it shall
not be re-established.
   (D)   Reconstruction of buildings or built-upon areas. Any existing building
or built-upon area not in conformance with the restrictions of this chapter
that has been damaged or removed may be repaired and/or reconstructed, except
that there are no restrictions on single family residential development,
provided:
      (1)   Repairs or reconstruction is initiated within 12 months and
completed within two years of such damage.
      (2)   The total amount of space devoted to built-upon area may not be
increased unless storm water control that eauals or exceeds the previous
development is provided.
(Ord. passed 6-18-10)
§ 53.042 WATERSHED PROTECTION PERMITS.
   (A)   Except where a single family residence is constructed on a lot deeded
prior to the effective date of this chapter, no building or built-upon area
shall be erected , moved, enlarged or structurally altered, nor shall any
building permit be issued nor shall any change in the use of any building or
land be made until a watershed protection permit has been issued by the
Watershed Administrator. No watershed protection permit shall be issued except
in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Watershed protection permit applications shall be filed with the
Watershed Administrator. The application shall include a completed application
form and supporting documentation deemed necessary by the Watershed
Administrator.
   (C)   Prior to issuance of a watershed protection permit, the Watershed
Administrator may consult with qualified personnel for assistance to determine
if the application meets the requirements of this chapter.
   (D)   A watershed protection permit shall expire if a building permit or
watershed occupancy permit for such use is not obtained by the applicant within
12 months from the date of issuance.
(Ord. passed 6-18-10)
§ 53.043 BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Except for a single family residence constructed on a lot deeded prior to
the effective date of this chapter, no permit required under the North Carolina
State Building Code shall be issued for a ny activity for which a watershed
protection permit is required until that permit has been issued.
(Ord. passed 6-18-10)
§ 53.044 WATERSHED PROTECTION OCCUPANCY PERMIT.
   (A)   The Watershed Administrator shall issue a watershed protect ion
occupancy permit certifying that all requirements of this chapter have been met
prior to the occupancy or use of a building hereafter erected, altered or moved
and/or prior to the change of use of any building or land.
   (B)   A watershed protection occupancy permit, either for the whole or part
of a building, shall be applied for coincident with the application for a
watershed protection permit and shall be issued or denied within ten days after
the erection or structural alterations of the building.
   (C)   When only a change in use of land or existing building occurs, the
Watershed Administrator shall issue a watershed protection occupancy permit
certifying that all requirements of this chapter have been met coincident with
the watershed protection permit.
   (D)   If the watershed protection occupancy permit is denied, the Watershed
Administrator shall notify the applicant in writing stating the reasons for
denial.
   (E)   No building or structure which has been erected, moved, or
structurally altered may be occupied until the Watershed Administrator has
approved and issued a watershed protection occupancy permit.
(Ord. passed 6-18-10)
§ 53.045 SPECIAL NON-RESIDENTIAL INTENSITY ALLOCATION.
   (A)   Ten percent (10%) of the watershed may be developed for nonresidential
use to 70% built-upon area on a project by project basis.
   (B)   Each project requesting a 70% built-upon area shall submit an
application and site plan to the Watershed Administrator. The site plan shall
be drawn to a scale of at least one inch to 50 feet, indicating the property
lines of the parcel, any existing or proposed structures, any rights-of-way or
easements, existing or proposed parking areas and other built-upon areas and
surface water drainage. The site plan shall have the total area, in square
feet, of the parcel and the total area, in square feet, of the built-upon area.
The plan shall have a vicinity map. The site plan will be signed and sealed by
a professional engineer or registered land surveyor (Amended 11/10/98).
(Ord. passed 6-18-10)
PUBLIC HEALTH REGULATIONS
§ 53.060 PUBLIC HEALTH IN GENERAL.
   No activity, situation, structure or land use shall be allowed within the
watershed which poses a threat to water quality and the public health, safety
and welfare. Such conditions may arise from inadequate on-site sewage systems
which utilize ground absorption; inadequate sedimentation and erosion control
measures; the improper storage or disposal of junk, trash or other refuse
within a buffer area; the absence or improper implementation of a spill
containment plan for toxic and hazardous materials; the improper management of
storm water runoff; or any other situation found to pose a threat to water
quality.
(Ord. passed 6-18-10) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.061 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   The Watershed Administrator shall monitor land use activities within
the watershed areas to identify situations that may pose a threat to water
quality.
   (B)   The Watershed Administrator shall report all findings to the Watershed
Review Board. The Watershed Administrator may consult with any public agency or
official and request recommendations.
   (C)   Where the Watershed Review Board finds a threat to water quality and
the public health, safety and welfare, the Board shall institute any
appropriate action or proceeding to restrain, correct or abate the condition
and/or violation.
(Ord. passed 6-18-10)
ADMINISTRATION, ENFORCEMENT AND APPEALS
§ 53.075 WATERSHED ADMINISTRATOR AND DUTIES THEREOF.
   The City of Roxboro shall appoint a Watershed Administrator, who shall be
duly sworn in. It shall be the duty of the Watershed Administrator to
administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter as follows.
   (A)   The Watershed Administrator shall issue watershed protection permits
and watershed protection occupancy permits as prescribed herein. A record of
all permits shall be kept on file and shall be available for public inspection
during regular office hours of the Administrator.
   (B)   The Watershed Administrator shall serve as Clerk to the Watershed
Review Board.
   (C)   The Watershed Administrator shall keep records of all amendments to
the local water supply watershed protection ordinance and shall provide copies
of all amendments upon adoption to the Supervisor of the Classification and
Standards Group, Water Quality Section, Division of Environmental Management.
   (D)   The Watershed Administrator shall keep records of the jurisdiction’s
utilization of the provision that a maximum of 10% of the non-critical area of
WS-III-BW watersheds may be developed with non-residential development to a
maximum of 70% built-upon surface area. Records for each watershed shall
include the total acres of non-critical watershed area, total acres eligible to
be developed under this option, total acres approved for this development
option, and individual records for each project with the following information:
location, acres, site plan, use, storm water management plan as applicable and
inventory of hazardous materials as applicable.
   (E)   The Watershed Administrator is granted the authority to administer and
enforce the provisions of this chapter, exercising in the fulfillment of his or
her responsibility the full police power of the city. The Watershed
Administrator, or his or her duly authorized representative, may enter any
building, structure, or premises, as provided by law, to perform any duty
imposed upon him or her by this chapter.
   (F)   The Watershed Administrator shall keep a record of variances to the
local water supply watershed protection ordinance. This record shall be
submitted to the Supervisor of the Classification and Standards Group, Water
Quality Section, Division of Environmental Management on or before January 1st
of the following year and shall provide a description of each project receiving
a variance and the reason for granting the variance.
(Ord. passed 6-18-10)
§ 53.076 APPEAL FROM THE WATERSHED ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Any order, requirement, decision or determination made by the
Watershed Administrator may be appealed to and decided by the Watershed Review
Board.
   (B)   Any appeal from a decision of the Watershed Administrator must be
submitted to the Watershed Review Board within 30 days from the date the order,
interpretation, decision or determination is made. All appeals must be made in
writing stating the reasons for the appeal. Following submission of an appeal,
the Watershed Administrator shall transmit to the Board all papers constituting
the record upon which the action appealed from was taken.
   (C)   An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed,
unless the officer from whom the appeal is taken certifies to the Board after
the notice of appeal has been filed with him or her, that by reason of facts
stated in the certification, a stay would in his or her opinion cause imminent
peril to life or property. In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed
otherwise than by a restraining order which may be granted by the Board or by a
court of record on application of notice of the officer from wnom the appeal is
taken and upon due cause shown.
   (D)   The Board shall fix a reasonable time for hearing the appeal and cive
notice thereof to the parties and shall decide the same within a reasonable
time. At the hearing, any party may appear in person, by agent or by attorney.
(Ord. passed 6-18-10)
§ 53.077 CHANGES AND AMENDMENTS TO THE WATERSHED PROTECTION ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The City of Roxboro Governing Body may, on its own motion or on
petition, after public notice and hearing, amend, supplement, change or modify
the watershed regulations and restrictions as described herein.
   (B)   No action shall be taken until the proposal has been submitted to the
Watershed Review Board for review and recommendations. If no recommendation has
been received from the Watershed Review Board within 45 days after submission
of the proposal to the Chairman of the Watershed Review Board, the City of
Roxboro Governing Body may proceed as thougn a favorable report had been
received.
   (C)   Under no circumstances shall the City Council adopt such amendments,
supplements or changes that would cause this chapter to violate the Watershed
Protection Rules as adopted by the North Carolina Environmental Management
Commission. All amendments must be filed with the North Carolina Division of
Environmental Management, North Carolina Division of Environmental Health, and
the North Carolina Division of Community Assistance.
(Ord. passed 6-18-10)
§ 53.078 PUBLIC NOTICE AND HEARING REQUIRED.
   Before adopt ing or amending this chapter, the City of Roxboro Governing
Body shall hold a public hearing on the proposed changes. A notice of the
public hearing shall be given once a week for two successive calendar weeks in
a newspaper having general circulation in the area. The notice shall be
published for the first time not less than ten nor more than 25 days before the
date fixed for the hearing.
(Ord. passed 6-18-10)
§ 53.079 ESTABLISHMENT OF WATERSHED REVIEW BOARD.
   (A)   (1)   There shall be and hereby is created the Watershed Review Board
consisting of five members appointed by the City of Roxboro Governing Body.
      (2)   Three residents of the City of Roxboro shall be appointed for three
year terms. Two residents of the City of Roxboro shall be appointed for two
year terms. Thereafter, all new terms shall be for three years, and members may
be re-appointed.
   (B)   Two alternate members shall be appointed to serve on the Watershed
Review Board in the absence of any regular member and shall be appointed for
three year terms. While attending in the capacity of a regular member, the
alternate shall have and exercise all the powers and duties of the regular
member.
   (C)   The City of Roxboro Governing Body may appoint the Roxboro Board of
Adjustment to serve as the Watershed Review Board.
(Ord. passed 6-18-10)
§ 53.080 RULES OF CONDUCT FOR MEMBERS.
   Members of the Board may be removed by the City of Roxboro Governing Body
for cause, including violation of the rules stated below.
   (A)   Faithful attendance at meetings of the Board and conscientious
performance of the duties required of members of the Board shall be considered
a prerequisite to continuing membership on the Board.
   (B)   No Board member shall take part in the hearing, consideration, or
determination of any case in which he is personal1y or financially interested.
A Board member shall have a “financial interest” in a case when a decision in
the case will: 1) cause him or her or his or her spouse to experience a direct
financial benefit or loss; or 2) will cause a business in which he or she or
his or her spouse owns a 10% or greater interest, or is involved in a decision-
making role, to experience a direct financial benefit or loss. A Board member
shall have a “personal interest” in a case when it involves a member of his or
her immediate family (i.e., parent, spouse, or child).
   (C)   No Board member shall discuss any case with any parties thereto prior
to the public hearing on that case; provided, however, that members may receive
and/or seek information pertaining to the case from the Watershed Administrator
or any other member of the Board, its Secretary or Clerk prior to the hearing.
   (D)   Members of the Board shall not express individual opinions on the
proper judgement of any case prior to its determination on that case.
   (E)   Members of the Board shall give notice to the Chairman at least 48
hours prior to the hearing of any potent ial conflict of interest which he has
in a particular case before the Board.
   (F)   No Board member shall vote on any matter that decides an application
or appeal unless he or she had attended the public hearing on that application
or appeal.
(Ord. passed 6-18-10)
§ 53.081 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE WATERSHED REVIEW BOARD.
   (A)   Administrative review. The Watershed Review Board shall hear and
decide appeals from any decision or determination made by the Watershed
Administrator in the enforcement of this chapter.
   (B)   Variances. The Watershed Review Board shall have the power to
authorize, in specific cases, minor variances from the terms of this chapter as
will not be contrary to the public interests where, owing to special
conditions, a literal enforcement of this chapter will result in practical
difficulties or unnecessary hardship, so that the spirit of this chapter shall
be observed, public safety and welfare secured, and substantial justice done.
In addition, the city shall notify and allow a reasonable comment period for
all other local governments having jurisdiction in the designated watershed
where the variance is being considered.
      (1)   Applications for a variance shall be made on the proper form
obtainable from the Watershed Administrator and shall include the following
information:
         (a)   A site plan, drawn to a scale of at least one inch to 40 feet,
indicating the property lines of the parcel upon which the use is proposed; any
existing or proposed structures; parking areas and other built-upon areas; and
surface water drainage. The site plan shall be neatly drawn and indicate north
point, name and address of person who prepared the plan, date of the original
drawing, and an accurate record of any later revision.
         (b)   A complete and detailed description of the proposed variance,
together with any other pertinent information which the applicant feels would
be helpful to the Watershed Review Board in considering the application.
         (c)   The Watershed Administrator shall not ify in writing each local
government having jurisdiction in the watershed and any entity or government
using the watershed for water consumption. Such notice shall include a
description of the variance being requested. Local government s receiving
notice of the variance request may submit commentsto the Watershed
Administrator prior to a decision by the Watershed Review Board. Such comments
shall become a part of the record of proceedings of the Watershed Review Board.
      (2)   Before the Watershed Review Board may grant a variance, it shall
make the following three findings, which shall be recorded in the permanent
record of the case, and shall include the factual reason on which they are
based:
         (a)   There are practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships in the
way of carrying out the strict letter of the subchapter. In order to determine
that there are practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships, the Board must
find that the five following conditions exist:
            1.   If he or she complies with the provisions of this subchapter,
the applicant can secure no reasonable return from, nor make reasonable use of,
his property. Merely proving that the variance would permit a greater profit to
be made from the property will not be considered adequate to justify the Board
in granting a va riance. Moreover, the Board shall consider whether the
variance is the minimum possible deviation from the terms of the ordinance that
will make possible the reasonable use of his or her property.
            2.   The hardship results from the application of the ordinance to
the property rather than from other factors such as deed restrictions or other
hardship.
            3.   The hardship is due to the physical nature of the applicant1 s
property, such as its size, shape, or topography, which is different from that
of neighboring property.
            4.   The hardship is not the result of the actions of an applicant
who knowingly or unknowingly violates the ordinance, or who purchases the
property after the effective date of the ordinance, and then comes to the Board
for relief.
            5.   The hardship is peculiar to the applicant’s property, rather
than the result of conditions that are widespread. If other properties are
equally subject to the hardship created in the restriction, then granting a
variance would be a special privilege denied to others, and would not promote
equal j ustice.
         (b)   The variance is in harmony with the general purpose and intent
of the ordinance and preserves it spirit.
         (c)   In the granting of the variance, the public safety and welfare
have been assured and substantial justice has been done. The Board shall not
grant a variance if it finds that doing so would in any respect impair the
public health, safety, or general welfare.
      (3)   In granting the variance, the Board may attach thereto such
conditions regarding the location, character, and other features of the
proposed building, structure, or use as it may deem advisable in furtherance of
the purpose of this chapter. If a variance for the construction, alteration or
use of property is granted, such construction, alteration or use shall be in
accordance with the approved site plan.
      (4)   The Watershed Review Board shall refuse to hear an appeal or an
application for a variance previously denied if it finds that there have been
no substantial changes in conditions or circumstances bearing on the appeal or
application.
      (5)   A variance issued in accordance with this section shall be
considered a watershed protection permit and shall expire if a building permit
or watershed occupancy permit for such use is not obtained by the applicant
within six months from the date of the decision.
      (6)   If the application calls for the granting of a minor variance, and
if the Watershed Review Board decides in favor of granting the variance, the
Board shall prepare a preliminary record of the hearing with all deliberate
speed. The preliminary record of the hearing shall include:
         (a)   The variance application;
         (b)   The hearing notices;
         (c)   The evidence presented;
         (d)   Motions, offers of proof, objections to evidence, and rulings on
them;
         (e)   Proposed findings and exceptions;
         (f)   The proposed decision, including all conditions proposed to be
added to the permit.
   (C)   The preliminary record shall be sent to the Environmental Management
Commission for its review as follows:
      (1)   If the Commission concludes from the preliminary record that the
variance qualifies as a major variance and that (1) the property owner can
secure no reasonable return from, nor make any practical use of the property
unless the proposed variance is granted, and (2) the variance if granted, will
not result in a serious threat to the water supply, then the Commission shall
approve the variance as proposed or approve the proposed vari a nee with cond.i
tions and st.i pulations. The Commission shall prepare a Commission decision
and send it to the Watershed Review Board. If the Commission approves the
variance as proposed, the Board shall prepare a final decision granting the
proposed variance. If the Commission approves the variance with conditions and
stipulations, the Board shall prepare a final decision, including such
conditions and stipulations, granting the proposed variance.
      (2)   If the Commission concludes from the preliminary record that the
variance qualifies as a major variance and that (1) the property owner can
secure a reasonable return from or make a practical use of the property without
the variance or (2) the variance, if granted, will result in a serious threat
to the water supply, then the Commission shall deny approval of the variance as
proposed. The Commission shall prepare a Commission decision and send it to the
Watershed Review Board. The Board shall prepare a final decision denying the
variance as proposed.
      (3)   Subdivision approval. See §§
53.020 through
53.024.
      (4)   Public health. See §§
53.060 and
53.061.
      (5)   Approval of all development greater than the low density option.
See §§
53.035 through
53.045.
(Ord. passed 6-18-10)
§ 53.082 APPEALS FROM THE WATERSHED REVIEW BOARD.
   Appeals from the Watershed Review Board must be filed with the Superior
Court within 30 days from the date of the decision. The decision by the
Superior Court will be in the manner of certiorari.
(Ord. passed 6-18-10)
STORMWATER REGULATIONS FOR NEW DEVELOPMENT; ILLICIT DISCHARGE DETECTION AND
ELIMINATION
Division 1. General Provisions  
§ 53.100 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be officially known as “The Falls Watershed, Water
Supply Watershed and NPDES Phase II Stormwater Ordinance for New Development.”
It is referred to herein as “this subchapter.”
(Ord. passed 6-12-12)
§ 53.101 AUTHORITY.
   The City of Roxboro is authorized to adopt this subchapter pursuant to North
Carolina law, including but not limited to Article 14, Section 5 of the
Constitution of North Carolina; G.S. § 143-214.7 and rules promulgated by the
Environmental Management Commission thereunder; Chapter 143-215.6A; Chapter
153A-454; Chapter 160A, §§ 174,185, 459; as well as Chapter 113A, Article 21,
Part 6, Floodway Regulation.
(Ord. passed 6-12-12)
§ 53.102 FINDINGS.
   (A)   It is hereby determined that:
      (1)   Development and redevelopment alter the hydrologic response of
local watersheds and increases stormwater runoff rates and volumes, flooding,
soil erosion, stream channel erosion, nonpoint and point source pollution, and
sediment transport and deposition, as well as reducing groundwater recharge;
      (2)   These changes in stormwater runoff contribute to increased
quantities of water-borne pollutants and alterations in hydrology that are
harmful to public health and safety as well as to the natural environment; and
      (3)   These effects can be managed and minimized by applying proper
design and well-planned controls to manage stormwater runoff from development
sites.
   (B)   Further, the Commission has identified Falls of Neuse reservoir, a
water supply reservoir, as nutrient sensitive waters; has identified all or a
portion of the reservoir as impaired waters under the federal Clean Water Act
due to exceedanccs of the chlorophyll a standard; and has promulgated rules
(the “Falls Rules”) to reduce the average annual loads of nitrogen and
phosphorus delivered to Falls Reservoir from all point and nonpoint sources of
these nutrients located within its watershed, including stormwater from new
development in this jurisdiction;
   (C)   Further, the Federal Water Pollution Control Act of 1972 (“Clean Water
Act”) and federal Phase II Stormwater Rules promulgated under it, as well as
rules of the North Carolina Environmental Management Commission promulgated in
response to federal Phase IT requirements, compel certain urbanized areas,
including this jurisdiction, to adopt the minimum stormwater controls such as
those included in this subchapter.
   (D)   Therefore, the City of Roxboro City Council establishes this set of
water quality and quantity regulations to meet the requirements of state and
federal law regarding control of stormwater runoff and discharge for
development.
(Ord. passed 6-12-12)
§ 53.103 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to protect, maintain and enhance the
public health, safety, environment and general welfare by establishing minimum
requirements and procedures to control the adverse effects of increased
stormwater runoff, nitrogen and phosphorus in stormwater runoff and nonpoint
and point source pollution associated with new development and redevelopment in
the City of Roxboro corporate limits. It has been determined that proper
management of construction-related and post-development stormwater runoff will
minimize damage to public and private property and infrastructure; safeguard
the public health, safety, and general welfare; and protect water and aquatic
resources.
   (B)   This subchapter seeks to meet its general purpose through the
following specific objectives and means:
      (1)   Establishing decision-making processes for development that
protects the integrity of watersheds and preserve the health of water
resources;
      (2)   Requiring that new development and redevelopment maintain the pre-
development hydrologic response in their post-development state for the
applicable design storm to reduce flooding, streambank erosion, nonpoint and
point source pollution and increases in stream temperature, and to maintain the
integrity of stream channels and aquatic habitats;
      (3)   Establishing minimum post-development stormwater management
standards and design criteria for the regulation and control of stormwater
runoff quantity and quality;
      (4)   Establishing design and review criteria for the construction,
function, and use of structural stormwater BMPs that may be used to meet the
minimum post-development stormwater management standards;
      (5)   Encouraging the use of better management and site design practices,
such as the use of vegetated conveyances for stormwater and the preservation of
greenspace, riparian buffers and other conservation areas to the maximum extent
practicable;
      (6)   Establishing provisions for the long-term responsibility for and
maintenance of structural and nonstructural stormwater BMPs to ensure that they
continue to function as designed, are maintained appropriately, and pose no
threat to public safety;
      (7)   Establishing administrative procedures for the submission, review,
approval and disapproval of stormwater management plans, for the inspection of
approved projects, and to assure appropriate long-term maintenance.
      (8)   Controlling illicit discharges into the municipal separate
stormwater system.
(Ord. passed 6-12-12)
§ 53.104 APPLICABILITY AND JURISDICTION.
   (A)   General. Beginning with and subsequent to its effective date, this
subchapter shall be applicable to all development and redevelopment, including,
but not limited to, site plan applications, subdivision applications, and
grading applications, within the corporate and extra territorial jurisdictional
limits unless exempt pursuant to this subchapter.
   (B)   Exemptions.
      (1)   Single-family and duplex residential and recreational development
and redevelopment that cumulatively disturbs less than one-half acre in the
Falls Lake Watershed or one acre within the rest of the City's jurisdiction or
docs not increase the built upon area of the site and is not part of a larger
common plan of development or sale is exempt from the provisions of this
subchapter. This exemption does not exist for the Water Supply Watershed
Standards within the city’s jurisdiction.
      (2)   Commercial, industrial, institutional, multifamily residential or
local government development and redevelopment that cumulatively disturbs less
than 12,000 square feet in the Falls Lake Watershed or one acre within the rest
of the city’s jurisdiction or does not increase the built upon area of the site
and is not part of a larger common plan of development or sale is exempt from
the provisions of this subchapter. This exemption does not exist for the Water
Supply Watershed Standards within the city’s jurisdiction.
      (3)   Development and redevelopment that disturbs less than the above
thresholds are not exempt if such activities are part of a larger common plan
of development or sale and the larger common plan exceeds the relevant
threshold, even though multiple, separate or distinct activities take place at
different times on different schedules.
      (4)   Development that is exempt from permit requirements of Section 404
of the federal Clean Water Act as specified in 40 CFR 232 (primarily, ongoing
farming and forestry activities) are exempt from the provisions of this
subchapter.
      (5)   Redevelopment projects that are exempt from this subchapter must
provide equal or greater stormwater control than the previous development.
      (6)   All subdivisions must be reviewed by the Stormwater Administrator
prior to recording by the Register of Deeds to determine whether or not the
property/project is subject to this subchapter.
   (C)   No development of redevelopment until compliance and permit. No
development or redevelopment shall occur except in compliance with the
provisions of this subchapter or unless exempted. No development or
redevelopment for which a permit is required pursuant to this subchapter shall
occur except in compliance with the provisions, conditions, and limitations of
the permit.
   (D)   Map.  
      (1)   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply within the areas
designated on the map titled “Stormwater Map of City of Roxboro, North
Carolina” (“the Stormwater Map”), which is adopted simultaneously herewith. The
stormwater map and all explanatory matter contained thereon accompanies and is
hereby made a part of this subchapter. The stormwater map will contain two
different designations, within Falls Lake watershed and outside of Falls Lake
Watershed. Falls Lake and Water Supply Watershed standards will apply within
the Falls Lake watershed and the Phase II standards will apply to all areas of
the map.
      (2)   The stormwater map shall be kept on file by the Stormwater
Administrator and shall be updated to take into account changes in the land
area covered by this subchapter and the geographic location of all engineered
stormwater control permitted under this chapter. In the event of a dispute, the
applicability of this subchapter to a particular area of land or BMP shall be
determined by reference to the North Carolina Statutes, the North Carolina
Administrative Code, and local zoning and jurisdictional boundary ordinances.
(Ord. passed 6-12-12)
§ 53.105 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Meaning and intent. All provisions, terms, phrases, and expressions
contained in this subchapter shall be construed according to the general and
specific purposes set forth in §
53.103. If a different or more specific meaning is given for a term defined
elsewhere in the City of Roxboro Code of Ordinances, the meaning and
application of the term in this subchapter shall control for purposes of
application of this subchapter.
   (B)   Text controls in event of conflict. In the event of a conflict or
inconsistency between the text of this subchapter and any heading, caption,
figure, illustration, table, or map, the text shall control.
   (C)   Authority for interpretation. The Stormwater Administrator has
authority to determine the interpretation of this subchapter. Any person may
request an interpretation by submitting a written request to the Stormwater
Administrator, who shall respond in writing within 30 days. The Stormwater
Administrator shall keep on file a record of all written interpretations of
this subchapter.
   (D)   References to statutes, regulations, and documents. Whenever reference
is made to a resolution, ordinance, statute, regulation, manual (including the
Design Manual), or document, it shall be construed as a reference to the most
recent edition of such that has been finalized and published with due provision
tor notice and comment, unless otherwise specifically stated.
   (E)   Computation of time. The time in which an act is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first day and including the last day. If a deadline
or required date of action falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or holiday observed by
the City of Roxboro, the deadline or required date of action shall be the next
day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or holiday observed by the City of Roxboro.
References to days are calendar days unless otherwise stated.
   (F)   Delegation of authority. Any act authorized by this subchapter to be
carried out by the Stormwater Administrator of City of Roxboro may be carried
out by his or her designee.
   (G)   Usage.
      (1)   Mandatory and discretionary terms. The words “shall,” “must,” and
“will” are mandatory in nature, establishing an obligation or duty to comply
with the particular provision. The words “may” and "should" are permissive in
nature.
      (2)   Conjunctions. Unless the context clearly indicates the contrary,
conjunctions shall be interpreted as follows: the word “and” indicates that all
connected items, conditions, provisions and events apply. The word “or”
indicates that one or more of the connected items, conditions, provisions or
events apply.
      (3)   Tense, plurals, and gender. Words used in the present tense include
the future tense. Words used in the singular number include the plural number
and the plural number includes the singular number, unless the context of the
particular usage clearly indicates otherwise. Words used in the masculine
gender include the feminine gender, and vice versa.
   (H)   Measurement and computation. Lot area refers to the amount of
horizontal land area contained inside the lot lines of a lot or site.
(Ord. passed 6-12-12)
§ 53.106 DESIGN MANUAL.
   (A)   Reference to design manual.
      (1)   The Stormwater Administrator shall use the policy, criteria, and
information, including technical specifications and standards, in the Design
Manual as the basis for decisions about stormwater permits and about the
design, implementation and performance of engineered stormwater controls and
other practices for compliance with this subchapter.
      (2)   The Design Manual includes a list of acceptable stormwater
treatment practices, including specific design criteria for each stormwater
practice. Stormwater treatment practices that are designed, constructed, and
maintained in accordance with these design and sizing criteria will be presumed
to meet the minimum water quality performance standards of the Falls Rules.
   (B)   Relationship of design manual to other laws and regulations. If the
specifications or guidelines of the Design Manual are more restrictive or apply
a higher standard than other laws or regulations, that fact shall not prevent
application of the specifications or guidelines in the Design Manual.
   (C)   Changes to standards and specifications. If the standards,
specifications, guidelines, policies, criteria, or other information in the
Design Manual are amended subsequent to the submittal of an application for
approval pursuant to this subchapter but prior to approval, the new information
may control and may be utilized in reviewing the application and in
implementing this subchapter with regard to the application. This decision will
be made by the Stormwater Administrator.
   (D)   Amendments to design manual.
      (1)   The Design Manual may be updated and expanded from time to time,
based on advancements in technology and engineering, improved knowledge of
local conditions, or local monitoring or maintenance experience.
      (2)   Prior to amending or updating the Design Manual, proposed changes
shall be generally publicized and made available for review, and an opportunity
for comment by interested persons shall be provided.
   (E)   Design Manual vs. NC DENR BMP Manual. The Design Manual shall be as
stringent or more so than the North Carolina Department of Environment and
Natural Resources-Division of Water Quality’s Manual of Stormwater Best
Management Practices.
(Ord. passed 6-12-12)
§ 53.107 RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER LAWS, REGULATIONS AND PRIVATE AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   Conflict of laws. This subchapter is not intended to modify or repeal
any other ordinance, rule, regulation or other provision of law. The
requirements of this subchapter are in addition to the requirements of any
other ordinance, rule, regulation or other provision of law. Where any
provision of this subchapter imposes restrictions different from those imposed
by any other ordinance, rule, regulation or other provision of law, whichever
provision is more restrictive or imposes higher protective standards for human
or environmental health, safety, and welfare shall control.
   (B)   Private agreements. This subchapter is not intended to revoke or
repeal any easement, covenant, or other private agreement. However, where the
regulations of this subchapter are more restrictive or impose higher standards
or requirements than such an easement, covenant, or other private agreement,
the requirements of this subchapter shall govern. Nothing in this subchapter
shall modify or repeal any private covenant or deed restriction, but such
covenant or restriction shall not legitimize any failure to comply with this
subchapter. In no case shall City of Roxboro be obligated to enforce the
provisions of any easements, covenants, or agreements between private parties.
(Ord. passed 6-12-12)
§ 53.108 DEFINITIONS.
   When used in this subchapter, the following words and terms shall have the
meaning set forth in this section, unless other provisions of this subchapter
specifically indicate otherwise.
   1-YEAR, 24-HOUR STORM. The surface runoff resulting from a 24-hour rainfall
of an intensity expected to be equaled or exceeded, on average, once in 12
months and with a duration of 24 hours.
   10-YEAR, 24-HOUR STORM. The surface runoff resulting from a 24-hour rainfall
of an intensity  expected to be equaled or exceeded, on average, once in 10
years and with a duration of 24 hours.
   100-YEAR, 24-HOUR STORM. The surface runoff resulting from a 24-hour
rainfall of an intensity expected to be equaled or exceeded, on average, once
in 100 years and with a duration of 24 hours.
   APPROVED ACCOUNTING TOOL. The accounting tool for nutrient loading approved
by the EMC for the relevant geography and development type under review.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP). A structural or nonstructural management-
based practice used singularly or in combination to reduce non-point source
inputs to receiving waters in order to achieve water quality protection goals.
   BUFFER. An area of natural or planted vegetation through which storm water
runoff flows in a diffuse manner so that the runoff does not become channelized
and which provides for infiltration of the runoff and filtering of pollutants.
The BUFFER is measured landward from the normal pool elevation of impounded
structures and from the bank of each side of streams or rivers.
   BUILDING. Any structure having a roof supported by columns or by walls and
intended for shelter, housing or enclosure of persons, animals or property. The
connection of two buildings by means of an open porch, breezeway, passageway,
carport or other such open structure, with or without a roof, shall not be
deemed to make them a building.
   BUILT-UPON AREA (BUA). That portion of a development project that is covered
by impervious or partially impervious surface including, but not limited to,
buildings; pavement and gravel areas such as roads, parking lots, and paths;
and recreation facilities such as tennis courts. BUILT-UPON AREA does not
include a wooden slatted deck, the water area of a swimming pool, or pervious
or partially pervious paving material to the extent that the paving material
absorbs water or allows water to infiltrate through the paving material. The
project site or area must exclude any land adjacent to the area disturbed by
the project  that has been counted as pervious by any other development
regulated under a federal, state or local stormwater regulation.
   CLUSTER DEVELOPMENTS. The grouping of buildings in order to conserve land
resources and provide for innovations in the design of the project. This term
includes nonresidential development as well as single-family residential
development subdivisions and multi-family developments that do not involve the
subdivision of land.
   COMMISSION. The North Carolina Environmental Management Commission, in the
Department.
   COMPOSTING FACILITY. A facility in which only stumps, limbs, leaves, grass
and untreated wood collected from land clearing or landscaping operations is
deposited.
   CRITICAL AREA. The area adjacent to a water supply intake or reservoir where
risk associated with pollution is greater than from the remaining portions of
the watershed. The CRITICAL AREA is defined as extending either one-half mile
from the normal pool elevation of the reservoir in which the intake is located
or to the ridge line of the watershed (whichever comes first); or one-half mile
upstream from the intake located directly in the stream of river (run-of-the-
river) or the ridge line of watershed (whichever comes first). Local
governments may extend the critical area as needed. Major landmarks such as
highways or property lines may be used to delineate the outer boundary of the
critical area if these landmarks are immediately adjacent to the appropriate
outer boundary of one-half mile.
   CUSTOMARY HOME OCCUPATIONS. Any use conducted entirely within a dwelling and
carried on by the occupants thereof, which use is clearly incidental and
secondary to the use of the dwelling for residential purposes and does not
change the character thereof. Provided further, that no mechanical equipment is
installed or used except as is normally used for domestic or professional
purposes and that not over 50% of the area of one floor of the dwelling is used
for the occupation. No home occupation shall  be conducted in any accessory
building except for the storage and service of a vehicle that is driven off-
site, such as a service repair truck and the like.
   DEPARTMENT. The North Carolina Department of Environment and Natural
Resources.
   DESIGN MANUAL. The stormwater design manual approved for use in this part of
the Falls Watershed by the Department for the proper implementation of the
requirements of the Falls Watershed stormwater program. All references herein
to the DESIGN MANUAL are to the latest published edition or revision.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any land-disturbing activity that increases the amount of
built-upon area or that otherwise decreases the infiltration of precipitation
into the soil.
   DISCHARGE LANDFILLS. A facility with liners, monitoring equipment and other
measures to detect and/or prevent leachate from entering the environment to a
receiving stream.
   DIVISION. The Division of Water Quality in the Department.
   DWELLING UNIT. A building, or portion thereof, providing complete permanent
living facilities for one family.
   ENGINEERED STORMWATER CONTROL. A physical device designed to trap, settle
out, or filter pollutants from stormwater runoff; to alter or reduce stormwater
runoff velocity, amount, timing, or other characteristics; to approximate the
pre-development hydrology on a developed site; or to achieve any combination of
these goals. ENGINEERED STORMWATER CONTROL includes physical practices such as
constructed wetlands, vegetative practices, filter strips, grassed swales, and
other methods installed or created on real property. ENGINEERED STORMWATER
CONTROL is synonymous with “structural practice,” “stormwater control
facility,” “stormwater control practice,” “stormwater treatment practice,”
“stormwater management practice,” “stormwater control measures,” “structural
stormwater treatment systems,” and similar terms used in this subchapter. It is
a broad term that may include practices that do not require design by a
professionally licensed engineer.
   EXISTING DEVELOPMENT. Development not otherwise exempted by this subchapter
that meets one of the following criteria:
      (1)   It either is built or has established a statutory or common-law
vested right as of the effective date of this subchapter; or
      (2)   It occurs after the effective date of this subchapter, but does not
result in a net increase in built-upon area and does not decrease the
infiltration of precipitation into the soil.
   EXISTING DEVELOPMENT FOR WATER SUPPLY WATERSHED STANDARDS. Those projects
that are built or those projects that at a minimum have established a vested
right under North Carolina zoning law as of the effective date of this
subchapter based on at least one of the following criteria:
      (1)   Substantial expenditures of resources (time, labor, money) based on
a good faith reliance upon having received a valid local government approval to
proceed with the project;
      (2)   Having an outstanding valid building permit as authorized by G.S. §
160A-385.1; or
      (3)   Having expended substantial resources (time, labor, money) and
having an approved site-specific or phased-development plan as authorized by
G.S. § 160A-385.1.
   EXISTING LOT (LOT-OF-RECORD). A lot which is part of a subdivision, a plat
of which has been recorded in the office of the Register of Deeds prior to the
adoption of this chapter, or a lot described by metes and bounds, the
description of which has been so recorded prior to the adoption of this
subchapter.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIAL. Any substance listed as such in: Superfund Amendments
and Reauthorization Act (SARA) § 302, being 42 USC 11002, Extremely Hazardous
Substances, Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act
(CERCLA), being 42 USC 9601, or § 311 of the Clean Water Act (CAVA), being 33
UCS 1321, Oil and Hazardous Substances.
   INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT. Any nonresidential development that requires a NPDES
permit for an industrial discharge and/or requires the use or storage of any
hazardous material for the purpose of manufacturing, assembling, finishing,
cleaning or developing any product or commodity.
   LAND DISTURBING ACTIVITY. Any use of the land that results in a change in
the natural cover or topography that may cause or contribute to sedimentation.
   LANDFILL. A facility for the disposal of solid waste on land in a sanitary
manner in accordance with G.S. Chapter 130 A, Article 9. For the purpose of
this subchapter, this term does not include composting facilities.
   LARGER COMMON PLAN OF DEVELOPMENT OR SALE.  Any area where multiple separate
and distinct construction or land-disturbing activities will occur under one
plan. A plan is any announcement or piece of documentation (including but not
limited to a sign, public notice or hearing, sales pitch, advertisement, loan
application, drawing, permit application, zoning request, or computer design)
or physical demarcation (including but not limited to boundary signs, lot
stakes, or surveyor markings) indicating that construction activities may occur
on a specific plot.
   LOT. A parcel of land occupied or capable of being occupied by a building or
group of buildings devoted to a common use, together with the customary
accessories and open spaces belonging to the same.
   MAJOR VARIANCE. A variance from the minimum statewide watershed protection
or Falls rules  that results in the relaxation, by a factor greater than five
percent of any buffer, density or built-upon area requirement under the high
density option; any variation in the design, maintenance or operation
requirements of a wet detention pond or other approved stormwater management
system; or relaxation by a factor greater than 10%, of any management
requirement under the low density option. For provisions in this subchapter
that are more stringent than the state’s minimum water supply protection rules
and Falls rules, a variance to this subchapter is not considered a major
variance as long as the result of the variance is not less stringent than the
state’s minimum requirements.
   MINOR VARIANCE. A variance from the minimum standards or Falls rules that
results in a relaxation, by a factor of up to 5% of any buffer, density or
built-upon area requirement under the high density option (or the Falls Lake
standards); or that results in a relaxation by a factor up to 10%, of any
management requirement under the low density option.
   NON-RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT. All development other than residential
development, agricultural and silviculture.
   OUTFALL. A point at which stormwater (1) enters surface water or (2) exits
the property of a particular owner.
   OWNER. The legal or beneficial owner of land, including but not limited to a
mortgagee or vendee in possession, receiver, executor, trustee, or long-term or
commercial lessee, or any other person or entity holding proprietary rights in
the property or having legal power of management and control of the property.
OWNER shall include long-term commercial tenants; management entities, such as
those charged with or engaged in the management of properties for profit; and
every person or entity having joint ownership of the property. A secured lender
not in possession of the property does not constitute an owner, unless the
secured lender is included within the meaning of OWNER under another
description in this definition, such as a management entity.
   PERSON. Includes, without limitation, individuals, firms, partnerships,
associations, institutions, corporations, municipalities and other political
subdivisions, and governmental agencies.
   REDEVELOPMENT. Any development on previously-developed land. Redevelopment
of structures or improvements that (1) existed prior to December 2006 and (2)
would not result in an increase in built-upon area and (3) provides stormwater
control at least equal to the previous development is not required to meet the
nutrient loading targets of this subchapter.
   SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL. Any development where:
      (1)   No building contains more than one dwelling unit;
      (2)   Every dwelling unit is on a separate lot; and
      (3)   Where no lot contains more than one dwelling unit.
   STORMWATER SYSTEM. All engineered stormwater controls owned or controlled by
a person that drain to the same outfall, along with the conveyances between
those controls. A system may be made up of one or more stormwater controls.
   STREET (ROAD). A right-of-way for vehicular traffic which affords the
principal means of access to abutting properties.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, including, but not limited to
buildings, which requires location on the land or attachment to something
having permanent location on the land.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person, firm or corporation who subdivides or develops any
land deemed to be a  subdivision location on the land.
   SUBDIVISION. All divisions of a tract or parcel of land into two or more
lots, building sites or other divisions for the purpose of sale or building
development (whether immediate or future), and shall include all divisions of
land involving the dedication of a new street or a change in existing streets,
but the following shall not be included within this definition, nor be subject
to the regulations authorized by this subchapter:
      (1)   The combination or recombination of portions of previously
subdivided and recorded lots where the total number of lots is not increased
and the building, pavement, gravel roads, recreation facilities (for example,
tennis courts) and the like. Note: Wooden slatted decks and the water area of a
swimming pool are considered pervious.
      (2)   The division of land into parcels greater than ten acres where no
street right-of-way dedication is involved.
      (3)   The public acquisition by purchase of strips of land for the
widening or opening of streets.
      (4)   The division of a tract in single ownership whose entire area is no
greater than two acres into not more than three lots, where no street right of
way dedication is involved and where the resultant lots are equal to or exceed
the standards of this subchapter.
      (5)   The division of a tract into plots or lots used as a cemetery.
   SUBSTANTIAL PROGRESS. For the purposes of determining whether sufficient
progress has been made on an approved plan, one or more of the following
construction activities toward the completion of a site or subdivision plan
shall occur: obtaining a grading permit and conducting grading activity on a
continuous basis and not discontinued for more than 30 days; or installation
and approval of on-site infrastructure; or obtaining a building permit for the
construction and approval of a building foundation. SUBSTANTIAL PROGRESS for
purposes of determining whether an approved plan is null and void is not
necessarily the same as “substantial expenditures” used for determining vested
rights pursuant to applicable law.
   TOXIC SUBSTANCE. Any substance or combination of substances (including
disease-causing agents), which after discharge and upon exposure, ingestion,
inhalation or assimilation into any organism, either directly from the
environment or indirectly by ingestion through food chains, has the potential
to cause death, disease, behavioral abnormalities, cancer, genetic mutations,
physiological malfunctions, (including malfunctions or suppression in
reproduction or growth) or physical deformities in such organisms or their
offspring or other adverse heath effects.
   WATER-DEPENDENT STRUCTURE. Any structure for which the use requires access
to or proximity to or sitting within surface waters to fulfill its basic
purpose, such as boat ramps, boat houses, docks, and bulkheads. Ancillary
facilities such as restaurants, outlets for boat supplies, parking lots and
commercial boat storage area are not water dependent structures.
   WATERSHED. The entire land area contributing surface drainage to a specific
point (for example, the water supply intake.)
(Ord. passed 6-12-12)
§ 53.109 SEVERABILITY.
   If the provisions of any section, subsection, paragraph, subdivision or
clause of this subchapter shall be adjudged invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, such judgment shall not affect or invalidate the remainder of any
section, subsection, paragraph, subdivision or clause of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 6-12-12)
§ 53.110 EFFECTIVE DATE AND TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Effective Date. This subchapter shall take effect on July 1. 2012.
   (B)   Final approvals, complete applications. 
      (1)   All development mid redevelopment projects for which complete and
full applications were submitted and approved by the City of Roxboro prior to
the effective date of this subchapter and which remain valid, unexpired,
unrevoked and not otherwise terminated at the time of development shall be
exempt from complying with all provisions of this subchapter dealing with the
control and/or management of stormwater.
      (2)   A phased development plan shall be deemed approved prior to the
effective date of this subchapter if it has been approved by all necessary
government units, it remains valid, unexpired, unrevoked and not otherwise
terminated, and it shows:
         (a)   For the initial or first phase of development or redevelopment,
the type and intensity of use for a specific parcel or parcels, including at a
minimum, the boundaries of the project and a subdivision plan that has been
approved.
         (b)   For any subsequent phase of development or redevelopment,
sufficient detail so that implementation of the requirements of this subchapter
to that phase of development would require a material change in that phase of
the plan.
   (C)   Violations continue. Any violation of provisions existing on the
effective date of this subchapter shall continue to be a violation under this
subchapter and be subject to penalties and enforcement under this subchapter
unless the use, development, construction, or other activity complies with the
provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 6-12-12)
Division 2. Administration and Procedures
§ 53.120 REVIEW AND DECISION-MAKING ENTITIES.
   (A)   Stormwater Administrator.
      (1)   Designation. A Stormwater Administrator shall be designated by the
City of Roxboro City Manager to administer and enforce this subchapter.
      (2)   Powers and duties. In addition to the powers and duties that may be
conferred by other provisions of the City of Roxboro Code of Ordinances and
other laws, the Stormwater Administrator shall have the following powers and
duties under this subchapter:
         (a)   To review and approve, approve with conditions, or disapprove
applications for approval of plans pursuant to this subchapter.
         (b)   To make determinations and render interpretations of this
subchapter.
         (c)   To establish application requirements and schedules for
submittal and review of applications and appeals, to review and make
recommendations to the City of Roxboro City Council on applications for
development or redevelopment approvals.
         (d)   To enforce the provisions of this subchapter in accordance with
its enforcement provisions.
         (e)   To maintain records, maps, forms and other official materials as
relate to the adoption, amendment, enforcement, and administration of this
subchapter.
         (f)   To provide expertise and technical assistance to the City of
Roxboro City Council, upon request.
         (g)   To designate appropriate other person(s) who shall carry out the
powers and duties of the Stormwater Administrator.
         (h)   To take any other action necessary to administer the provisions
of this subchapter.
         (i)   To keep records of all reviews and actions generated by and
associated with this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 6-12-12)
§ 53.121 REVIEW PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Permit required; must apply for permit. A stormwater permit is
required for all development and redevelopment unless exempt pursuant to this
subchapter. A permit may only be issued subsequent to a properly submitted and
reviewed permit application, pursuant to this section. A permit is required
prior to a certificate of occupancy being issued and executed on a property.
   (B)   Effect of permit.
      (1)   A stormwater permit shall govern the design, installation, and
construction of stormwater management and control practices on the site,
including engineered stormwater controls and elements of site design for
stormwater management other than engineered stormwater controls.
      (2)   The permit is intended to provide a mechanism for the review,
approval, and inspection of the approach to be used tor the management and
control of stormwater for the development or redevelopment site consistent with
the requirements of this subchapter, whether the approach consists of
engineered stormwater controls or other techniques such as low-impact or low-
density design. The permit does not continue in existence indefinitely after
the completion of the project; rather, compliance after project construction is
assured by the maintenance provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   Authority to file applications. All applications required pursuant to
this code shall be submitted to the Stormwater Administrator by the land owner
of the land owners duly authorized agent.
   (D)   Establishment of application requirements, schedule, and fees.
      (1)   Application contents and form. The Stormwater Administrator shall
establish requirements for the content and form of all applications and shall
amend and update those requirements from time to time. At a minimum, the
stormwater permit application shall describe in detail how post-development
stormwater runoff will be controlled and managed, the design of all stormwater
facilities and practices, and how the proposed project will meet the
requirements of this subchapter.
      (2)   Submission schedule. The Stormwater Administrator shall establish a
submission schedule for applications. The schedule shall establish deadlines by
which complete applications must be submitted for the purpose of ensuring-that
there is adequate time to review applications; and that the various stages in
the review process are accommodated.
      (3)   Permit review fees. The City of Roxboro shall establish permit
review fees as well as policies regarding refund of any fees upon withdrawal of
an application, and may amend and update the fees and policies from time to
time.
      (4)   Administrative Manual. For applications required under this Code,
the Stormwater Administrator shall compile the application requirements,
submission schedule, fee schedule, a copy of this subchapter, and information
on how and where to obtain the Design Manual in an Administrative Manual, which
shall be made available to the public.
   (E)   Submittal of complete application.  
      (1)   Applications shall be submitted to the Stormwater Administrator
pursuant to the application submittal schedule in the form established by the
Stormwater Administrator, along with the appropriate fee established pursuant
to this section.
      (2)   An application shall be considered as timely submitted only when it
contains all elements of a complete application pursuant to this subchapter,
along with the appropriate fee. If the Stormwater Administrator finds that an
application is incomplete, the applicant shall be notified of the deficient
elements and shall be provided with an opportunity to submit a complete
application. However, the submittal of an incomplete application shall not
suffice to meet a deadline contained in the submission schedule established
above.
   (F)   Review. Within 15 working days after a complete application is
submitted, the Stormwater Administrator shall review the application and
determine whether the application complies with the standards of this
subchapter.
      (1)   Approval. If the Stormwater Administrator finds that the
application complies with the standards of this subchapter, the Stormwater
Administrator shall approve the application. The Stormwater Administrator may
impose conditions of approval as needed to ensure compliance with this
subchapter. The conditions shall be included as part of the approval.
      (2)   Fails to comply. If the Stormwater Administrator finds that the
application fails to comply with the standards of this subchapter, the
Stormwater Administrator shall notify the applicant and shall indicate how the
application fails to comply. The applicant shall have an opportunity to submit
a revised application.
      (3)   Revision and subsequent review.
         (a)   A complete revised application shall be reviewed by the
Stormwater Administrator within 15 working days after its re-submittal and
shall be approved, approved with conditions or disapproved.
         (b)   If a revised application is not resubmitted within 30 calendar
days from the date the applicant was notified, the application shall be
considered withdrawn, and a new submittal for the same or substantially the
same project shall be required along with the appropriate fee for a new
submittal.
         (c)   One re-submittal of a revised application may be submitted
without payment of an additional permit review fee. Any re-submittal after the
first re-submittal shall be accompanied by a permit review fee additional fee,
as established pursuant to this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 6-12-12)
§ 53.122 APPLICATIONS FOR APPROVAL.
   (A)   Concept plan and consultation meeting.
      (1)   Before a stormwater management permit application is deemed
complete, the Stormwater Administrator or developer may request a consultation
on a concept plan for the post-construction stormwater management system to be
utilized in the proposed development project. This consultation meeting should
take place at the time of the preliminary plan of subdivision or other early
step in the development process. The purpose of this meeting is to discuss the
stormwater management measures necessary for the proposed project, as well as
to discuss and assess constraints, opportunities and potential approaches to
stormwater management designs before formal site design engineering is
commenced. Local watershed plans and other relevant resource protection plans
should be consulted in the discussion of the concept plan.
      (2)   To accomplish this goal, the following information should be
included in the concept plan, which should be submitted in advance of the
meeting:
         (a)   Existing conditions/proposed site plans. Existing conditions and
proposed site layout sketch plans, which illustrate at a minimum: existing and
proposed topography; perennial and intermittent streams; mapping of predominant
soils from soil surveys (if available); stream and other buffers and features
used in designing buffers and meeting any applicable buffer requirements;
boundaries of existing predominant vegetation; proposed limits of clearing and
grading; and location of existing and proposed roads, buildings, parking areas
and other impervious surfaces.
         (b)   Natural resources inventory. A written or graphic inventory of
natural resources at the site and surrounding area as it exists prior to the
commencement of the project. This description should include a discussion of
soil conditions, forest cover, geologic features, topography, wetlands, and
native vegetative areas on the site, as well as the location and boundaries of
other natural feature protection and conservation areas such as lakes, ponds,
floodplains, stream buffers and other setbacks (e.g., drinking water well
setbacks, septic setbacks, etc.). Particular attention should be paid to
environmentally sensitive features that provide particular opportunities or
constraints for development and stormwater management.
         (c)   Stormwater Management System Concept Plan. A written or graphic
concept plan of the proposed post-development stormwater management system
including: preliminary selection and location of proposed engineered stormwater
controls; low-impact design elements; location of existing and proposed
conveyance systems such as grass channels, swales, and storm drains; flow
paths; location of floodplain/floodway limits; relationship of site to upstream
and downstream properties and drainages; and preliminary location of any
proposed stream channel modifications, such as bridge or culvert crossings.
   (B)   Stormwater management permit application.
      (1)   The stormwater management permit application shall detail how post-
development stormwater runoff will be controlled and managed and how the
proposed project will meet the requirements of this subchapter, including §§
53.130 through
53.138. All such plans shall be prepared by a qualified registered North
Carolina professional engineer, surveyor, soil scientist or landscape
architect, and the engineer, surveyor, soil scientist or landscape architect
shall perform services only in their area of competence, and shall verify that
the design of all stormwater management facilities and practices meets the
submittal requirements for complete applications, that the designs and plans
arc sufficient to comply with applicable standards and policies found in the
Design Manual, and that the designs and plans ensure compliance with this
subchapter.
      (2)   The submittal shall include all of the information required in the
submittal checklist established by the Stormwater Administrator. Incomplete
submittals shall be treated pursuant to §
53.121(D).
   (C)   As-built plans and final approval.
      (1)   The plans shall show the final design specifications for upon
completion of a project, and before a certificate of occupancy shall be
granted, the applicant shall certify that the completed project is in
accordance with the approved stormwater management plans and designs, and shall
submit actual “as built”plans for all stormwater management facilities or
practices after final construction is completed.
      (2)   The plans shall show the final design specifications for all
stormwater management facilities and practices and the field location, size,
depth, and planted vegetation of all measures, controls, and devices, as
installed. The designer of the stormwater management measures and plans shall
certify, under seal, that the as-built stormwater measures, controls, and
devices are in compliance with the approved stormwater management plans and
designs and with the requirements of this subchapter. A final inspection and
approval by the Stormwater Administrator shall occur before the release of any
performance securities.
   (D)   Other permits. No certificate of compliance or occupancy shall be
issued by the City of Roxboro without final as-built plans and a final
inspection and approval by the Stormwater Administrator, except where multiple
units are served by the stormwater practice or facilities, in which case the
City of Roxboro may elect to withhold a percentage of permits or certificates
of occupancy until as-built plans are submitted and final inspection and
approval has occurred.
(Ord. passed 6-12-12)
§ 53.123 APPROVALS.
   (A)   Effect of approval. Approval authorizes the applicant to go forward
with only the specific plans and activities authorized in the permit. The
approval shall not be construed to exempt the applicant from obtaining other
applicable approvals from local, state, and federal authorities.
   (B)   Time limit/expiration.
      (1)   An approved plan shall become null and void if the applicant fails
to make substantial progress on the site within one year after the date of
approval. The Stormwater Administrator may grant a single, one-year extension
of this time limit, for good cause shown, upon receiving a written request from
the applicant before the expiration of the approved plan.
      (2)   In granting an extension, the Stormwater Administrator may require
compliance with standards adopted since the original application was submitted
unless there has been substantial reliance on the original permit and the
change in standards would infringe the applicant’s vested rights.
(Ord. passed 6-12-12)
§ 53.124 APPEALS.
   (A)   Right of appeal. Any aggrieved person affected by any decision, order,
requirement, or determination relating to the interpretation or application of
this subchapter made by the Stormwater Administrator, may file an appeal to the
Board of Adjustment within 30 days. Appeals of variance requests shall be made
as provided in the section on variances (§
53.138). In the case of requests for review of proposed civil penalties for
violations of this subchapter, the Board of Adjustment shall make a final
decision on the request for review within 90 days of receipt of the date the
request for review is filed.
   (B)   Filing of appeal and procedures.
      (1)   Appeals shall be taken within the specified time period by filing a
notice of appeal and specifying the grounds for appeal on forms provided by
City of Roxboro. The Stormwater Administrator shall transmit to the Board of
Adjustment all documents constituting the record on which the decision appealed
from was taken.
      (2)   The hearing conducted by the Board of Adjustment shall be conducted
in the nature of a quasi-judicial proceeding with all findings of fact
supported by competent, material evidence.
   (C)   Review by Superior Court. Every decision of the Board of Adjustment
shall be subject to Superior Court review by proceedings in the nature of
certiorari. Petition for review by the Superior Court shall be filed with the
Clerk of Superior Court within 30 days after the latter of the following:
      (1)   The decision of the Board of Adjustment is filed; or
      (2)   A written copy of the decision is delivered to every aggrieved
party who has filed a written request for such copy with the Chairman of the
Board of Adjustment at the time of its hearing of the case.
(Ord. passed 6-12-12)
Division 3. Standards
§ 53.130 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   All development and redevelopment to which this subchapter applies
shall comply with the standards of this section. The approval of the stormwater
permit shall require an enforceable restriction on property usage that runs
with the land, such as a recorded deed restriction or protective covenants, to
ensure that future development and redevelopment maintains the site consistent
with the approved project plans.
   (B)   Three types of standards exist in this subchapter: Phase II standards
that apply to the areas within the City of Roxboro that are not within the
Falls Lake Watershed; Falls Lake Watershed standards and Water Supply Watershed
standards that only apply to the areas within the Falls Lake Watershed.
Compliance with the Water Supply Watershed Standards within the Falls Lake
Watershed is considered, by law, compliance with the NPDES Phase II standards.
See the stormwater map to determine which standards apply to specific
properties. Where standards within this subchapter overlap the most stringent
standard shall be applied.
(Ord. passed 6-12-12)
§ 53.131 PHASE II STANDARDS.
   (A)   Development standards for low-density projects. Low-density projects
(no more than two dwelling units per acre or 24% built-upon area for all
residential and non-residential development) shall comply with each of the
following standards:
      (1)   Stormwater conveyance. Stormwater runoff from the development shall
be transported from the development by vegetated conveyances to the maximum
extent practicable.
      (2)   Stream buffers. All built-upon area shall be at a minimum of 30
feet landward of all perennial and intermittent surface waters. A perennial or
intermittent surface water shall be deemed present if the feature is
approximately shown on either the most recent version of the soil survey map
prepared by the Natural Resources Conservation Service of the United States
Department of Agriculture (USDA) or the most recent version of the 1:24,000
scale (7.5 minute) quadrangle topographic maps prepared by the United States
Geologic Survey (USGS). An exception to this requirement may be allowed when
surface waters are not present in accordance with the provisions of 15A NCAC 2B
.0233 (3)(a) or similar site-specific determination made using division-
approved methodology.
      (3)   Density provision. A project with an overall density at or below
the low-density thresholds, but containing areas with a density greater than
the overall project density, may be considered low density as long as the
project meets or exceeds the post-construction model practices for low-density
projects and locates the higher density- in upland areas and away from surface
waters and drainageways to the maximum extent practicable.
      (4)   Restrictions on property use.  The approval of the stormwater
permit shall require an enforceable restriction on property usage that runs
with the land, such as recorded deed restrictions or protective covenants, to
ensure that future development and redevelopment maintains the site consistent
with the approved project plans.
   (B)   Development standards for high-density projects. High-density projects
(any project that exceeds the low density thresholds for dwelling units per
acre or built-upon area) shall implement structural stormwater management
systems that comply with each of the following standards:
      (1)   Treatment volume. The measures shall be designed to control and
treat the stormwater run-off generated by the one inch of rain;
      (2)   Drawdown time. Runoff volume drawdown time shall be a minimum of 48
hours, but not more than 120 hours;
      (3)   Post-development flows. Stormwater shall not leave the project site
at a rate greater than the predevelopment discharge rate for the ten-year, 24-
hour storm;
      (4)   Total suspended solids removal. All structural stormwater treatment
systems used to meet the requirements of the program shall be designed to have
a minimum of 85% average annual removal for Total Suspended Solids (TSS);
      (5)   General design criteria. General engineering design criteria for
all projects shall be in accordance with 15A NCAC 2H -1008(c), as explained in
the Design Manual;
      (6)   Stream buffers. All built-upon area shall be at a minimum of 30
feet landward of all perennial and intermittent surface waters. A surface water
shall be deemed present if the feature is approximately shown on either the
most recent version of the soil survey map prepared by the Natural Resources
Conservation Service of the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) or
the most recent version of the 1:24,000 scale (7.5 minute) quadrangle
topographic maps prepared by the United States Geologic Survey (USGS). An
exception to this requirement may be allowed when surface waters are not
present in accordance with the provisions of 15A NCAC 2B .0233 (3)(a) or
similar site-specific determination made using division-approved methodology.
      (7)   Restrictions on property use. The approval of the stormwater permit
shall require an enforceable restriction on property usage that runs with the
land, such as recorded deed restrictions or protective covenants, to ensure
that future development and redevelopment maintains the site consistent with
the approved project plans.
(Ord. passed 6-12-12)
§ 53.132 FALLS LAKE WATERSHED STANDARDS.
   (A)   Nitrogen and phosphorus loading.
      (1)   Nitrogen and phosphorus loads contributed by the proposed new
development shall not exceed the following unit-area mass loading rates: 2.2
and 0.33 pounds per acre per year for nitrogen and phosphorus, respectively.
      (2)   Notwithstanding 15A NCAC 2B.104(q), redevelopment subject to this
subchapter that would replace or expand existing structures or improvements and
would result in a net increase in built-upon area shall have the option of
either meeting the loading standards identified in division (A) or meeting a
loading rate that achieves the following nutrient loads compared to the
existing development: 40% and 77% reduction for nitrogen and phosphorus,
respectively.
      (3)   The developer shall determine the need for engineered stormwater
controls to meet these loading rate targets by using the approved accounting
tool.
   (B)   Nitrogen and phosphorus standard is supplemental. The nitrogen and
phosphorus loading standards in this subchapter are supplemental to, not
replacements for, stormwater standards otherwise required by federal, state or
local law, including without limitation any riparian buffer requirements
applicable to the location of the development. This includes, without
limitation, the riparian buffer protection requirements of 15A NCAC 2B.0233 and
.0242.
   (C)   TSS removal for high density projects. Projects that exceed two
dwelling units per acre or twenty four percent built upon area for all
residential and non-residential development are considered high density
projects and all structural stormwater treatment systems used to meet the
requirement of the program shall comply with each of the following additional
standards:
      (1)   Total suspended solids removal. All structural stormwater systems
shall be designed to have a minimum of 85% average annual removal for Total
Suspended Solids (TSS) on site;
      (2)   Drawdown time. Runoff volume drawdown time shall be a minimum of 48
hours, but not more than 120 hour;
   (D)   Partial offset of nutrient control requirements.  
      (1)   Development subject to this subchapter shall attain nitrogen and
phosphorus loading rate reductions on-site that meet the following criteria
prior to using an offsite offset measure:
         (a)   Thirty percent or more reduction in both nitrogen and phosphorus
loading from the untreated conditions for any single-family, detached and
duplex residential development disturbing one half acre but less than one acre.
         (b)   Fifty percent or more reduction in both nitrogen and phosphorus
loading from the untreated conditions for any single-family, detached and
duplex residential development disturbing more than one acre.
         (c)   Thirty percent or more reduction in both nitrogen and phosphorus
loading from the untreated condition for other development, including multi-
family residential, commercial and industrial development disturbing 12,000
square feet but less than one acre.
         (d)   Fifty percent or more reduction in both nitrogen and phosphorus
loading from the untreated condition for other development, including multi-
family residential, commercial and industrial development disturbing more than
one acre.
         (e)   Thirty percent or more reduction in both nitrogen and phosphorus
loading from the untreated condition for proposed redevelopment activities in a
designated downtown area that would replace or expand structures or
improvements that existed as of December 2006.
      (2)   A developer subject to this subchapter may achieve the additional
reductions in nitrogen and phosphorus loading required by this subchapter by
making offset payments to the NC Ecosystem Enhancement Program contingent upon
acceptance of payments by that Program. A developer may use an offset option
provided by the City of Roxboro. A developer may propose other offset measures
to the City of Roxboro, including providing his or her own offsite offset or
utilizing a private seller. All offset measures permitted by this subchapter
shall meet the requirements of 15A NCAC 02B .0282 and 15A NCAC 02B .0240.
(Ord. passed 6-12-12)
§ 53.133 WATER SUPPLY WATERSHED STANDARDS.
   (A)   Exemptions from water supply watershed standards.
      (1)   Existing development for water supply watershed standards, as
defined in this subchapter, is not subject to the requirements of the water
supply watershed standards. Expansion to structures classified as existing
development must meet the requirements of this section; however, the built-upon
area of the existing development is not required to be included in the density
calculations for water supply watershed standards.
      (2)   A pre-existing lot owned by an individual prior to the effective
date of this chapter, regardless of whether or not a vested right has been
established, may be developed for single-family residential purposes without
being subject to the restrictions of the water supply watershed standards.
   (B)   General.
      (1)   No subdivision plat of land within the city’s jurisdiction shall be
filed or recorded by the Register of Deeds until it has been approved in
accordance with the provisions of this subchapter. Likewise, the Clerk of
Superior Court shall not order or direct the recording of a plat if the
recording of the plat would be in conflict with this subchapter.
      (2)   The approval of a plat docs not constitute or effect the acceptance
by the city or the public of the dedication of any street or other ground,
easement, right-of-way, public utility line or other public facility shown on
the plat, and shall not be construed to do so.
   (C)   Subdivision application, standards and required improvements.
      (1)   All proposed subdivisions shall be reviewed by the Stormwater
Administrator prior to recording with the Register of Deeds to determine if the
property is subject to this subchapter. Subdivisions that are not subject to
this subchapter may be recorded, provided the Stormwater Administrator initials
the plat. Subdivisions that are subject to this subchapter must comply with the
provisions of this subchapter.
      (2)   All subdivisions shall conform with the mapping requirements
contained in G.S. § 47-30.
      (3)   All subdivisions of land within the jurisdiction of the city after
the effective date of this subchapter shall require a plat to be prepared,
approved and recorded pursuant to this subchapter.
      (4)   All subdivision plats shall comply with the requirements for
recording of the County Register of Deeds.
      (5)   The subdivider shall provide the watershed administrator with
evidence that the plat has been recorded with the Register of Deeds within five
working days of its being recorded.
      (6)   If the Stormwater Administrator approves the application, the
approval shall be indicated on the plat by a certification and the signature of
the Stormwater Administrator.
      (7)   If the Stormwater Administrator disapproves or approves
conditionally the application, the reason for the action shall be stated in
writing for the applicant. The subdivider may make changes and submit a revised
plan which shall constitute a separate request for the purpose of review.
      (8)   All lots shall provide adequate building space in accordance with
the development standards contained within this chapter. Lots which are smaller
than the minimum required for residential lots shall be identified on the plat
as, “Not for residential purposes.”
      (9)   For the purpose of calculating built upon area, total project area
shall include total acreage in the tract on which the project is to be
developed.
      (10)   Where possible, roads shall be located outside of critical areas
and watershed buffer areas. Roads constructed within these areas shall be
designed and constructed so as to minimize their impact on water quality.
   (D)   Construction procedures.
      (1)   No construction or installation of improvements shall commence in a
proposed subdivision until a subdivision plat has been approved by the
Stormwater Administrator.
      (2)   No building or other permits shall be issued for erection of a
structure on any lot not of record at the time of adoption of this chapter
until all requirements of this chapter have been met. The subdivides, prior to
commencing any work within the subdivision, shall make arrangements with the
Stormwater Administrator to provide for adequate inspection.
   (E)   Penalty for transferring lots in unapproved subdivisions. Any person
who, being the owner or agent of the owner of any land located within the
jurisdiction of the city, thereafter subdivides his or her land in violation of
this chapter or transfers or sells land by reference to, exhibition of, or any
other use of a plat showing a subdivision of the land before the plat has been
properly approved under this subchapter and recorded in the office of the
Register of Deeds, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. The description by metes
and bounds in the instrument of transfer or other document used in the process
of selling or transferring land shall not exempt the transaction from this
penalty. The city may bring an action for injunction of any illegal subdivision
transfer, conveyance or sale of land, and the court shall, upon appropriate
findings, issue an injunction and order requiring the offending party to comply
with this chapter.
   (F)   Watershed areas described; WS-III-BW (balance of watershed) with low
density option.
      (1)   Allowed uses:
         (a)   Agriculture, subject to the provisions of the Food Security Act
of 1985 and the Food, Agricultural, Conservation and Trade Act of 1990;
         (b)   Silviculture, subject to the provisions of the Forest Practices
Guidelines Related to Water Quality (15A NCAC 11.6101.0209);
         (c)   Residential development;
         (d)   Nonresidential development, excluding discharging landfills and
the storage of toxic and hazardous materials unless a spill containment plan is
implemented.
         (e)   Nondischarge landfills and sludge application sites are allowed.
      (2)   Density and built-upon limits:
         (a)   Single-family residential development shall not exceed two
dwelling units per acre or 24% built-upon area, as defined on a project by
project basis.
         (b)   Low density projects shall comply with the Phase II Standards
for low-density projects found in §
53.131.
         (c)   All other residential and non-residential development shall not
exceed 24% built-upon area on a project by project basis.
   (G)   Watershed areas described; WS-III-BW (balance of watershed) with high
density options. Projects exceeding 24% built upon area shall either be
restricted to 50% built upon area or be included within the 10% of the
watershed that may be developed for nonresidential uses up to 70% built upon
area.
      (1)   Allowed uses:
         (a)   Agriculture, subject to the provisions of the Food Security Act
of 1985 and the Food, Agricultural, Conservation and Trade Act of 1990;
         (b)   Silviculture, subject to the provisions of the Forest Practices
Guidelines Related to Water Quality (15A NCAC 11.6101.0209);
         (c)   Residential development;
         (d)   Nonresidential development, excluding discharging landfills and
the storage of toxic and hazardous materials unless a spill containment plan is
implemented.
      (2)   Density and built-upon limits:
         (a)   Where new development exceeds either two dwelling units per acre
or 24% built-upon area, engineered stormwater controls shall be used to control
runoff from the first inch of rainfall and development shall not exceed 50%
built-upon area.
         (b)   Projects that exceed 50% built upon area may occupy up to 10% of
the watershed for nonresidential uses up to 70% built-upon area on a project by
project basis when approved as a special nonresidential intensity allocation
(SNIA). For the purpose of calculating built-upon area, total project area
shall include total acreage in the tract on which the project is to be
developed. The Stormwater Administrator is authorized to approve SNIAs
consistent with the provisions of this subchapter.
         (c)   All high density projects shall comply with the Phase II
Standards for High Density Projects found in §
53.131(B).
   (H)   Cluster development.
      (1)   Clustering of development is allowed in the WS-III-BW watershed
area.
      (2)   Minimum lot sizes are not applicable to single family cluster
development projects; however, the total number of lots shall not exceed the
number of lots allowed for single-family detached developments within the above
section on density.
      (3)   All built-upon area shall be designed and located to minimize
stormwater runoff impact to the receiving waters and minimize concentrated
stormwater flow.
      (4)   The remainder of the tract shall remain in a vegetative or natural
state. This area will be maintained through a maintenance agreement between the
city and the property owner (s) or property owners association.
   (I)   Water supply watershed buffers.
      (1)   A minimum 100-foot vegetative buffer is required for all new
development activities that exceed the low-density option is required along all
perennial and intermittent waters located on the most recent version of the 1:
24,000 scale (7.5 minute) quadrangle topographic maps prepared by the United
States Geologic Survey (USGS), on the most recent version of the soil survey
map prepared by the Natural Resources Conservation Service of the United States
Department of Agriculture, or as determined by local government studies.
      (2)   The above buffer requirement is in addition to buffer requirements
enforced by the NC Division of Water Quality that regulates uses within the
first 50 feet along perennial and intermittent streams.
      (3)   No new development is allowed within the buffer except for water
dependent structures and uses listed as exempt, allowable, and allowable with
mitigation on the NC DWQ allowable uses buffer chart as listed in 15A NCAC 02B
.0233.
   (J)   Watershed area boundaries. Where uncertainty exists as to the
boundaries of the watershed areas as shown on the watershed map, the following
rules apply;
      (1)   Where area boundaries are indicated as approximately following the
street, alley, railroad or highway lines or centerlines thereof, the lines
shall be construed to be the boundaries.
      (2)   Where area boundaries are indicated as approximately following lot
lines, the lot lines shall be construed to the boundaries. However, a surveyed
plat prepared by a registered land surveyor may be submitted to the city as
evidence that or more properties along these boundaries do not lie within the
watershed area.
      (3)   If further uncertainty exists, the Stormwater Administrator shall
interpret the Watershed Map as to the location of the boundaries.
   (K)   Existing development for water supply watershed. Any existing
development as defined in this chapter may be continued and maintained subject
to the provisions provided herein. Expansion to structures classified as
existing developments must meet the requirements of this subchapter; however
the built-upon area of the existing development is not required to be included
in the density calculations for the water supply watershed density calculation.
Calculations for density for the Phase II Standards within this subchapter are
to be done separately from the Water Supply Watershed Standards calculation.
      (1)   Vacant lots. Lots that are not built on but have been recorded in
the office of the County Register of Deeds. Lots may be used for any of the
uses allowed in the watershed area in which it is located.
      (2)   Occupied lots.  This category consists of lots occupied for
residential purposes at the time of the adoption of this chapter.
      (3)   Uses of land.  This category consists of uses existing at the time
of adoption of this chapter where the use of the land is not permitted to be
established hereafter in the watershed area in which it is located. The uses
may be continued, except as follows:
         (a)   When such use of land has been changed to an allowed use, it
shall not thereafter revert to any prohibited use.
         (b)   Such use of land shall be changed only to an allowed use.
         (c)   When such uses ceases for a period of at least one year, it
shall not be reestablished.
      (4)   Reconstruction of buildings or built-upon areas: Any existing
building or built-upon area not in conformance with the restrictions of this
chapter that has been damaged or removed may be repaired and/or reconstructed,
except that there are no restriction on single-family residential development,
provided:
         (a)   Repairs or reconstruction is initiated within 12 months and
completed within two years of the damage.
         (b)   The total amount of space devoted to built-upon area may not be
increased unless stormwater control that equals or exceeds the previous
development is provided.
   (L)   Application of regulations.
      (1)   No building or land shall hereafter be used and no development
shall take place except in conformity with the regulations herein specified for
the watershed area in which it is located.
      (2)   No area required for the purpose of complying with the provisions
of the water supply watershed standards shall be included in the area required
for another building.
      (3)   Every residential building hereafter erected, moved or structurally
altered shall be located on a lot which conforms to the regulations herein
specified, except those designated as existing development.
      (4)   If a use or class of use is not specifically indicated as being
allowed in a watershed area, the use or class of use is prohibited.
   (M)   General public health. No activity, situation, structure or land use
shall be allowed within the watershed which poses a threat to water quality and
the public health, safety, and welfare of the public. These conditions may
arise from inadequate on-site sewage systems which utilize ground absorption;
inadequate sedimentation and erosion control measures; the improper storage or
disposal of junk, trash or other refuse within a buffer area; the absence or
improper implementation of a spill containment plan for toxic and hazardous
materials; the improper management of stormwater runoff; or any other situation
found to pose a threat to water quality.
(Ord. passed 6-12-12)
§ 53.134 CONTROL AND TREATMENT OF RUNOFF VOLUME.
   Stormwater systems shall be designed to control and treat the runoff
generated from all surfaces by one inch of rainfall. The treatment volume shall
be drawn down pursuant to standards specific to each practice as provided in
the Design Manual. To ensure that the integrity and nutrient processing
functions of receiving waters and associated riparian buffers are not
compromised by erosive flows, stormwater flows from the development shall not
contribute to degradation of waters of the state. At a minimum, the development
shall not result in a net increase in peak flow leaving the site from pre-
development conditions for the ten-year, 24-hour storm event.
(Ord. passed 6-12-12)
§ 53.135 WATER QUANTITY REDUCTION.
   In the event that development has, in the opinion of the Stormwater
Administrator or his or her designee, the potential to cause increased
downstream flooding and erosion, a structural stormwater management system may
be required that does not allow stormwater to leave the project site at a rate
greater than the predevelopment discharge rate for up to the 100-year, 24 hour
storm.
(Ord. passed 6-12-12)
§ 53.136 EVALUATION OF STANDARDS FOR STORMWATER CONTROL MEASURES.
   (A)   Evaluation according to contents of Design Manual. All stormwater
control measures, stormwater systems and stormwater treatment practices (also
referred to as Best Management Practices, or BMPs) required under this
subchapter shall be evaluated by the Stormwater Administrator according to the
policies, criteria, and information, including technical specifications and
standards and the specific design criteria for each stormwater practice, in the
Design Manual. The Stormwater Administrator shall determine whether proposed
BMPs will be adequate to meet the requirements of this subchapter.
   (B)   Determination of adequacy; presumptions and alternatives. Stormwater
treatment practices that are designed, constructed, and maintained in
accordance with the criteria and specifications in the Design Manual And the
approved accounting tool will be presumed to meet the minimum water quality and
quantity performance standards of this subchapter. Whenever an applicant
proposes to utilize a practice or practices not designed and constructed in
accordance with the criteria and specifications in the Design Manual, the
applicant shall have the burden of demonstrating that the practice(s) will
satisfy the minimum water quality and quantity performance standards of this
subchapter. The Stormwater Administrator may require the applicant to provide
the documentation, calculations, and examples necessary for the Stormwater
Administrator to determine whether such an affirmative showing is made.
(Ord. passed 6-12-12)
§ 53.137 DEDICATION OF BMPS, FACILITIES AND IMPROVEMENTS.
   The City of Roxboro may accept dedication of any existing or future
stormwater management facility for maintenance, provided such facility meets
all the requirements of this subchapter and includes adequate and perpetual
access and sufficient area, by easement or otherwise, for inspection and
regular maintenance.
(Ord. passed 6-12-12)
§ 53.138 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Any person may petition the City of Roxboro for a variance granting
permission to use the person’s land in a manner otherwise prohibited by this
subchapter. For all proposed major and minor variances from the requirements of
this subchapter, the local Watershed Review Board shall make findings of fact
showing that:
      (1)   There are practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships that
prevent compliance with the strict letter of the subchapter;
      (2)   The hardships result from conditions that are peculiar to the
property, such as the location, size, or topography of the property;
      (3)   The hardships did not result from actions taken by the petitioner;
      (4)   The variance is in harmony with the general purpose and intent of
this subchapter and preserves its spirit; and
      (5)   In granting the variance, the public safety and welfare have been
assured and substantial justice has been done.
   (B)   In the case of a request for a minor variance (or a major variance of
the Phase II standards), the City of Roxboro may vary or modify any of the
regulations or provisions of the subchapter so that the spirit of the
subchapter shall be observed, public safely and welfare secured, and
substantial justice done may impose reasonable and appropriate conditions and
safeguards upon any variance it grants.
   (C)   The City of Roxboro may attach conditions to the major or minor
variance approval that support the purpose of this subchapter. If the variance
request qualifies as a major variance (only for Falls Lake watershed and water
supply watershed standards), and the City of Roxboro decides in favor of
granting the major variance, the Board shall then prepare a preliminary record
of the hearing and submit it to the Commission for review and approval. If the
Commission approves the major variance or approves with conditions or
stipulations added, then the Commission shall prepare a Commission decision
which authorizes City of Roxboro to issue a final decision which would include
any conditions or stipulations added by the Commission. If the Commission
denies the major variance, then the Commission shall prepare a decision to be
sent to City of Roxboro. The City of Roxboro shall prepare a final decision
denying the major variance.
   (D)   Appeals from the local government decision on a major or minor
variance request are made on certiorari to the local Superior Court. Appeals
from the Commission decision on a major variance request are made on judicial
review to Superior Court.
(Ord. passed 6-12-12)
Division 4. Maintenance
§ 53.150 GENERAL STANDARDS FOR MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Function of BMPs as intended. The owner of each engineered stormwater
control installed pursuant to this subchapter shall maintain and operate it so
as to preserve and continue its function in controlling stormwater quality and
quantity at the degree or amount of function for which the engineered
stormwater control was designed.
   (B)   Annual maintenance inspection and report.
      (1)   The person responsible for maintenance of any engineered stormwater
control installed pursuant to this subchapter shall submit to the Stormwater
Administrator an inspection report from one of the following persons performing
services only in their area of competence: a qualified registered North
Carolina professional engineer, surveyor, landscape architect, soil scientist,
aquatic biologist, or person certified by the North Carolina Cooperative
Extension Service for stormwater treatment practice inspection and maintenance.
The inspection report shall contain all of the following:
         (a)   The name and address of the land owner;
         (b)   The recorded book and page number of the lot of each engineered
stormwater control;
         (c)   A statement that an inspection was made of all engineered
stormwater controls;
         (d)   The date the inspection was made;
         (e)   A statement that all inspected engineered stormwater controls
are performing properly and are in compliance with the terms and conditions of
the approved maintenance agreement required by this subchapter; and
         (f)   The original signature and seal of the engineer, surveyor, or
landscape architect.
      (2)   All inspection reports shall be on forms supplied by the Stormwater
Administrator. An original inspection report shall be provided to the
Stormwater Administrator beginning one year from the date of as-built
certification and each year thereafter on or before the date of the as-built
certification.
(Ord. passed 6-12-12)
§ 53.151 OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT.
   (A)   In general.
      (1)   Prior to the conveyance or transfer of any lot or building site to
be served by a engineered stormwater control pursuant to this subchapter, and
prior to issuance of any permit for development requiring a engineered
stormwater control pursuant to this subchapter, the applicant or owner of the
site must execute an operation and maintenance agreement that shall be binding
on all subsequent owners of the site, portions of the site, and lots or parcels
served by the engineered stormwater control. Until the transference of all
property, sites, or lots served by the engineered stormwater control, the
original owner or applicant shall have primary responsibility for carrying out
the provisions of the maintenance agreement.
      (2)   The operation and maintenance agreement shall require the owner or.
owners to maintain, repair and, if necessary, reconstruct the engineered
stormwater control, and shall state the terms, conditions, and schedule of
maintenance for the engineered stormwater control. In addition, it shall grant
to the City of Roxboro a right of entry in the event that the Stormwater
Administrator has reason to believe it has become necessary to inspect,
monitor, maintain, repair, or reconstruct the engineered stormwater control;
however, in no case shall the right of entry, of itself, confer an obligation
on City of Roxboro to assume responsibility for the engineered stormwater
control.
      (3)   The operation and maintenance agreement must be approved by the
Stormwater Administrator prior to plan approval, and it shall be referenced on
the final plat and shall be recorded with the County Register of Deeds upon
final plat approval by the recorder of the final plat. A copy of the recorded
maintenance agreement shall be given to the Stormwater Administrator within 14
days following its recordation.
   (B)   Operation and maintenance agreement. For all engineered stormwater
controls required pursuant to this subchapter, the required operation and
maintenance agreement shall include all of the following provisions:
      (1)   Acknowledgment that the owner or association shall continuously
operate and maintain the stormwater control and management facilities.
      (2)   The owner, its successors and assigns, including any homeowners
association, shall adequately maintain the structural stormwater BMP facilities
in accordance with the approved operation and maintenance plan or manual(s).
This includes all pipes and channels built to convey stormwater to the
facility, as well as all structures, improvements, and vegetation provided to
control the quantity and quality of the stormwater. Adequate maintenance is
herein defined as good working condition so that these facilities are
performing their design functions.
      (3)   The owner, its successors and assigns, shall ensure the structural
stormwater BMP facility is inspected by a qualified professional and shall
submit an annual inspection report to the City of Roxboro. The inspection
report shall be due annually 30 days from the date of the final structural
stormwater Management facilities construction inspection. The purpose of the
inspection is to assure safe and proper functioning of the facilities. The
inspection shall cover the entire facilities, berms, outlet structure, pond
areas, access roads and the like. Deficiencies shall be noted in the inspection
report.
      (4)   The owner, its successors and assigns, hereby grant permission to
the City of Roxboro its authorized agents and employees, to enter upon the
property and to inspect the structural stormwater Management facilities
whenever the City of Roxboro deems necessary. The purpose of inspection is to
follow-up on reported deficiencies and/or to respond to citizen complaints. The
City of Roxboro shall provide the owner, its successors and assigns, copies of
the inspection findings and a directive to commence with the repairs if
necessary.
      (5)   (a)   Before the City of Roxboro shall approve the completed
facility and issue final certificates of occupancy, the owner and/or
maintaining entity shall furnish the City of Roxboro with a financial guarantee
insuring future maintenance, operation, and repair of the facility. The
financial guarantee shall be in the form of cash or an irrevocable letter of
credit and made payable to the City of Roxboro. The amount of guarantee shall
be 40% of the total cost of constructing the facility based on actual contract
prices for said facility.
         (b)   The initial duration of the financial guarantee shall be for 20
years. At the end of that period, the City of Roxboro may extend such periods
of guarantee as the City of Roxboro deems appropriate. The financial guarantee
may be dissolved at any time by mutual agreement when the need for such
guarantee no longer exists. Any funds remaining from such guarantee will be
returned to the appropriate entity.
      (6)   In the event the owner, its successors and assigns, fails to
maintain the structural stormwater Management facilities in good working
condition acceptable to the City of Roxboro or that maintenance and repairs are
not being made as required or that any action is not being done in accordance
with this agreement, the City of Roxboro shall notify the responsible entity
who shall be given a reasonable time to correct such deficiencies. Should the
responsible entity fail to act in a timely manner, or otherwise fail to correct
the deficiencies, the City of Roxboro will institute appropriate action to
obtain compliance including criminal or civil penalties, or both. In addition,
the City of Roxboro may declare the responsible entity in default of this
agreement and financial guarantee and use part or all of such guarantee funds
to correct the deficiencies and may assume actual operation and maintenance.
Default of tins agreement does not release the responsible entity from
liability/responsibility for the deficiencies, nor release the entity from this
agreement. Likewise, default of this agreement does not prevent the City of
Roxboro from taking action against the responsible entity to recover the cost
of such actions to correct the deficiencies.
      (7)   For all structural stormwater Management facilities which are to be
or are owned and maintained by a property owner’s association or similar
entity, the owner also agrees to the following provisions:
         (a)   Acknowledgment that the association shall continuously operate
and maintain the structural stormwater management facilities.
         (b)   Establish adequate owner/property association dues which arc to
be spent solely for sediment removal, structural, biological or vegetative
replacement, major repair, or reconstruction of the stormwater control measures
and devices of the particular site plan or subdivision.
         (c)   Granting to the City of Roxboro a right of entry to inspect,
monitor, maintain, repair, and reconstruct structural stormwater management
facilities.
         (d)   Allow the City of Roxboro to recover from the association and
its members any and all costs the City of Roxboro may expend to maintain or
repair the stormwater control and management facility or to correct any
operational deficiencies as a result of default by the owner/association/
responsible entity. Failure to pay to the City of Roxboro all of its expended
costs, after 30 days written notice, shall constitute a breach of the
agreement. The City of Roxboro shall thereafter be entitled to bring an action
against the association and its members to pay, or foreclose upon the lien
herein authorized by the agreement against the property, or both in the case of
a deficiency. Interest, collection costs, and attorney fees shall be added to
the recovery.
      (8)   The owner, its successors and assigns, will perform the work
necessary to keep these facilities in good working order as appropriate. In the
event a maintenance schedule for the structural stormwater management
facilities (including sediment removal) is outlined on the approved plans, the
schedule will be followed.
      (9)   In the event the City of Roxboro, pursuant to this agreement,
performs work of any nature, or expends any funds in performance of said work
for labor, use of equipment, supplies, materials, and the like, the owner, its
successors and assigns, shall reimburse the City of Roxboro upon demand, within
30 days of receipt thereof for all actual costs incurred by the City of Roxboro
hereunder.
      (10)   This agreement imposes no liability of any kind whatsoever on the
City of Roxboro and the owner agrees to hold the City of Roxboro harmless from
any liability in the event the structural stormwater Management facilities fall
to operate properly.
(Ord. passed 6-12-12)
§ 53.152 INSPECTION PROGRAM.
   (A)   Inspections and inspection programs by City of Roxboro may be
conducted or established on any reasonable basis, including but not limited to
routine inspections; random inspections; inspections based upon complaints or
other notice of possible violations; and joint inspections with other agencies
inspecting under environmental or safety laws. Inspections may include, but are
not limited to, reviewing maintenance and repair records; sampling discharges,
surface water, groundwater, and material or water in BMPs; and evaluating the
condition of BMPs.
   (B)   If the owner or occupant of any property refuses to permit such
inspection, the Stormwater Administrator shall proceed to obtain an
administrative search warrant pursuant to G.S. § 15-27.2 or its successor. No
person shall obstruct, hamper or interfere with the Stormwater Administrator
while carrying out his or her official duties.
(Ord. passed 6-12-12)
§ 53.153 PERFORMANCE SECURITY FOR INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   May be required. The City of Roxboro may, at its discretion, require
the submittal of a performance security or bond with surety, cash escrow,
letter of credit or other acceptable legal arrangement prior to issuance of a
permit in order to ensure that the engineered stormwater controls are (1)
installed by the permit holder as required by the approved stormwater
management plan, and/or (2) maintained by the owner as required by the
operation and maintenance agreement.
   (B)   Amount.
      (1)   Installation. The amount of an installation performance security
shall be the total estimated construction cost of the BMPs approved under the
permit, plus 25%.
      (2)   Maintenance. The amount of a maintenance performance security shall
be the present value of an annuity of perpetual duration based on a reasonable
estimate of the annual cost of inspection, operation and maintenance of the
BMPs approved under the permit, at a discount rate that reflects the
jurisdiction’s cost of borrowing minus a reasonable estimate of long-term
inflation.
   (C)   Uses of performance security.
      (1)   Forfeiture provisions. The performance security shall contain
forfeiture provisions for failure, after proper notice, to complete work within
the time specified, or to initiate or maintain any actions which may be
required of the applicant or owner in accordance with this subchapter,
approvals issued pursuant to this subchapter, or an operation and maintenance
agreement established pursuant to this subchapter.
      (2)   Default. Upon default of the owner to construct, maintain, repair
and, if necessary, reconstruct any engineered stormwater control in accordance
with the applicable permit or operation and maintenance agreement, the
Stormwater Administrator shall obtain and use all or any portion of the
security to make necessary improvements based on an engineering estimate. Such
expenditure of funds shall only be made after requesting the owner to comply
with the permit or maintenance agreement. In the event of a default triggering
the use of installation performance security, the City of Roxboro shall not
return any of the unused deposited cash funds or other security, which shall be
retained for maintenance.
      (3)   Costs in excess of performance security. If the City of Roxboro
takes action upon such failure by the applicant or owner, the City of Roxboro
may collect from the applicant or owner the difference between the amount of
the reasonable cost of such action and the amount of the security held, in
addition to any other penalties or damages due.
      (4)   Refund. Within 60 days of the final approval, the installation
performance security shall be refunded to the applicant or terminated, except
any amount attributable to the cost (plus 25%) of landscaping installation and
ongoing maintenance associated with the BMPs covered by the security. Any such
landscaping shall be inspected one year after installation with replacement for
compliance with the approved plans and specifications and, if in compliance,
the portion of the financial security attributable to landscaping shall be
released.
(Ord. passed 6-12-12)
§ 53.154 NOTICE TO OWNERS.
   (A)   Deed recordation and indications on plat.  The applicable operations
and maintenance agreement, conservation easement, or dedication and acceptance
into public maintenance (whichever is applicable) pertaining to every
engineered stormwater control shall be referenced on the final plat and shall
be recorded with the county Register of Deeds upon final plat approval. If no
subdivision plat is recorded for the site, then the operations and maintenance
agreement, conservation easement, or dedication and acceptance into public
maintenance, whichever is applicable shall be recorded with the county Register
of Deeds so as to appear in the chain of title of all subsequent purchasers
under generally accepted searching principles.
   (B)   Signage. Where appropriate in the determination of the Stormwater
Administrator to assure compliance with this subchapter, engineered stormwater
controls shall be posted with a conspicuous sign stating who is responsible for
required maintenance and annual inspection. The sign shall be maintained so as
to remain visible and legible.
(Ord. passed 6-12-12)
§ 53.155 RECORDS OF INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE ACTIVITIES.
   The owner of each engineered stormwater control shall keep records of
inspections, maintenance, and repairs for at least five years from the date of
creation of the record and shall submit the same upon reasonable request to the
Stormwater Administrator.
(Ord. passed 6-12-12)
§ 53.156 NUISANCE.
   The owner of each stormwater BMP, whether engineered stormwater control or
non-engineered stormwater control, shall maintain it so as not to create or
result in a nuisance condition.
(Ord. passed 6-12-12)
§ 53.157 MAINTENANCE EASEMENT.
   Every engineered stormwater control installed pursuant to this subchapter
shall be made accessible for adequate maintenance and repair by a maintenance
easement. The easement shall be recorded and its terms shall specify who may
make use of the easement and for what purposes.
(Ord. passed 6-12-12)
Division 5. Illicit Discharge Detection and Elimination
§ 53.180 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following shall mean:
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPS). Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, general good house keeping practices, pollution prevention and
educational practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices
to prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants directly or indirectly to
stormwater, receiving waters, or stormwater conveyance systems. BMPs also
include treatment practices, operating procedures, and  practices to control
site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or water disposal, or drainage from raw
materials storage.
   CLEAN WATER ACT. The federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. § 1251
et seq.), and any subsequent amendments thereto.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.  Any material, including any substance, waste, or
combination thereof, which because of its quantity, concentration, or physical,
chemical, or infectious characteristics may cause, or significantly contribute
to, a substantial present or potential hazard to human health, safety,
property, or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported,
disposed of, or otherwise managed.
   ILLEGAL DISCHARGE. Any direct or indirect non-storm water discharge to the
storm drain system, except as exempted in §
53.133.
   ILLICIT CONNECTIONS.  An illicit connection is defined as either of the
following: any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface, which
allows an illegal discharge to enter the storm drain system including but not
limited to any conveyances which allow any non-storm water discharge including
sewage, process wastewater, and wash water to enter the storm drain system and
any  connections to the storm drain system from indoor drains and sinks,
regardless of whether said drain or connection had been previously allowed,
permitted, or approved by an authorized enforcement agency or, any drain or
conveyance connected from a commercial or industrial land use to the storm
drain system which has not been documented in plans, maps, or equivalent
records and approved by an authorized enforcement agency.
   INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY.  Activities subject to NPDES Industrial Permits as
defined in 40 CFR, Section 122.26 (b)(14).
   MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM (MS4). Pursuant to 40 CFR 122.26(b)(8)
means a conveyance or system of conveyances (including roads with drainage
systems, municipal streets, catch basins, curbs, gutters, ditches, manmade
channels, inlets, piped storm drains, pumping facilities, retention and
detention basins, natural and human-made or altered drainage channels,
reservoirs, and other drainage structures or storm drains):
      (1)   Owned or operated by a city, town, county, district, association,
or other public body (created by or pursuant to state law) having jurisdiction
over disposal of sewage, industrial wastes, stormwater, or other wastes, that
discharges to waters of the United States or waters of the state.
      (2)   Designed or used for collecting or conveying stormwater;
      (3)   Which is not a combined sewer; and
      (4)   Which is not part of a Publicly Owned Treatment Works (POTW) as
defined in 40 CFR 122.2.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) STORM WATER
DISCHARGE PERMIT. A permit issued by the North Carolina Department of
Environment and Natural Resources, Division of Water Quality that authorizes
the discharge of pollutants to waters of the state, whether the permit is
applicable on an individual, group, or general area-wide basis.
   NON-STORM WATER DISCHARGE.  Any discharge to the storm drain system that is
not composed entirely of storm water.
   PERSON.  means any individual, association, organization, partnership, firm,
corporation or other entity recognized by law and acting as either the owner or
as the owner’s agent.
   POLLUTANT. Anything which causes or contributes to pollution. POLLUTANTS may
include, but are not limited to: paints, varnishes, and solvents; oil and other
automotive fluids; non-hazardous liquid and solid wastes and yard wastes;
refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter, or other discarded or abandoned objects,
ordinances, and accumulations, so that same may cause or contribute to
pollution; floatables; pesticides, herbicides, and fertilizers; hazardous
substances and wastes; sewage, fecal coliform and pathogens; dissolved and
particulate metals; animal wastes; wastes and residues that result from
constructing a building or structure; and noxious or offensive matter of any
kind.
   PREMISES.  Any building, lot, parcel of land, or portion of land whether
improved or unimproved including adjacent sidewalks and parking strips.
   STORM WATER.  Any surface flow, runoff, and drainage consisting entirely of
water from any form of natural precipitation, and resulting from such
precipitation.
   STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN.  A document which describes the Best
Management Practices and activities to be implemented by a person or business
to identify sources of pollution or contamination at a site and the actions to
eliminate or reduce pollutant discharges to stormwater, stormwater conveyance
systems, and/or receiving waters to the maximum extent practicable.
   WASTEWATER. Any water or other liquid, other than uncontaminated storm
water, discharged from a facility.
(Ord. passed 6-12-12)
§ 53.181 ILLICIT DISCHARGES AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Illicit discharges.
      (1)   No person shall cause or allow the discharge, emission, disposal,
pouring, or pumping directly or indirectly to any stormwater conveyance, the
waters of the state, or upon the land in manner and amount that the substance
is likely to reach a stormwater conveyance or the waters of the state, any
liquid, solid, gas, or other substance, other than stormwater; provided that
non-storm water discharges associated with the following activities are allowed
and provided that they do not significantly impact water quality:
         (a)   Water line flushing;
         (b)   Landscape irrigation;
         (c)   Diverted stream flows;
         (d)   Rising ground waters;
         (e)   Uncontaminated ground water infiltration (as defined at 40 CFR
35.2005(20));
         (f)   Uncontaminated pumped ground water;
         (g)   Discharges from potable water sources;
         (h)   Foundation drains;
         (i)   Air conditioning condensation;
         (j)   Irrigation water;
         (k)   Springs;
         (l)   Water from crawl space pumps;
         (m)   Footing drains;
         (n)   Lawn watering;
         (o)   Individual residential car washing;
         (p)   Flows from riparian habitats and wetlands;
         (q)   Dechlorinatcd swimming pool discharges;
         (r)   Street wash water; and
         (s)   Other non-storm water discharges for which a valid NPDES
discharge permit has been approved and issued by the State of North Carolina,
and provided that any such discharges to the municipal separate storm sewer
system shall be authorized by the City of Roxboro.
      (2)   Prohibited substances include but are not limited to: oil, anti-
freeze, chemicals, animal waste, paints, garbage, and litter.
   (B)   Illicit connections.
      (1)   Connections to a stormwater conveyance or stormwater conveyance
system that allow the discharge of non-stormwater, other than the exclusions
described in division (A) above, are unlawful. Prohibited connections include,
but are not limited to: floor drains, waste water from washing machines or
sanitary sewers, wash water from commercial vehicle washing or steam cleaning,
and waste water from septic systems.
      (2)   Where such connections exist in violation of this section and said
connections were made prior to the adoption of this provision or any other
ordinance prohibiting such connections, the property owner or the person using
said connection shall remove the connection within one year following the
effective date of this subchapter. However, the one-year grace period shall not
apply to connections which may result in the discharge of hazardous materials
or other discharges which pose an immediate threat to health and safety, or are
likely to result in immediate injury and harm to real or personal property,
natural resources, wildlife, or habitat.
      (3)   Where it is determined that said connection:
         (a)   May result in the discharge of hazardous materials or may pose
an immediate threat to health and safety, or is likely to result in immediate
injury and harm to real or personal property, natural resources, wildlife, or
habitat; or
         (b)   Was made in violation of any applicable regulation or ordinance,
other than this section;
      (4)   The Stormwater Administrator shall designate the time within which
the connection shall be removed. In setting the time limit for compliance, the
Stormwater Administrator shall take into consideration:
         (a)   The quantity and complexity of the work;
         (b)   The consequences of delay;
         (c)   The potential harm to the environment, to the public health, and
to public and private property; and
         (d)   The cost of remedying the damage.
   (C)   Spills.
      (1)   Spills or leaks of polluting substances released, discharged to, or
having the potential to be released or discharged to the stormwater conveyance
system, shall be contained, controlled, collected, and properly disposed. All
affected areas shall be restored to their pre-existing condition.
      (2)   Persons in control of the polluting substances immediately prior to
their release or discharge, and persons owning the property on which the
substances were released or discharged, shall immediately notify the Roxboro
Fire Department of the release or discharge, as well as making any required
notifications under state and federal law. Notification shall not relieve any
person of any expenses related to the restoration, loss, damage, or any other
liability which may be incurred as a result of said spill or leak, nor shall
such notification relieve any person from other liability which may be imposed
by state or other law.
   (D)   Industrial or construction activity discharges. Any person subject to
an industrial or construction activity NPDES storm water discharge permit shall
comply with all provisions of such permit. Proof of compliance with said permit
may be required in a form acceptable to the City of Roxboro prior to the
allowing of discharges to the MS4.
(Ord. passed 6-12-12)
§ 53.182 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   Authority to inspect. Whenever necessary to make an inspection to
enforce any provision of this subchapter, or whenever the Stormwater
Administrator has cause to believe that there exists, or potentially exists, in
or upon any premises any condition which constitutes a violation of this
subchapter, the Stormwater Administrator may enter such premises at all
reasonable times to inspect the same and to inspect and copy records related to
storm water compliance. In the event the owner or occupant refuses entry after
a request to enter and inspect has been made, the city is hereby empowered to
seek assistance from any court of competent jurisdiction in obtaining such
entry.
   (B)   Authority to sample, establish sampling devices, and test. During any
inspection as provided herein, the Stormwater Administrator may take any
samples and perform any testing deemed necessary to aid in the pursuit of the
inquiry or to record site activities.
(Ord. passed 6-12-12)
§ 53.183 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Notice of violation.
      (1)   Whenever the Stormwater Administrator finds that a person has
violated a prohibition or failed to meet a requirement of this subchapter, the
Stormwater Administrator may order compliance by written notice of violation to
the responsible person. Such notice may require without limitation:
         (a)   The performance of monitoring, analyses, and reporting;
         (b)   The elimination of illicit connections or discharges;
         (c)   That violating discharges, practices, or operations shall cease
and desist;
         (d)   The abatement or remediation of storm water pollution or
contamination hazards and the restoration of any affected property;
         (e)   Payment of a fine to cover administrative and remediation costs;
and
         (f)   The implementation of source control or treatment BMPs.
      (2)   If abatement of a violation and/or restoration of affected property
is required, the notice shall set forth a deadline within which such
remediation or restoration must be completed. Said notice shall further advise
that, should the violator fail to remediate or restore within the established
deadline, the work will be done by the city or a contractor designated by the
Stormwater Administrator and the expense thereof shall be charged to the
violator.
   (B)   Violations deemed a public nuisance. Illicit discharges and illicit
connections which exist within the corporate limits are hereby found, deemed,
and declared to be dangerous or prejudiced to the public health or public
safety and are found, deemed, and declared to be public nuisances and may be
summarily abated or restored by the city at the violator’s expense, and/or a
civil action to abate, enjoin, or otherwise compel the cessation of such
nuisance may be taken by the city.
(Ord. passed 6-12-12)
Division 6. Enforcement and Violations
§ 53.190 GENERAL.
   (A)   Authority to enforce. The provisions of this subchapter shall be
enforced by the Stormwater Administrator, his or her designee, or any
authorized agent of City of Roxboro. Whenever this section refers to the
Stormwater Administrator, it includes his or her designee as well as any
authorized agent of City of Roxboro.
   (B)   Violation unlawful. Any failure to comply with an applicable
requirement, prohibition, standard, or limitation imposed by this subchapter,
or the terms or conditions of any permit or other development approval or
authorization granted pursuant to this subchapter, is unlawful and shall
constitute a violation of this subchapter.
   (C)   Each day a separate offense. Each day that a violation continues shall
constitute a separate and distinct violation or offense.
   (D)   Responsible persons/entities.  
      (1)   Any person who erects, constructs, reconstructs, alters (whether
actively or passively), or fails to erect, construct, reconstruct, alter,
repair or maintain any structure, BMP, engineered stormwater control, practice,
or condition in violation of this subchapter shall be subject to the remedies,
penalties, and/or enforcement actions in accordance with this section. Persons
subject to the remedies and penalties set forth herein may include any
architect, engineer, builder, contractor, developer, agency, or any other
person who participates in, assists, directs, creates, causes, or maintains a
condition that results in or constitutes a violation of this subchapter, or
fails to take appropriate action, so that a violation of this subchapter
results or persists; or an owner, any tenant or occupant, or any other person,
who has control over, or responsibility for, the use or development of the
property on which the violation occurs.
      (2)   For the purposes of this subchapter, responsible person(s) shall
include but not be limited to:
         (a)   Person maintaining condition resulting in or constituting
violation. An architect, engineer, builder, contractor, developer, agency, or
any other person who participates in, assists, directs, creates, causes, or
maintains a condition that constitutes a violation of this subchapter, or falls
to take appropriate action, so that a violation of this subchapter results or
persists.
         (b)   Responsibility for land or use of land. The owner of the land on
which the violation occurs, any tenant or occupant of the property, any person
who is responsible for stormwater controls or practices pursuant to a private
agreement or public document, or any person, who has control over, or
responsibility for, the use or development of the property.
(Ord. passed 6-12-12)
§ 53.191 REMEDIES AND PENALTIES.
   The remedies and penalties provided for violations of this subchapter,
whether civil or criminal, shall be cumulative and in addition to any other
remedy provided by law, and may be exercised in any order.
   (A)   Remedies.
      (1)   Withholding of certificate of occupancy. The Stormwater
Administrator or other authorized agent may refuse to issue a certificate of
occupancy for the building or other improvements constructed or being
constructed on the site and served by the stormwater practices in question
until the applicant or other responsible person has taken the remedial measures
set forth in the notice of violation or has otherwise cured the violations
described therein.
      (2)   Disapproval of subsequent permits and development approvals. As
long as a violation of this subchapter continues and remains uncorrected, the
Stormwater Administrator or other authorized agent may withhold, and the City
of Roxboro may disapprove, any request for permit or development approval or
authorization provided for by this subchapter or the zoning, subdivision, and/
or building regulations, as appropriate for the land on which the violation
occurs.
      (3)   Injunction, abatements and the like. The Stormwater Administrator,
with the written authorization of the City of Roxboro City Manager, may
institute an action in a court of competent jurisdiction for a mandatory or
prohibitory injunction and order of abatement to correct a violation of this
subchapter. Any person violating this subchapter shall be subject to the full
range of equitable remedies provided in the general statutes or at common law.
      (4)   Correction as public health nuisance, costs as lien and the like.
If the violation is deemed dangerous or prejudicial to the public health or
public safety and is within the geographic limits prescribed by G.S. § 160A-
193, the Stormwater Administrator, with the written authorization of the City
of Roxboro City Manager, may cause the violation to be corrected and the costs
to be assessed as a lien against the property.
      (5)   Stop work order. The Stormwater Administrator may issue a stop work
order to the person(s) violating this subchapter. The stop work order shall
remain in effect until the person has taken the remedial measures set forth in
the notice of violation or has otherwise cured the violation or violations
described therein. The stop work order may be withdrawn or modified to enable
the person to take the necessary remedial measures to cure such violation or
violations.
   (B)   Civil penalties. The Stormwater Administrator may assess a civil
penalty against any person who violates any provision of this subchapter or of
a permit or other requirement pursuant to this subchapter. Civil penalties may
be assessed up to the full amount of penalty authorized by G.S. 143-215.6A.
   (C)   Criminal penalties. Violation of this subchapter may be enforced as a
criminal matter under North Carolina law.
(Ord. passed 6-12-12)
§ 53.192 PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Initiation/complaint. Whenever a violation of this subchapter occurs,
or is alleged to have occurred, any person may file a written complaint. Such
complaint shall state fully the alleged violation and the basis thereof, and
shall be filed with the Stormwater Administrator, who shall record the
complaint. The complaint shall be investigated promptly by the Stormwater
Administrator.
   (B)   Inspection. The Stormwater Administrator shall have the authority,
upon presentation of proper credentials, to enter and inspect any land,
building, structure, or premises to ensure compliance with this subchapter.
   (C)   Notice of violation and order to correct.
      (1)   When the Stormwater Administrator finds that any building,
structure, or land is in violation of this subchapter, the Stormwater
Administrator shall notify, in writing, the property owner or other person
violating this subchapter. The notification shall indicate the nature of the
violation, contain the address or other description of the site upon which the
violation is occurring, order the necessary action to abate the violation, and
give a deadline for correcting the violation. If civil penalties are to be
assessed, the notice of violation shall also contain a statement of the civil
penalties to be assessed, the time of their accrual, and the time within which
they must be paid or be subject to collection as a debt.
      (2)   The Stormwater Administrator may deliver the notice of violation
and correction order by any means authorized for the service of documents by
Rule 4 of the North Carolina Rules of Civil Procedure.
      (3)   If a violation is not corrected within a reasonable period of time,
as provided in the notification, the Stormwater Administrator may take
appropriate action under this subchapter to correct and abate the violation and
to ensure compliance with this subchapter.
   (D)   Extension of time. A person who receives a notice of violation and
correction order, or the owner of the land on which the violation occurs, may
submit to the Stormwater Administrator a written request for an extension of
time for correction of the violation. On determining that the request includes
enough information to show that the violation cannot be corrected within the
specified time limit for reasons beyond the control of the person requesting
the extension, the Stormwater Administrator may extend the time limit as is
reasonably necessary to allow timely correction of the violation, up to, but
not exceeding 60 days. The Stormwater Administrator may grant 120-day
extensions in addition to the foregoing extension if the violation cannot be
corrected within the permitted time due to circumstances beyond the control of
the person violating this subchapter. The Stormwater Administrator may grant an
extension only by written notice of extension. The notice of extension shall
state the date prior to which correction must be made, after which the violator
will be subject to the penalties described in the notice of violation and
correction order.
   (E)   Enforcement after time to correct. After the time has expired to
correct a violation, including any extension(s) if authorized by the Stormwater
Administrator, the Stormwater Administrator shall determine if the violation is
corrected. The Stormwater Administrator may act to impose one or more of the
remedies and penalties authorized by this subchapter whether or not the
violation has been corrected.
   (F)   Emergency enforcement. If delay in correcting a violation would
seriously threaten the effective enforcement of this subchapter or pose an
immediate danger to the public health, safety, or welfare, then the Stormwater
Administrator may order the immediate cessation of a violation. Any person so
ordered shall cease any violation immediately. The Stormwater Administrator may
seek immediate enforcement, without prior written notice, through any remedy or
penalty authorized by this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 6-12-12)
§ 53.999 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punished in accordance with G.S. §
14-4. The maximum fine for each offense shall not exceed $500. Each day that
the violation continues snail constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. passed 6-18-10)
APPENDIX A: APPLICATION FORMS

   APPLICATION FOR A WATERSHED SUBDIVISION APPROVAL
                                                                                                                              
   Date of Application             Application Number
On a separate sheet of paper, list the Deed Book and Page Number, the parcel
size and the Tax Map and Lot Number for each parcel of land (if one parcel,
list here.)
                                                                          
Watershed name:
                                                                                                                                 
Critical area:                                Yes,                          
No.
Name of owner/applicant:
                                                                                                                     
Corporation name/state:
                                                                                                                        
Mailing address:
                                                                                                                                  
Street address:
                                                                                                                                     
City, state and zip:
                                                                                                                               
Telephone number:                                                          
Alternate:                                                     
General description of work under this application:
                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                 
Name of proposed subdivision:
                                                                                                              
Type of subdivision:               Residential              Commercial
             Industrial              Other           
Number of parcels/lots:                                    (Smallest Lot:
                 acres Largest Lot:                acres)
I certify that the information shown above is true and accurate, and is in
compliance with the conditions for a subdivision of land as defined in the
Watershed Protection Ordinance.
   SEAL                                                                                                         
                     Owner/Attorney in Fact
******************************************************************************************
   OFFICIAL USE
Date Received:                                  Date referred to Board:
                                                                
Notes:
                                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                         
   SUBDIVISION PLAT CHECKLIST
The plat shall be clearly and legibly drawn at a scale of not less than one
inch to one hundred feet (1" = 100') (1" = 200' in extreme cases). The plat
shall be prepared by a Registered Surveyor and shall include the following
information prior to consideration by the Watershed Review Board:
Name of Subdivision:
                                                                                                                          
Date Submitted:
                                                                                                                            
Location:
                                                                                                                                       
Owner:
                                                                                                                                        
Address:
                                                                                                                                      
Telephone No:
                                                                                                                                
Surveyor:
                                                                                                                                     
Address:
                                                                                                                                     
Telephone No:
                                                                                                                              
 Engineer:
                                                                                                                                     
Address:
                                                                                                                                     Telephone
No.
                                                                                                                                    
Checklist:
(a)   Title Block:
   Approved                       Disapproved                     
Subdivision name, subdivider’s name, north arrow, scale (denoted graphically
and numerically), date of plat preparation, location of subdivision (township,
county and state), name and seal of registered surveyor preparing plat, deed
book reference.
(b)   Vicinity Map:
   Approved                      Disapproved                      
A sketch vicinity map showing the location of the subdivision in relation to
the surrounding area. If the subdivision is a portion of a larger tract, the
map is to show the relation of the subdivision to the larger tract.
(c)   Tract Boundaries:
   Approved                      Disapproved                     
The boundaries of the tract or portion thereof to be subdivided, with all
bearings and distances shown.
(d)   Property Lines:
   Approved                        Disapproved                     
Property lines and owner’s names of abutting properties and/or abutting
subdivisions of record.
(e)   Natural Features:
   Approved                       Disapproved                     
Significant natural features including marshes, lakes or streams, or other
natural features affecting the site.
(f)   Existing Features:
   Approved                       Disapproved                     
Existing features including structures and built-upon area and the Roxboro City
Limit lines both on or adjacent to the land to be subdivided.
(g)   Topographic Lines:
   Approved                       Disapproved                     
Topographic contour lines not to exceed ten foot intervals when the area to be
subdivided exceeds four acres. (If required by the Watershed Administrator or
the Watershed Review Board.)
(h)   Lots and Street Lines:
   Approved                      Disapproved                     
All proposed lot and street right-of-way lines with approximate area and
dimensions, lot numbers and proposed use of land.
(i)   Drainage System:
   Approved                      Disapproved                     
Proposed drainage facilities, including approximate location and dimensions of
open drainage ways, storm sewers, culverts, retaining ponds or areas where
water is to be diverted through grading.
(j)   Site Data:
   Approved                      Disapproved                     
Total acreage in tract to be subdivided, smallest lot size (square feet) and
total number of lots.
(k)   The following documentation is to accompany the application:
Written evidence acknowledging the submission and approval of the required Soil
Erosion and Sedimentation Control Plan.
   WATERSHED PROTECTION PERMIT
APPLICATION FOR A WATERSHED PROTECTION PERMIT
Date of Application                                                 Application
Number                                             
On a separate sheet of paper, list the Deed Book and Page Number, the parcel
size and the Tax Map and Lot Number for each parcel of land (if one parcel,
list here).
Watershed Name:
                                                                                                                                 
Name of Owner/Applicant:
                                                                                                                   
Corporation Name & State:
                                                                                                                   
Mailing Address:
                                                                                                                                 
Street Address:
                                                                                                                                    
City, State, Zip:
                                                                                                                                   
Telephone Number:
                                                                                                                              
General Description of
Work                                                                                                             
                                                                                             
I certify that the information shown above is true and accurate, and is in
compliance with the conditions for a subdivision of land as defined in the
Watershed Protection Ordinance.
   SEAL
                                                                           
                        Owner/Attorney in Fact
******************************************************************************************
   OFFICIAL USE
Date Received:                                        Date Referred to Board:
                                                      
Notes:
                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                           
(Ord. passed 6-18-10)
APPENDIX B: WATERSHED PROTECTION PERMIT PLAN CHECKLIST

Applications for watershed protection permits shall be accompanied by plans in
duplicate and drawn to scale showing the following:
A)   Location of Project
             WS-III-BW.
             Project included within a 10%/70% district.
B)   Lot Dimensions
               Actual dimension and acreage of the lot to be built upon, and
the location of any rights-of-way.
               Average lot size (in square feet).
C)   Built-upon Areas
            The accurate location and use of all existing and proposed
buildings and other structures, and for nonresidential developments, the
location and size, in square feet, of all built-upon areas including parking
and loading facilities.
            The percent of the project that will be covered with an impervious
surface.
            The area, in acres, to be left natural.
D)   Dwelling Units
            The total number of dwelling units proposed on the lot or tract.
E)   Streams and Rivers
            The accurate location of all perennial streams and natural drainage
areas on the property.
F)   Adjacent Property Owners
            The names of adjoining property owners.
G)   Buffers
            The location of all required buffer areas.
(Ord. passed 6-18-10)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
Chapter
   
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
   
72.   STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
   
73.   BICYCLES; TOY VEHICLES
   
74.   RAILROADS
   
75.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
   
76.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Obedience to police
   
70.03   Authorized emergency vehicle
Registration
   
70.15   Required; exceptions
   
70.16   Registrars
   
70.17   Fee
   
70.18   Period of registration
Traffic Control Devices
   
70.30   Authority to control and direct traffic
   
70.31   Use of signs, markings, signals
   
70.32   Obedience
   
70.33   Necessity of signs
 
   
70.98   Violation
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES. Vehicles of the Fire Department, police
vehicles and such ambulances designated or authorized by the Chief of Police.
   BLOCK. That portion of any street located between two intersections next
adjacent to each other.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to a street when 75% or more of
frontage thereon for a distance of 300 feet or more is occupied by buildings in
use for business.
   CROSSWALK. That portion of a roadway ordinarily included within the
prolongation or connection of the lateral lines of sidewalks, at intersections,
and any portion of a roadway distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossing by
lines or other markings on the surface.
   DRIVER. Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
   OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD. Whenever certain hours are named herein they shall
mean standard time or daylight savings time as may be in current use in this
city.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, markings and devices
not inconsistent with this chapter, placed or erected by authority of the City
Council or official having jurisdiction for the purpose of regulating, warning
or guiding traffic.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC SIGNALS. Any device, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and to
proceed.
   PARK. The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, otherwise than
temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or
unloading.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer of the City Police Department or any officer
authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to make arrests for violations of
traffic regulations.
   PUBLIC CONVEYANCE. Any vehicle other than a taxicab or railroad train for
transporting for fare.
   RAILROAD. A carrier of persons or property upon cars, other than streetcars,
operated upon stationary rails.
   RAILROAD TRAIN. A steam engine, electric or other motor, with or without
cars coupled thereto, operated upon rails, except streetcars.
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to a street not comprising a
business district, where 75% or more of the frontage on the street for a
distance of 300 feet or more is mainly occupied by dwellings or by dwellings
and buildings in use for business.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of a street between the curblines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   STANDING. Any stopping of a vehicle, whether occupied or not.
   STOP OR STOPPING, WHEN PROHIBITED. Any stopping of a vehicle, except when
necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in compliance with the
direction of a police officer or traffic control sign or signal.
   STOP, WHEN REQUIRED. Complete cessation of movement.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars and
other conveyances, either singly or together, while using any street for
purposes of travel.
(`90 Code, § 11-1)
§ 70.02 OBEDIENCE TO POLICE.
   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction by a police officer.
(`90 Code, § 11-3)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.03 AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE.
   (A)   The provisions of this title regulating the operation, parking and
standing of vehicles shall apply to authorized emergency vehicles, except that
a driver, when operating the vehicle in any emergency, unless otherwise
directed by a police officer, may:
      (1)   Park or stand notwithstanding the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation.
      (3)   Exceed the prima facie speed limits so long as he or she does not
endanger life or property.
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning in
specified directions so long as he or she does not endanger life or property.
   (B)   The exemptions contained in this section shall not, however, protect
the driver of any such vehicle from the consequences of his or her reckless
disregard of the safety of others.
(`90 Code, § 11-35)
Statutory reference:
   Exception to traffic rules for emergency vehicle, see G.S. § 20-156(b)
REGISTRATION
§ 70.15 REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   Every resident motor vehicle operated in the city, except motor vehicles
temporarily operated for a period of time not exceeding a total of 14 days
during any one year, and except motor vehicles operated for display or
exhibition purposes by manufacturers or dealers and displaying dealers' license
plates issued by the state shall be registered with the City Manager or a
registrar appointed as provided in §
70.16.
(`90 Code, § 11-146)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.16 REGISTRARS.
   The City Manager is authorized to designate one or more registrars of motor
vehicles, to provide for the establishment of an office for the registrar or
registrars outside of the City Hall, and to apportion the duties connected with
the registration of motor vehicles between or among the registrars.
(`90 Code, § 11-147)
§ 70.17 FEE.
   The fee for the registration of a motor vehicle under this subchapter shall
be set from time to time by the City Council and kept on file in the City
Clerk's office. This amount shall not be prorated.
(`90 Code, § 11-148)
§ 70.18 PERIOD OF REGISTRATION.
   The period of registration for motor vehicles shall include the 12 months
beginning with January 1 of the year of registration; that is, from January 1
to December 31.
(`90 Code, § 11-149)
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.30 AUTHORITY TO CONTROL AND DIRECT TRAFFIC.
   The City Manager shall have the power to designate, lay out and indicate,
with the approval of the City Council, by appropriate signs and markings:
parking spaces and zones, no-parking zones, limited parking zones, zones in
which vehicles shall be parked at an angle to the curb, loading zones, safety
zones, school zones, hospital zones, quiet zones, traffic zones other than the
above, through streets, stop streets and intersections, one-way streets,
streets to be laned for traffic, play streets, bus stops and taxicab stands. He
or she shall also have the power to designate and indicate, with the approval
of the City Council, intersections at which traffic shall be controlled by
traffic signals, intersections at which left turns and/or right turns and U-
turns shall be prohibited, and intersections at which markers, buttons or other
indications shall be placed to indicate the course to be traveled by vehicles
traversing or turning at such intersections.
(`90 Code, § 11-181)
§ 70.31 USE OF SIGNS, MARKINGS, SIGNALS.
   Whenever any designation is made in accordance with §
70.30, the City Manager shall erect and install such signs, markings, lines,
signals and other traffic-control devices as may be necessary to clearly
indicate the designation and to put drivers of vehicles on notice of the
restriction, limitation or prohibition resulting from the designation.
(`90 Code, § 11-182)
§ 70.32 OBEDIENCE.
   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the directions of any official traffic
control device applicable thereto and placed in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter and other ordinances of the city, unless otherwise directed by
a police officer, subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle.
(`90 Code, § 11-183)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.33 NECESSITY OF SIGNS.
   No provision of this chapter for which signs are required shall be enforced
against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the alleged violation,
an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently legible to an
ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular section does not state that
signs are required, the section shall be effective without signs being placed
to give notice thereof.
(`90 Code, § 11-184)
§ 70.98 VIOLATION.
   It shall be a misdemeanor for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to
perform any act required by the provisions of this chapter.
(`90 Code, § 11-2)
Penalty, see § 70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. § 14-4
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this title for which no specific penalty
is provided shall be punished as set forth in §
10.99.
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Number of persons in front seat
   
71.02   Riding on portion of vehicle not intended for passengers
   
71.03   Entering or riding without consent
   
71.04   Passengers to ride inside vehicles
   
71.05   Boarding or alighting from moving vehicles
   
71.06   Damaging street
   
71.07   Driving on roadways laned for traffic
   
71.08   One-way streets
   
71.09   Blocking intersections or crosswalks
   
71.10   Driving through funeral processions
   
71.11   U-turns
   
71.12   Backing
   
71.13   Use of horn in quiet zones
   
71.14   Play streets
   
71.15   School zones
§ 71.01 NUMBER OF PERSONS IN FRONT SEAT.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver or the person in charge of any motor
vehicle to permit more than three persons, including the driver, to ride in the
front or driver's seat of a motor vehicle.
(`90 Code, § 11-26)
Penalty, see § 70.99
Statutory reference:
   Overloaded vehicles, see G.S. § 20-140.2
§ 71.02 RIDING ON PORTION OF VEHICLE NOT INTENDED FOR PASSENGERS.
   (A)   No person shall ride in or upon any portion of a public conveyance or
vehicle not designed or intended for the use of passengers. This provision
shall not apply to an employee engaged in the necessary discharge of a duty or
to persons riding within truck bodies in spaces intended for merchandise.
   (B)   The operator of a motorcycle or bicycle, when upon a street, shall not
carry any person upon the handlebar, frame or tank of the vehicle, nor shall
any person so ride upon any such vehicle.
(`90 Code, § 11-27)
Penalty, see § 70.99
Cross-references:
   Bicycles; toy vehicles, see
Ch. 73
Statutory reference:
   Similar motorcycle regulations, see G.S. § 20-140.4
§ 71.03 ENTERING OR RIDING WITHOUT CONSENT.
   No person shall enter, jump on or ride any automobile or other vehicle
without the consent of the owner or driver.
(`90 Code, § 11-28)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.04 PASSENGERS TO RIDE INSIDE VEHICLE.
   No person riding in any vehicle shall allow any part of his or her body to
protrude beyond the limits of the vehicle in which he or she is riding, except
to give such signals as are by law required, and no person shall hang on to any
vehicle whatsoever.
(`90 Code, § 11-29)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.05 BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM MOVING VEHICLES.
   No person shall board or alight from any public conveyance or other vehicle
while the conveyance or vehicle is in motion.
(`90 Code, § 11-30)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.06 DAMAGING STREET.
   No person shall drive over any paved street, any vehicle with flanged wheels
or with wheels or runners which would tend to damage the street.
(`90 Code, § 11-36)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.07 DRIVING ON ROADWAYS LANED FOR TRAFFIC.
   All vehicles operated on any roadway which has been clearly marked with
lanes for traffic shall be driven as nearly as practical entirely within a
single lane and shall not be moved from the lane until the driver has first
ascertained that the movement can be made with safety.
(`90 Code, § 11-37)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.08 ONE-WAY STREETS.
   Upon those streets and parts of streets designated as one-way streets,
vehicular traffic shall move only in the indicated direction when signs
indicating the direction of traffic are erected and maintained at every
intersection where movement in the opposite direction is prohibited.
(`90 Code, § 11-38)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.09 BLOCKING INTERSECTIONS OR CROSSWALKS.
   No driver of a vehicle shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk
unless there is sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or
crosswalk to accommodate the vehicle he or she is operating without obstructing
the passage of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic
control signal indication to proceed.
(`90 Code, § 11-39)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.10 DRIVING THROUGH FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   No vehicle shall be driven through a funeral procession, except authorized
emergency vehicles when the same are responding to calls.
(`90 Code, § 11-40)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.11 U-TURNS.
   No driver shall turn any vehicle so as to proceed in the opposite direction
in the business district, except at street intersections, and no vehicle shall
make such a turn at a street intersection designated as an intersection at
which U-turns are prohibited.
(`90 Code, § 11-41)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.12 BACKING.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same into any intersection or
over a crosswalk, and shall not back a vehicle unless the movement can be made
in safety and unless he or she has given ample warning to those who may be
behind, by hand and horn or other signal.
(`90 Code, § 11-42)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.13 USE OF HORN IN QUIET ZONES.
   Whenever authorized signs are placed, erected or installed indicating a zone
of quiet, no person operating a motor vehicle within any such zone shall sound
the horn or other warning device of the vehicle, except in an emergency.
(`90 Code, § 11-43)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.14 PLAY STREETS.
   Whenever authorized signs are placed, erected or installed indicating any
street or part thereof as a play street, no person shall drive a vehicle upon
any such street or portion thereof, except drivers of vehicles having business
or whose residences are within the closed areas, and then any such driver shall
exercise the greatest care in driving upon the street or portion thereof.
(`90 Code, § 11-44)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.15 SCHOOL ZONES.
   Whenever authorized signs are placed, erected or installed indicating any
street or parts thereof as school zones, all drivers of motor vehicles shall
exercise the greatest care in driving upon the streets or parts thereof for the
protection of children.
(`90 Code, § 11-45)
Penalty, see § 70.99
CHAPTER 72: STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
Section
General Provisions
   
72.01   Prohibited in specified places
   
72.02   Prohibited for certain purposes
   
72.03   Direction of travel
   
72.04   Interference with other vehicles
   
72.05   Method of parking generally
   
72.06   Prohibited zone
   
72.07   Limited parking zone
   
72.08   Near railroad grade crossing
   
72.09   Blocking parking areas
   
72.10   Fire hydrant
Use of Parking Lots After Hours
   
72.20   Applicability
   
72.21   When forbidden
   
72.22   Requirements for property owners
   
72.23   Procedures for officers
 
   
72.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.01 PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or traffic control device, in any of the following places:
   (A)   On any sidewalk.
   (B)   Within an intersection.
   (C)   On a crosswalk.
   (D)   Within 30 feet of any flashing beacon, stop sign or traffic control
signal located at the side of a street or roadway.
   (E)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction, when the
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic.
   (F)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure or within any underpass
structure.
   (G)   Within 15 feet in either direction of the entrance to a hotel,
theater, hospital, sanatorium or any public building.
   (H)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped, standing or parked at the
edge or curb of a street.
(`90 Code, § 11-201)
Penalty, see § 72.99
Statutory reference:
   Prohibited parking; towing, see G.S. § 20-162
§ 72.02 PROHIBITED FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle upon any street for the
principal purpose of:
   (A)   Displaying it for sale.
   (B)   Washing, greasing or repairing the vehicle, except repairs
necessitated by an emergency.
   (C)   Storing the vehicle by a garage, dealer or other person when the
storage is not incident to the bona fide use and operation of the vehicle.
   (D)   Storing any detached trailer or van when the towing unit has been
disconnected.
   (E)   Transferring merchandise or freight from one vehicle to another.
   (F)   Advertising.
(`90 Code, § 11-202)
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.03 DIRECTION OF TRAVEL.
   No vehicle shall stop with its left side to the curb or shoulder of roads or
streets in the corporate limits, except that on one-way streets vehicles shall
stop headed in the direction of travel.
(`90 Code, § 11-204)
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.04 INTERFERENCE WITH OTHER VEHICLES.
   No vehicle shall so stand on any street as to interrupt or interfere with
the passage of public conveyances or other vehicles.
(`90 Code, § 11-205)
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.05 METHOD OF PARKING GENERALLY.
   (A)   Parallel parking. Except as provided in division (B) of this section,
all vehicles shall park parallel to the curb and not more than 12 inches
therefrom.
   (B)   Angle parking. On streets or parts of streets designated and marked as
zones for angle parking, automobiles and other vehicles shall be parked at an
angle to the curb as indicated by the markings.
   (C)   Parking between lines. On any street which is marked off with lines
indicating the parking spaces for cars, the same shall be parked between the
lines.
(`90 Code, § 11-206)
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.06 PROHIBITED ZONE.
   When signs are placed, erected or installed giving notice thereof, or the
curbing has been painted yellow in lieu of the signs, no person shall park a
vehicle at any time in any zone designated as a no-parking zone. If parking is
prohibited in the zone only between certain hours, this section shall apply
only between such hours, as indicated on the signs erected in the zone.
(`90 Code, § 11-207)
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.07 LIMITED PARKING ZONE.
   Whenever a limited parking zone is designated in accord with
Ch. 76, Schedule III, no person shall park any vehicle in the zone except in
accordance with the signs and markings erected therein.
(`90 Code, § 11-208) (Ord. passed 5-11-82; Am. Ord. passed 10-16-07)
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.08 NEAR RAILROAD GRADE CROSSING.
   No person shall park any vehicle on either side of any street approaching a
railroad grade crossing within 50 feet of the closest rail; provided that,
where existing permanent structures are located along the street and closer
than 50 feet, parking may be permitted in front of the structures, unless
otherwise prohibited, if the parking does not interfere with the view in either
direction of an approaching locomotive or train.
(`90 Code, § 11-209)
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.09 BLOCKING PARKING AREAS.
   In any area set aside for the use of the public for parking vehicles
therein, no person shall park or otherwise leave a vehicle stationary in such
position as to interfere with the free entry into the parking area or
withdrawal therefrom. Likewise, no person having entered such an area with a
vehicle shall park the vehicle in such manner and in such position with
reference to any other vehicle already parked therein as to interfere with the
free movement of the other vehicle.
(`90 Code, § 11-210)
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.10 FIRE HYDRANT.
   No person shall park a vehicle or permit it to stand, whether attended or
unattended, within 15 feet in either direction of a fire hydrant.
(Ord. passed 5-10-16)
USE OF PARKING LOTS AFTER HOURS
§ 72.20 APPLICABILITY.
   Upon those occasions where officers are called on to remove or assist in the
removal of persons trespassing on private parking lots after hours, the
provisions of this subchapter shall apply.
(`90 Code, § 11-216) (Ord. passed 8-9-88)
§ 72.21 WHEN FORBIDDEN.
   No person other than the owner, tenant or employee of the owner or tenant of
any parking area within the shopping center zones of the city shall enter,
trespass or loiter upon or park a motor or other vehicle in such parking area
without the express permission of the owner or lessee of the parking area at
times other than those when business establishments within the shopping center
are open for business; provided, however, that nothing herein shall be deemed
to prohibit parking in such areas for the purpose of patronizing businesses
which may remain open after general closing hours for businesses within the
area.
(`90 Code, § 11-217)
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.22 REQUIREMENTS FOR PROPERTY OWNERS.
   (A)   Prior to enforcement action by police officers, the owner or designee
of the property must mark the property with appropriate warning signs and have
a letter of intent on file with the Department.
   (B)   Warning signs must be placed in a most conspicuous location to be
readily observed by the public. The signs must be at least two feet by two feet
and be worded in a manner as to be clear in its intent, such as: "No
Trespassing, Parking or Loitering After Store Hours, Violators Will Be
Prosecuted" or words to that effect.
   (C)   The business having control of the marked parking area must have a
formal letter of intent on file with the Police Department. The letter must
state that the owner or designee is requesting enforcement of the no
trespassing signs. The letter should set forth the reasons why enforcement is
being requested and should be on company stationery or be marked in some way to
identify the company and should be notarized.
   (D)   The company owner or designee must be available to testify in court if
required.
(`90 Code, § 11-218) (Ord. passed 8-9-88)
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.23 PROCEDURES FOR OFFICERS.
   (A)   An officer observing trespassing on clearly marked parking areas must
verify that a letter of intent is on file with the Department for that
particular property. This is done by contacting the desk officer, who will have
a copy on file.
   (B)   After verification, the officer will take the appropriate enforcement
action up to arrest. In choosing an enforcement action, officers are cautioned
to weigh the existing conditions against the possibility of undue escalation of
the situation. A supervisor may authorize limited or no enforcement action when
appropriate.
(`90 Code, § 11-219) (Ord. passed 8-9-88)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided herein, any violation of this chapter shall
subject the offender to a civil penalty of $20. If the offender fails to pay
this penalty within ten days after being cited for a violation and notified of
the penalty, the city may seek to collect it in a civil action in the nature of
debt.
   (B)   Unauthorized parking in an area designated as a “loading zone” shall
subject the offender to a civil penalty of $15. If the offender fails to pay
this penalty within ten days after being cited for a violation and notified of
the penalty, the city may seek to collect it in a civil action in the nature of
debt.
   (C)   A violation of §§
72.06,
72.07 (other than a “loading zone”) or §
72.09, or unauthorized party in a handicap parking space shall subject the
offender to a civil penalty in the amount of $50. If the offender fails to pay
this penalty within ten days after being cited for a violation and notified of
the penalty, the city may seek to collect it in a civil action in the nature of
the debt.
   (D)   Each day that any violation continues after a person has been notified
that such violation exists and that he or she is subject to the civil penalties
specified in this section shall constitute a separate offense.
   (E)   This chapter may also be enforced by any appropriate equitable action,
including injunctions or orders of abatement.
   (F)   The city may enforce this chapter by any one or any combination of the
foregoing remedies.
(Ord. passed 10-16-07)
CHAPTER 73: BICYCLES; TOY VEHICLES
Section
   
73.01   Hands on handlebars
   
73.02   Bicycle on sidewalk
   
73.03   Toy vehicle in roadway
   
73.04   Clinging to moving vehicles
§ 73.01 HANDS ON HANDLEBARS.
   No person shall ride a bicycle or motorcycle on any street without having
his or her hands upon the handlebars.
(`90 Code, § 11-32)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 73.02 BICYCLE ON SIDEWALK.
   No person shall ride a bicycle upon any sidewalk or walkway within the city,
unless expressly allowed by a permit issued pursuant to
Chapter 95.
(`90 Code, § 11-33) (Am. Ord. passed 8-9-05)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 73.03 TOY VEHICLE IN ROADWAY.
   No person upon roller skates or riding in or by means of any coaster, toy
vehicle or similar device shall go upon any roadway, except:
   (A)   While crossing a street at a crosswalk or intersection;
   (B)   Upon streets set aside as play streets; or
   (C)   As part of an activity expressly allowed by a permit issued pursuant
to
Chapter 95.
(`90 Code, § 11-34) (Am. Ord. passed 8-9-05)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 73.04 CLINGING TO MOVING VEHICLES.
   No person riding upon any bicycle, motorcycle, coaster, sled, roller skates
or toy vehicle shall attach the same or himself or herself to any moving
vehicle upon any roadway.
(`90 Code, § 11-31)
Penalty, see § 70.99
CHAPTER 74: RAILROADS
Section
   
74.01   Crossings
   
74.02   Speed
   
74.03   Blocking streets
§ 74.01 CROSSINGS.
   Every railroad company whose track shall cross any street or sidewalk in the
city shall keep the crossing, for at least the width of the right-of-way, in
good condition and repair.
(`90 Code, § 17-1)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 74.02 SPEED.
   The speed of any railroad train or locomotive shall not exceed 35 miles per
hour at any place within the city.
(`90 Code, § 17-2)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 74.03 BLOCKING STREETS.
   No engineer, conductor or other employee of a railroad shall stop any train
or locomotive across any street or sidewalk for a longer period than five
minutes.
(`90 Code, § 17-3)
Penalty, see § 70.99
CHAPTER 75: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Speed limit schedules
   
II.   Trucks and tractor trailers
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMIT SCHEDULES.
   (A)   Overall speed limits; Business District. Except as otherwise provided
in this schedule, it shall be unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle at a
speed in excess of 20 miles per hour in any Business District in the city, or
in excess of 35 miles per hour in any area of the city outside a Business
District.
(`90 Code, § 11-61)
   (B)   25 miles per hour. No person shall drive any vehicle at a speed in
excess of 25 miles per hour on the following streets or portions thereof in the
city:
      (1)   Gordon Street from Morgan Street to Crestwood Drive.
      (2)   All streets extending from the corner of Morgan and Morehead
Streets to Madison Boulevard and Oak Street.
      (3)   Clayton Avenue in its entirety.
(`90 Code, § 11-62)
      (4)   Crestwood Drive in its entirety.
      (5)   Long Avenue from Morgan Street past Crestwood Drive to the city
limits.
      (6)   Reade Drive from Long Avenue to the end of the cul-de-sac and from
Long Avenue to the city limits.
      (7)   Edwin Court in its entirety.
      (8)   Westover Drive from Crestwood Drive to the city limits.
      (9)   Pointer Street in its entirety.
      (10)   Park Street in its entirety.
      (11)   Windsor Drive in its entirety.
      (12)   Dover Street in its entirety.
      (13)   Dolly Street in its entirety.
(`90 Code, § 11-62)
   (C)   35 miles per hour. Upon the erection of signs giving notice of the
authorized speed limits, the speed limit of 35 miles per hour will be in full
force and effect in the city:
      (1)   On Reams Avenue (SR 1363) from Madison Boulevard (US 501 Bypass-NC
49) to Ridge Road (SR 1363), State Highway Commission Location No. 33.
      (2)   On Morgan Street (SR 1409) from Reams Avenue (SR 1363) to Leasburg
Road (US 158-NC 49), State Highway Commission Location No. 32.
      (3)   On Ridge Road (SR 1363) from Chub Lake Street (SR 1333) to the
northern corporate limit, approximately 0.02 miles north of Williams Road (SR
1364), State Highway Commission Location No. 34.
      (4)   On Concord Road (NC 57) from Leasburg Road (US 158-NC 49-57) to the
western corporate limit, approximately 0.2 miles west of Jean Street, State
Highway Commission Location No. 31.
      (5)   On Leasburg Road (US 158-NC 49-57) from Madison Boulevard (US 158-
501 Bypass, NC 49-57) to Concord Rd. (NC 57), State Highway Commission Location
No. 29.
      (6)   On Leasburg Road (US 158-NC 49) from Concord Road (NC 57) to Morgan
St. (SR 652 1409), State Highway Commission Location No. 30.
      (7)   On Madison Boulevard (US 501 Bypass-NC 49) from Leasburg Road (US
158-NC 49-57) to Reams Avenue (SR 1363), State Highway Commission Location No.
28.
      (8)   On US 158 from SR 1409 to the western corporate limit,
approximately 0.05 miles west of SR 1409, State Highway Commission Location No.
35.
      (9)   On NC 49 from US 158 to the western corporate limit, approximately
0.05 miles west of US 158, State Highway Commission Location No. 36.
   (D)   15 miles per hour. No person shall drive any vehicle at a speed in
excess of 15 miles per hour on the following streets or portions thereof in the
city:
      (1)   Pine Ridge Drive in its entirety.
      (2)   Pine Ridge Court in its entirety.
(`90 Code, § 11-64) (Ord. 70-1, passed 6-9-70; Am. Ord. passed 7-13-04; Am.
Ord. passed 8-10-04; Am. Ord. passed 3-20-17) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II. TRUCKS AND TRACTOR TRAILERS.
   (A)   Truck routes.
      (1)   Whenever the City Council designates any truck route, the City
Manager shall cause to be erected and maintained, at points where the route
enters the city and at all junction points and turns where necessary, and at
all approaches to the parts of streets on which trucks are permitted, signs of
the dimensions, and at such locations as shall be approved by him or her
directing through traffic. The signs shall not be less than 6 by 14 inches in
size.
      (2)   All two-axle trucks, three-axle trucks and tractor-trailer units
entering the city destined to any point outside the city and not taking on or
discharging any cargo within the city limits shall travel exclusively on the
truck routes designated by the board and marked in accord with division (A)(1)
and on the parts of the routes that constitute the shortest and most direct
route from the point of entrance into the city and departure from the city.
      (3)   All three-axle trucks and tractor-trailer units entering the city
destined to any point within the city shall travel exclusively on the truck
routes designated and marked in accord with division (A)(1) to the point on the
routes nearest to their destination and, upon taking on or discharging their
cargo, shall use a regular city street to return to the nearest truck route for
their movement out of the city or to some other point within the city.
(`90 Code, § 11-81)
   (B)   Load limits on certain streets. The truck load limit shall be 13,000
pounds per axle on the following residential streets:
      (1)   Academy Street.
      (2)   Allgood Street.
      (3)   Barden Street.
      (4)   West Barden Street.
      (5)   Barnett Avenue.
      (6)   Brater Street.
      (7)   Broad Street.
      (8)   Cates Street.
      (9)   Charles Circle.
      (10)   Charles Street.
      (11)   Church Street.
      (12)   Clayton Avenue.
      (13)   Crestwood Drive.
      (14)   Dolly Street.
      (15)   Dover Street.
      (16)   Edgar Street.
      (17)   Edwin Court.
      (18)   Garrett Street.
      (19)   Gordon Street from Crestwood to Madison.
      (20)   Harris Street.
      (21)   High Street.
      (22)   Hill Road.
      (23)   Hillhaven Terrace.
      (24)   Hillsboro Street.
      (25)   Ivey Street.
      (26)   Jefferson Drive.
      (27)   Jones Street.
      (28)   Lake Drive.
      (29)   Lamberth Street.
      (30)   Long Avenue.
      (31)   Longwood Terrace.
      (32)   Main Circle.
      (33)   Montford Drive.
      (34)   Morehead Street.
      (35)   Morgan Street from Reams to Oak Street.
      (36)   Oak Street.
      (37)   Peachtree Street.
      (38)   Pointer Street.
      (39)   Reade Drive.
      (40)   School Street.
      (41)   Seivers Circle.
      (42)   Trotter Street.
      (43)   Virginia Avenue.
      (44)   Webb Street.
      (45)   Windsor Drive.
(`90 Code, § 11-82)
   (C)   Heavier trucks. Trucks larger than three-quarter ton shall not use the
streets enumerated in division (B) of this schedule, except for local delivery,
regardless of loading condition.
(`90 Code, § 11-83)
Penalty, see § 70.99
CHAPTER 76: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedules
   
I.   North Main Street
   
II.   Uptown
   
III.   Limited parking zones
   
IV.   Special parking restrictions
SCHEDULE I. NORTH MAIN STREET.
   (A)   No person shall park on North Main Street between Brater Street and
Kerr Drive.
   (B)   Except as otherwise indicated, all on-street parking inside the Uptown
area described in
Schedule II between 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. on all weekdays shall be limited to
two hours.
(Ord. passed 5-10-16) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II. UPTOWN.
   For the purposes of this schedule, Uptown shall be construed as an area
bounded as follows: on the east by Foushee Street, on the north by Morehead
Street, on the west by Madison Boulevard and on the south by Gordon Street.
Unless otherwise expressly stated in a permit issued pursuant to
Chapter 95, the area shall have restricted parking of motor vehicles as
follows:
   (A)   On-street parking between 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., on all weekdays,
shall be limited to two hours.
   (B)   Any person parking a vehicle within the Uptown on-street parking area
for a time exceeding two hours, or the time limit otherwise marked for the
parking area, shall be fined. Every hour thereafter shall be fined as a
separate violation.
   (C)   Off-street parking in city-owned lots shall be limited to no more than
12 consecutive hours, provided that residents of apartment units in the Uptown
area may obtain a maximum of two permits per unit from the city allowing them
to park their vehicles in such lots. The application for Uptown Resident
parking permits shall be submitted to the supervisor of administrative services
for the Roxboro Police Department. To qualify for a permit, the applicant must
provide: (i) a copy of his/her lease for an apartment unit in the Uptown area;
and (ii) identifying information regarding the vehicle for which a permit is
issued (make, model, color, and license plate number.) The Uptown parking
permit shall expire at the expiration of the lease term. The Uptown parking
permit must be displayed in the vehicle at all times that the vehicle is parked
in the city-owned lot for which the permit has been issued. Any vehicle parked
for more than 12 consecutive hours in an Uptown, city-owned parking lot, which
does not display a proper permit, shall be considered an abandoned vehicle and
subject to the penalties established in division (E) below, as well as removal
and impoundment.
   (D)   All parking spaces for the disabled shall be duly marked as by statute
provided, and only vehicles of disabled persons shall be permitted to be parked
therein.
   (E)   Any violation of divisions (A) through (D) shall subject the offender
to a civil penalty as follows:
      (1)   Over-time parking: first offense - $15; second offense within a
calendar day - $10; third offense within a calendar day - $10. If the offender
fails to pay this penalty within ten days after being cited for a violation and
notified of the penalty, a late penalty of $20 shall be added, and the city may
seek to collect the total penalty or penalties in a civil action in the nature
of debt.
      (2)   Each day that any violation continues after a person has been
notified that such violation exists and that he or she is subject to the
penalties specified in this section shall constitute a separate offense.
      (3)   This chapter may also be enforced by an appropriate equitable
action, including injunctions or orders of abatement.
      (4)   The city may enforce this chapter by any one or a combination of
the foregoing remedies.
(Ord. passed 5-10-16) Penalty, see §
70.99
Cross-reference:
   Junked and abandoned motor vehicles, see
Ch. 94
Statutory reference:
   Handicapped parking space, see G.S. § 20-37.6
SCHEDULE III. LIMITED PARKING ZONES.
   (A)   Any person who feels that a parking ticket was issued in error may
contest the parking ticket by filling out a notice of appeal form. A paper copy
of the form is available at the Roxboro Police Department, 109 Lamar Street.
   (B)   All persons receiving a citation have a right to appeal within seven
days of receiving the ticket. To file an appeal, complete the form. The
administrative review involves no court appearance. The appeal will be reviewed
within five days by a supervisor of the administrative services of the Roxboro
Police Department. If the administrative review is denied, you are obligated to
pay the fine noted on the ticket within five days off the notice of denial. You
will only be notified if this appeal is denied and, in that case, the $20 late
penalty will be imposed if the fine is not paid within 15 days after the denial
was issued.
(Ord. passed 5-10-16)
SCHEDULE IV. SPECIAL PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   Special parking restrictions are listed as:
 
Location    Side Area Affected
13 Abbitt      S    One parking space shall be reserved for “Handicapped
Street              Parking”
35 Abbitt      S    Two parking spaces shall be reserved for “Handicapped
Street              Parking”
Intersection
of Court       N    Two parking spaces shall be reserved for “Handicapped
Street at N.        Parking”
Main Street
201 N. Main    W    One parking space shall be reserved for “Handicapped
Street              Parking”
City parking
lot located at
N. Main Street NE   Two parking spaces at the top of the lot shall be reserved
(next to Long       for “Handicapped Parking”
Memorial
Church)
City parking
lot located at      Two parking spaces at the bottom of the lot (next to
N. Main Street NE   Christian Help Center) shall be reserved for “Handicapped
(next to Long       Parking”
Memorial
Church)
 
(Ord. passed 5-10-16)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
Chapter
   
90.   CEMETERIES
   
91.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
   
92.   ANIMALS
   
93.   NUISANCES, UNLAWFUL CONDITIONS ON PRIVATE PROPERTY
   
94.   ABANDONED, JUNKED AND NUISANCE VEHICLES
   
95.   PICKETS, PARADES, ASSEMBLIES AND SPECIAL EVENTS
   
96.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
   
97.   LAKE REGULATIONS
   
98.   ALARM SYSTEMS
CHAPTER 90: CEMETERIES
Section
   
90.01   Burial of animals or fowl
   
90.02   Removal of monuments, inscriptions, plantings
   
90.03   Ejection of disorderly persons from grounds
   
90.04   Killing or trapping birds or animals
   
90.05   Use of gates
   
90.06   Vehicles
   
90.07   Placing of improvements
   
90.08   Flowers and wreaths, removal
§ 90.01 BURIAL OF ANIMALS OR FOWL.
   No person shall bury the body of any dog, cat or other animal or fowl within
the enclosure of any cemetery.
(`90 Code, § 6-3) (Am. Ord. passed 4-11-00)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 90.02 REMOVAL OF MONUMENTS, INSCRIPTIONS, PLANTINGS.
   If any monument, effigy, enclosure, structure, inscription or planting
placed on or upon any lot in the cemetery is deemed by the City Council
offensive, improper or injurious to the surrounding lots or grounds, a
representative of the Council may enter upon the lot and remove the offensive,
improper or injurious object.
(`90 Code, § 6-4)(Am. Ord. passed 4-11-00)
§ 90.03 EJECTION OF DISORDERLY PERSONS FROM GROUNDS.
   Any person disturbing the quiet and good order of the cemetery may be
ejected from the grounds.
(`90 Code, § 6-5)(Am. Ord. passed 4-11-00)
§ 90.04 KILLING OR TRAPPING BIRDS OR ANIMALS.
   No person shall kill or trap in any manner whatever any bird or animal in
the cemetery.
(`90 Code, § 6-6)(Am. Ord. passed 4-11-00)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 90.05 USE OF GATES.
   No person shall enter the cemetery enclosure or go out therefrom except at
the gates provided for ingress and egress.
(`90 Code, § 6-7) (Am. Ord. passed 4-11-00)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 90.06 VEHICLES.
   No person having in charge any automobile or other vehicle shall drive the
same faster than 15 miles per hour, nor shall any person occupy or drive over
any roadway, alley or walk in the cemetery for pleasure or recreation, except
over the main roadways especially built for driving.
(`90 Code, § 6-8) (Am. Ord. passed 4-11-00)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 90.07 PLACING OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   No person shall place any monument, tomb, crypt, stone, shrubbery, plantings
or other improve-ments within the cemetery without first submitting a request
and detailed sketch of such improvements to the City Manager and receiving a
permit for making the improvement. Permitted improvements shall be made under
the supervision of the Director of Public Services and completely within the
confines of the permittee's plot as determined by the Director. Any
improvements made without the permission of the City Manager or the supervision
of the Director shall be removed immediately at the expense of the person
responsible for their installation.
(`90 Code, § 6-9) (Am. Ord. passed 4-11-00)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 90.08 FLOWERS AND WREATHS, REMOVAL.
   All cut flowers, wreaths and temporary memorials placed in the cemetery
thereby become the property of the city. Flowers, wreaths and temporary
memorials shall be maintained properly for their useful life and shall be
removed from the cemetery when deteriorated to the point that they detract from
the beauty of the cemetery. Any member of the immediate family on whose plot
the memorials were placed may remove the memorials personally, but this
permission shall not be delegated.
(`90 Code, § 6-10) (Am. Ord. passed 4-11-00)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 91: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Interfering with firefighters, equipment
   
91.02   Location of gasoline tanks, pumps
   
91.03   Opening fire hydrants
   
91.04   Hazardous materials response cost recovery
   
91.05   Use of combustible landscaping materials
Fire Prevention
   
91.15   Code adopted
   
91.16   Inspections
   
91.17   Inspection and permit fees
   
91.18   Order to remedy situations
   
91.19   Anti-blight
   
91.20   Service of order
   
91.21   Right of appeal
   
91.22   Certificate of occupancy
   
91.23   Primary fire limits
   
91.99   Penalty
   Cross-reference:
      Fire Department, see
Ch. 34
      Fire alarm system, see
Ch. 98
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 INTERFERING WITH FIREFIGHTERS, EQUIPMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct firefighters in any manner
whatsoever in the performance of their duties, or to in any manner interfere
with, handle, go upon, misplace or injure any of the equipment of the Fire
Department without permission.
(`90 Code, § 8-1)
Penalty, see § 91.99
 § 91.02 LOCATION OF GASOLINE TANKS, PUMPS.
   No person shall install or maintain a gasoline or other tank or pump for
delivery of gasoline or other material to customers on sidewalks or streets.
(`90 Code, § 8-2)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.03 OPENING FIRE HYDRANTS.
   No person shall open any city fire hydrant, or take water therefrom, except
an officer of the city or a member of the Fire Department in the performance of
official duties.
(`90 Code, § 8-3)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.04 HAZARDOUS MATERIALS RESPONSE COST RECOVERY.
   The Fire Chief and City Finance Director will review and determine the fee
schedule based on actual cost during the budget sessions each year. The fees
will be included in the budget ordinance for adoption by City Council each
fiscal year. The fee schedule shall cover the cost of hazardous materials
response, mitigation, and recovery for any hazardous materials incident within
the city and contracted areas.
(Ord. passed 9-25-00)
§ 91.05 USE OF COMBUSTIBLE LANDSCAPING MATERIALS.
   (A)   No pine, straw or any other landscaping cover material with a fire
rate of spread more than 24 inches per minute shall be placed, kept, or stored
within 25 feet of any building or structure with a combustible exterior.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to detached single-family residential
dwellings or appurtenant structures (for example, sheds or garages), unless
such structure is used as a Residential Group R-3 child day care facility that
provides accommodations for eight or fewer persons with no more than five of a
preschool age for less than 24 hours and Residential Group R-4 child day care
facility, on less than 24-hour basis.
   (C)   Violations of this section are subject to a $50 civil penalty per
occurrence.
(Ord. 04-2023, passed 5-9-23)
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 91.15 CODE ADOPTED.
   Pursuant to provisions contained in state law, and for the purposes of
prescribing regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and property
from fire and explosion, there is hereby adopted by reference the current
edition of the International Fire Code with state amendments as adopted by the
State of North Carolina. This document is also known as the North Carolina
State Building Code, Volume V, Fire Prevention Code. This code shall also be
known as the Fire Prevention Code for the city. The adoption of the IFC/NC Fire
Code includes all of the chapters and the applicable provisions set forth in
this document including any and all subsequent changes as may be deemed
necessary and approved by the City Council. The following appendix to the North
Carolina Fire Code is hereby adopted and incorporated by reference: Appendix D,
Fire Apparatus Access Roads. These shall be the same as if set forth verbatim
and the same is made applicable within the corporate limits of the city from
and after the effective date thereof. Copies of the code shall be on file in
the office of the City Manager and the Fire Chief’s office.
(`90 Code, § 8-26; Am. Ord. passed 5-14-02; Am. Ord. passed 5-14-12) Penalty,
see §
91.99
§ 91.16 INSPECTIONS.
   The Chief of the Fire Department shall inspect or cause to be inspected by
departmental fire inspectors, as often as may be necessary, but not less than
the inspection schedule of the North Carolina State Building Code, all
commercial occupancies for the purposes of ascertaining and causing to be
corrected any violations of the North Carolina State Building Code, Volume V.
(`90 Code, § 8-27)
§ 91.17 INSPECTION AND PERMIT FEES.
   The Fire Chief shall establish a fee schedule to cover the associated costs
of program delivery. The City Council shall approve the initial fee schedule
and any and all changes to the fee schedule. Permit fees shall be paid prior to
the issuance of the permit.
(`90 Code, § 8-28)
§ 91.18 ORDER TO REMEDY SITUATIONS.
    Whenever any inspector acting under this section shall find any violations
of the Fire Prevention Code, the inspector shall order the same to be removed
or corrected.
(`90 Code, § 8-29)
§ 91.19 ANTI-BLIGHT.
   Whenever any inspector shall find any building or other structure which for
want of repairs or by reason of age, dilapidated condition or fire damage
constitutes a safety-to-life hazard or a fire hazard, the inspector shall order
the building or structure removed or remedied, as found in the provisions of
state law.
(`90 Code, § 8-30)
§ 91.20 SERVICE OF ORDER.
   The service of any order to remedy a violation of the Fire Prevention Code
may be made upon the occupant of the premises to whom it is directed, either by
delivering a copy of same to the occupant personally, or by delivering the same
to, and leaving with, any person in charge of the premises. Whenever it is
necessary to serve such an order on the owner of the premises, such an order
may be served either by delivering to and leaving with the owner a copy of the
order, or if the owner is out of the jurisdiction of the inspector making the
order, by mailing the order to the last known mailing address of the owner.
(`90 Code, § 8-31)
§ 91.21 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   Whenever the Fire Inspector shall disapprove an application or refuse to
grant a license or permit applied for under the Fire Prevention Code, or when
it is claimed that the provision of the code has been misconstrued or wrongly
interpreted, the applicant may appeal the decision to the North Carolina State
Commissioner of Insurance or the Insurance Commissioner's designated
representative, by filing a written notice with the Commission of Insurance and
the local Fire Inspector within a period of ten days after the order, decision
or determination. Further appeals may be taken to the State Building Code
Council or to the courts as provided by law.
(`90 Code, § 8-33)
§ 91.22 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   In all cases where laws or regulations exist that are enforceable by the
Fire Inspector, approval must first be obtained from the Fire Inspector before
the owner of a building is issued a certificate of occupancy.
(`90 Code, § 8-34)
§ 91.23 PRIMARY FIRE LIMITS.
    The fire limits of the city are established as follows:
   Beginning at the corner of Madison Blvd. and Barden St. Then parallel in a
easterly direction on Barden to the corner of S. Main Street and Barden Street.
Then proceeding north on S. Main Street to Academy Street. Then east on Academy
Street to S. Foushee Street. Then proceeding North on S. Foushee Street to E.
Morehead Street. Then proceeding west on Morehead Street to Madison Blvd. Then
proceeding south to the beginning at S. Madison Blvd. and Barden Street.
(`90 Code, § 8-35)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is set forth shall be punished as provided in §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of the Fire
Prevention Code, as adopted by this chapter, or fail to comply therewith, who
shall violate or fail to comply with any order made thereunder, or who shall
build in violation of any detailed statement, or specifications or plans
submitted and approved thereunder, or any certificate or permit thereunder, and
from which no appeal has been taken, within the time fixed therein, shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor for each and every violation and, upon conviction,
shall be punished by a fine of not more than $50 for each violation, or
imprisonment of not more than 30 days for each violation. Each day that the
violation continues shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
      (2)   A violation of the occupancy limits established pursuant to the
North Carolina State Building Code shall be a misdemeanor, subject to a $100
fine for the first offense, a $250 fine for the second offense, and a $500 fine
and up to 30 days imprisonment for a third offense. Any occupancy violation
incurred after one year shall constitute a first offense. The imposition of one
penalty for any violation shall not excuse the violation or permit it to
continue, and all such persons shall be required to correct or remedy such
violations or defects within a reasonable time. Violations of the fire code
shall subject the offender to the civil penalties herein described if, after 30
days, violations have not been corrected. If violations are corrected within a
reasonable time as prescribed by the Fire Inspector, then no fines will be
levied, with the exception of occupancy limit violations, which shall result in
an immediate fine as described herein. All fines and fees shall be collected by
the city.
      (3)   The imposition of a penalty for such a violation shall not be held
to prevent the enforced removal of prohibited conditions or restrict the city
from seeking alternative enforcement remedies.
(`90 Code, § 8-32)
CHAPTER 92: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Adoption by reference
   
92.02   Definitions
   
92.03   Exemptions
Regulations
   
92.14   City leash law
   
92.15   Dog must wear collar and rabies tag
   
92.16   Possession of animals
   
92.17   Rabies vaccination and control
   
92.18   Dangerous or potentially dangerous animals
   
92.19   Noisy dogs
   
92.20   Injuring animals; notice required
   
92.21   Cruel treatment
   
92.22   Manner of keeping and treating animals generally
   
92.23   Maintenance of premises
   
92.24   Hogs
   
92.25   City as bird sanctuary
   
92.26   Protection of birds, nests; shooting and trapping permit
   
92.27   Noise
   
92.28   Pet waste
Administration and Enforcement
   
92.40   Duties of Animal Control Division
   
92.41   Impounding animals
   
92.42   Redemption and adoption of impounded animals
   
92.43   Other fees
   
92.44   Interference
   
92.45   Records
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The city hereby incorporates by reference all rules and regulations of the
Person County Animal Adoption Program. Copies of the program are kept on file
in the office of the City Clerk and are available for inspection and copying
during normal business hours.
(Am. Ord. passed 3-11-13; Am. Ord. passed 3-9-15)
§ 92.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTS DEEMED PUBLIC NUISANCE. It shall be unlawful for any animal owner to
keep or have within Person County any animal that habitually or repeatedly
chases, snaps at, attacks or provokes pedestrians, bicyclists or vehicles,
turns over garbage pails, damages gardens, flowers or vegetables, conducts
itself so as to be a public nuisance or permits a female animal to run at large
during the erotic stage of copulation. If an animal is caught doing any of the
above, and an official complaint is filed and the owner, if known, is notified,
the owner is required to keep the animal contained; each day the animal is not
contained, the owner is found not to be in compliance with this chapter; each
day thereafter constitutes a separate violation of this chapter.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. A county employee designated as Dog Warden, Animal
Control Officer, Animal Control Official or other designations that may be
used, whose responsibility includes animal control.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any premises designated by the county for the purpose of
impounding and caring for animals found running at large or otherwise subject
to impounding in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   AT LARGE. Any animal shall be deemed to be AT LARGE when he or she is off
the property of his or her owner and not under the control of a competent
person.
   DANGEROUS DOG. A dog that:
      (1)   Without provocation has killed or inflicted severe injury on a
person;
      (2)   Is declared vicious by the Chief Animal Control Officer pursuant to
G.S. § 130A-200; or
      (3)   Is determined by the Chief Animal Control Officer to be potentially
dangerous and, after this determination, engages in one or more of the
behaviors listed in the definition for "potentially dangerous dog” in this
section.
   EXPOSED TO RABIES. An animal has been exposed to rabies within the meaning
of this chapter if it has been bitten by or been exposed to any animal known or
suspected to have been infected with rabies.
   KENNEL, DEALER, BREEDER or PET SHOP. Any person, group of persons,
partnership or corporation engaged in buying, selling, breeding or boarding pet
animals.
   NEUTERED MALE. Any male which has been operated upon to prevent
reproduction.
   OWNER. Any person, group of persons, firm, partnership or corporation
owning, keeping, having charge of, sheltering, feeding, harboring or taking
care of any animal. The OWNER is responsible for the care, actions and behavior
of his or her animals.
   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG. A dog that:
      (1)   Inflicted a bite on a person either upon public or private real
property;
      (2)   Killed or inflicted severe injury upon a domestic animal when not
on the owner's real property; or
      (3)   Approached a person when not on the owner's property in a vicious
or terrorizing manner in an apparent attitude of attack.
   RESTRAINT. An animal is under RESTRAINT within the meaning of this chapter
if he or she is controlled by means of a chain, leash or other like device, is
secured within a vehicle being driven or parked, or is within a secure
enclosure.
   SPAYED FEMALE. Any female which has been operated upon to prevent
conception.
   STRAY DOG OR CAT. Any dog or cat within the county wandering at large or
lost and does not have an owner, any dog or cat within the county whose owner
fails to list the animal for license purposes or fails to have the dog or cat
vaccinated against rabies by a veterinarian, or any dog not wearing a collar
and current rabies tag.
   VACCINATION. The administration of rabies vaccine by a licensed veterinarian
or by a certified rabies vaccinator.
(Ord. passed 4-5-93; Am. Ord. passed 3-11-13; Am. Ord. passed 3-9-15)
Statutory reference:
   Similar definitions, see G.S. § 130A-184
§ 92.03 EXEMPTIONS.
   Hospitals, clinics and other premises operated by licensed veterinarians for
the care and treatment of animals are exempt from the provisions of this
chapter, except for the sections on cruel treatment and manner of keeping
animals generally.
(Ord. passed 4-5-93; Am. Ord. passed 3-11-13; Am. Ord. passed 3-9-15)
REGULATIONS
§ 92.14 CITY LEASH LAW.
   (A)   No person owning or having possession, charge, custody or control of
any animal shall cause, permit, or allow the animal to stray or in any manner
to run at large in or upon any public street, sidewalk or park or upon the
property of another.
   (B)   Every person owning or having possession, charge, care, custody, or
control of any dog shall keep such dog exclusively upon his own premises;
provided, however, that such dog may be off such premises if it be under the
control of a competent person and restrained by a chain or leash (not extending
more than five feet from the custodian) or other means of adequate physical
contact.
(Ord. passed 3-11-13; Am. Ord. passed 3-9-15)
§ 92.15 DOG MUST WEAR COLLAR AND RABIES TAG.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any dog or cat owner to fail to comply with
the state laws relating to the control of rabies, and it shall be unlawful for
any dog owner to fail to provide any dog he or she owns with a suitable collar
or harness for the wearing of the rabies tag to be issued upon compliance with
the state law, and to take such action as is necessary to see that the tag is
worn by the dog at all times, except as otherwise provided in §
92.40(G). Collar or harness with attached tag must be worn at all times, except
during the time animals are performing at shows, obedience trials, tracking
tests, field trials, training schools or other events sanctioned and supervised
by a recognized organization. It is not required that cats must wear collars or
rabies tags; however, all cats must be vaccinated for rabies and listed for
license purposes. Proof of the above must be presented upon request of the
Animal Control Officer. It is the purpose of this chapter to supplement the
state law by providing a procedure for the enforcement of state laws relating
to rabies control.
   (B)   Unless proof of vaccination is available, it shall be the duty of the
county administrative staff to give every person who owns, redeems or adopts a
dog or cat a proof of rabies vaccination card, and a record will be maintained
of the vaccination.
   (C)   In addition to all other penalties prescribed by law, a dog or cat is
subject to impoundment in accordance with the provisions of this chapter if the
owner of the dog or cat cannot furnish evidence of license fee listings, if the
dog is not wearing a currently valid rabies tag, or proof cannot be given that
a cat has been vaccinated for rabies. It shall be unlawful for any person to
use for any dog or cat a vaccination tag issued for a dog or cat other than the
one using the tag.
   (D)   It is recommended that animals be micro-chipped in the event that the
collar and tags are lost for identification purposes.
(Ord. passed 4-5-93; Am. Ord. passed 3-11-13; Am. Ord. passed 3-9-15) Penalty,
see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. § 130A-190
§ 92.16 POSSESSION OF ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to harbor, feed or keep in his
or her possession, by confinement or otherwise, any animal that does not belong
to him or her unless he or she has:
   (A)   The consent of the owner or keeper of the animal; or
   (B)   Within 72 hours of the time the animal has come within his or her
possession, notified the animal shelter. Upon receiving the notice, an Animal
Control Officer shall obtain the animal and place it in the animal shelter if
requested by the person in possession.
   (C)   No owner shall keep, maintain or harbor more than five domesticated
animals four months old or older, within the corporate limits of the city at
any time.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to locate any dog lot or any
containment structure for a dog within ten feet of any property line (excludes
yards that are fenced.)
   (E)   It shall be lawful for any person to keep, permit or allow chickens
within the city limits under the following terms and conditions:
      (1)   No more than four hens shall be allowed for each single family lot.
No chickens shall be allowed in multi-family complexes, including duplexes.
Roosters are not permitted.
      (2)   There shall be no outside slaughtering of chickens.
      (3)   All chickens must be kept in a secure enclosure (a "coop") during
non-daylight hours. During daylight hours, chickens may be located in a chicken
pen or in a securely fenced backyard.
      (4)   Chicken coops must be situated at least ten feet from all property
lines and the coop and chickens must at all times be located in the backyard of
the residence.
      (5)   Chicken coops must be kept in a neat and sanitary condition at all
times and must be cleaned on a regular basis to prevent offensive odors.
(Ord. passed 4-5-93; Am. Ord. passed 3-11-13; Am. Ord. passed 3-9-15) Penalty,
see §
92.99
§ 92.17 RABIES VACCINATION AND CONTROL.
   It shall be unlawful for an owner to fail to provide current inoculation
against rabies (hydro- phobia) for his or her dog or cat over the age of four
months as required by state law. Should it be deemed necessary by the County
Health Director or Board of County Commissioners that other pets be vaccinated
in order to prevent a threatened epidemic or to control an existing epidemic,
it shall be unlawful for the owner to fail to provide current inoculation
against rabies for that pet.
   (A)   Bite cases; duty of owner. 
      (1)   Every animal which has bitten any human or domestic animal or which
shows symptoms of rabies shall be confined immediately and shall be promptly
reported to the Animal Control Division by its owners or person having the
animal in charge, and thereupon shall be securely quarantined at the direction
of the Animal Control Division for a period of ten days and shall not be
released from the quarantine except by written permission from the Animal
Control Division.
      (2)   The biting animal, and its records of vaccination and registration,
shall be inspected by the Animal Control Officer, who will then observe the
following policy:
         (a)   A properly vaccinated and registered dog or cat may be confined
on the owner's premises, provided however, that an Animal Control Officer
determines that the owner has an adequate means of confinement upon his or her
own premises and the animal is subject to observation by the officer at any
time during the ten-day period.
         (b)   A dog or cat not properly vaccinated or registered, belonging to
the owner, shall immediately be confined in a veterinary hospital or the County
Animal Shelter, in which case the expense shall be borne by the owner for the
ten-days confinement. The dog or cat shall not be vaccinated during
confinement.
         (c)   A biting stray dog or cat shall immediately be confined in the
County Animal Shelter for a ten-day period.
   (B)   Surrender for quarantine required on demand. Except as provided in
division (A)(2)(b), it shall be unlawful for the owner to refuse an
investigation by the Animal Control Division upon demand any animal which has
bitten a human or has been in an encounter with a suspected rabid animal, for
the purpose of supervised quarantine, the expense of which shall be borne by
the owner. If rabies does not develop within ten days, the animal may be
reclaimed upon payment of $10 per day for feeding and care, and upon compliance
with other provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Rabies diagnosed. If an animal dies while under observation for
rabies, then the head of the animal must be submitted to the Person County
Health Department for shipment to the Lab Section, North Carolina Department of
Environmental Health and Natural Resources, for diagnosis.
   (D)   Emergency quarantine and procedure. When reports indicate a positive
diagnosis of rabies, the County Director of Public Health may order an area-
wide quarantine for a period as he or she deems necessary. Upon invoking of
such emergency quarantine by the Health Director, no pet animal shall be taken
into the streets or permitted to be in the streets during such period. During
the quarantine, no animal may be taken or shipped from the county without
written permission of the Animal Control Division, and each member of the
Animal Control Division, Police and Sheriff's Department, is fully authorized
during the emergency to impound or destroy (if it cannot be apprehended) any
animal found running at large in the county. During the quarantine period, the
Animal Control Division or the local health authorities shall be empowered to
provide for a program of mass immunization by the establishment of temporary
emergency rabies vaccination clinics strategically located throughout the
county. No animal which has been impounded by reason of its being a stray
unclaimed by its owner is allowed to be adopted from the animal shelter during
the period of emergency rabies quarantine, except by special authorization of
the public health officials and the department head of the Animal Control
Division.
   (E)   Rabies inoculation required.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for an owner to fail to provide current
inoculation against rabies (hydrophobia) for any dog or cat four months of age
or older. Should it be deemed necessary by the County Health Director, the
Board of County Commissioners or the State Public Health Veterinarian that
other pets be inoculated in order to prevent a threatened epidemic or to
control an existing epidemic, it shall be unlawful for an owner to fail to
provide current inoculation against rabies for that pet. This chapter strongly
recommends inoculation for other animals if a vaccine is available for that
species.
      (2)   A rabies inoculation shall be deemed current for a dog and cat if
two inoculations have been given one year apart and booster doses of rabies
vaccine administered every three years thereafter.
   (F)   Destruction of bitten animal. A dog or cat bitten by a proven rabid
animal or animal suspected of having rabies that is not available for
laboratory diagnosis shall be destroyed immediately by its owner, the County
Animal Control Officer or a peace officer, unless the dog or cat has been
vaccinated against rabies in accordance with this chapter or the rules or
regulations of the County Health Department more than three weeks prior to
being bitten, and is given a booster dose of rabies vaccine within three days
of the bite. It shall be unlawful for any owner or person who has been taking
care of any unvaccinated animal, which is reasonably determined to have been
exposed to rabies because of an encounter with a suspected rabid animal, to
fail to surrender the unvaccinated animal to the Animal Control Division on
demand for compliance with any protocol established by the County Health
Director for handling of rabies exposure incidents.
   (G)   Extension of quarantine period. In the event there are additional
positive cases of rabies occurring during the period of quarantine, the period
of quarantine may be extended at the discretion of the County Director of
Public Health.
   (H)   Releasing, killing or removing any animal suspected of rabies
prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to kill or release any animal
under observation for rabies, any animal suspected of having been exposed to
rabies, or any animal biting a human, or to remove the animal from the county
without written permission from the Animal Control Division and the County
Director of Public Health.
   (I)   Carcass of animal. The carcass of any dead animal suspected of dying
with rabies shall be surrendered to the Animal Control Division. The head of
the animal shall be submitted to the County Health Department for shipment to
the Lab Section, North Carolina Department of Environmental Health and Natural
Resources, for diagnosis.
   (J)   Failure or refusal to surrender animal unlawful. It shall be unlawful
for any person to fail or refuse to surrender any animal for quarantine or
destruction as required herein when demand is made therefor by the Animal
Control Division.
(Ord. passed 4-5-93; Am. Ord. passed 3-18-96; Am. Ord. passed 3-11-13; Am. Ord.
passed 3-9-15) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.18 DANGEROUS OR POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   The provisions of this section do not apply to a dog being used by a
law enforcement officer to carry out the law enforcement officer's official
duties. A dog shall not be considered a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous
dog under this section if the injury inflicted by the dog was sustained by a
person who, at the time of the injury, was committing a willful trespass or
other tort, was tormenting, abusing or assaulting the dog, had been observed or
reported to have tormented, abused or assaulted the dog, or was committing or
attempting to commit a crime.
   (B)   The Chief Animal Control Officer must notify the owner of a
potentially dangerous dog in writing, giving the reasons for his or her
determination, before the dog may be considered potentially dangerous under
this section. The owner may appeal the determination of the Animal Control
Officer by giving written notice of the appeal within five days of this
determination to the Chief Animal Control Officer. The dog will be considered
potentially dangerous pending the appeal.
   (C)   It is unlawful for an owner to:
      (1)   Leave a dangerous dog or a potentially dangerous dog unattended on
the owner's real property, unless the dog is confined indoors, in a securely
enclosed and locked pen, or in another structure designed to restrain the dog;
      (2)   Permit a dangerous dog or a potentially dangerous dog to go beyond
the owner's real property, unless the dog is leashed and muzzled or is
otherwise securely restrained and muzzled.
   (D)   If the owner of a dangerous dog or a potentially dangerous dog
transfers ownership or possession of the dog to another person, the owner shall
provide written notice to:
      (1)   The Chief Animal Control Officer, stating the name and address of
the owner of the dog; and
      (2)   The person taking possession of the dog, specifying the dog's
dangerous behavior and the Chief Animal Control Officer's determination.
   (E)   A dog that has been determined to be dangerous or potentially
dangerous may be humanely destroyed in the following instances:
      (1)   If the Chief Animal Control Officer determines that a dog that was
previously determined to be dangerous either bit a person so as to cause a
break in the skin or was at large on two or more separate occasions after such
determination, the Chief Animal Control Officer may seek a court order for the
dog to be humanely destroyed.
      (2)   If the Chief Animal Control Officer in determining that a dog is
dangerous or potentially dangerous also determines that the dog, without
provocation, has killed or inflicted severe injury on a person, the Chief
Animal Control Officer may seek a court order that the dog be humanely
destroyed.
   (F)   A dog that has been determined to be dangerous or potentially
dangerous may not be disposed of by adoption from the animal shelter.
   (G)   The keeper or other custodian of any dog that has been determined to
be dangerous or potentially dangerous shall report immediately to the Animal
Control Officer if the dog gets loose or is otherwise unconfined, or if it
attacks a person or another animal.
   (H)   An Animal Control Officer shall inspect the premises where a dog
determined to be dangerous or potentially dangerous is kept if so requested.
   (I)   If an animal is observed engaged in any of the acts identified as a
public nuisance as defined in the definition section of this chapter, and an
official complaint is filed and the owner (if known) is notified, the owner is
required to keep said animal contained. Each day said animal is not contained,
constitutes a separate violation of this chapter and the owner shall be so
charged with violation of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 4-5-93; Am. Ord. passed 3-18-96; Am. Ord. passed 3-11-13; Am. Ord.
passed 3-9-15) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.19 NOISY DOGS.
   It shall be unlawful for the keeper or other custodian of any dog to allow
it to bark, whine, howl or make any other noise for a protracted period, so as
to result in a serious annoyance or interference with the reasonable use and
enjoyment of neighboring premises.
(Ord. passed 4-5-93; Am. Ord. passed 3-11-13; Am. Ord. passed 3-9-15) Penalty,
see §
92.99
§ 92.20 INJURING ANIMALS; NOTICE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person injuring an animal by running over or
into same, or coming into contact with same, with automobile, motorcycle,
bicycle or other vehicle, to fail to notify immediately the owner of the
animal, the animal shelter or Emergency Communications for the appropriate
response.
(Ord. passed 4-5-93; Am. Ord. passed 3-11-13; Am. Ord. passed 3-9-15) Penalty,
see §
92.99
§ 92.21 CRUEL TREATMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to tease, bait, molest, torture, deprive
of necessary sustenance, cruelly beat, needlessly mutilate or kill, wound,
injure, poison, abandon or subject to conditions detrimental to its health or
general welfare any animal, or to cause or procure such action. The words
"torture," "torment" or "cruelty" shall be held to include every act, omission
or neglect whereby unjustifiable physical pain, suffering or death is caused or
permitted, but such terms shall not be construed to prohibit lawful shooting of
birds, deer and other game for human food, nor to prohibit the Animal Control
Division or their agents or veterinarians from destroying dangerous, unwanted
or injured animals in a humane manner.
(Ord. passed 4-5-93; Am. Ord. passed 3-11-13; Am. Ord. passed 3-9-15) Penalty,
see §
92.99
§ 92.22 MANNER OF KEEPING AND TREATING ANIMALS GENERALLY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep animals under unsanitary or
inhumane conditions, or to fail to provide proper food and water daily, shelter
from the weather, reasonably clean quarters and proper medical attention for
sick, diseased or injured animals. It is recommended that animals have adequate
inoculation against disease, according to the species of the animal kept.
   (A)   Adequate shelter means provision of and access to shelter that is
suitable for the species, age, condition, size and type of each animal;
provides adequate space for each animal' is safe and protects each animal from
injury, rain, sleet, snow, hail, direct sunlight, the adverse effects of heat
or cold, physical suffering, and impairment of health; is properly cleaned,
enables each animal to be clean and dry, except when detrimental to the
species; and for dogs and cats, provides a solid surface, resting platform,
pad, floor mat or similar device that is large enough for the animal to lie on
in a normal manner and can be maintained in a sanitary manner. Under this
section, shelters whose wire, grid, or slat floors: (i) permit the animals feet
to pass through the openings; (ii) sag under the animal's weight; or (iii)
otherwise do not protect the animal's feet or toes from injury are NOT adequate
shelter.
   (B)   Provide proper food and adequate water means provision of and access
to clean, fresh, potable water of a drinkable temperature that is provided in a
suitable manner, in sufficient volume, and at suitable intervals appropriate
for the weather and temperature, to maintain normal hydration for the age,
species, condition, size and type of each animal, except as prescribed by a
veterinarian or as dictated by naturally occurring states of hibernation or
fasting normal for the species; and is provided in clean, durable receptacles
that accessible to each animal and are placed so as to minimize contamination
of the water by excrement and pests or an alternative source of hydration
consistent with generally accepted husbandry practices.
   (C)   Adequate space means sufficient space to allow each animal to; (i)
easily stand, sit, lie, turn about, and make all other animal body movements in
a comfortable, normal position for the animal; and (ii) interact safely with
other animals in the enclosure. When an animal is tethered "adequate space"
means a tether that permits the above actions and is appropriate to the age and
size of the animal; is attached to the animal by a properly applied collar,
halter, or harness configured so as to protect the animal from injury and
prevent the animal or tether from becoming entangled with other objects or
animals, or from extending over an object or edge that could result in the
strangulation or injury of the animal; and is at least three times the length
of the animal, as measured from the tip of its nose to the base of its tail,
except when the animal is being walked on a leash or is attached by a tether to
a lead line. When freedom of movement would endanger the animal, temporarily
and appropriately restricting movement of the animal according to
professionally accepted standards for the species is considered provision of
adequate space.
   (D)   Dogs and cats must not be in extended contact with wet surroundings.
(Ord. passed 4-5-93; Am. Ord. passed 3-11-13; Am. Ord. passed 3-9-15) Penalty,
see §
92.99
§ 92.23 MAINTENANCE OF PREMISES.
   (A)   Every stable and other place where cattle, horses or other animals are
kept shall at all times be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition and
located in such a manner that water will not stand thereunder. Any area wherein
any domestic animals, including but not limited to dogs, cows and horses, or
turkeys, geese, chickens, ducks or other fowl are penned, housed, caged, cooped
or otherwise contained shall at all times be kept in a sanitary condition so
that no foul or offensive odors shall emanate therefrom. Upon the receipt of a
complaint that any area is being maintained in violation of this section, the
City Manager or the Police Department may request the County Board of Health to
make an investigation of the conditions complained of and, if the report from
such investigation shows that an insanitary condition exists, it shall be the
duty of the city, through its Police Department, to notify the person owning
the premises, or his agent in charge of the premises. Any person failing to
remedy the existing condition within five days after having been so notified
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Large farm animals. Large farm animals may be kept under the following
circumstances:
      (1)   Large animals generally include, but are not limited to: horses,
donkeys, cows, etc.;
      (2)   The lot on which the animals are kept is at least one acre per
adult animal; and
      (3)   Barns, stables, etc. for the animals are located at least 60 feet
from the property lines.
(`90 Code, § 3-2) (Am. Ord. passed 3-11-13; Am. Ord. passed 3-9-15; Am. Ord.
passed 6-9-15) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.24 HOGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep any hog or keep or maintain a
hog pen within the corporate limits of the city.
(`90 Code, § 3-3) (Am. Ord. passed 3-11-13; Am. Ord. passed 3-9-15) Penalty,
see §
92.99
§ 92.25 CITY AS BIRD SANCTUARY.
   The entire area embraced within the corporate limits of the city is hereby
designated as a bird sanctuary, and subject to state laws governing the same.
(`90 Code, § 3-4) (Am. Ord. passed 3-11-13; Am. Ord. passed 3-9-15)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see G.S. § 160A-188
§ 92.26 PROTECTION OF BIRDS, NESTS; SHOOTING AND TRAPPING PERMIT.
   (A)   Except as regulated in this section, it shall be unlawful for any
person to trap, hunt, shoot or attempt to shoot or molest in any manner any
bird or wild fowl, or to rob bird nests or wild fowl nests within the city.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit any persons or authorities from
seeking permits from the Wildlife Resources Commission to kill any species of
bird or animals as provided by G.S. § 113-274, provided that if any birds or
animals are committing depredations or about to commit such depredations as set
out in G.S. § 113-274(c)(1a), no such permit shall be required, but in lieu
thereof, a person over the age of 21 years shall first procure a permit from
the Chief of Police and shall use a .22 caliber rifle or .22 caliber pistol
with blank or shot cartridges or a shotgun with blank or number eight shot, for
firing upon pigeons, black starlings, rats, squirrels or any other pest or
rodent. The use of traps or other devices must be approved by the Wildlife
Resources Commission or the Chief of Police. The permit shall run for not more
than 90 days, and shall authorize firing during daylight hours only, upon the
premises owned or occupied by the applicant or with express consent of the
property owner, and shall be revocable by the Chief of Police upon violation of
its conditions or upon complaint that the permit holder is not exercising his
privilege in a careful and prudent manner and with due regard to life and
property.
(`90 Code, § 3-5) (Am. Ord. passed 3-11-13; Am. Ord. passed 3-9-15) Penalty,
see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Bird declared "pest," see G.S. § 113-300.2
§ 92.27 NOISE.
   Any person keeping any domestic animals or any fowl within the city shall
restrain such animals or fowl from making incessant loud noises so as to
disturb and distress those within hearing distance. If any person shall violate
this section, the City Manager, upon receipt of a written complaint, shall,
either himself or through the Police Department, notify the owner of the animal
or fowl complained of, or the person in charge thereof, of the violation. Any
person failing to remedy the condition complained of within five days after
being so notified shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(`90 Code, § 3-6) (Am. Ord. passed 3-11-13; Am. Ord. passed 3-9-15) Penalty,
see §
92.99
§ 92.28 PET WASTE.
   (A)   Dogs at large prohibited.  It shall be unlawful for the owner of any
dog to allow the animal to be off the premises of his owner and not on a leash
in the City of Roxboro.
   (B)   Restrictions on pet waste.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or custodian of any dog to take
it off the owner’s own property limits without the means to properly remove and
dispose of the dog’s feces from any public or private property.
      (2)   It is the responsibility of a dog’s owner or custodian to clean up
the dog’s feces from any public or private property outside of the dog owner’s
own property limits. Such property includes, but is not limited to, parks,
rights-of-way, paths, public access areas, sidewalks, utility strips and
streets.
      (3)   “Means to properly remove and dispose of feces” shall consist of
having on or near one’s person a device such as a plastic bag, or other
suitable plastic or paper container, that can be used to clean up and contain
dog waste until it can be disposed of in an appropriate container. Such a
device must be produced and shown, upon request, to anyone authorized to
enforce these ordinances.
      (4)   This provision shall not apply to handicapped persons assisted by
trained guide or assistance dogs.
      (5)   PUBLIC NUISANCE is defined to include a dog which deposits feces on
public property or on private property without the consent of the owner or
person in lawful possession of the private  property, and the person owning,
possessing, harboring or having the care, charge, control or custody of the dog
fails to remove the feces so deposited. Provided, however, this definition
shall not apply to any dog assisting a handicapped person. It shall also be
unlawful for the owner or custodian of any domestic animal to allow it to
repeatedly chase, snap at, or attack pedestrians or vehicles or to turn over
garbage pails, damage flower or vegetable gardens.
   (C)   Horses ridden within city limits.
      (1)   No person shall drive, ride, or lead any horse or horse-drawn
vehicle on a public street unless the horse is equipped with a manure-catching
device. This provision shall not apply to horses used in parades and
ceremonies; however, they are required to properly remove and dispose of feces
at their own expense.
      (2)   A person shall be allowed to ride a horse on a public street only
during the time between sunrise and sunset.   
      (3)   No person shall ride or lead a horse or pony upon the sidewalks
within the corporate limits.
   (D)   In addition to or in lieu of the general penalty prescribed in §
10.99, a violation of any provision of this section shall also subject the
offender to a civil penalty of $25 which, if not paid by the offender within
ten days after being cited for the violation, may be recovered by the city in a
civil action in the nature of a debt, and each day that a violation continues
after notification that such violation exists shall constitute a separate
offense for the purposed of the foregoing criminal and civil penalties.
(Ord. passed 4-10-12; Am. Ord. passed 3-11-13; Am. Ord. passed 3-9-15; Am. Ord.
passed 6-9-15)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 92.40 DUTIES OF ANIMAL CONTROL DIVISION.
   The Animal Control Division shall be charged with the responsibility of:
   (A)   Enforcing in Person County all state or county laws, ordinances and
resolutions relating to dogs and cats or the care, custody and control of
animals;
   (B)   Cooperating with the Health Director and assisting in the enforcement
of the laws of the state with regard to animals and especially with regard to
vaccination of dogs and cats against rabies, and the confinement or leashing of
dangerous and potentially dangerous animals (without limiting the foregoing),
reference is particularly made to the state laws as set out and contained in
the North Carolina General Statutes;
   (C)   Investigating cruelty or animal abuse with regard to dogs, cats and
other animals;
   (D)   Making such canvasses of the county, including the homes in the
county, as it deems necessary for the purpose of ascertaining that all dogs and
cats are duly and properly listed for license purposes, and that all dogs and
cats are vaccinated against rabies;
   (E)   Operating pursuant to policies of the Board of County Commissioners;
   (F)   Maintaining a reference file for license fees, vaccination and
sterilization purposes, all in accordance with the provisions of this chapter
and the policies of the Board of County Commissioners;
   (G)   Giving every person a proof of rabies vaccination card at the time of
redemption or adoption of a dog or cat not vaccinated if it is four months of
age or older. The card will be completed by the veterinarian who vaccinates the
dog or cat and returned to the animal shelter by the owner. Reference files
will be maintained in connection therewith, all in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter and the policies of the Board of County
Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 4-5-93; Am. Ord. passed 3-11-13; Am. Ord. passed 3-9-15)
§ 92.41 IMPOUNDING ANIMALS.
    Any animal which appears to be lost, strayed or unwanted, or which is found
to be not wearing a currently valid rabies vaccination tag as required by state
law, shall be confined in the animal shelter in a humane manner for a minimum
of three weekdays and a maximum of ten weekdays for redemption by the owner.
   (A)   Sale or destruction. If an impounded animal is not redeemed by the
owner within three days, it becomes the property of the county, and it may be
offered for adoption, placed with a rescue group or humanely euthanized by the
Person County Animal Services Department. No animal shall be sold, adopted, or
redeemed, however, unless it shall be established to the satisfaction of the
Animal Control Officer that it had been vaccinated against rabies prior to its
having been taken into custody. The animal can be adopted by any responsible
adult who is willing to comply with ordinances and the conditions of the
adoption contract. Identification will be required. The adoption fees and spay/
neuter deposit must be paid at the time of adoption.
   (B)   Notifying owner. Immediately upon impounding an animal, the Animal
Control Division will make reasonable effort to notify the owner and inform the
owner of the conditions whereby the animal may be redeemed.
   (C)   Intact dogs and cats. The Animal Control Division shall require that
at the appropriate age all adopted dogs and cats released from the animal
shelter be spayed or neutered, unless released to the County Animal Protection
Society. All items according to §
92.40(G) and §
92.42 must be met when the animal is adopted.
   (D)   Suspected rabies. Animals impounded which have been bitten by a rabid
animal, or which the Animal Control Officer has reasonable grounds to suspect
has been exposed to a suspected rabid animal or appear to be suffering from
rabies, shall not be redeemed or adopted, but shall be dealt with as provided
in §
92.17.
   (E)   Unwanted, diseased or injured animals. If an animal is officially
surrendered by the owner to the Animal Control Division to be placed in a home
or destroyed in a humane manner, it shall be disposed of without waiting three
days.
   (F)   Other diseased or injured animals.  Any animal impounded which is
badly wounded or diseased (not a rabies suspect) and has no identification
shall be destroyed immediately in a humane manner. If the animal has
identification, the Animal Control Division will attempt to notify the owner
before disposing of the animal; but if the owner cannot be reached, and the
animal is suffering, the Animal Control Division may destroy the animal at its
discretion in a humane manner.
   (G)   When quarantine for the city has been activated, no animals retrieved
from the corporate limits (or designated quarantine area) will be released from
the shelter, unless it has a current, verified rabies vaccination.
(Ord. passed 4-5-93; Am. Ord. passed 3-18-96; Am. Ord. passed 3-11-13; Am. Ord.
passed 3-9-15)
§ 92.42 REDEMPTION AND ADOPTION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS.
   (A)   The owner shall be entitled to resume possession of his or her animal,
except as already provided for certain animals, upon compliance with the
provisions of this chapter and the payment of shelter fees incurred. The
shelter fees shall be as follows:
      (1)   Redemption by owner                           $25
      (2)   Redemption by owner (second offense in one-year
period)            $50
      (3)   Redemption by owner (three plus offenses in one- year period, per
offense)   $100
      (4)   Adoption fee                              $25
   (B)   If two or more violations occur within one year, the owner redemption
fee shall increase by as outlined above. In addition to the other fees set out
herein, a boarding fee at the rate of $5 per day must be paid before dogs may
be redeemed.
   (C)   If the dog or cat has not been vaccinated against rabies, the owner
will be given a proof of rabies vaccination card at the time of the redemption
or adoption. This card will be stamped with a date stating the maximum time
limit allowed to take the dog or cat to the veterinarian of his or her choice
for rabies vaccination. Time limit for dogs or cats four months and older will
be 48 hours, with Sundays and holidays excluded. For puppies and kittens under
four months, the time limit would vary according to their age.
   (D)   The card will be completed and returned to the animal shelter by the
owner. If this card is not returned to the animal shelter within the time
limit, an Animal Control Officer will be dispatched to retrieve the dog or cat
and the owner can be cited for violation of state law.
   (E)   There will be a $20 deposit for all animals adopted from the shelter.
This deposit will be returned once the proof of vaccination card and the proof
of sterilization card has been returned. The sterilization card must be
returned within 30 days if the animal is six months of age or older.
(Ord. passed 4-5-93; Am. Ord. passed 3-11-13; Am. Ord. passed 3-9-15)
§ 92.43 OTHER FEES.
   (A)   To pick up puppies or kittens:      $25
      (1)   Owner may bring puppies or kittens to the shelter at no charge.
      (2)   No charge to pick up stray puppies or kittens, but must pick up
mother also.
   (B)   To answer injured animal call:   $25
      (1)   Owner must pay fee to officer upon arrival.
      (2)   No charge to answer call on injured stray animal.
(Ord. passed 4-5-93; Am. Ord. passed 3-11-13; Am. Ord. passed 3-9-15)
§ 92.44 INTERFERENCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, hinder or molest the
Animal Control Division or its agents, or Animal Control Officers or
veterinarians, in the performance of any duty authorized by this chapter, or
seek to release any animal in the custody of said agents except as herein
provided.
(Ord. passed 4-5-93; Am. Ord. passed 3-11-13; Am. Ord. passed 3-9-15) Penalty,
see §
92.99
§ 92.45 RECORDS.
   It shall be the duty of the Animal Control Division to keep, or cause to be
kept, accurate and detailed records of:
   (A)   Impoundment and disposition of all animals coming into the animal
shelter;
   (B)   Bite cases, violations and complaints investigations;
   (C)   All monies belonging to the county which were derived from impoundment
fees, penalties and sales of animals;
   (D)   All other records deemed necessary by the County Manager.
(Ord. passed 4-5-93; Am. Ord. passed 3-11-13; Am. Ord. passed 3-9-15)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   The following is a list of fines for violations of this chapter:
   (A)   Violations up to $ 150:
      (1)   Dogs and cats must         §
92.15
         wear collar and rabies tag
      (2)   Possession of dogs and cats      §
92.16
      (3)   Noisy dogs            §
92.19
      (4)   Public nuisance         §
92.28
      (5)   Injuring animals; Notice      §
92.20
         required
      (6)   Manner of keeping and      §
92.22
         treating animals generally
      (7)   Maintenance of premises      §
92.23
      (8)   Noise               §
92.27
   (B)   Violations up to $250:
      (1)   Rabies vaccination and      §
92.17
         control
      (2)   Potentially dangerous         §
92.18
         or dangerous animals
      (3)   Cruel treatment         §
92.21
      (4)   Hogs               §
92.24
      (5)   Protection of birds,         §
92.26
         nest; Shooting and trapping
         permit
      (6)   Interference            §
92.44
   (C)   For which no other penalty is provided, or failing, neglecting or
refusing to comply with this chapter is punishable as provided in §
10.99.
(Am. Ord. passed 3-11-13; Am. Ord. passed 3-9-15)
CHAPTER 93: NUISANCES, UNLAWFUL CONDITIONS ON PRIVATE PROPERTY
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Administration
   
93.02   Declaration of public nuisance
   
93.03   Complaint; investigation of public nuisance
   
93.04   Summary abatement procedure
   
93.05   Procedure is alternative
Noise
   
93.20   Unnecessary noise generally
   
93.21   Noises expressly prohibited
   
93.22   Unnecessary spinning of tires
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 ADMINISTRATION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the term “nuisance” shall mean or refer to
any condition or any use of property or any act or omission affecting the
condition or use of property which threatens or is likely to threaten the
safety of the public; adversely affects the general health, happiness, security
or welfare of others; or, is detrimental to the rights of others to the full
use of their own property and their own comfort, happiness and emotional
stability because of decreased property values and the unsightliness and
decreased livability of neighborhoods.
(Ord. passed 10-17-17)
§ 93.02 DECLARATION OF PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   The following enumerated and described conditions, or any combination
thereof, are hereby found, deemed, and declared to constitute a detriment,
danger and hazard to the health, safety, morals and general welfare of the
inhabitants of the city. The following list is not exclusive; other conditions
not enumerated below may meet the definition of nuisance found in §
93.01. They are hereby found, deemed and declared to be public nuisances
wherever the conditions may exist within the corporate limits as now or
hereafter established. The creation, maintenance or failure to abate any
nuisances is hereby declared unlawful:
   (A)   Any weeds or other vegetation having an overall height of more than
twelve inches above the surrounding ground provided that the following shall
not be considered to be a part of this condition: trees and ornamental shrubs;
cultured plants; natural vegetation on undeveloped property that is not a
threat to the character of surrounding properties; and flowers and growing and
producing vegetable plants. It shall be the duty of every person occupying,
owning or having control of property abutting on a street or highway that
utilizes a portion of the unused street or highway right-of-way as a yard or
any other use to maintain said right-of-way in the same character and manner as
the abutting use.
   (B)   Any accumulation of trash, garbage, food waste and other trash which
is the result of the absence of, or overflowing of, or improperly closed trash
or garbage containers, that attracts or is likely to attract mice and rats,
flies and mosquitoes or other pests.
   (C)   An open or unsecured storage or collection place for chemicals, acids,
oils, gasoline, flammable or combustible materials or flammable or combustible
liquids, poisonous materials or other similar harmful or dangerous substances,
gasses or vapors.
   (D)   An open place, collection, storage place or concentration of
combustible items such as mattresses, boxes, paper, automobile tires and tubes,
garbage, trash, refuse, brush, old clothes, rags, or any other combustible
materials collection.
   (E)   An open storage place for old worn out, broken or discarded machinery,
car parts, junk, tire rims, furniture, stoves, refrigerators, appliances, cans
and containers, household goods, plumbing or electrical fixtures, old rusty
metal, fencing materials or other similar materials.
   (F)   Any accumulation of garbage, rubbish, trash, or junk causing or
threatening to cause a fire hazard, or causing or threatening to cause the
accumulation of stagnant water, or causing or threatening to cause the
inhabitation therein of rats, mice, snakes, mosquitoes, or vermin prejudicial
to the public health.
   (G)   Any accumulation of animal or vegetable matter that is offensive by
virtue of odors or vapors or by the inhabitance therein of rats, mice, snakes,
or vermin of any kind which is or may be dangerous or prejudicial to the public
health.
   (H)   The open storage of any discarded ice box, furniture, refrigerator,
stove, glass, building materials, building rubbish or similar items. The use of
carports, open porches, decks, open garages and other outdoor areas that are
visible from the street as a storage or collection place for boxes, appliances,
furniture (not typical outdoor or yard furniture), tools, equipment, junk,
garbage, old worn out broken or discarded machinery and equipment, cans,
containers, household goods or other similar condition that increase the
likelihood of a fire; may conceal dangerous conditions; may be a breeding place
or habitat for mice, rats or other pests; or, create an unattractive condition
or visually blighted property
   (I)   A collection place for lumber, bricks, blocks, nails, building
hardware, roofing materials, scaffolding, masonry materials, electrical
supplies or materials, plumbing supplies or materials, heating and air
conditioning supplies or materials or any other type of old or unusable
building supplies (especially those with nails, staples or sharp objects and
edges) unless such conditions are temporary in nature and caused by a current
construction project in progress pursuant to a lawfully issued building permit.
   (J)   Any building or other structure which has been burned, partially
burned or otherwise partially destroyed and which is unsightly or hazardous to
the safety of any person, is a continuing fire hazard or which is structurally
unsound to the extent that the Code Administrator or his designee can
reasonably determine that there is a likelihood of personal or property injury
to any person or property entering the premises.
   (K)   The placement, storage or use of upholstered sofas, couches, chairs or
other indoor type furniture, appliances, seats removed from motor vehicles or
other furniture not intended for outdoor use by the manufacturer, use on any
open porch, carport, stoop, deck, veranda, terrace, patio or other outdoor area
that is visible from nearby streets and sidewalks.
   (L)   A collection place, pool or pond of stagnant or foul water or
persistent dampness caused by overflowing septic tanks, manmade dams, open
ditches, overflowing pipes, foundation trenches or other impoundments of any
kind.
   (M)   Barns or farm animal pens, pastures or enclosures for farm animals
which are not kept sanitary and clean or otherwise become a collection place
for animal waste and which because of the conditions associated therewith
attract rats, mice, flies or other pests or emit foul odors that can be
detected or noticed on adjacent properties or are otherwise not kept in a
sanitary condition. For the purposes of this section, “farm animals” has the
same definition as that found in G.S. § 160A-203.1, Limitations on standards of
care for farm animals.
   (N)   Dog lots, pens, pet enclosures of all kinds, outdoor areas where dogs
or other pets are chained or kept or areas where dogs, cats and pets are
permitted to roam which become a collection place for dog, cat or pet waste and
excrement and which attract flies or other pests, emit foul odors which can be
detected or noticed on adjacent property or are not kept in a sanitary
condition.
   (O)   A collection place for sewage and sewage drainage or the seepage from
septic tanks, broken or malfunctioning plumbing and sewer pipes or any other
seepage of dangerous, hazardous or poisonous liquids.
   (P)   A collection place for tree limbs, dried brush, dead vegetation,
stumps or other decayed wood and materials or other similar rubbish.
   (Q)   Any discharge into or polluting of any stream, creek, river or other
body of water or the discharge of any dangerous substance or any other material
likely to harm the water or any vegetation, fish or wildlife in or along the
water or the storage of such harmful materials and substances in a manner so
that it is likely that such streams, creeks, rivers or other bodies of water
will become polluted or adversely affected in any manner.
   (R)   Any condition which blocks, hinders, or obstructs in any way the
natural flow of branches, streams, creeks, surface waters, ditches, or drains,
to the extent that the premises is not free from standing water.
   (S)   Any conditions or use of property, which results in the emission of
pollutants and particles into the atmosphere or causes noxious odors, vapors
and stenches to be discharged into the air.
   (T)   Nuisance vehicle. See
Chapter 94 for the definition and procedures for abating nuisance vehicles.
   (U)   Any condition detrimental to the public health which violates the
rules and regulations of the County Health Departments.
(Ord. passed 10-17-17)
§ 93.03 COMPLAINT; INVESTIGATION OF PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   (A)   When any condition in violation of this section is found to exist, the
Code Administrator or such persons as may be designated by the City Manager
shall give notice to the owner of the premises to abate or remove such
conditions within ten days. Such notice shall be in writing, shall include a
description of the premises sufficient for identification and shall set forth
the violation and state that, if the violation is not corrected within ten
days, the city may proceed to correct the same as authorized by this section.
Service of such notice shall be by any one of the following methods.
      (1)   By delivery to any owner personally or by leaving the notice at the
usual place of abode of the owner with a person who is over the age of 16 years
and a member of the family of the owner.
      (2)   By depositing the notice in the United States Post Office addressed
to the owner at his last known address with regular mail postage prepaid
thereon.
      (3)   By posting and keeping posted, for ten days, a copy of the notice,
in placard form, in a conspicuous place on the premises on which the violation
exists, when notice cannot be served by method (1) and (2).
   (B)   The city may notify a chronic violator of the city's public nuisance
ordinance that, if the violator's property is found to be in violation of this
chapter, the city shall, without further notice in the calendar year in which
notice is given, take action to remedy the violation. The notice shall be sent
by registered or certified mail. When service is attempted by registered or
certified mail, a copy of the notice may also be sent by regular mail. Service
shall be deemed sufficient if the registered or certified mail is unclaimed or
refused, but the regular mail is not returned by the post office within ten
days after the mailing. If service by regular mail is used, a copy of the
notice shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises affected. A
chronic violator is a person who owns property whereupon, in the previous
calendar year, the city gave notice of violation at least three times under any
provision of the public nuisance ordinance. The expense abating the chronic
nuisance shall become a lien upon the property and shall be collected as unpaid
taxes.
   (C)   Orders of the Code Administrator requiring the demolition of
structures shall only be issued following the procedures of Chapters
151 or
152.
(Ord. passed 10-17-17)
§ 93.04 SUMMARY ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   If the owner of any property fails to comply with a notice given pursuant to
this chapter, within ten (10) days after the service of such notice under §§
93.03(A)(1) or (3), or within 13 days under §
93.03(A)(2), the owner shall be subject to prosecution for violation of this
chapter in accordance with law and each day that such failure continues shall
be a separate offense. In addition, the city may have the condition described
in the notice abated, removed or otherwise corrected and all expenses incurred
thereby shall be chargeable to and paid by the owner of the property and shall
be collected as a property tax. All such expenses are a lien against the real
property on which the work was completed. In all violations of §
93.02(A), an administrative fee of $100 will be assessed and charged to the
owner of the real property. In the case of one or more violations of §
93.02(A) through (T), an hourly administrative fee will be added to the cost of
abatement. The hourly rate will be established by the City Council.
(Ord. passed 10-17-17)
§ 93.05 PROCEDURE IS ALTERNATIVE.
   The procedure set forth in this chapter shall be in addition to any other
remedies that may now or hereafter exist under law for the abatement of public
nuisances. In addition to the remedies provided for herein, any violation of
the terms of this chapter shall subject the violator to the penalties and
remedies as set forth in Chapter 10, §
10.99, General Penalty, of the Code of Ordinances of the City of Roxboro.
(Ord. passed 10-17-17)
NOISE
§ 93.20 UNNECESSARY NOISE GENERALLY.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of this subchapter, the creation of any
unreasonably loud, disturbing and unnecessary noise in the city is prohibited.
Noise of such character, intensity and duration as to be detrimental to the
life or health of any individual is prohibited.
   (B)   Any person violating this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor,
and shall be fined not more than $250 or imprisoned for not more than 30 days.
(Ord. passed 11-9-21)
§ 93.21 NOISES EXPRESSLY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The following acts, among others, are declared to be loud, disturbing
and unnecessary noises in violation of this section, but such enumeration shall
not be deemed to be exclusive, namely:
      (1)   Vehicle horns. The sounding of any horn or signal device on any
automobile, motorcycle, bus or other vehicle while the same is not in motion,
except as a danger signal or, in motion, only as brakes are being applied and
deceleration of the vehicle is intended; the creation by means of any such
signal device or any unreasonably loud or harsh sound; and the sounding of such
device for an unnecessary and unreasonable period of time.
      (2)   Vehicle gongs or sirens. The use of any gong or siren upon any
vehicle, other than a police, fire or other emergency vehicle.
      (3)   Radios, phonographs, boom boxes, CD players and the like. The
playing of any radio, phonograph, loudspeaker, boom box, CD player or other
musical instrument in such a manner or with such excessive volume or such
emission of amplified noise, speech, music or other sounds as to annoy or
disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of any person or frighten persons of
ordinary sensibilities. Specifically exempted from this section shall be
special events (for example, personality) sponsored or permitted by the city.
      (4)   Noisy vehicles. The use of any automobile, motorcycle or other
vehicle so out of repair or so loaded as to create loud or unnecessary grating,
grinding, rattling or other noises.
      (5)   Discharge of engine exhausts. The discharge into the open air of
the exhaust of any stream engine, stationary internal combustion engine, motor
boat engine except through an effective muffler or other device.
      (6)   Mechanical devices operated by compressed air. The use of any
mechanical device operated by compressed air, unless the noise created thereby
is effectively muffled.
      (7)   Building operations. The erection (including excavating),
demolition, alteration or repair of any building, other than between the hours
of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. except in the case of urgent necessity in the
interest of public safety, and then only with a temporary permit from the
Building Inspector, which permit may be renewed for a period of three days or
less while the emergency continues.
      (8)   Loading vehicles, opening crates and the like. The creation of loud
and excessive noise in connection with loading or unloading any vehicle or
opening or destruction of bales, boxes, crates and containers.
      (9)   Bells and gongs on buildings. The sounding of any bell or gong
attached to any building or premises which disturbs the quiet or repose of
persons in the vicinity thereof.
      (10)   Garages, filling stations and car washes. The conducting,
operating or maintaining of any garage or filling station in any residential
district so as to cause loud or offensive noises to be emitted there from
between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
   (B)   Any person violating this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor,
and shall be fined not more than $250 dollars or imprisoned for not more than
30 days.
(Ord. passed 11-9-21)
§ 93.22 UNNECESSARY SPINNING OF TIRES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any motor vehicle in the city
to cause, in the operation of his or her vehicle, noise to be made by
unnecessarily spinning the tires of the vehicle.
   (B)   Any person violating this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor,
and shall be fined not more than $250 or imprisoned for not more than 30 days.
(Ord. passed 11-9-21)
CHAPTER 94: ABANDONED, JUNKED AND NUISANCE VEHICLES
Section
   
94.01   Administration
   
94.02   Definitions
   
94.03   Abandoned vehicle unlawful, removal authorized
   
94.04   Nuisance vehicle unlawful, removal authorized
   
94.05   Junked motor vehicle regulated
   
94.06   Removal of abandoned, nuisance, or junked motor vehicles
   
94.07   Prior notice requirement
   
94.08   Right to probable cause hearing before sale or final disposition of
vehicle
   
94.09   Redemption of vehicle during proceedings
   
94.10   Sale and disposition of unclaimed vehicle
   
94.11   Conditions on removal of vehicles from private property
   
94.12   Protection against criminal or civil liability
   
94.13   Exceptions
   
94.14   Unlawful removal of impounded vehicle
   
94.15   Alternative remedies
§ 94.01 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Police Department and the Code Administrator of the city shall be
responsible for the administration and enforcement of this chapter. The Police
Department shall be responsible for administering the removal and disposition
of vehicles “abandoned” on the public streets and highways within the city, and
on property owned by the city. The Code Administrator shall be responsible for
administering the removal and disposal of “abandoned,” “nuisance,” and “junked”
motor vehicles located on private property. The city may, on an annual basis,
contract with Person County and/or private tow truck operators or towing
businesses to remove, store, and dispose of abandoned vehicles, nuisance
vehicles, and junked motor vehicles in compliance with this chapter and
applicable state laws. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to limit the
legal authority or powers of officers of the Police Department and Fire
Department in enforcing other laws or in otherwise carrying out their duties.
(Ord. passed - -17)
§ 94.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, certain words and terms are defined as
herein indicated:
   ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE.
      (1)   Has been left upon a street or highway in violation of a law or
ordinance prohibiting parking;
      (2)   Is left on property owned or operated by the city for longer than
24 hours;
      (3)   Is left on private property without the consent of the owner,
occupant, or lessee thereof for longer than two hours; or
      (4)   Is left on any public street or highway for longer than seven days
or is determined by law enforcement to be a hazard to the motoring public.
   AUTHORIZED OFFICIAL. The supervisory employee of the Police Department or
the City Code Administrator, respectively, designated to order the removal of
vehicles under the provisions of this chapter.
   MOTOR VEHICLE or VEHICLE. All machines designed or intended to travel over
land or water by self-propulsion or while attached to any self-propelled
vehicle.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle that:
      (1)   Is partially dismantled or wrecked;
      (2)   Cannot be self-propelled or move in the manner in which it
originally was intended to move;
      (3)   Is more than five years old and appears to be worth less than $500;
or
      (4)   Does not display a current license plate.
   NUISANCE VEHICLE. A vehicle on public or private property that is determined
and declared to be a health or safety hazard, a public nuisance, and unlawful,
including but not limited to a vehicle found to be:
      (1)   A breeding ground or harbor for mosquitoes, other insects, rats or
other pests;
      (2)   A point of heavy growth of weeds or other noxious vegetation which
exceeds twelve inches in height;
      (3)   In a condition allowing the collection of pools or ponds of water;
      (4)   A concentration of quantities of gasoline, oil, or other flammable
or explosive materials as evidenced by odor;
      (5)   An area of confinement which cannot be operated from the inside,
such as, but not limited to, trunks or hoods;
      (6)   So situated or located that there is a danger of it falling or
turning over;
      (7)   A collection of garbage, food waste, animal waste, or any other
rotten or putrescent matter of any kind;
      (8)   One which has sharp parts thereof which are jagged or contain sharp
edges of metal or glass; or
      (9)   Any other vehicle specifically declared a health and safety hazard
and a public nuisance by the city.
(Ord. passed - -17)
§ 94.03 ABANDONED VEHICLE UNLAWFUL, REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a vehicle to cause or allow such vehicle to be abandoned as the
term is defined herein.
   (B)   Upon investigation, the authorized officials of the city may determine
that a vehicle is an abandoned vehicle and order the vehicle removed.
(Ord. passed - -17)
§ 94.04 NUISANCE VEHICLE UNLAWFUL, REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee, or occupant of the
real property upon which the vehicle is located to leave or allow the vehicle
to remain on the property after it has been declared a nuisance vehicle.
   (B)   Upon investigation, the City Code Administrator may determine and
declare that a vehicle is a health or safety hazard and a nuisance vehicle as
defined above, and order the vehicle removed.
(Ord. passed - -17)
§ 94.05 JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE REGULATED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
the possession of a junked motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee, or occupant
of the real property upon which a junked motor vehicle is located to leave or
allow the vehicle to remain on the property after the vehicle has been ordered
removed.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to have more than one junked motor vehicle, as
defined herein, on the premises of private property. A single, junked motor
vehicle must strictly comply with the location and concealment requirements of
this chapter and the zoning ordinance.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, person entitled to the possession
of a junked motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee, or occupant of the real
property upon which a junked motor vehicle is located to fail to comply with
the location requirements or the concealment requirements of this chapter and
the zoning ordinance.
   (D)   Subject to the provisions of division (E), the City Code Administrator
may order the removal of a junked motor vehicle found in violation of this
chapter to a storage garage or area. No such vehicle shall be removed from
private property until the Code Administrator declares in writing that the
vehicle is a health or safety hazard.
   (E)   Junked motor vehicles allowed if concealed or enclosed.
      (1)   One junked motor vehicle, in its entirety, may be located in the
rear yard, as defined in the zoning ordinance, provided the junked motor
vehicle is entirely concealed from public view from a public street and/or
abutting premises by an acceptable covering for not more than 60 calendar days.
Junked motor vehicles kept on the premises more than 60 calendar days shall be
kept inside a completely enclosed building. The Code Administrator shall
determine whether any junked motor vehicle is adequately concealed as required
by this provision. The covering must remain in good repair and must not be
allowed to deteriorate.
      (2)   Any one or more junked motor vehicles kept for a period exceeding
60 calendar days shall be kept within a completely enclosed building, as
defined in the zoning ordinance.
(Ord. passed - -17)
§ 94.06 REMOVAL OF ABANDONED, NUISANCE, OR JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   Any nuisance motor vehicle found to be in violation of this chapter
may be removed to a storage area or garage if the Code Administrator finds that
it is a health or safety hazard.
   (B)   Any junked or abandoned motor vehicle found to be in violation of this
chapter may be removed to a storage area or garage if the Code Administrator
finds that it is a health or safety hazard or on the written request of the
owner, le4ssee or occupant of the real property where the vehicle is located.
If the owner, lessee or occupant is not the owner or operator of the vehicle
notice shall be given as required in §
94.07 below.
   (C)   Vehicles abandoned on the streets. For vehicles left on the public
streets and highways, the City Council hereby determines that the immediate
removal of such vehicles may be warranted when they are:
      (1)   Obstructing traffic;
      (2)   Parked in violation of an ordinance prohibiting or restricting
parking;
      (3)   Parked in a no-stopping or standing zone;
      (4)   Parked in loading zones;
      (5)   Parked in bus zones;
      (6)   Parked in violation of temporary parking restrictions;
      (7)   Abandoned or nuisance vehicles left on city-owned property other
than the streets or highways longer than 24 hours, and on private property
without permission of the property's owner, occupant or lessee for longer than
two hours;
      (8)   Where the police or Code Administrator find a special need for
prompt action to protect and maintain the public health, safety, and welfare
abandoned or nuisance vehicles may be removed without notice. By way of
illustration and not of limitation, such circumstances include vehicles
blocking or obstructing ingress or egress to businesses and residences,
vehicles parked in such location or manner as to pose a traffic hazard, and
vehicles causing damage to public or private property; and
   (D)   Contractors (including Person County's contractors) provide towing
services within the City. The contractors shall follow the requirements of G.S.
§ 20-219.9 by following the following procedures:
      (1)   If the vehicle with a valid N.C. registration or registration plate
is towed, notice shall be given to the owner within 24 hours;
      (2)   If the vehicle with a valid registration or registration plate from
a state other than N.C. is towed, notice shall be given to the owner within 72
hours;
      (3)   If the vehicle has neither a valid registration or a registration
plate is towed, the county shall make reasonable efforts, including checking
the vehicle identification number, to determine and notify the last known
registered owner of the vehicle;
      (4)   Attaching a notice that the vehicle is subject to towing on or
after a specified date is affixed to the windshield for seven days before the
towing occurs.
      (5)   The notice shall contain:
         (a)   A description of the vehicle;
         (b)   The place where the vehicle is stored;
         (c)   The violation with which the owner is charged, if any;
         (d)   The procedures the owner must follow to have the vehicle
returned; and
         (e)   The procedure the owner must follow to have a probable cause
hearing.
      (6)   The notice shall be given by telephone if feasible and also mailed
to the owner's last known address, unless the owner gives written permission to
tow without notice.
(Ord. passed - -17)
§ 94.07 PRIOR NOTICE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever a vehicle is towed at the request of a person other
than the owner or operator of the vehicle, the tower shall provide the
following information to the Roxboro Police Department having jurisdiction
through calling the ten-digit telephone number designated by the Roxboro Police
Department having jurisdiction prior to moving the vehicle:
         (a)   A description of the vehicle.
         (b)   The place from which the vehicle was towed.
         (c)   The place where the vehicle will be stored.
         (d)   The contact information for the person from whom the vehicle
owner may retrieve the vehicle.
      (2)   If the vehicle is impeding the flow of traffic or otherwise
jeopardizing the public welfare so that immediate towing is necessary, the
notice to the Police Dept. may be provided by a tower within 30 minutes of
moving the vehicle rather than prior to moving the vehicle. If a caller to the
Police Dept. can provide the information required under divisions (a) and (b)
of division (A)(1), then the Police Dept. shall provide to the caller the
information provided under divisions (A)(1)(c) and (d). The Police Dept. shall
preserve the information required under this subsection for a period of not
less than 30 days from the date on which the tower provided the information to
the local law enforcement agency having jurisdiction.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to vehicles that are towed at the
direction of a law enforcement officer or to vehicles removed from a private
lot where signs are posted in accordance with G.S. § 20-219.2(a).
(Ord. passed - -17)
§ 94.08 RIGHT TO PROBABLE CAUSE HEARING BEFORE SALE OR FINAL DISPOSITION OF
VEHICLE.
   (A)   After the removal of an abandoned vehicle, nuisance vehicle, or junked
motor vehicle, the owner or any person entitled to possession is entitled to a
hearing for the purpose of determining if probable cause existed for removing
the vehicle. A request for hearing must be filed in writing with the county
magistrate (or other official) designated by the chief district court judge to
receive such hearing requests. The Magistrate will set the hearing within 72
hours of receipt of the request. The owner, the person who requested the
hearing if someone other than the owner, the tower, and the person who
authorized the towing shall be notified of the time and place of the hearing.
   (B)   The owner, the tower, the person who authorized the towing, and any
other interested parties may present evidence at the hearing. The person
authorizing the towing and the tower may submit an affidavit in lieu of
appearing personally, but the affidavit does not preclude that person from also
testifying.
   (C)   The only issue at this hearing is whether or not probable cause
existed for the towing. If the magistrate finds that probable cause did exist,
the tower's lien continues. If the magistrate finds that probable cause did not
exist, the tower's lien is extinguished.
   (D)   Any aggrieved party may appeal the magistrate's decision to district
court.
(Ord. passed - -17)
§ 94.09 REDEMPTION OF VEHICLE DURING PROCEEDINGS.
   At any stage in the proceedings, including before the probable cause
hearing, the owner may obtain possession of the removed vehicle by paying the
towing fees, including any storage charges, or by posting a bond for double the
amount of the towing.
(Ord. passed - -17)
§ 94.10 SALE AND DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLE.
   Any abandoned, nuisance, or junked motor vehicle which is not claimed by the
owner or other party entitled to possession will be disposed of by the tow
truck operator or towing business having custody of the vehicle. Disposition of
such a vehicle shall be carried out in accordance with G.S. §§ 44A-4, 44A-5 and
44A-6, except that no hearing is required in addition to the hearing required
by §
94.09.
(Ord. passed - -17)
§ 94.11 CONDITIONS ON REMOVAL OF VEHICLES FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   As a general policy, the city will not remove a vehicle from private
property if the owner, occupant or lessee of such property could have the
vehicle removed under applicable state law procedures. In no case will a
vehicle be removed by the city from private property without a written request
of the owner, occupant or lessee, except in those cases where the vehicle is a
nuisance vehicle or is a junked motor vehicle which has been ordered removed by
the City Code Administrator. The city may require any person requesting the
removal of an abandoned, nuisance, or junked motor vehicle from private
property to indemnify the city against any loss, expense or liability incurred
because of the removal, storage, or sale thereof.
(Ord. passed - -17)
§ 94.12 PROTECTION AGAINST CRIMINAL OR CIVIL LIABILITY.
   No person shall be held to answer in any civil or criminal action to any
owner or other person legally entitled to the possession of an abandoned,
nuisance, or junked motor vehicle, for disposing of such vehicle as provided in
this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -17)
§ 94.13 EXCEPTIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall apply to any vehicle:
   (A)   Which is located in a bona fide “automobile graveyard” or “junkyard”
as defined in G.S. § 136-143, in accordance with the “Junkyard Control Act,”
G.S. §§ 136-141, et seq.;
   (B)   Which is in an enclosed building;
   (C)   Which is on the premises of a business enterprise being operated in a
lawful place and manner; or
   (D)   Which is in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained in a
lawful place and manner by the city.
(Ord. passed - -17)
§ 94.14 UNLAWFUL REMOVAL OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or attempt to remove from any
storage facility designated by the city or its contractor's, any vehicle which
has been impounded pursuant to the provision of this chapter unless and until
all towing and impoundment fees which are due, or bond in lieu of such fees,
have been paid.
(Ord. passed - -17)
§ 94.15 ALTERNATIVE REMEDIES.
   Nothing in this chapter, nor any of its provisions, shall be construed to
impair or limit in any way the power of the city to define and declare
nuisances and to cause their removal or abatement by summary proceedings or
otherwise, nor shall enforcement of one remedy provided herein prevent the
enforcement of any other remedy or remedies provided herein or in other
ordinances or laws. In addition to the remedies provided for herein, any
violation of the terms of this chapter shall subject the violator to the
penalties and remedies, as set forth in Chapter 10, §
10.99, General Penalties; Enforcement of Ordinances; Continuing Violations, of
the Code of Ordinances of the City of Roxboro.
(Ord. passed - -17)
CHAPTER 95: PICKETS, PARADES, ASSEMBLIES AND SPECIAL EVENTS
Section
General Provisions
   
95.01   Definitions
   
95.02   Regulations for pickets and picketing
   
95.03   Permit required for public assemblies
   
95.04   Police protection
   
95.05   Permitting criteria
   
95.06   Non-discrimination
   
95.07   Notice of decision on application
   
95.08   Alternative permit
   
95.09   Sale and consumption of alcoholic beverages
   
95.10   Appeal procedure
   
95.11   Duties of applicant and responsible planner and on-site manager
   
95.12   Prohibitions
   
95.13   Public conduct during public assemblies
   
95.14   Revocation of permit
Special Events
   
95.25   Special events
   
95.26   Permit required
   
95.27   Special event permit
   
95.28   Costs incurred by the city
   
95.29   Staff review
   
95.30   Notice and public hearing
   
95.31   Standards for issuance of permit
   
95.32   Modification; alternate permit
   
95.33   Insurance
   
95.34   City indemnified
   
95.35   Street closings
   
95.36   Person in charge and on-site manager
   
95.37   Special events involving the sale and consumption of alcoholic
beverages
   
95.38   Prohibitions
   
95.39   Public conduct during special events
   
95.40   Revocation of permit
Special Business Activity
   
95.50   Special business activity
   
95.51   Permit required
   
95.52   Special business activity permit
   
95.53   Costs incurred by the city
   
95.54   Staff review
   
95.55   Standards for issuance of a permit
   
95.56   Modification alternate permit
   
95.57   City indemnified
   
95.58   Person in charge/responsible planner/on-site manager
   
95.59   Special events involving the sale and consumption of alcoholic
beverages
   
95.60   Prohibitions
   
95.61   Public conduct during special business activities
   
95.62   Revocation of permit
 
   
95.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 95.01 DEFINITIONS.
    For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPEALS OFFICIAL. The City Manager, or his or her designee who shall be an
Assistant City Manager.
   ATHLETIC EVENT. Any event involving the conduct of exercises, sports or
games.
   BUSINESS DAYS. Those days in which city offices are open for conducting city
business.
   CHIEF OF POLICE. The Chief of Police of the city, or his or her designee.
   FESTIVAL. A concert, fair, exhibition, promotion, community event, block
party, or similar event.
   PARADE. Any athletic event, ceremony, pageant, march, picket, procession,
motorcade or other similar activity consisting of persons, animals, vehicles or
things, or a combination thereof proceeding along any sidewalk or along the
traveled portion of any street within the city in such a manner as to interfere
with the normal flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic upon such sidewalk or
street, and which activity is not intended, in whole or in part, to exercise
freedom protected under the First Amendment of the United States Constitution.
A procession in which individuals move single-file along a sidewalk shall not
be regarded as interfering with the normal flow of pedestrian traffic along
such sidewalk.
   PICKET or PICKETING. The stationing of one or more persons by standing,
walking, lying, sitting, kneeling, bending, or in any other similar manner, at
a particular place within the city with the purpose of persuading or otherwise
influencing another person's actions or conduct or of apprising the public of
any opinion or message, excluding purely casual, random, or other everyday
forms of communication or conduct.
   PUBLIC ASSEMBLY.
      (1)   Any gathering held generally in one location upon any sidewalk or
upon the traveled portion of any street within the city in such a manner as to
interfere with the normal flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic upon such
sidewalk or street, and which activity is intended, in whole or in part, to
exercise freedom protected under the First Amendment of the United States or
North Carolina Constitutions; or
      (2)   Any organized company of persons, or a picket, for a common purpose
as a result of prior planning that is collected together generally in one
location upon any sidewalk or upon the traveled portion of any street within
the city in such a manner as to interfere with the normal flow of vehicular or
pedestrian traffic upon such sidewalk or street, and which activity is
intended, in whole or in part, to exercise freedom protected under the First
Amendment of the United States or North Carolina Constitutions. An organized
company of persons or a picket in which the participants do not obstruct or
occupy more than one-half of a sidewalk, such that other pedestrians may use
the sidewalk for its intended purpose, shall not be regarded as interfering
with the normal flow of pedestrian traffic along such sidewalk. For purposes of
this definition, the phrase “held generally in one location” or “collected
together generally in one location” means that such festival or activity is
conducted generally in a fixed area as opposed to proceeding along the street
or sidewalk in such a manner as to constitute a march or parade.
   PUBLIC ASSEMBLY PERMIT. A permit as required by this chapter in order to
conduct a public street or sidewalk assembly regulated by this chapter.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of the street right-of-way that is designated for the
use of pedestrians and that is paved.
   SPECIAL BUSINESS ACTIVITY. Any activity conducted in whole, or in part, by
an appropriately permitted business, which takes place on the sidewalk, alley,
or parking lot directly adjacent to said business. Such activities may not
exceed 1,500 square feet in area, utilize more than five public parking spaces,
block any entrance to another business or building, nor last for more than
eight hours. This does not include any activity which temporarily closes or
obstructs any portion of a public street.
   SPECIAL EVENT. All street fairs, festivals, athletic events, carnivals,
parades, marches, rallies, or other similar activities or public events not
intended in whole or in part to exercise freedom protected under the First
Amendment of the United States and/or North Carolina Constitutions, and that
require the temporary closing or obstruction of a street, sidewalk, or other
public right-of-way or any segment thereof or that otherwise substantially
hinders or prevents the normal flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic along
any street or other public right-of-way.
   STREET. Any place or way set aside or open to the general public for
purposes of vehicular traffic, including any curb, berm, shoulder, right-of-
way, or median strip, but not including the sidewalk.
(Ord. passed 9-12-06; Am. Ord. passed 12-13-16; Am. Ord. passed 6-11-19)
§ 95.02 REGULATIONS FOR PICKETS AND PICKETING.
   (A)    For purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply:
      DIRECTED, FOCUSED, or TARGETED AT. A particular private residence is
being made the sole object of picketing, and the picketing takes place solely
on that portion of the street or sidewalk that abuts on the property upon which
the targeted residence is located or solely on that portion of any street or
sidewalk that abuts on property within 50 feet (measured from the lot line) of
the property upon which the particular private residence is located, except the
sidewalk on the opposite side of the street from the targeted residence.
      PRIVATE RESIDENCE. A single-family dwelling, duplex, or multi-family
dwelling within the city.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in picketing that is
directed, focused, or targeted at a particular private residence.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person participating in any picket to
carry or possess any staff or pole for purposes of displaying any sign, poster,
flag, banner, plaque or notice unless the staff or pole:
      (1)   Is made of corrugated material, plastic, or wood (and not made of
metal or metal alloy);
      (2)   Is less than 41 inches in length;
      (3)   Is 1/4-inch or less in thickness and two inches or less in width,
or if not generally rectangular in shape, does not exceed 3/4-inch in its
thickest dimension; and
      (4)   Is blunt at both ends.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person participating in any picket to
carry or possess any sign, poster, flag, banner, plaque or notice, whether or
not mounted on a length of material as specified in division (C) of this
section, unless such sign, poster, flag, banner, plaque, or notice is
constructed or made of a cloth, paper, cardboard, rubber, or plastic material.
   (E)   Picketers, pickets, and picketing shall be subject to all other
applicable local, state and Federal laws.
   (F)   Picketers, pickets, and picketing shall not take place in any street
or road used by vehicular traffic, any highway, road or street median, or any
SAFETY ZONE as defined in G.S. § 20-4.01(39), unless a parade or public
assembly permit has been obtained under §
95.03 below.
   (G)   A picket or picketing that is not prohibited by this section and that
otherwise fits the definition of a parade or public assembly shall be subject
to the regulations for parades and public assemblies in §§
95.03 through
95.15 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 9-12-06; Am. Ord. passed 12-13-16; Am. Ord. passed 6-11-19)
Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.03 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR PUBLIC ASSEMBLIES.
   (A)    No public assembly is permitted unless a permit has been first
obtained from the Chief of Police allowing the public assembly pursuant to this
chapter.
   (B)   A person seeking to obtain an assembly permit shall file an
application with the Chief of Police at least 72 hours before the time for
which the public assembly is proposed to commence. Notwithstanding the
preceding sentence, the Chief of Police shall consider an application for an
assembly permit which is filed within any shorter time-frames from those
prescribed above where the purpose of the public assembly is a spontaneous
response to a current event, or where other good and compelling causes are
shown.
   (C)   The application for an assembly permit shall include the following:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number (and pager number,
facsimile number and email address, if available) of the person seeking to
conduct the public assembly, and the name, address, and telephone number (and
facsimile number and email address, if available) of the organization with
which the person is affiliated or on whose behalf the person is applying to
conduct the public assembly (collectively “Applicant”);
      (2)   The name, address, and telephone number (and pager number,
facsimile number, and email address, if available) for an individual who shall
be designated as the “responsible planner and on-site manager” of the public
assembly;
      (3)   The requested date, time, place, and route (from starting point to
ending point) of the public assembly, including the location where and time
when the public assembly will assemble and disband, and any requested sidewalk
or street closings;
      (4)   The anticipated number of persons, vehicles and things that will
constitute the public assembly (including the basis on which this estimate is
made), and a description of the vehicles and things that will be part of the
public assembly;
      (5)   A list of the number and type of animals that will be part of the
public assembly;
      (6)   A description of the extent to which the public assembly will
occupy all or a portion of any street or sidewalk;
      (7)   A general description of the activities planned during the public
assembly, including whether any alcoholic beverages will be sold or consumed;
      (8)   A general description of any recording equipment and sound
amplification equipment, along with a general description of the size and
composition of any banners, signs, flags, or other attention-getting devices to
be used in connection with the public assembly;
      (9)   Arrangements for additional police protection, and/or additional
emergency medical services, and/or liability insurance, if required under §
95.04;
      (10)   The approximate number of anticipated spectators of the public
assembly; and
      (11)   Any additional information, attachments and submissions that are
requested on the application form.
   (D)   An assembly permit issued under this chapter shall include the
information set out in division (C) of this section, which information shall
constitute conditions of the permit to the extent such information sets out the
time, place, and manner of the public assembly.
(Ord. passed 9-12-06; Am. Ord. passed 12-13-16; Am. Ord. passed 6-11-19)
Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.04 POLICE PROTECTION.
   (A)    The Chief of Police shall determine whether and to what extent
additional police protection (including additional emergency medical services)
may reasonably be necessary for the public assembly for traffic control and
public health and safety. The Chief of Police shall make this determination
based on an objective consideration of the following factors (and in no case
upon the speech content of the proposed public assembly or upon any anticipated
public reaction to such speech content):
      (1)   The size, location, duration, time and date, composition, format,
configuration, and number of anticipated participants in and anticipated
spectators of the proposed public assembly;
      (2)   The expected sale of goods or services at the proposed public
assembly;
      (3)   The extent to which the public assembly requires the closing of any
street or sidewalk or portion thereof, taking into account the general traffic
conditions in the area and existing traffic control devices;
      (4)   The need to detour, reroute, or otherwise preempt normal vehicular
or pedestrian traffic upon any street or sidewalk or portion thereof to
accommodate the proposed public assembly;
      (5)   The anticipated weather conditions at the time of the proposed
public assembly; and
      (6)   The extent to which the proposed public assembly is reasonably
likely to require emergency medical services or police protection in areas
contiguous to or in the surrounding vicinity of the proposed public assembly.
   (B)   Persons engaging in public assemblies conducted solely and entirely
for the purpose of freedoms protected under the First Amendment are not
required to pay for additional police protection or additional emergency
medical services, or to provide insurance.
(Ord. passed 9-12-06; Am. Ord. passed 12-13-16; Am. Ord. passed 6-11-19)
Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.05 PERMITTING CRITERIA.
    The Chief of Police shall issue a public assembly permit when, from a
consideration of the application and from such other information as may
otherwise be obtained, he/she makes all of the following findings:
   (A)   The conduct of the public assembly will not substantially or
unnecessarily interfere with the safe and orderly movement of other pedestrian
or vehicular traffic contiguous to its route or location; and, if such
interference is likely to occur, that there are available at the time of the
public assembly sufficient police resources to mitigate the interference;
   (B)   There will be available at the time of the public assembly a
sufficient number of police officers and traffic control aids to police and
protect participants and non-participants at the public assembly and in areas
contiguous to the event from traffic-related hazards in light of other demands
for police protection in the city at the time of the proposed public assembly;
   (C)   The concentration of persons, animals, vehicles, or things at the
public assembly will not prevent proper fire and police protection or emergency
medical services at the event or in areas contiguous to the public assembly;
   (D)   The public assembly will not interfere with the use of a sidewalk or
street requested by another applicant to whom a valid assembly or special event
permit application has already been granted or has been received and will be
granted;
   (E)   No public assembly permit application for the same time but at a
different location has already been granted or has been received and will be
granted, and the police resources required for the prior public assembly are
not so great that, in combination with the subsequent proposed application, the
resulting deployment of police services would have an immediate and adverse
effect upon the health or safety of persons or property;
   (F)   No other public event is scheduled elsewhere in the city where the
police resources required for that event are so great that the deployment of
police services for the proposed public assembly would have an immediate and
adverse effect upon the health or safety of persons or property; and
   (G)   The application is fully and completed and executed; and
   (H)   The application contains no material falsehood or misrepresentation.
(Ord. passed 9-12-06; Am. Ord. passed 12-13-16; Am. Ord. passed 6-11-19)
Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.06 NON-DISCRIMINATION.
    Applications for assembly permits shall be processed and decided upon on a
first-in-time basis, and the Chief of Police shall consider each application
upon its merits and shall not discriminate in granting or denying any permit
based upon political, religious, ethnic, race, disability, sexual orientation
or gender related grounds, or upon the content of any speech protected by the
First Amendment or upon any anticipated public reaction to such speech content.
(Ord. passed 9-12-06; Am. Ord. passed 12-13-16; Am. Ord. passed 6-11-19)
§ 95.07 NOTICE OF DECISION ON APPLICATION.
   (A)  The Chief of Police shall make his/her written decision granting or
denying a fully completed and executed assembly permit application (or granting
an alternative permit under §
95.08 within three business days after the application has been received by
him/her, but in no event less than 24 hours before the time for which the
public assembly is proposed to commence. If the application under §
95.03 is filed within any shorter time-frames than those prescribed in §
95.03, then the Chief of Police shall make a decision on the application before
the time for which the public assembly is proposed to commence.
   (B)   As soon as practicable after the written decision on the permit
application has been made, the
Chief of Police shall notify the applicant of the decision:
      (1)   By the most expeditious means practicable (i.e., by telephone,
facsimile, or email); and
      (2)   By mailing a copy of the decision to the applicant by registered or
certified mail, return receipt requested, which mailing shall be posted no
later than the first business day after the decision has been made. If the
decision is to deny the application or grant an alternative permit, the
notification to the applicant shall include the written reasons for the denial
of the permit or for the grant of an alternative permit.
(Ord. passed 9-12-06; Am. Ord. passed 12-13-16; Am. Ord. passed 6-11-19)
§ 95.08 ALTERNATIVE PERMIT.
   (A)    If the Chief of Police denies an application for an assembly permit
because he/she decides against one or more of the required findings in §
95.05(A) through (H), the Chief of Police shall authorize the conduct of a
public assembly on a date, at a time, at a location or over a different route
from that named by the applicant. This alternative permit shall, to the extent
practicable, authorize a public assembly that will have comparable public
visibility and a similar date, time, location, or route to that of the proposed
event. An applicant desiring to accept an alternative assembly permit shall,
within at least 24 hours before the time for which the alternative public
assembly will commence, file a written notice of acceptance with the Chief of
Police.
   (B)   An alternative assembly permit shall contain the information called
for in §
95.03(C), which information shall constitute conditions of the alternative
assembly permit to the extent such information sets out the time, place, and
manner of the alternative public assembly.
(Ord. passed 9-12-06; Am. Ord. passed 12-13-16; Am. Ord. passed 6-11-19)
§ 95.09 SALE AND CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
    No alcoholic beverages may be sold or consumed during Article One public
assemblies.
(Ord. passed 9-12-06; Am. Ord. passed 12-13-16; Am. Ord. passed 6-11-19)
Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.10 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)    An applicant may appeal the denial of an assembly permit in writing
to the City Manager's office within ten business days after notice of the
denial has been received by the applicant. Within five business days (or such
longer period of time agreed to by the applicant) after the city has received
the written appeal, the appeals official shall hold a quasi-judicial hearing on
whether to issue the permit or uphold the denial. The applicant shall have the
right to present evidence at this hearing. The decision to issue the permit or
uphold the denial shall be based solely on the approval criteria set forth in §
95.05, and the burden of proof to uphold the denial shall be on the Chief of
Police by a preponderance of the evidence. The appeals official shall render a
written decision on the appeal within five business days after the date of the
hearing. Where the purpose of the proposed public assembly is a spontaneous
response to a current event, or where other good and compelling causes are
shown, the appeals official shall reasonably attempt to conduct the hearing and
render a decision on the appeal as expeditiously as is practicable.
   (B)   The decision of the appeals official is subject to review in the
Superior Court of Person County by proceedings in the nature of certiorari. Any
petition for writ of certiorari for review shall be filed with the Clerk of
Superior Court within 30 days after the applicant has received notice of the
decision of the appeals official. Unless good cause exists to contest a
petition for writ of certiorari, the city shall stipulate to certiorari no
later than five business days after the petitioner requests such a stipulation.
The city shall transmit the record to the court no later than five business
days after receiving the order allowing certiorari. Notwithstanding the
provisions of any local rule of the reviewing court that allows for a longer
time period, the city shall serve its brief upon the petitioner within 15 days
after it is served with the petitioner's brief. If the petitioner serves his or
her brief by mail, the city shall add three days to this time limit, in
accordance with G.S. § 1A-1, Rule 5. If the local rule is subsequently amended
to provide for a shorter time period for serving any brief, then the shorter
time period shall control.
(Ord. passed 9-12-06; Am. Ord. passed 12-13-16; Am. Ord. passed 6-11-19)
§ 95.11 DUTIES OF APPLICANT AND RESPONSIBLE PLANNER AND ON-SITE MANAGER.
   (A)    The applicant and responsible planner and on-site manager of the
public assembly shall comply with all conditions of the public assembly permit
issued pursuant to this chapter and with all other applicable local, state, and
federal laws.
   (B)   The individual designated as the responsible planner and on-site
manager of the public assembly shall carry the assembly permit upon his or her
person during the conduct of the public assembly.
(Ord. passed 9-12-06; Am. Ord. passed 12-13-16; Am. Ord. passed 6-11-19)
Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.12 PROHIBITIONS.
    The following prohibitions shall apply to all public assemblies:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stage, present, or conduct any
public assembly without first having obtained a permit under this chapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to participate in a public
assembly for which the person knows a permit has not been granted.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any participant in a public assembly to
knowingly fail to comply with any conditions of the assembly permit.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person participating in any public
assembly to carry or possess any staff or pole for purposes of displaying any
sign, poster, flag, banner, plaque or notice unless the staff or pole:
      (1)   Is made of corrugated material, plastic, or wood (and not made of
metal or metal alloy);
      (2)   Is less than 41 inches in length;
      (3)   Is 1/4-inch or less in thickness and two inches or less in width,
or if not generally rectangular in shape, does not exceed 3/4-inch in its
thickest dimension; and
      (4)   Is blunt at both ends.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person participating in any public
assembly to carry or possess any sign, poster, flag, banner, plaque or notice,
whether or not mounted on a length of material as specified in division (D) of
this section, unless such sign, poster, flag, banner, plaque, or notice is
constructed or made of a cloth, paper, cardboard, rubber, or plastic material.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful to assign or sell any assembly permit granted
under this chapter.
   (G)   All participants in any public assembly shall be subject to all other
applicable local, state and Federal laws.
(Ord. passed 9-12-06; Am. Ord. passed 12-13-16; Am. Ord. passed 6-11-19)
Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.13 PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING PUBLIC ASSEMBLIES.
   (A)    No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede, or interfere
with any public assembly or with any person, vehicle, animal, or thing
participating or used in a public assembly.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall have the authority, when reasonably
necessary, to prohibit or restrict the parking of vehicles along a street
constituting a part of the route of a public assembly. The Chief of Police
shall post signs to that effect, and it shall be unlawful for any person to
park or leave unattended any vehicle in violation of such signs.
(Ord. passed 9-12-06; Am. Ord. passed 12-13-16; Am. Ord. passed 6-11-19)
Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.14 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)    The Chief of Police shall have the authority to revoke a public
assembly permit instantly upon violation of any conditions of the permit or
when a public emergency arises where the police resources required for that
emergency are so great that deployment of police services for the public
assembly would have an immediate and adverse effect upon the health or safety
of persons or property.
   (B)   After a permit is revoked under division (A) of this section, the
Chief of Police shall notify the applicant of the reasons for the revocation in
writing by mailing a copy of the revocation to the applicant by registered or
certified mail, return receipt requested, which mailing shall be posted no
later than the first business day after the revocation.
(Ord. passed 9-12-06; Am. Ord. passed 12-13-16; Am. Ord. passed 6-11-19)
SPECIAL EVENTS
§ 95.25 SPECIAL EVENTS.
   (A)   This subchapter applies to all street fairs, festivals, athletic
events, carnivals, parades, marches, rallies, or other similar activities or
public events not intended in whole or in part to exercise freedom protected
under the First Amendment of the United States Constitution, and that require
the temporary closing or obstruction of a street, sidewalk, or other public
right-of-way or any segment thereof or that otherwise substantially hinder or
prevent the normal flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic along any street or
other public right-of-way. Any such activity covered by this subchapter shall
hereafter be referred to as a SPECIAL EVENT. These regulations shall not apply
to activities falling under the definition of SPECIAL BUSINESS ACTIVITY (see §
95.50).
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   An activity occurring entirely on property owned by Person County
or another unit of government besides the city;
      (2)   Funeral processions;
      (3)   Students going to and from school or participating in an
educational activity where such activity is under the immediate supervision and
direction of proper school authorities; or
      (4)   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
(Ord. passed 9-12-06; Am. Ord. passed 12-13-16; Am. Ord. passed 6-11-19; Am.
Ord. passed 3-8-22)
§ 95.26 PERMIT REQUIRED.
    No person may run, operate, or sponsor any special event in any public
street, parking lot, or right-of-way without a permit obtained from the city in
accordance with this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 9-12-06; Am. Ord. passed 12-13-16; Am. Ord. passed 6-11-19; Am.
Ord. passed 3-8-22)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.27 SPECIAL EVENT PERMIT.
   (A)    A person seeking to obtain a special event permit shall file an
application with the City Manager, or his or her designee, on a form provided
by city staff no less than 60 days before the date the special event activity
will commence. The following information shall be contained in the application.
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number (and pager number,
facsimile number, and email address, if available) of the person seeking to
conduct the special event, and the name, address, and telephone number (and
facsimile number and email address, if available), of the organization with
which the person is affiliated or on whose behalf the person is applying to
conduct the special event (collectively “Applicant”);
      (2)   The name, address, and telephone number (and pager number,
facsimile number, and email address, if available) for an individual who shall
be designated as the “person in charge” or “on-site manager” of the special
event;
      (3)   The requested date, time, place, and route (from starting point to
ending point) of the special event, including the location where and time when
the special event will assemble and disband, and any requested sidewalk,
parking lot, or street closings;
      (4)   The anticipated number of persons, vehicles, and things that will
constitute the special event (including the basis on which this estimate is
made), and a description of the vehicles and things that will be part of the
special event, which may include food trucks, food carts, or other vendors;
      (5)   A list of the number and type of animals that will be a part of the
special event;
      (6)   Any barriers or traffic control devices that will be erected; and
the location of fire hydrants and electrical hook-ups, as well as the location
of proposed concession stands, booths, platforms, benches or bleachers, toilet
facilities, and garbage facilities;
      (7)   A description of the extent to which the special event will occupy
all of a portion of any street, parking lot, or sidewalk;
      (8)   A general description of the activities planned during the special
event, including whether any alcoholic beverages will be sold or consumed, and
a sketch map of where such beverages will be sold and consumed;
      (9)   A general description of any recording equipment and sound
amplification equipment, along with a general description of the size and
composition of any banners, signs, flags, or other attention-getting devices to
be used in connection with the special event;
      (10)   Arrangements for additional police protection, and/or additional
emergency medical services and/or liability insurance, as outlined in §
95.33;
      (11)   The approximate number of anticipated spectators of the special
event; and
      (12)   Any additional information, attachments, and submissions that are
requested on the application form.
   (B)   A special event permit issued under this subchapter shall include the
information set out in division (A) of this section, which information shall
constitute conditions of the permit to the extent such information sets out the
time, place, manner, and conditions of the special event.
   (C)   The sponsor of a special event that consists of a series of activities
spread over more than one day shall be required to obtain only one permit,
which will cover the entire duration of the special event. This division
applies only to special event activities lasting four months or less.
(Ord. passed 9-12-06; Am. Ord. passed 12-13-16; Am. Ord. passed 6-11-19; Am.
Ord. passed 3-8-22)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.28 COSTS INCURRED BY THE CITY.
   (A)    If the city is required to provide additional police protection and/
or additional emergency medical services or any other extraordinary services or
equipment or if the City Manager otherwise determines that such additional
police/emergency medical services or other extraordinary services or equipment
should be provided for reasons related to public health or safety, the city
shall take whatever action is necessary under the Local Government Budget and
Fiscal Control Act to make available the necessary funds for the provision of
such services or equipment.
   (B)   The city may require the sponsor to provide additional police/
emergency medical services or to pay the city a fee sufficient to reimburse the
city for providing additional police/emergency medical services or for
providing the costs of any extraordinary services or equipment provided by the
city.
(Am. Ord. passed 12-13-16; Am. Ord. passed 6-11-19; Am. Ord. passed 3-8-22)
§ 95.29 STAFF REVIEW.
    Under receipt of the permit application and applicable fees (if any are
required), the City Manager, or designee when deemed appropriate, shall
circulate it to the Planning and Development Director, Public Services
Director, Environmental Health Director, Fire Chief, Chief of Police, and any
other appropriate persons for their comment. The City Manager, or designee, may
arrange to have a conference on the application with the sponsor and/or
applicant and one or more of the department heads listed above.
(Ord. passed 9-12-06; Am. Ord. passed 12-13-16; Am. Ord. passed 6-11-19; Am.
Ord. passed 3-8-22)
§ 95.30 NOTICE AND PUBLIC HEARING.
   (A)    The City Council shall consider all completed applications for
special event permits. Incomplete applications shall not be forwarded to the
Council for review. Completeness of an application shall be determined by city
staff, as designated by the City Manager.
   (B)   Public hearings are not required for special events meeting any one of
the below criteria:
      (1)   Observance of national holidays; or
      (2)   Special events recurring annually and which are scheduled to last
no more than two hours and for which no admission fee is charged; or
      (3)   Special events substantially administered by the city, or an
authorized agent of the city, provided the special event is insured against
accidents and liabilities by the city or by the entity acting on behalf of the
city.
   (C)   The City Council will hold a public hearing on any special event
permit application, excepting those described in division (B) above. This
hearing may be held at any regular meeting of the Council.
   (D)   Notice of any public hearing shall be given once a week for two
successive calendar weeks in a newspaper having general circulation in the
area. The notice shall be published for the first time not less than ten days,
nor more than 25 days, before the date fixed for the hearing. In computing such
period, the day of publication is not to be included but the day of the hearing
shall be included. The notice shall also be posted on the city’s website one
week before the public hearing.
   (E)   The City Council may attach any reasonable conditions to the issuance
of a permit; and any special event conducted pursuant to a permit issued under
this subchapter shall be conducted strictly in accordance with the terms of the
permit, including any conditions attached to the permit.
(Am. Ord. passed 12-13-16; Am. Ord. passed 6-11-19; Am. Ord. passed 3-8-22)
§ 95.31 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)    The city shall issue the permit authorizing the requested special
event activity unless it finds that:
      (1)   The conduct of the activity will require the assignment of so many
police officers that the remainder of the city cannot adequately be protected;
      (2)   The activity will interfere with the movement of emergency vehicles
to such an extent that adequate police, fire, or other emergency services
cannot be adequately provided throughout the city; or
      (3)   Allowing the activity to be held would constitute a clear and
present danger to the public health or safety;
      (4)   The activity, if held at the time or location proposed, will cause
an unreasonable and unwarranted disruption to vehicular or pedestrian traffic;
      (5)   The activity will work a severe hardship on property owners or
property occupants near the special event location as a result of the denial of
access to their properties or for other substantial reasons;
      (6)   The person in charge and/or the sponsor of the activity has failed
to obtain or does not intend to obtain any and all necessary permits or
licenses, including but not limited to building permits, privilege licenses,
and alcohol permits, or the application is otherwise in violation of any
provision of the Roxboro Code of Ordinances or other applicable law; or
      (7)   If permitted, the activity will conflict with any other activity
previously permitted under this chapter by covering any part of substantially
the same area or route during substantially the same time frame as allotted to
the previously permitted activity.
   (B)   The city may attach any reasonable conditions to the issuance of a
permit; and any special event conducted pursuant to a permit issued under this
subchapter shall be conducted strictly in accordance with the terms of the
permit, including any conditions attached to the permit.
(Ord. passed 9-12-06; Am. Ord. passed 12-13-16; Am. Ord. passed 6-11-19; Am.
Ord. passed 3-8-22)
§ 95.32 MODIFICATION; ALTERNATE PERMIT.
   (A)    If the city finds that it cannot issue the permit for any reason
specified in §
95.31 of this subchapter, it may request that the applicant modify its
application to remove said objection(s) to the issuance of the permit, and the
applicant may do so without further notice or hearing.
   (B)   If the city finds that it cannot issue the permit for any reason
specified in §
95.31 of this subchapter and if modification of the permit does not appear
possible, the city may, in its discretion, issue a permit specifying an
alternative, location, route, or time for the special event activity.
(Ord. passed 9-12-06; Am. Ord. passed 12-13-16; Am. Ord. passed 6-11-19; Am.
Ord. passed 3-8-22)
§ 95.33 INSURANCE.
    The city may require as a condition to the issuance of a permit that the
sponsor obtain a comprehensive general liability insurance policy or comparable
liability insurance coverage that includes the entire area or route of the
special event activity. If such policy is required, the city shall be named as
an additional insured on the policy. The limits of such policy shall not be
less than the following, and the city may require higher limits if it finds
that the risks associated with the activity warrant such higher limits:
 
Property damage        $50,000 for each occurrence
Bodily injury or death $100,000 for each person
                       $300,000 for each occurrence
(Ord. passed 9-12-06; Am. Ord. passed 12-13-16; Am. Ord. passed 6-11-19; Am.
Ord. passed 3-8-22)
§ 95.34 CITY INDEMNIFIED.
    Any sponsor obtaining a permit pursuant to this chapter agrees as a
condition of the permit to indemnify the city and hold the city harmless from
any expenses, including but not limited to attorney’s fees, litigation costs
and judgments, incurred as a result of claims made for damages arising out of
the permitted activity.
(Ord. passed 9-12-06; Am. Ord. passed 12-13-16; Am. Ord. passed 6-11-19; Am.
Ord. passed 3-8-22)
§ 95.35 STREET CLOSINGS.
   (A)   The City Council may close city-maintained streets in conjunction with
issuing a permit for a special event.
   (B)   Streets maintained by the North Carolina Department of Transportation
shall be closed as provided in G.S. § 20-169 “Powers of local authorities” and
the “NC DOT Parades Events Guidelines.”
   (C)   No person may operate or park any vehicle contrary to the traffic
control devices installed in accordance with this section. In the event that
any such vehicle(s) remains in an otherwise closed area designated “no parking”
as a part of an approved special event, the Chief of Police may issue citations
or remove said vehicle(s) at the owner’s expense.
   (D)   Within seven days prior to the start of any special event activity,
the City Manager, or his or her designee shall cause notice to be provided to
the occupants, or if they are unavailable the owners, of each property abutting
the street(s) to be closed pursuant to the approval of a special event permit
in this section. For activities that are scheduled to occur less than seven
days after the permit application has been submitted, the City Manager, or his
or her designee need only provide such notice as is reasonably possible.
(Ord. passed 9-12-06; Am. Ord. passed 12-13-16; Am. Ord. passed 6-11-19; Am.
Ord. passed 3-8-22)
§ 95.36 PERSON IN CHARGE AND ON-SITE MANAGER.
   (A)   All special event activities are required to designate a “person in
charge” or “on-site manager.” This person shall be the exclusive point of
contact for coordination of street closures, emergency services, or other
special event details for the event. The “person in charge/on-site manager”
shall be designated at the time of application and may only be changed as a
result of death or termination from association with the proposed special event
activity. Any change shall be provided in writing no less than ten days prior
to the date of the event.
   (B)   The person in charge shall be the person primarily responsible for
complying with the requirements of this subchapter; for obtaining all required
permits, and/or approvals prior to the start of the special event activity, and
for setting up, conducting, and cleaning up after the activity.
   (C)   The person in charge shall have the permit issued pursuant to this
subchapter, as well as any other required permits or approvals necessary for
the activity, available at all times for inspection by city staff during the
special event activity.
   (D)   The person in charge shall be responsible for cleaning up any litter
caused by the special event activity; removing any temporary signs or
structures erected by the sponsor or other individuals or organizations
participating in the activity; and in returning the area where the activity
takes place to the condition that existed prior to the activity.
(Ord. passed 9-12-06; Am. Ord. passed 12-13-16; Am. Ord. passed 6-11-19; Am.
Ord. passed 3-8-22) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.37 SPECIAL EVENTS INVOLVING THE SALE AND CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC
BEVERAGES.
   (A)    For any special event where alcoholic beverages will be sold and
consumed, the person in charge of the event shall ensure that an area within
the special event area is designated for the sale and consumption of alcoholic
beverages. The perimeters of the area shall be clearly marked, and the entrance
to the area shall be constructed so as to allow ready control of patrons,
including the viewing of identification to prevent underage persons from being
permitted into the area.
   (B)   No alcoholic beverages may be sold or consumed as a part of a special
event outside of the designated area for such sale or consumption.
   (C)   Prior to the beginning of the special event, the person in charge
shall ensure that all necessary state or other permits relating to the sale and
consumption of alcoholic beverages have been secured.
   (D)   All persons lawfully selling, purchasing, and consuming alcoholic
beverages within a designated area during a special event are exempt from the
requirements of §
111.01(A).
   (E)   Nothing in this subchapter shall prevent the City Council from
prohibiting the sale and/or consumption of alcoholic beverages at any special
event if the Council determines that such sale or consumption is not in the
best interests of the health, safety, and welfare of the municipality.
(Ord. passed 9-12-06; Am. Ord. passed 12-13-16; Am. Ord. passed 6-11-19; Am.
Ord. passed 3-8-22)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.38 PROHIBITIONS.
    The following prohibitions shall apply to all special events:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stage, present, or conduct any
special event without first having obtained a permit under this subchapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to participate in a special event
for which the person knows a permit has not been granted.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any participant in a special event to
knowingly fail to comply with any conditions of the special event permit.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to assign or sell any special event permit
granted under this subchapter.
   (E)   All participants in any special event shall be subject to all other
applicable local, state and federal laws.
(Ord. passed 9-12-06; Am. Ord. passed 12-13-16; Am. Ord. passed 6-11-19; Am.
Ord. passed 3-8-22)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.39 PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING SPECIAL EVENTS.
   (A)    No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede, or interfere
with any person, vehicle, animal, or thing participating or used in any special
event.
   (B)   As is specified in §
95.35(C), the Chief of Police shall have the authority, when reasonably
necessary, to prohibit or restrict the parking of vehicles along a street
constituting a part of the route of a special event.
(Ord. passed 9-12-06; Am. Ord. passed 12-13-16; Am. Ord. passed 6-11-19; Am.
Ord. passed 3-8-22)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.40 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)    The City Council, the City Manager, or the Chief of Police shall have
the authority to revoke a special event permit instantly upon a violation of
any conditions of the permit or when a public emergency arises where the police
resources required for that emergency are so great that deployment of police
services for the special event would have an immediate and adverse effect upon
the health or safety of persons or property.
   (B)   After a permit is revoked under division (A) of this section, the City
Manager, or his or her designee, shall notify the applicant of the reasons for
the revocation in writing by mailing a copy of the revocation to the applicant
by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, which mailing shall
be posted no later than the first business day after the revocation.
(Ord. passed 9-12-06; Am. Ord. passed 12-13-16; Am. Ord. passed 6-11-19; Am.
Ord. passed 3-8-22)
SPECIAL BUSINESS ACTIVITY
§ 95.50 SPECIAL BUSINESS ACTIVITY.
   This subchapter applies to any activity hosted in whole, or in part, by an
appropriately permitted business, and which takes place outside the physical
building of said business, and which may utilize a portion of a public
sidewalk, alley, or parking lot as a part of a business related event. Such
activities may include small outdoor performances or demonstrations,
fundraisers for a designated cause or non-profit, or similar activity.
(Ord. passed 6-11-19)
§ 95.51 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person or business may host, sponsor, or operate any such special
business activity on any public sidewalk, parking lot, or alley without a
permit obtained from the city in accordance with this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 6-11-19)
§ 95.52 SPECIAL BUSINESS ACTIVITY PERMIT.
   (A)   A person seeking to obtain a special business activity permit shall
file an application with the City Manager, or his/her designee, on a form
provided by the Manager, no less than 30 days before the date the special
business activity will commence. The following information shall be contained
in the application:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number (an email address if
available) of the person authorized to represent the business seeking to
conduct the special business activity, and the name of the business which will
be sponsoring/hosting said activity.
      (2)   The name, address, and telephone number (and email address if
available) of the individual designated as the “person in charge” or
“responsible planner or on-site manager” of the special business activity.
      (3)   The proposed date(s), time, and location of the special business
activity, including specific identification of the public sidewalk, parking
lot, or alley to be utilized as a part of the activity.
      (4)   The anticipated number of persons attending, or participating in,
the activity.
      (5)   A description of the requested or provided barriers to be utilized
during the special business activity and a map designating the location of
same.
      (6)   A general description of the planned activity, including whether
any alcoholic beverages will be sold or consumed, the use of any recording or
sound amplification equipment, and/or any stages, dancefloors, or similar
structures to be utilized as a part of the activity. All such items shall be
designated on the location map.
      (7)   Any necessary request for additional police protection, and/or any
additional emergency medical services as determined by the City Manager, based
upon the description of the planned activity.
      (8)   Any additional information, attachments, and submissions that are
requested on the application form.
(Ord. passed 6-11-19)
§ 95.53 COSTS INCURRED BY THE CITY.
   (A)   If the city is required to provide additional police protection and/or
additional emergency medical services or any other extraordinary services or
equipment or if the City Manager otherwise determines that such additional
police/emergency medical services or other extraordinary services or equipment
should be provided for reasons related to public health or safety, the city
shall take whatever action is necessary under the Local Government Budget and
Fiscal Control Act to make available the necessary funds for the provision of
such services or equipment.
   (B)   The city may require the sponsor to provide additional police/
emergency medical services or to pay the city a fee sufficient to reimburse the
city for providing additional police/emergency medical services or for
providing the costs of any extraordinary services or equipment provided by the
city.
(Ord. passed 6-11-19)
§ 95.54 STAFF REVIEW.
   Under receipt of the permit application and applicable fees (if any are
required), the City Manager, or designee, shall circulate it to the Planning
and Development Director, Public Services Director, Environmental Health
Director, Fire Chief, Chief of Police, and any other appropriate persons for
their comment. The City Manager may arrange to have a conference on the
application with the sponsor and/or applicant and one or more of the department
heads listed above.
(Ord. passed 6-11-19)
§ 95.55 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF A PERMIT.
   (A)   The city shall issue the permit authorizing the request special
business activity, unless it finds that:
      (1)   The conduct of the activity falls outside the definition for
“special business activity” as outlined in §
95.01;
      (2)   The activity will interfere with the movement of emergency vehicles
to such an extent that adequate police, fire, or other emergency services
cannot be provided to the neighboring businesses or residences;
      (3)   Allowing the activity would constitute a clear and present danger
to the public health or safety;
      (4)   The activity, if held at the time or location proposed, would cause
an unreasonable and unwarranted disruption to the regular operations of
adjacent businesses, or result in a severe hardship on property owners or
occupants near the special activity location as a result of the denial of
access to their properties;
      (5)   The person in charge and/or the sponsoring business of the activity
has failed to obtain or does not intend to obtain any and all necessary permits
or licenses, including but not limited to building permits, zoning compliance
permits, alcohol permits, or the application is otherwise in violation of any
provision of the Roxboro Code of Ordinances or other applicable law; or
      (6)   If permitted, the activity will conflict with any other activity
previously permitted under this chapter by covering any part of substantially
the same area during substantially the same time frame as allotted to the
previously permitted activity.
   (B)   The city may attach any reasonable conditions to the issuance of a
permit; and any special business activity conducted pursuant to a permit issued
under this subchapter shall be conducted strictly in accordance with the terms
of the permit, including any conditions attached to the permit.
(Ord. passed 6-11-19)
§ 95.56 MODIFICATION ALTERNATE PERMIT.
   (A)   If the city finds that it cannot issue the permit for any reason
specified in §
95.55 of this subchapter, it may request that the applicant modify its
application to remove said objection(s) to the issuance of the permit, and the
applicant may do so without further notice or hearing.
   (B)   If the city finds that it cannot issue the permit for any reason
specified in §
95.55 of this subchapter and if modification of the permit does not appear
possible, the city may, in its discretion, issue a permit specifying an
alternative, location, route or time for the special business activity.
(Ord. passed 6-11-19)
§ 95.57 CITY INDEMNIFIED.
   Any sponsor obtaining a permit pursuant to this chapter agrees as a
condition of the permit to indemnify the city and hold the city harmless from
any expenses, including but not limited to attorney's fees, litigation costs
and judgments, incurred as a result of claims made for damages arising out of
the permitted activity.
(Ord. passed 6-11-19)
§ 95.58 PERSON IN CHARGE/RESPONSIBLE PLANNER/ON-SITE MANAGER.
   (A)   The person in charge shall be the person primarily responsible for
complying with the requirements of this subchapter; for obtaining all required
permits and/or approvals prior to the start of the special event activity, and
for setting up, conducting, and cleaning up after the activity.
   (B)   The person in charge shall have the permit issued pursuant to this
subchapter, as well as any other required permits or approvals necessary for
the activity, available at all times for inspection by city staff during the
special event activity.
   (C)   The person in charge shall be responsible for cleaning up any litter
caused by the special event activity; removing any temporary signs or
structures erected by the sponsor or other individuals or organizations
participating in the activity; and in returning the area where the activity
takes place to the condition that existed prior to the activity.
(Ord. passed 6-11-19)
§ 95.59 SPECIAL EVENTS INVOLVING THE SALE AND CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC
BEVERAGES.
   (A)   For any special business activity where alcoholic beverages will be
sold and consumed, the person in charge of the event shall ensure that an area
within the special business activity area is designated for the sale and
consumption of alcoholic beverages. The perimeters of the area shall be clearly
marked, and the entrance to the area shall be constructed so as to allow ready
control of patrons, including the viewing of identification to prevent underage
persons from being permitted into the area.
   (B)   Any area designated for the sale and consumption of alcoholic
beverages as a part of a special business activity shall be located at least
150 feet from any church, mosque, synagogue or other place of worship.
   (C)   No alcoholic beverages may be sold or consumed as a part of a special
business activity outside of the designated area for such sale or consumption.
   (D)   Prior to the beginning of the special business activity, the person in
charge shall ensure that all necessary state or other permits relating to the
sale and consumption of alcoholic beverages have been secured.
   (E)   All persons lawfully selling, purchasing and consuming alcoholic
beverages within a designated area during a special business activity are
exempt from the requirements of §
111.01(A).
   (F)   Nothing in this subchapter shall prevent the City Council from
prohibiting the sale and/or consumption of alcoholic beverages at any special
business activity if the Council determines that such sale or consumption is
not in the best interests of the health, safety and welfare of the city.
(Ord. passed 6-11-19)
§ 95.60 PROHIBITIONS.
   The following prohibitions shall apply to all special business activities:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stage, present, or conduct any
special business activity without first having obtained a permit under this
subchapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to participate in a special
business activity for which the person knows a permit has not been granted.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any participant in a special event to
knowingly fail to comply with any conditions of the special event permit.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to assign or sell any special event permit
granted under this subchapter.
   (E)   All participants in any special event shall be subject to all other
applicable local, state and Federal laws.
(Ord. passed 6-11-19)
§ 95.61 PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING SPECIAL BUSINESS ACTIVITIES.
   No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede, or interfere with any
person, vehicle, animal, or thing participating or used in any special business
activity.
(Ord. passed 6-11-19)
§ 95.62 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The City Council, the City Manager, or the Chief of Police shall have
the authority to revoke a special event permit instantly upon a violation of
any conditions of the permit or when a public emergency arises where the police
resources required for that emergency are so great that deployment of police
services for the special event would have an immediate and adverse effect upon
the health or safety of persons or property.
   (B)   After a permit is revoked under division (A) this section, the City
Manager, or his/her designee, shall notify the applicant of the reasons for the
revocation in writing by mailing a copy of the revocation to the applicant by
registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, which mailing shall be
posted no later than the first business day after the revocation.
(Ord. passed 6-11-19)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
    A violation of any section or subchapter of this chapter shall be subject
to a civil penalty of $500 to be recovered in the nature of a debt or by a
misdemeanor punishable by up to a $500 fine as provided in G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. passed 9-12-06; Am. Ord. passed 12-13-16)
CHAPTER 96: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Regulations
   
96.001   Encroachments
   
96.002   Street furnishings
   
96.003   Display, sale of merchandise
   
96.004   Signs over sidewalks or curbs
   
96.005   View at street intersections
   
96.006   Emptying of drain pipes
   
96.007   Discharging wastewater, odoriferous substance
   
96.008   Deposit of dirt, debris
   
96.009   Throwing articles from buildings
   
96.010   Obstructing flow of water
   
96.011   Lots below street level to be enclosed
   
96.012   Snow on sidewalks
   
96.013   Deposit of oil, grease
   
96.014   Duty to keep sidewalks, gutters clear
Cuts and Excavations
   
96.025   Covering, enclosing and marking excavations
   
96.026   Permit required
Driveways
   
96.040   Commercial and industrial construction
   
96.041   Facilities serving or advertising a business
   
96.042   Residential maximums
   
96.043   Residential minimums
   
96.044   New driveways through existing curb
Sidewalk Improvements
   
96.055   When required
   
96.056   One side of street
   
96.057   Construction at cost of property owners
   
96.058   Petitions
   
96.059   Standards of construction
   
96.060   Cost amortization
Street Improvements
   
96.070   Petition
   
96.071   Definition
   
96.072   Assessment policy
   
96.073   Physical requirements
   
96.074   Project procedure
   
96.075   Installation of utilities
   
96.076   Responsibility of property owners
   
96.077   Construction according to specifications
   
96.078   Opening and improving streets without petition
   
96.079   Resurfacing improvements
   
96.080   Improvement by owner
Property Numbering System
   
96.090   Map adopted
   
96.091   Numbering system
   
96.092   Display of numbers
   
96.093   Numbers for future buildings
Uptown Construction Parking, Storing, and Staging
   
96.100   General provisions
   
96.101   Application timeline
   
96.102   Extended parking
   
96.103   Equipment and materials storage
   
96.104   PODs and other temporary structures
   
96.105   Construction Dumpsters
   
96.106   Sidewalk parking
   
96.107   Road and/or sidewalk closures
   
96.108   City exempt from liability of equipment/vehicle damage
   
96.109   Notifications
   
96.110   Extensions
   
96.111   Penalties for non-compliance
 
   
96.999   Penalty
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 96.001 ENCROACHMENTS.
   Unless expressly allowed by a permit issued pursuant to
Chapter 95, or as provided in §§
96.002 and
96.003, no person shall encroach upon the streets or sidewalks of the city by
erecting or placing any structure, device, or equipment of either a temporary
or permanent nature.
(`90 Code, § 18-1) (Am. Ord. passed 8-9-05; Am. Ord. passed 7-9-19)
Penalty, see § 96.999
§ 96.002 STREET FURNISHINGS.
   An appropriately permitted business may utilize a portion of the public
sidewalk for furnishings such as flower pots, tables and chairs for dining,
etc., provided they are a part of regular business operations for the
appropriately permitted businesses. Businesses utilizing a portion of the
sidewalk for planters, tables, chairs, benches, or similar items must maintain
a 36-inch unobstructed area from the back of the curb and the encroaching
object (i.e. table, chair, etc.) at all times. The area of the sidewalk used
shall be limited to the frontage of the business utilizing the sidewalk.
(Ord. passed 7-9-19)
§ 96.003 DISPLAY, SALE OF MERCHANDISE.
   Unless expressly allowed by a permit issued pursuant to
Chapter 95, or as a part of regular business operations for appropriately
permitted businesses (i.e. sidewalk sale), no person shall store, display, sell
or exhibit for sale on any street or sidewalk within the city any good, wares
or merchandise, nor shall any person place or use any equipment for the
display, storage or vending of any goods, wares, or merchandise upon any street
or sidewalk. However upon approval of the City Manager, a portion of the
sidewalk may be utilized by the business fronting on said sidewalk, provided
that a 36-inch unobstructed area is maintained from the back of the curb and
any encroaching object at all times, without obtaining a permit issued pursuant
to
Chapter 95, and provided that the portion of the sidewalk utilized is not
detrimental to the public health or safety. The area of the sidewalk used shall
be limited to the frontage of the business utilizing the sidewalk. Such
displays are permissible only during the regular hours of operation for the
business conducting the sale, and must be removed from the sidewalk at the
close of business each day.
(`90 Code, § 18-2) (Am. Ord. passed 8-9-05; Am. Ord. passed 11-19-12; Am. Ord.
passed 7-9-19) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.004 SIGNS OVER SIDEWALKS OR CURBS.
   Any sign hung, suspended, projected or otherwise placed over or across, or
partly over any sidewalk or curbing shall have its lower edge not less than
eight feet above the sidewalk or curbing, and the owner shall keep it in such
condition that the public will not be exposed to danger therefrom. The Building
Inspector shall periodically inspect all such signs and, if any are found to be
in an unsafe condition, he or she shall report the same to the City Manager and
shall also notify the person owning or maintaining the signs to either remove
the same or make such alterations or repairs forthwith as to make the same
conform to the provisions of this section.
(`90 Code, § 18-3)
§ 96.005 VIEW AT STREET INTERSECTIONS.
   No person owning property at street intersections in any residential section
of the city shall allow the property to become so congested with the foliage of
trees and vines as to block the view of persons traveling on one street to any
intersecting street.
(`90 Code, § 18-4) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.006 EMPTYING OF DRAIN PIPES.
   No person shall allow any drain pipe, other than one used for carrying
rainwater exclusively, to empty into or upon any gutter, sidewalk or street.
(`90 Code, § 18-5) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.007 DISCHARGING WASTEWATER, ODORIFEROUS SUBSTANCE.
   No owner or occupant of a lot or building shall throw or cause to be thrown
or discharged from his or her premises any wastewater or substance which emits
an obnoxious odor upon any street or sidewalk.
(`90 Code, § 18-6) Penalty, see §
96.999
Statutory reference:
   Ditch or drain requirements, see G.S. § 136-95
§ 96.008 DEPOSIT OF DIRT, DEBRIS.
   No person shall deposit any dirt, sand, gravel or debris upon any of the
streets or sidewalks of the city.
(`90 Code, § 18-7) Penalty, see §
96.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. § 160A-303.1
§ 96.009 OBSTRUCTING FLOW OF WATER.
   No person shall place or make any obstruction in any waterway so that water
shall accumulate in any street or sidewalk or in any manner obstruct the flow
of water through or from any street, sidewalk or gutter, whether the
obstruction is placed on his or her own property or on that of another.
(`90 Code, § 18-9)
Penalty, see § 96.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. § 136-92
§ 96.010 THROWING ARTICLES FROM BUILDINGS.
   No person shall throw or cause to be thrown from any window, door or roof of
any store, house or other building, any article on any street or sidewalk.
(`90 Code, § 18-8) Penalty, see §
96.999
Statutory reference:
   Littering, see G.S. § 14-399
§ 96.011 LOTS BELOW STREET LEVEL TO BE ENCLOSED.
   All persons who own property adjoining streets and whose lots are below the
street level shall securely enclose the same so as to prevent danger to persons
passing along the streets.
(`90 Code, § 18-10) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.012 SNOW ON SIDEWALKS.
   No person occupying premises within the business section of the city shall
permit any snow to remain on the sidewalk in front of the premises longer than
four hours, between sunrise and sunset, after the snow has ceased to fall.
(`90 Code, § 18-11) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.013 DEPOSIT OF OIL, GREASE.
   No person shall pour or otherwise deposit any oil or grease on any street or
sidewalk.
(`90 Code, § 18-12) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.014 DUTY TO KEEP SIDEWALKS, GUTTERS CLEAR.
   Every owner or occupant of a lot on any street shall keep the sidewalk
adjoining such lot clear and the gutter open and free from obstruction. If any
rubbish, dirt, ashes or other thing is placed or left without lawful authority
upon the sidewalk or in the gutter, the owner or occupant of the lot shall
remove the same.
(`90 Code, § 18-13) Penalty, see §
96.999
CUTS AND EXCAVATIONS
§ 96.025 COVERING, ENCLOSING AND MARKING EXCAVATIONS.
   Excavations in any street, sidewalk or other public right-of-way shall be
securely covered or enclosed at all times when persons are not at work therein.
In addition, any person excavating or opening any street, sidewalk or other
public right-of-way shall mark the same with a sufficient number of red flags
during the day and lights at night.
(`90 Code, § 18-21)
Penalty, see § 96.999
§ 96.026 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall make any excavation, cut or other opening in any street or
sidewalk without first obtaining a written permit therefor from the City
Manager or his or her designee.
(`90 Code, § 18-22)
Penalty, see § 96.999
DRIVEWAYS
§ 96.040 COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL CONSTRUCTION.
   All commercial and industrial facilities shall submit a site plan and obtain
a driveway permit as specified in §
96.026.
(`90 Code, § 18-26)
Penalty, see § 96.999
§ 96.041 FACILITIES SERVING OR ADVERTISING A BUSINESS.
   No permanent facility shall be constructed within the bounds of the public
right-of-way either on the ground, under the ground or above the ground for the
purpose of serving or advertising any business, firm or corporation.
(`90 Code, § 18-27)
Penalty, see § 96.999
§ 96.042 RESIDENTIAL MAXIMUMS.
   Driveway entrances to private homes or apartments shall be restricted to a
maximum width of 24 feet for any single lot.
(`90 Code, § 18-28)
Penalty, see § 96.999
§ 96.043 RESIDENTIAL MINIMUMS.
   Every residential lot on which a house is constructed shall be required to
have at least one driveway entrance with a minimum width of 15 feet.
(`90 Code, § 18-29)
Penalty, see § 96.999
§ 96.044 NEW DRIVEWAYS THROUGH EXISTING CURB.
   Where there exists curb and gutter in any street and the owner of property
fronting the street desires to develop the lot or to add a driveway to a lot,
then the owner shall make application to the City Manager for such a driveway,
stating the requested size. Upon the approval of the City Manager, based on
this chapter, the applicant shall be permitted to remove the existing curb and
gutter and to install a driveway by the then existing standard plans of the
city. If Public Works Department labor and supervision are available, then the
property owner may contract with the city to cut and remove the curb for a cost
equal to materials, labor and supervision.
(`90 Code, § 18-30)
SIDEWALK IMPROVEMENTS
§ 96.055 WHEN REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any city street or thoroughfare which is improved by paving, curbing
and guttering shall also be required to have constructed at the same time a
sidewalk for pedestrian travel; provided, however, that if the City Council
shall decide that a sidewalk will not be needed or is not advisable on any
street, the requirements of this subchapter shall not apply.
   (B)   The fact that the required sidewalk will have no connections at any
place with other paved sidewalks shall have no bearing on the enforcement of
this subchapter.
(`90 Code, § 18-36) (Ord. passed 5-10-77)
§ 96.056 ONE SIDE OF STREET.
   Sidewalks, when required, shall be required only on one side of the street,
which side shall be decided upon by the City Council.
(`90 Code, § 18-37) (Ord. passed 5-10-77)
§ 96.057 CONSTRUCTION AT COST OF PROPERTY OWNERS.
   Where a majority of the owners on one side of the street of any whole city
block desire a sidewalk to be constructed at their cost and are willing to
donate the necessary right-of-way if such is necessary, then the city shall
contract to build a sidewalk.
(`90 Code, § 18-38)
§ 96.058 PETITIONS.
   Petitions for street improvements may include requests for sidewalk
improvements in accordance with city specifications. The sidewalk improvements
may be constructed as part of the street improvement project and in the same
manner, except that 50% of the total cost of sidewalk improvements exclusive of
the cost at intersections shall be assessed against the property owners.
(`90 Code, § 18-39) (Ord. 66-3, passed 5-10-66; Ord. passed 2-13-73)
§ 96.059 STANDARDS OF CONSTRUCTION.
   Sidewalks shall be constructed of an approved standard concrete with a
minimum width of five feet and a minimum thickness of four inches, except
across a driveway, in which case the minimum thickness shall be six inches. A
dirt planting strip of three feet in width shall be reserved between the
sidewalk and the back of the curb. Where no curb exists then there shall be set
by the City Manager a distance away from the center of the street taking into
consideration the probable width between curbs that the street will eventually
be constructed depending on the amount and type of traffic.
(`90 Code, § 18-40) (Ord. passed 5-10-77)
§ 96.060 COST AMORTIZATION.
   Amortization of the cost of construction of a sidewalk shall be upon the
same basis as that for the improvement of the street next to the sidewalk.
(`90 Code, § 18-41) (Ord. passed 5-10-77)
STREET IMPROVEMENTS
§ 96.070 PETITION.
   After May 10, 1966, the city will not consider paving or otherwise improving
any street or alley unless a petition is presented to the City Council on forms
provided by the city, signed by a majority of the property owners who represent
a majority of the lineal footage on the street proposed to be improved,
requesting that the total cost of the improvement be assessed against the
abutting property owners as stipulated in this subchapter.
(`90 Code, § 18-46)
Statutory reference:
   Petition required for special assessment, see G.S. 160A-217(a)
§ 96.071 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the term STREET IMPROVEMENTS for all
streets which shall be included in the property owners' petition, the cost of
which shall be assessed against the abutting property owners, shall include the
following:
   (A)   Street paving in accordance with city specifications.
   (B)   Grading as required by good engineering practices as determined by the
Director of Public Services on all streets which need to be graded prior to
improvement.
   (C)   Base course material for the full width of the street to be
constructed in accordance with city specifications.
   (D)   Street surfacing according to city specifications for a full width of
the street to be constructed.
   (E)   Costs for construction of a street exceeding 31 feet in width as
deemed appropriate by the City Council in the interest of the orderly and
expeditious flow of traffic; the cost thereof shall be assessed in accordance
with §
96.072.
(`90 Code, § 18-47)
Statutory reference:
   Costs included, see G.S. § 160A-226
§ 96.072 ASSESSMENT POLICY.
   Street improvements designated in §
96.071 to be assessed against property owners shall be assessed in the amount
of 50% of the cost of the front foot benefit. This assessment shall be broken
down to an equal share on either side of the street.
(`90 Code, § 18-48) (Ord. passed 2-13-73)
Statutory reference:
   Basis for making assessments, see G.S. 160A-218
§ 96.073 PHYSICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   No petition shall be considered for street improvements where streets have
been opened after May 10, 1966 if the street is in violation of the subdivision
ordinance. In addition, no petition shall be considered for a street less than
one normal block in length.
(`90 Code, § 18-49)
§ 96.074 PROJECT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Upon the receipt of a petition for street improvements, the City
Manager shall examine the petition and certify as to its sufficiency to the
City Council.
   (B)   If the petition from the property owners is found to be sufficient,
the City Council shall direct the City Manager to estimate the total cost of
the street project in accordance with street specifications, to determine the
cost per foot of property frontage and the total cost to the city for
intersections, other improvements and the city's 25% of the front foot benefit.
   (C)   When cost estimates are received, the City Council shall consider the
availability of funds for street improvements, the degree of development along
the street proposed to be improved and any other factor deemed relevant to the
health, safety and welfare of the citizenry, and may approve the street
improvement project as they deem best.
   (D)   When a street improvement project is approved, the property owners
abutting the improvement shall be notified of the total estimated cost per foot
of frontage and further notified that each property owner has the opportunity
to pay his or her proportionate share in cash in advance. In addition, the
property owners shall be further notified that the project will not be
scheduled or construction work started until 20% of the total estimated cost of
the entire project is deposited with the city.
   (E)   When the required amount has been deposited with the city, the street
improvement assessment procedure, as authorized in G.S. §§ 160A-223 through
160A-236, shall be followed and assessments shall be made against the
properties abutting upon the improvement according to an equal rate per front
foot. Property owners who have made a cash deposit in advance shall be credited
for such payments on the assessment rolls. In accordance with the requirements
of the General Statutes, property owners not paying assessments in cash in
advance shall pay their assessments in five equal annual installments, which
shall bear interest at a rate which shall be set from time to time by the City
Council.
   (F)   If the actual cost of improvements is less than the estimated cost,
the excess shall be refunded to the property owners. If the actual cost exceeds
the estimated cost, the property owners will be assessed for this amount, or
may pay such amount in cash in the manner provided by law.
(`90 Code, § 18-50)
§ 96.075 INSTALLATION OF UTILITIES.
   The City Council, prior to approving any project or authorizing any street
improvement, shall determine if water and sanitary sewer facilities have been
installed within that portion of the street located between curbs. If the
facilities have not been installed, or if facilities are inadequate and will
have to be replaced, the City Council may postpone the street improvement
project, pending the installation of the facilities.
(`90 Code, § 18-51)
§ 96.076 RESPONSIBILITY OF PROPERTY OWNERS.
   (A)   Driveway and apron.  Property owners along streets which are surfaced
and have curb and gutter are responsible for replacing any driveway within the
street right-of-way as a result of new street construction improvements.
Driveway entrances and aprons at the curbline will be constructed by the city
at the location designated by the property owner and the total cost thereof
will be included in the cost assessed for street improvements.
   (B)   Seeding, improving. Property owners shall be responsible for seeding,
landscaping or otherwise improving the area between curbs and the property line
as they may desire, provided no walls or other permanent structures are located
within the street right-of-way.
   (C)   Drainpipes and the like. Drainage pipes and other material on the
right-of-way at the time of construction which were purchased by the property
owner will be removed and placed on the lot of the owner for his or her
disposition. The city will haul away such items if requested by the owner and
with the owner's permission.
(`90 Code, § 18-52)
§ 96.077 CONSTRUCTION ACCORDING TO SPECIFICATIONS.
   All street grading, base course preparation, storm drainage, surfacing, curb
and gutters and other improvements shall be constructed in accordance with the
written specifications of the city which have been approved by the City
Council. All work shall be done under the supervision of the City Manager.
(`90 Code, § 18-53) (Ord. 66-3, passed 5-10-66)
§ 96.078 OPENING AND IMPROVING STREETS WITHOUT PETITION.
   When in the opinion of the City Council a new street should be opened or
widened, extended, paved or otherwise improved, and no petition is filed asking
for the assessment of the cost thereof, and when the City Council is of the
opinion that the public benefit will be greater than the benefit to abutting
property owners, the City Council may direct that the improvement be made and
the total cost paid by the city.
(`90 Code, § 18-54)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to open street or improve street, see G.S. § 160A-296(a)(3)
   Petition required in order to make assessment, see G.S. § 160A-217
§ 96.079 RESURFACING IMPROVEMENTS.
   Whenever it is necessary to resurface any street which has been surfaced
under the provisions of this subchapter, the city will undertake the
resurfacing when funds are appropriated, and the city shall bear the entire
cost of the work.
(`90 Code, § 18-55)
§ 96.080 IMPROVEMENT BY OWNER.
   (A)   If a property owner desires to open a street on an existing or new
right-of-way, the property owner shall have plans prepared to meet all city
street construction requirements. The city shall approve the plans prior to
construction.
   (B)   The property owner shall grade, pave, curb and gutter the street
according to city standards, including storm drainage, before acceptance of the
street by the city. City personnel shall inspect all phases of the work during
construction.
   (C)   For good cause shown, the Council may waive curb and/or gutter
requirements as in its discretion is deemed appropriate.
(`90 Code, § 18-56) (Ord. passed 11-8-83; Ord. passed 1-10-84)
PROPERTY NUMBERING SYSTEM
§ 96.090 MAP ADOPTED.
   The property numbering map entitled, "The House Number and Tax Map of the
City of Roxboro", dated May 10, 1966, is adopted as the official property
numbering map of the city, and all property numbers assigned shall be assigned
in accordance with this numbering map. No property numbers shall be used or
displayed in the city except numbers assigned in accordance with the official
numbering map. The property numbering map shall be kept on file in the office
of the City Manager.
(`90 Code, § 18-66)
§ 96.091 NUMBERING SYSTEM.
   (A)   On the property numbering map there shall be designated a north-south
axis known as Main Street and an east-west axis known as Depot Street, Chub
Lake and Court Streets. All avenues, streets or alleys running generally north
and south shall be numbered from the Chub Lake-Court-Depot Street axis
consecutively to the corporate limits or to the extremity of the avenue, street
or alley. Avenues, streets or alleys running generally east and west shall be
numbered from the Main Street axis in the same manner.
   (B)   One hundred numbers shall be allowed to each block generally, so that
the number of each consecutive block shall commence with consecutive hundreds.
In the event of an extremely long block of any street, alley or avenue, blocks
shall be determined as nearly as possible to be of the same length as those on
adjacent streets running in the same direction.
   (C)   One whole number shall be assigned for every 50 feet of property
whether improved property or vacant lot on every street within the corporate
limits, except in the area designated by the City Council as downtown business,
in which one number shall be assigned for every 25 feet of property, whether
improved or not. Even numbers shall be displayed on the north side of streets
running east and west and on the east side of streets running north and south.
Odd numbers shall be displayed on the opposite sides.
(`90 Code, § 18-67)
§ 96.092 DISPLAY OF NUMBERS.
   Every property owner of improved property shall, on or before October 1,
1966, display in a conspicuous place on the property the number assigned, which
shall be of a type approved by the City Council. Upon notice by the City Clerk
to any owner or occupant of any house or building, the owner or occupant,
within ten days after the notice shall have been given assigning the house or
building a number or numbers, shall cause the house or building to be numbered
as required, at the expense of the owners or occupants.
(`90 Code, § 18-68)
§ 96.093 NUMBERS FOR FUTURE BUILDINGS.
   All residences and business buildings erected after May 10, 1966 shall be
assigned a number in accordance with the numbering map and the owners thereof
shall display the number.
(`90 Code, § 18-69)
Uptown Construction Parking, Storing, and Staging
§ 96.100 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   The following regulations provide for allowing extended parking or use of
parking spaces for material/equipment placement during construction projects
for uptown structures.
(Ord. 06-2023, passed 6-13-23)
§ 96.101 APPLICATION TIMELINE.
   (A)   Applicants seeking to utilize any provision of the following
regulations must submit an application no less than ten business days from the
beginning date of the request. City staff will review the request as provided.
Additional information may be required for staff to fully assess the request.
Applicants must provide the additional information within two business days of
the request from city staff. Delays in receiving the additional information may
result in denial of the request.
   (B)   Requests that include full or partial sidewalk closures, refer to §
96.107. Requests that include full or partial street closures shall require
City Council approval, if the closure will last more than four hours.
Applications requiring Council approval, including exceptions provided under §§
96.103(A) and
96.104(G) must be submitted no less than ten business days prior to the next
meeting of the City Council.
(Ord. 06-2023, passed 6-13-23)
§ 96.102 EXTENDED PARKING.
   (A)   Any vehicle which shall be parked in an on-street parking space for
longer than the two-hour limit, Monday through Friday 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.,
shall register with the Police Department and provide a copy of the applicable
building/zoning permit(s) to confirm the validity of the construction work
requiring the use of the parking spaces for an extended period of time.
Extended parking allowances shall be granted only in situations where a vehicle
must have direct access to a building for the purpose of completing
construction work. Construction workers/contractors shall utilize off-street
parking for employees and any vehicles that are not necessary for direct access
to equipment or materials for the project.
   (B)   (1)   Construction vehicles can only utilize this parking allowance in
instances where parking in a long-term lot is not feasible, due to the nature
of the project.
      (2)   Examples include when a utility company must park adjacent to the
building or pole that is being serviced, or when there is heavy or fragile
equipment that cannot be transported from a lot to the building.
   (C)   (1)   No more than two on-street parking spaces may be utilized for
extended parking during construction projects and no more than a single
application for extended parking/storage may be filed for a single project
(extensions are addressed in §
96.110).
      (2)   Use of on-street handicap parking spaces on Court Street and Abbitt
Street may not be considered for use and cannot be blocked to ensure reasonable
accommodations.
   (D)   Extended parking applies only to properly licensed and insured
vehicles. Vehicles utilizing the extended parking allowance, with a trailer
attached, may only park in parallel spaces. No vehicles with attached trailers
shall park in angled spaces. No trailers shall be detached from the vehicle and
left in parking spaces unattended.
   (E)   The request must be accompanied by approval of permitted work by the
city and/or county building inspections.
   (F)   On-street parking exceptions shall not exceed one aggregate week (five
business days and two weekend days of any combination) for any construction
project. All vehicles are required to have a high-visibility/reflective cone 28
to 36 inches in height at the rear corner of the vehicle(s) and/or trailer
attached to the vehicle, closest to the lane of travel.
(Ord. 06-2023, passed 6-13-23)
§ 96.103 EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS STORAGE.
   (A)   Large equipment (such as lifts) necessary for construction projects
shall be stored in off-street parking lots whenever not actively in-use, unless
exception is granted by City Council. Exceptions to this shall only be granted
at the discretion of the City Council.
   (B)   Movement of large equipment shall require appropriate flagging and
traffic control, provided by the contractor, to maneuver to and from the work
site.
   (C)   Small equipment and materials may be staged at the construction site
in on-street parking spaces, only in unique situations where transport from an
off-street parking facility is impractical, as determined by city staff.
   (D)   No more than two on-street parking spaces may be utilized for
equipment and/or material staging during a construction project. (No more than
two on street parking spaces may be used for any purpose during a construction
project. If two parking spaces are necessary for vehicle parking, no additional
spaces may be used for equipment/material staging.)
(Ord. 06-2023, passed 6-13-23)
§ 96.104 PODS AND OTHER TEMPORARY STRUCTURES.
   (A)   The term PODS shall include any and all portable/temporary storage
devices.
   (B)   The term TEMPORARY STRUCTURES shall include portable toilets and any
other device not previously referenced in the above sections.
   (C)   PODS and other temporary structures shall never be placed in an on-
street parking space owned by the city. Such structures may only be placed in
parking lots (owned by the city) with the express permission of city staff and
shall be placed in the least intrusive location of any given lot, as determined
by city staff.
   (D)   Such structures shall not impede drives, block visibility at
intersections or traffic lanes, nor prevent public service vehicles from
servicing city-owned Dumpsters or trash receptacles.
   (E)   Such structures shall be placed within no more than two parking
spaces, within the allowed city parking lot, and properly marked for visibility
at night or in precipitous weather events.
   (F)   No more than one temporary facility shall be permitted at a time for
any construction project and the requesting party shall provide a copy of the
applicable building/zoning permit(s) to confirm the validity of the
construction work requiring the use of the public parking lot area for an
extended period of time.
   (G)   No temporary facility shall occupy any portion of a public parking lot
beyond the expiration or closure of a valid building/zoning permit or more than
14 days, whichever is less, unless an exception is granted by City Council.
Exceptions to this shall only be granted at the discretion of the City Council.
   (H)   A high visibility/reflective cone of 28 to 36 inches in height at the
rear corner of the PODS/temporary structure, and the like, closest to the
travel lane of the parking lot.
(Ord. 06-2023, passed 6-13-23)
§ 96.105 CONSTRUCTION DUMPSTERS.
   One Dumpster per property/business may be allowed in the public right-of way
within the area zoned B-3 for the Uptown Business District, on a temporary
basis, with the prior written approval from the Director of Public Services, or
designee. The Public Services Director, or designee, shall be the sole
authority to determine whether a permit should be issued to allow a Dumpster to
be temporarily placed in the public right-of-way, provided the applicant:
   (A)   Demonstrates that the Dumpster cannot be reasonably accommodated on
private property or behind the business where the project is occurring;
   (B)   Places the Dumpster in the public right-of-way only on specific dates,
which shall not interfere with scheduled/approved special events by the city;
   (C)   Is responsible for all damages and liability due to placement of the
Dumpster in the public right-of-way;
   (D)   Places the Dumpster only in a demarcated parking space, other than a
parking space reserved for persons with disabilities;
   (E)   Places the Dumpster as close to the applicant’s building as possible,
but not blocking the entrance to any adjacent building, 15 feet from any fire
hydrant, nor 30 feet from any crosswalk or traffic sign or signal;
   (F)   Places and maintains barricades, high visibility/reflective cones of
28 to 36 inches in height at the rear corner of the Dumpster, closest to the
lane of travel, and covers the Dumpster with a tarp when no work requiring the
use of the Dumpster is taking place;
   (G)   Is responsible for all fly dumping that may occur in and next to the
Dumpster;
   (H)   Uses a dumpster with a maximum size of 20 cubic yards;
   (I)   Provides a certificate of insurance in the following amount:
comprehensive general liability insurance—$1,000,000, showing the city, and its
officers, employees, agents, and volunteers as additional insureds, and
containing a statement that said policy shall not be changed or canceled
without 30 days written notice to the city; and
   (J)   Removes the Dumpster from the public right-of-way on Saturdays and
Sundays, before any approved special event by the city, or as otherwise
directed by the city for any public safety or weather-related concern.
(Ord. 06-2023, passed 6-13-23)
§ 96.106 SIDEWALK PARKING.
   There shall be no parking of vehicles or heavy equipment on the sidewalk.
Exemptions may be made only in circumstances when it is absolutely necessary
that such vehicle or equipment must traverse a sidewalk. In such cases, the
contractor responsibilities are outlined in §
96.107 and are incurred by the contractor.
(Ord. 06-2023, passed 6-13-23)
§ 96.107 ROAD AND/OR SIDEWALK CLOSURES.
   (A)   Partial or full street or sidewalk closures that will exceed four
hours shall submit a formal request to the City Council for approval. Such
request must be filed with the Police Department no less than ten business days
prior to the regularly-scheduled Council meeting (which is typically the second
Tuesday of each month).
   (B)   The contractor is responsible for setting up traffic signs, cones, and
safety barriers in accordance with the MUTCD or NCDOT Standards. If the
contractor intends to only close one lane of traffic, it must provide a
sufficient number of people or remote automated traffic control devices to flag
traffic and control traffic, in accordance with MUTCD or NCDOT Standards.
   (C)   For all approved road closures or sidewalk closures, the contractor is
responsible for providing the following materials and shall utilize the
following methods of closure to conform to consistency expectations for the
community:
      (1)   Road closures.
         (a)   OSHA-approved, High Viz reflective four by four diamond placards
stating “ROAD CLOSED”.
         (b)   At least two cones set three feet apart on each side of the
placard to ensure motor vehicle traffic does not drive around the placard.
         (c)   Traffic cones must be between 28 to 36 inches in height and must
include high intensity reflective collars.
         (d)   The cone color must be high visibility green or bright orange.
      (2)   Sidewalk closures.
         (a)   OSHA-approved four by four diamond placards stating “SIDEWALK
CLOSED”.
         (b)   Sufficient number of 42-inch tall traffic looper cones, with
high intensity reflective collars, including the rubber base plate.
         (c)   Orange plastic safety fencing, at least four-foot-wide, secured
to said cones to clearly close the sidewalk from pedestrian traffic.
(Ord. 06-2023, passed 6-13-23)
§ 96.108 CITY EXEMPT FROM LIABILITY OF EQUIPMENT/VEHICLE DAMAGE.
   The city shall not be responsible for any damages to vehicles, trailers,
equipment, Dumpsters, or any other private property placed in accordance with
these regulations. The owner of said equipment, vehicles, trailers, and the
like shall be responsible for maintaining required registration and insurance
of same. The city will hold the owner of the equipment, vehicle, trailer, and
the like, liable for any damages that occur to the city-owned property such as
sidewalks, paved road areas, signage, trashcans, and the like. Any equipment,
vehicles, trailers, and the like that impede safe vehicle or pedestrian traffic
must properly control and protect traffic in accordance with applicable local,
state, and federal standards. The city reserves the right to revoke or deny use
of any public space for purposes provided in these regulations at any time
there is a threat to public safety or welfare. Failure to remove vehicles,
trailers, or other facilities within the time period outlined in this policy
shall result in the city causing the offending item to be removed at the
expense of the owner.
(Ord. 06-2023, passed 6-13-23)
§ 96.109 NOTIFICATIONS.
   The property owner and/or contractor for the proposed construction project
shall be required to contact the business and/or property owner(s) directly
adjacent to the project area. Contact should include notification of the
proposed scope of work, description of the closures and/or extended parking
necessary for the work, and to provide a point of contact that can be reached
24/7 in the event of an emergency situation. In the event of an extension of
the proposed impact period, the property owner and/or contractor shall be
required to make additional contact with the business and/or property owner(s)
to provide the same information about the extension period.
(Ord. 06-2023, passed 6-13-23)
§ 96.110 EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   Extensions shall be requested no less than 48 hours prior to the end
of the originally approved termination of the extended parking, staging, or
closure. Extension requests should be for a period of time less than the
original request (i.e., if the original extended parking was proposed to last
three days, an extension request should not be for more than an additional
three days).
   (B)   Extension requests that involve street/sidewalk closure shall require
the approval of the City Manager, and shall also be no more than half of the
period originally approved by the City Council.
(Ord. 06-2023, passed 6-13-23)
§ 96.111 PENALTIES FOR NON-COMPLIANCE.
   It is the intention of the city to obtain voluntary compliance from the
property owner(s) and/or contractor(s) in such matters. However, when voluntary
compliance cannot be achieved, penalties for noncompliance shall be as
specified in §
96.999. In addition, the city may seek an appropriate equitable remedy issuing
from a court of competent jurisdiction, including relief by injunction and
order of abatement.
(Ord. 06-2023, passed 6-13-23)
§ 96.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no other
penalty is provided shall be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor and subject to a
fine not to exceed $500, or imprisonment not to exceed 30 days, and each day
that any of the provisions of this code of ordinances are violated shall
constitute a separate offense.
(G.S. § 14-4)
   (B)   If the violation of this chapter necessitates, in the opinion of City
Council, repair, replacement or alteration of any part of any street or
sidewalk, the cost of the repair, replacement or alteration shall be assessed
against the property of the violator.
CHAPTER 97: LAKE REGULATIONS
Section
Lake Roxboro
   
97.01   Purpose
   
97.02   Definitions
   
97.03   General regulations
   
97.04   Permitted recreational activities
   
97.05   Boat permits
   
97.06   Docks and ramps; construction and permit requirements
   
97.07   Enforcement and revocation of permits and lake privileges
   
97.08   Monitoring of water quality
Lake Isaac Walton (City Lake)
   
97.20   Definitions
   
97.21   Fishing and boating privileges
   
97.22   Warden and Watershed Inspector
   
97.23   Fishing permits
   
97.24   Fishing regulations
   
97.25   Fishing from bank or boathouse
   
97.26   Boats; purpose, power limit
   
97.27   Boat construction and equipment
   
97.28   Point of origin and termination
   
97.29   Fishing hours
   
97.30   Boats; keeping, locking and identification
   
97.31   Boathouse maintenance; sale
   
97.32   Picnic parties
   
97.33   Firearms and fireworks
   
97.34   Trash
   
97.35   State sanitary regulations
   
97.36   Limits on use, catch
   
97.37   Water pollution
   
97.38   Sale of fish
LAKE ROXBORO
§ 97.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to regulate limited recreational
activities and other uses in and on Lake Roxboro and its control strip so as
not to adversely affect the water quality of the lake to the point of rendering
it unsuitable as a water-supply source for the city.
(Ord. passed 8-8-00)
§ 97.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVED DOCK OR RAMP. A privately-owned dock or ramp for which a property
owner has a valid operation permit from the city.
   BOAT. A boat primarily designed for fishing, whether or not powered by
motor, which:
      (1)   Is not longer than 25 feet;
      (2)   Is equipped with at least one Coast Guard approved life preserver
for each occupant;
      (3)   Is equipped with at least one oar and a bail bucket;
      (4)   Does not contain facilities or devices for the storage or temporary
holding of treated or untreated wastewater;
      (5)   Is free from accumulation of aquatic weed; and
      (6)   Which otherwise meets all state and federal regulations for safety,
lighting and seaworthiness.
   CITY ACCESS RAMP. The access ramp owned by the city, to be used exclusively
for launching and removing boats from Lake Roxboro.
   CITY TAXPAYER. A natural person who is paying property taxes to the city.
   CONTROL STRIP. The strip of land owned by the city that surrounds Lake
Roxboro.
   FISHING. Taking fish, at one's own risk, only by a pole or rod and reel
baited with natural or artificial bait, in accordance with all laws of this
state regulating or limiting the manner of taking, size, weight or number of
fish taken, and does not mean the taking of fish by seining, trapping or by
trotline, which are prohibited.
   IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBER OF A CITY TAXPAYER. An immediate family member of a
city taxpayer who is living in the household of that city taxpayer and who is
at all times under the direct control and supervision of the city taxpayer when
the immediate family member engages in recreational activities or any other
activity permitted by this chapter for city taxpayers in and on the lake and
control strip.
   INVITED GUEST OF A PROPERTY OWNER. A property owner's guest who is at all
times under the direct control and supervision of the property owner when the
guest engages in recreational activities or any other activity permitted by
this chapter for property owners in and on the lake and control strip.
   LAKE. Lake Roxboro, owned by the City of Roxboro.
   PROPERTY OWNER. A natural person who owns real property contiguous to the
control strip and Lake Roxboro.
   SANITATION FACILITY. An operational toilet and washroom facility owned and
maintained by a property owner on his or her real property, contiguous to the
control strip and Lake Roxboro.
   SWIMMING. Wading or swimming at one's own risk and without the use of any
artificial underwater breathing device, except that a snorkel does not
constitute an artificial breathing device for purposes of this definition.
SWIMMING does not include diving head first into the lake, and any such diving
is prohibited.
(Ord. passed 8-8-00)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 97.03 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   This subchapter is subject to all other applicable local, state and
federal rules, regulations and statutes. If any provision of this subchapter is
in conflict with another applicable state law, rule or regulation, the latter
shall control.
   (B)   In and on the lake and control strip, it shall be unlawful for any
person to:
      (1)   Engage in any recreational or other activities not expressly
permitted by this subchapter in accordance with the conditions or restrictions
placed on such activities by this subchapter;
      (2)   Consume or be under the influence of any impairing substance, drug
or narcotic, or any intoxicating beverage including wine or malt beverage;
      (3)   Engage in any nuisance or act which would tend to adversely affect
water quality or disrupt the peaceable use and enjoyment of the lake and
control strip by those persons using the lake and control strip for the lawful
purposes permitted by this subchapter;
      (4)   Possess or discharge any fireworks;
      (5)   Possess or discharge any firearm, unless the person is a law
enforcement officer;
      (6)   Engage in hunting or trapping in any manner;
      (7)   Cause any effluent from a sewage disposal system to enter into the
lake or onto the control strip;
      (8)   Use, place or erect any tent, camper, motor home, vehicle, headwall
or structure of any temporary or permanent habitation;
      (9)   Engage in any business or commercial activity, whether for profit
or not;
      (10)   Engage in picnicking;
      (11)   Cause or allow any food products, trash, petroleum products or any
pollutants or contaminants to be discharged into the lake or upon the control
strip;
      (12)   Withdraw any water from the lake for irrigation or any other
purpose, except that property owners who received written permission from the
city prior to the adoption of this subchapter to withdraw water from the lake
may continue to do so in accordance with the specific terms of the prior
written permission;
      (13)   Place any fill material, beach sand, rip-rap or similar substances
on the city-owned property without the permission of the city;
      (14)   Alter the lake shoreline in any way without the permission of the
city;
      (15)   Clear or alter in any way the vegetation on the control strip
without the permission of the city.
   (C)   The watering, washing or wallowing of any horses, mules, cattle or
domestic animals shall not be permitted in the lake or along the margin of the
lake, and all domestic or farm animals shall be restrained from access to an
area within 50 feet of the lake at normal full level.
   (D)   The city shall provide a Lake Warden, who shall be responsible for
maintaining surveillance of the lake and control strip to ensure protection of
the water quality, and for assisting in the enforcement of the provisions of
this subchapter. The Lake Warden shall promptly notify the City Manager of any
violation of this subchapter and any activities that may adversely affect water
quality.
   (E)   Should at any time it be determined by the city or the state that the
quality of water in Lake Roxboro is being detrimentally affected by the
recreational or other activities permitted by this subchapter to the extent of
potentially rendering the water unsuitable for drinking purposes, the city
shall have the right to immediately restrict or terminate the activities, in
whole or in part, for as long as necessary, in order that proper water quality
can be maintained. The Lake Warden will give notice of any such action by the
city to adjoining property owners, and the city will contact the local media
and request that public service broadcasts be aired and news articles be
written to assist in notifying the general public.
   (F)   The Lake Warden and all local and state law enforcement officers,
including Wildlife Commission officers, shall have the authority to exclude
from the lake or control strip any person known to be violating any provision
of this subchapter, and shall have the authority to require any such person to
leave the lake or control strip.
(Ord. passed 8-8-00)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 97.04 PERMITTED RECREATIONAL ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   In general.
      (1)   All recreational activities permitted by this subchapter may be
engaged in only from official sunrise to official sunset, and any recreational
or other activities or uses in or on the lake or control strip that are not
expressly permitted by this subchapter are prohibited.
      (2)   All persons engaging in any recreational activities permitted by
this subchapter do so at their own risk, and the city will not provide any
safety supervision, life guards or safety equipment for users of the lake or
control strip.
      (3)   No recreational activities permitted by this subchapter may occur
within a 50-yard radius of the lake's outlet control structure, which radius
will be designated by buoy markers on the lake, and no person other than
authorized city or state personnel is permitted to be within a 50-yard radius
of the lake's outlet control structure for any purpose.
      (4)   An invited guest of a property owner may engage in all recreational
activities permitted by this subchapter that a property owner is permitted to
engage in so long as:
         (a)   The invited guest is at all times under the direct control and
supervision of the property owner; and
         (b)   The property owner has sanitation facilities on his or her
property for the use of the property owner and the guest.
      (5)   An immediate family member of a city taxpayer may engage in all
recreational activities permitted by this subchapter that the city taxpayer is
permitted to engage in, so long as such immediate family member is at all times
under the direct control and supervision of the city taxpayer.
      (6)   No persons other than authorized city or state personnel shall be
permitted on the control strip for any purpose, except that a property owner
whose property line adjoins the control strip, and an invited guest of a
property owner, may go upon the control strip for only those purposes
appropriate to the privileges granted them under this subchapter.
      (7)   All recreational activities permitted by this subchapter shall be
governed by the rules and regulations of the North Carolina Wildlife
Commission, in addition to the provisions of this subchapter, and Wildlife
Commission officers are empowered to enforce the rules and regulations of the
Commission on the lake and control strip.
   (B)   Swimming and fishing.
      (1)   A property owner or invited guest of a property owner may swim or
fish in the lake from an approved dock or approved ramp owned by the property
owner, or from the property owner's land adjoining the lake if the property
owner has sanitation facilities on the property owner's property, or may swim
or fish from a boat for which the property owner has a valid boat permit.
      (2)   A city taxpayer or immediate family member of a city taxpayer may
swim or fish in the lake only from a boat for which the city taxpayer has a
valid boat permit.
      (3)   No person shall swim or fish from or in the area surrounding the
lake's dam or the city access ramp.
      (4)   All swimming or fishing is at the swimmer's or fisherman's own
risk.
   (C)   Use of boats.
      (1)   A property owner or invited guest of a property owner may use a
boat, for which the property owner has a valid boat permit, only for the
purpose of fishing or swimming from the boat.
      (2)   A city taxpayer or immediate family member of a city taxpayer may
use a boat, for which the city taxpayer has a valid boat permit, only for the
purpose of fishing or swimming from the boat.
      (3)   No person shall allow any boat in the lake unless the boat displays
a valid boat permit and the boat fully complies with the definition of a "boat"
given in §
97.02.
      (4)   No person shall operate a boat in the lake at a speed in excess of
25 mph, and a boat shall at all times be operated in a safe manner.
      (5)   The use of a boat in the lake, and the launching and removal of a
boat from the lake, is at the owner's and occupant's own risk.
(Ord. passed 8-8-00)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 97.05 BOAT PERMITS.
   (A)   Any property owner and up to 100 city taxpayers may be issued a boat
permit. No boat permit is transferable to a third person, and each boat permit
is valid only for a period of 12 months following the date of its issuance,
unless it is renewed before the expiration of that 12-month period.
Applications for a boat permit will be processed in the order in which they are
received.
   (B)   To obtain a boat permit, a property owner or city taxpayer must fill
out an application on a form that may be obtained from the City Manager's
office, in connection with which the applicant must:
      (1)   Provide appropriate documentation showing property ownership or
taxpayer status and that he or she has not been convicted of a felony;
      (2)   Provide appropriate information from which it may be verified that
the boat fully complies with the definition of a "boat" as defined in §
97.02;
      (3)   Pay a permit fee (according to a fee schedule kept in the City
Manager's office); and
      (4)   Agree to:
         (a)   Adhere to and, as to all persons using the applicant's boat,
enforce all provisions of this subchapter;
         (b)   Assist the city in enforcing all provisions of this subchapter
by promptly reporting any violations of it to the Lake Warden or City Manager;
and
         (c)   Notify the City Manager in writing and within 30 days of any
change in the applicant's property ownership or taxpayer status or change in
address or telephone number.
(Ord. passed 8-8-00)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 97.06 DOCKS AND RAMPS; CONSTRUCTION AND PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A property owner shall be allowed to have a maximum of one dock and
one ramp per lot. Docks may not be any closer than 100 linear feet, following
pool level contour, from each other, with a maximum of 260 square feet per
structure. No property owner may construct a dock or ramp within a 50-yard
radius of the outlet control structure of the lake.
   (B)   All docks:
      (1)   Shall be single-level decks of weatherproof materials with no
covered areas or storage areas;
      (2)   Shall not be constructed using creosote materials;
      (3)   Shall be maintained in a sound and sturdy condition at all times,
or be promptly removed by the property owner if not so maintained; and
      (4)   Include a visible sign facing the lake that displays the name and
address of the property owner and the property owner's "operation permit"
number for the dock.
   (C)   All ramps:
      (1)   Shall be constructed in such a manner as to control runoff and
erosion, and
      (2)   Shall not be constructed of any creosote or asphalt materials.
   (D)   A property owner who owns an existing dock or ramp on the effective
date of this subchapter, who intends to modify a dock or ramp on his or her
property, or who intends to construct a new dock or ramp on his or her
property, must obtain an appropriate permit from the city. In the case of dock
or ramp in existence on the effective date of this subchapter, the property
owner must bring the dock or ramp into compliance with all applicable
provisions of this section within 60 days after the effective date of this
subchapter. In the case of modifying a dock or ramp or constructing a new dock
or ramp at any time after the effective date of this subchapter, the property
owner must obtain a construction permit before making any modifications,
commencing any construction or engaging in any clearing or grubbing upon city-
owned property. In all cases, no dock or ramp may be used for the purposes
allowed by this subchapter until the property owner has obtained an operation
permit from the city after it has determined that the dock or ramp complies
with all provisions of this section. No construction or operation permit is
transferable to a third person, and all operation permits must be renewed
annually.
   (E)   To obtain an operation permit for a dock or ramp, the property owner
must fill out an application on a form that may be obtained from the City
Manager's office, in connection to which the property owner must:
      (1)   Provide appropriate documentation showing property ownership and
that he or she has not been convicted of a felony;
      (2)   Demonstrate that the dock or ramp complies with all applicable
provisions of this section;
      (3)   Pay a permit fee, according to a fee schedule kept in the City
Manager's office;
      (4)   Agree to:
         (a)   Adhere to and, as to all persons using the property owner's dock
or ramp, enforce all provisions of this subchapter;
         (b)   Assist the city in enforcing all provisions of this subchapter
by promptly reporting any violations of it to the Lake Warden or City Manager;
and
         (c)   Notify the City Manager in writing and within 30 days of any
change in the property owner's status as a property owner or change in address
or telephone number; and
      (5)   Have sanitation facilities on the property owner's property for all
persons going in and on the lake and control strip from the owner's property.
   (F)   To obtain a construction permit to modify a dock or ramp or to
construct a new dock or ramp, the property owner must fill out an application
on a form that may be obtained from the City Manager's office, in connection
with which the property owner must:
      (1)   Provide a detailed drawing of the proposed dock or ramp, including
its location on the property owner's property and location in relation to the
spillway;
      (2)   Provide a list of all materials that will be used in constructing
the dock or ramp; and
      (3)   Ensure that all construction work for the dock or ramp is conducted
in accordance with the requirements of this section and any particular
requirements specified in the construction permit.
(Ord. passed 8-8-00)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 97.07 ENFORCEMENT AND REVOCATION OF PERMITS AND LAKE PRIVILEGES.
   (A)   General enforcement remedies.
      (1)   The city may enforce this subchapter and abate violations of it
through injunctions and abatement orders under G.S. § 160A-175(a) and (e),
through an appropriate equitable remedy under G.S. § 160A-175(d), or through
the city's powers to abate public health nuisances under G.S. § 160A-193.
      (2)   A violation of any provision of this subchapter shall constitute a
misdemeanor under G.S. § 14-4(a), punishable by a fine of not more than $500 or
imprisonment for not more than 30 days or both, and every day that any
violation continues after a person has been notified that the violation exists,
and that he or she is subject to the penalties above and those provided for in
division (B) of this section, shall constitute a separate offense and separate
violation.
      (3)   The city may enforce this subchapter by any one or any combination
of the remedies specified in this division (A) and in division (B) of this
section.
   (B)   Revocation of permits and lake privileges.
      (1)   Upon receiving credible evidence of a violation of any provision of
this subchapter, the City Manager may give written notice to the alleged
offender of the nature of the violation and schedule a hearing within 15 days
after the mailing of the written notice to determine the existence or
nonexistence of the violation.
      (2)   At the hearing, the City Manager shall hear all relevant evidence,
including all relevant evidence presented by the alleged offender. Within five
working days after the hearing, the City Manager shall determine whether it has
been established by the preponderance of the evidence that the alleged offender
committed the violation, and shall notify the alleged offender in writing of
the City Manager's decision on this issue, any enforcement-action decision and
appeal rights.
      (3) To appeal a finding of a violation and any enforcement-action
decision, the offender must submit a written request of appeal for a hearing
before the City Council, which written request must be received in the City
Manager's office within 15 days after the date of the mailing of the Manager's
written decision to the offender. Depending upon the nature and severity of the
violation, the Manager's enforcement action may prescribe that it is effective
immediately and is not stayed pending the offender's appeal.
      (4)   If the offender gives proper and timely notice of appeal, the City
Council shall conduct a hearing within 90 days after the taking of the appeal,
at which hearing the Council shall hear all relevant evidence, including any
relevant evidence presented by the offender. Based on the preponderance of the
evidence presented, and by majority vote, the City Council shall affirm,
reverse or modify the Manager's decision or enforcement action as the Council
finds appropriate.
      (5)   In determining any appropriate enforcement action, the City
Manager, and the City Council if an appeal is taken, shall consider the
following general enforcement guidelines, but may depart from them in making an
enforcement-action decision if the particular circumstances of the case
reasonably warrant a departure from the general guidelines:
         (a)   For violations that are not deemed an immediate threat to water
quality or pose no immediate safety hazard, along with a requirement that the
offender take all appropriate corrective action by a specified date:
            1.   The first violation should generally result in a warning to
the offender;
            2.   The second violation should generally result in a 30-day
revocation of any applicable permit held by the offender, and a concurrent 30-
day revocation of the offender's right to engage in that use of the lake to
which the violation relates;
            3.   The third violation should generally result in a one-year
revocation of all permits held by the offender, and a concurrent one-year
revocation of the offender's right to use the lake for any purpose.
         (b)   For violations that are deemed an immediate threat to water
quality or pose an immediate safety hazard, along with a requirement that the
offender immediately take all appropriate corrective action:
            1.   The first violation should generally result in a warning and a
one-week revocation of all permits held by the offender, along with a
concurrent one-week revocation of the offender's right to use the lake for any
purpose;
            2.   The second violation should generally result in a one-year
revocation of all permits held by the offender, along with a concurrent one-
year revocation of the offender's right to use the lake for any purpose;
            3.   The third violation should generally result in a permanent
revocation of all permits held by the offender, and a permanent revocation of
the offender's right to use the lake for any purpose.
         (c)   For purposes of divisions (B)(5)(a) and (b), if an offender does
not commit a second violation of any provision of this subchapter within 12
months following the effective date of the final decision for a first
violation, the offender's violation count shall be reset to zero.
(Ord. passed 8-8-00)
§ 97.08 MONITORING OF WATER QUALITY.
   (A)   The city will regularly monitor the water in the lake for fats, oils,
greases, pH, coliform and turbidity in accordance with EPA approved methods and
standards. If a water quality problem is indicated, appropriate parameters in
15A NCAC 2B.0211 will be monitored. The lake water will also be monitored for
five consecutive days each August for fecal coliform. If WS 11 or B Class
standards are exceeded, the city may restrict or temporarily suspend, in whole
or in part, recreational and other activities in and on the lake and control
strip.
   (B)   If drinking water standards included in 15A NCAC 18C are exceeded or
approached, and the cause is suspected to stem from recreational or other
activities in and on the lake, the city will immediately restrict or
temporarily suspend all recreational and other activities in and on the lake
and control strip.
   (C)   Results of all water quality monitoring will be reported to the
appropriate agencies or departments of the state of North Carolina and to any
other appropriate authorities. The city will at all times maintain its water
quality monitoring measures in accordance with any changes in existing state
rules, regulations or standards.
   (D)   Drinking water flows from Lake Roxboro approximately five miles down
South Hyco Creek to a coffer dam and intake structure, where the water is
pumped to Lake Isaac Walton, a Class I reservoir. This portion of South Hyco
Creek will be monitored by the Lake Warden and other city personnel. Any
violations of appropriate WS and critical area provisions will be reported to
the appropriate departments, divisions or agencies of the state of North
Carolina, and to any other appropriate authorities.
(Ord. passed 8-8-00)
LAKE ISAAC WALTON (CITY LAKE)
§ 97.20 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this subchapter, the word LAKE shall mean the city-owned lake
known as Lake Isaac Walton, or City Lake, which names shall be interchangeable.
The word WARDEN shall mean the warden and watershed inspector referred to in §
97.22.
(`90 Code, § 10-1)
§ 97.21 FISHING AND BOATING PRIVILEGES.
   All fishing and boating privileges on the lake shall be operated and managed
under the exclusive management of the city acting through its Mayor and City
Council.
(`90 Code, § 10-2)
§ 97.22 WARDEN AND WATERSHED INSPECTOR.
   There is created the office of Warden and Watershed Inspector, which office
shall be filled by appointment of the City Manager. The Warden and Watershed
Inspector shall perform the duties listed in this section.
   (A)   He or she shall see that all persons fishing on the lake have proper
permits and take up permits which have expired.
   (B)   He or she shall refuse the right to go on the lake to anyone found to
have knowingly violated any of these rules and regulations pertaining thereto.
   (C)   He or she shall enforce strictly all provisions of this chapter and
other rules and regulations adopted by the City Council concerning the lake,
and report to the City Manager the names of all persons known to have violated
any such provisions.
(`90 Code, § 10-3)
§ 97.23 FISHING PERMITS.
   (A)   No person shall fish on the lake unless he or she has a valid permit
therefor issued by the Warden. Any citizen, upon payment to the city of an
annual fee on or before June 1 of each year, shall be issued a permit to fully
exercise fishing privileges in the lake, which privilege shall include and
embrace permission for his or her spouse and any children under the age of 18
years to fish; the latter, however, to be accompanied by a paid-up permit
holder. No person without the permit shall be allowed upon the waters of the
lake, and when the permit is presented by any person except the purchaser, his
or her spouse and children under 18 years, it shall be taken up by the Warden.
All expired permits shall be surrendered to the Warden.
   (B)   Every permit for fishing in the lake shall be subject to the condition
that it shall be revoked and taken up whenever the holder thereof has violated
any of the provisions of this chapter or other rules and regulations of the
City Council relating to fishing in the lake, or any of the restrictions
attached to the permit, or whenever the holder has engaged in conduct tending
to impair the purity or sanitary condition of the water in the lake, and the
Warden or Council may refuse any further permit to such person.
(`90 Code, § 10-4) (Ord. passed 12-13-83)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 97.24 FISHING REGULATIONS.
   Fish may be taken from the lake only with rod, line and hooks, baited with
natural bait or tied with artificial flies, spinners, plugs or artificial
minnows. No person shall net or gig fish or use any method such as shooting or
electrocuting or use any chemicals or explosives in the lake.
(`90 Code, § 10-5)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 97.25 FISHING FROM BANK OR BOATHOUSE.
   Fishing in the lake shall be from boats only; no fishing from shore or from
boathouses will be permitted.
(`90 Code, § 10-6)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 97.26 BOATS; PURPOSE, POWER LIMIT.
   No person shall ride in or operate any power motor boat on the lake except
for fishing purposes, and no motor shall be in excess of 25 h.p.
(`90 Code, § 10-7) (Ord. passed 2-9-88)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 97.27 BOAT CONSTRUCTION AND EQUIPMENT.
   All boats used on the lake shall be of sturdy construction and in good
condition. All boats shall contain at least one standard life preserver for
each occupant using the boat. All boats shall have an auxiliary paddle or oar
for emergency use. All boats shall have a bail bucket at all times. State
wildlife officers shall be authorized to enforce the provisions of this section
as well as all state wildlife rules.
(`90 Code, § 10-8)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 97.28 POINT OF ORIGIN AND TERMINATION.
   No person shall commence his or her fishing activities from any point on the
lake except from the main landings located at the Warden’s Building, and
likewise, no person shall terminate his or her fishing activities from any
point on the lake except from the main landings located at the Warden’s
Building.
(`90 Code, § 10-9)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 97.29 FISHING HOURS.
   No person shall fish on the lake except from sunup to sunset during the
daytime.
(`90 Code, § 10-10)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 97.30 BOATS; KEEPING, LOCKING AND IDENTIFICATION.
   No boat shall be kept at the lake except at a boathouse, the main landing at
the Warden's Building, or at the fishing station upon approval of the Warden.
Every boat shall be securely locked at all times when not in use, and shall
have the name of its owner plainly marked thereon as conspicuously as
practicable. The Warden shall impound any boat found in violation of this
section.
(`90 Code, § 10-11)
§ 97.31 BOATHOUSE MAINTENANCE; SALE.
   Any person owning or utilizing a boathouse on the lake shall keep the same
clean and devoid of any accumulations of trash, either on the inside or outside
of same, and shall keep all brush on the exterior of same cleared away. The
decision as to whether or not this regulation is being conformed to rests with
the Warden, and if he or she finds the same being violated, he or she is
authorized and empowered to immediately condemn the structure; the test of his
or her decision being as to whether or not the structure is a hazard for safety
and/or is objectionable in appearance. The sale or trade of any boathouse shall
be only upon approval of the City Council and must be recorded by both parties
at City Hall. There shall not be any new boathouses built upon the lake.
(`90 Code, § 10-12) (Ord. passed 12-13-83)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 97.32 PICNIC PARTIES.
   No person shall picnic at the lake.
(`90 Code, § 10-13)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 97.33 FIREARMS AND FIREWORKS.
   No person shall discharge a gun, pistol, firecracker or other firearm or
fireworks from a boat on the lake or from the shore thereof.
(`90 Code, § 10-14)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 97.34 TRASH.
   No person shall deposit or throw any trash of any nature on the lake or lake
shore.
(`90 Code, § 10-15)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 97.35 STATE SANITARY REGULATIONS.
   All persons using the lake shall at all times conform to the sanitary
regulations of the State Board of Health; such persons are presumptively on
notice as to same.
(`90 Code, § 10-16)
§ 97.36 LIMITS ON USE, CATCH.
   Upon resolution of the City Council, the city may set any limit on or
prohibit entirely the catching of fish or other recreational use of the lake
for such term and upon such conditions as they shall deem appropriate.
(`90 Code, § 10-17)
§ 97.37 WATER POLLUTION.
   No person shall commit on the lake, or within 200 feet of the lake, any act
tending to impair the purity of the water in the lake.
(`90 Code, § 10-18)
Penalty, see § 10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. §§ 14-159.1 and § 143-214.2
§ 97.38 SALE OF FISH.
   No person shall sell, barter or trade any fish taken from the lake.
(`90 Code, § 10-19)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 98: ALARM SYSTEMS
Section
   
98.01   Definitions
   
98.02   Permit required
   
98.03   Response to police alarms
   
98.04   Response to fire alarms
   
98.05   False alarms
   
98.06   Civil penalties
   
98.07   Appeal
   
98.08   Notice of hearing
§ 98.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM SYSTEM . Sensors, controls and annuciators connected to detect and
report an intrusion or emergency to a central communications center or alarm
monitoring agency. This definition shall not include alarms which do not
require a response from the Police or Fire Departments, such as self-contained
residential smoke detectors and vehicle alarms.
   ALARM SYSTEM BUSINESS . Any business whose daily operation includes the
sale, lease or installation of alarm systems.
   ALARM SYSTEM USER . Any person, corporation, partnership, and governmental
or educational entity owning or leasing or occupying a property utilizing an
alarm system.
   COMMUNICATIONS CENTER . The Public Protection Communications Center which
receives telephone requests or signal requests for police, fire, ambulance,
rescue, or other emergency service within the county and city.
   FALSE ALARM . Activation of an alarm system that elicits a response by
police or firefighters when no situation requiring such a response does, in
fact, exist. This includes accidental, avoidable, and unnecessary alarm
activation due to user error, equipment malfunction, improper or unsuited
equipment, but does not include alarm activation caused by violentconditions of
nature or other extraordinary circumstances not reasonably subject to control
by the alarm user or alarm system business.
   FIRE ALARM . Activation of an alarm system that is intended to elicit a
response by firefighters.
   FIRE CHIEF . The Fire Chief of the city or any designee acting on behalf of
the Fire Chief.
   LOCAL AUDIBLE ALARM SYSTEM . Any alarm owned by an alarm system user that,
by sound of a whistle, bell, buzzer, siren or other noise generator, alerts
those outside the home or building or in the near vicinity, of a break-in,
robbery, or fire, but does not transmit a signal by telephone or other
communications device to a central communications center or alarm monitoring
agency.
   POLICE ALARM . Activation of an alarm system that is intended to elicit a
response by police.
   POLICE CHIEF . The Police Chief of the city or any designee acting on behalf
of the Police Chief.
(Ord. passed 11-13-01)
§ 98.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   In general. Every alarm system user shall obtain a permit for each
alarm system that such owner operates within the city from city hall. An alarm
system business must obtain a permit under this section only if an alarm system
is used to protect the premises in which the business is housed.
   (B)   Alarm system user permit application.
      (1)   The alarm system user applying for the permit required herein shall
state on the permit application form; the name; address and telephone number of
each person in control of the property; the street address of the property of
which the alarm system has been or will be installed; the type of alarm system;
and the name, address, and telephone number of at least three other persons who
can be reasonably expected to be available at anytime, day or night, and who
are authorized by the alarm system user to respond to and open the premises in
which the alarm system is installed. The form of the alarm system user permit
application shall be prescribed by the City Manager. Any alarm system user may
obtain a permit application from the city at the business office of the city
hall.
      (2)   At such time that any information required as provided in division
(B)(1) above is in any way changed, the alarm system user shall complete
another alarm system user permit application. There shall be no fee for
completing another permit application.
      (3)   Alarm system user permit application shall be submitted to the city
business office and forwarded to the Police or Fire Chief who shall approve
such application if it is determined that the application provides all of the
information required. The Police Chief or Fire Chief shall not approve an alarm
system user permit application where the alarm system user's previous permit
was revoked pursuant to §
98.05 and the alarm system user has not had the alarm system inspected and
repaired by a company licensed by the state to install and inspect alarm
systems.
      (4)   The Police Chief or Fire Chief may revoke a permit where it is
found that the alarm system user provided false information on the alarm system
user permit application form.
      (5)   Upon approval of the application by the Police Chief for police
alarms or the Fire Chief for fire alarms as set forth in this section, a permit
shall be issued.
      (6)   Any person whose application for a permit is denied by the Police
Chief or Fire Chief may appeal from such decision to the City Manager pursuant
to §
98.08.
   (C)   Each permit for a business shall be available at the premises wherein
the alarm system is installed and shall be available for inspection by the
Chief of Police or Fire Chief during normal business hours.
   (D)   Any alarm system user who operates an alarm system without a permit as
required by this chapter shall be assessed a civil penalty of:
                     FINE
   Failure to secure permit         $10
   Each false alarm answered
   by the Police Department         $48
   Each false alarm answered
   by the Fire Department         $100
   If, however, at the time of the first false fire or police alarm, the alarm
system user has not obtained a permit, the user will not be assessed a civil
penalty, as provided above, so long as such user obtains a permit within ten
days of the occurrence of the first false fire or police alarm.
(Ord. passed 11-13-01)
§ 98.03 RESPONSE TO POLICE ALARMS.
   The alarm system user or representative thereof shall be available at all
times for the purpose of responding to police alarms by personally appearing at
the home or building designated in the permit following an alarm of any kind.
If, following a police alarm, the alarm system user or a representative thereof
fails to appear at the home or building designated in the permit within 30
minutes after being notified by the communications center, the alarm system
user shall be assessed a civil penalty of $10 for every such event.
(Ord. passed 11-13-01)
§ 98.04 RESPONSE TO FIRE ALARMS.
   (A)   The alarm system user or a representative thereof shall be available
at all time for the purpose of responding to fire alarms by personally
appearing at the home or building designated in the permit following an alarm
of any kind. If, following a fire alarm, the alarm system user or a
representative thereof fails to appear at the home or building designated in
the permit within 30 minutes after being notified by the communications center,
the alarm system user shall be assessed a civil penalty of $10 for every such
event.
   (B)   If, in the event of any fire alarm, the communications center is
unable to notify the alarm system user or a representative thereof or if the
alarm system user or a representative thereof fails to appear at the home or
building designated in the permit within 30 minutes after notification, the
alarm system user shall be assessed a civil penalty of $10 for the first such
alarm, $20 for the second such alarm, and the penalty shall continue to
increase by $10 for each and every subsequent alarm.
(Ord. passed 11-13-01)
§ 98.05 FALSE ALARMS.
   (A)   Police alarms.
      (1)   If the communications center receives in excess of one false police
alarm in any calendar month from any single alarm system, the alarm system user
owning or leasing the alarm system shall be assessed a civil penalty of $48 for
each said false alarm. Where an alarm system or systems protects a single
business with more than 8,000 square feet of alarm exposure, three false alarms
in any calendar month shall be allowed before a civil penalty shall be
assessed. Failure to pay this penalty within 30 from the date the notice of the
violation is issued may result in the revocation of the permit, and the Police
Department may cease responding to said alarms.
      (2)   If the communications center receives in excess of four false
police alarms in any calendar month from any single alarm system, and if the
Police Chief has reason to believe that such false alarms are the result of a
defective alarm system, the Police Chief may require the alarm system user to
cause the alarm system to be inspected by an individual or company licensed by
the state to install and inspect alarm systems. The alarm system user shall
select an individual or company to perform the inspection. If the alarm system
user fails to have such an inspection performed, or if the alarm system is not
repaired, altered, replaced, or other corrective action taken, the Police Chief
may cause the alarm system to be disconnected and/or may revoke the alarm
system to be disconnected and/or may revoke the permit, as the case may be.
Further, if the alarm system transmits an electronic alarm signal or recorded
message to a receiving station other than the communications center, or is a
local audible alarm, the Police Department, upon notice in writing to the alarm
system user, may cease responding to said alarms until the alarm system is
repaired and inspected under the guidelines stated in this section.
      (3)   Signals or messages transmitted by the alarm system during alarm
system testing procedures shall not be considered false alarms if the alarm
system user first notifies and receives permission from the communications
center before testing the alarm system.
   (B)   Fire alarms.
      (1)   If the communication center receive in excess of one false fire
alarm in any calendar month from any single alarm system, the alarm system user
owning or leasing the alarm system shall be assessed a civil penalty of $100
for each said false alarm. Failure to pay this penalty within 30 days from the
date the notice of the violation is issued may result in the revocation of the
permit.
      (2)   If the communications center receives in excess of four false fire
alarms in any calendar month, the Fire Chief shall, except in the case of
educational and healthcare institution, have the authority to disconnect any
such alarm system and/or may revoke the permit, provided however, when the Fire
Chief has reason to believe that such false alarms are the result of a
defective alarm system, in lieu of such disconnection or permit revocation, the
Fire Chief may require the alarm system user to cause the alarm system to be
inspected by an individual or company licensed by the state to install and
inspect alarm systems. The alarm system user shall select an individual or
company to perform the inspection. If the alarm system user fails to have such
an inspection performed, or if the alarm system is not repaired, altered,
replaced, or other corrective action taken, the Fire Chief may recommend to the
Police Chief and the Police Chief may cause the alarm system to be disconnected
and/or may revoke the permit, as the case may be.
      (3)   Signals or messages transmitted by the alarm system during alarm
system testing procedures shall not be considered false alarms if the alarm
system user first notifies and receives permission from the communications
center before testing the alarm system.
(Ord. passed 11-13-01)
§ 98.06 CIVIL PENALTIES.
   The Police Chief or Fire Chief shall assess civil penalties under the
provisions of this chapter. An assessment notice shall be mailed to the alarm
system user at the address stated on the permit application.
(Ord. passed 11-13-01)
§ 98.07 APPEAL.
   (A)   Any alarm system user who has been assessed a civil penalty under this
chapter may request, orally or in writing, an informal hearing with the Police
Chief or the Fire Chief. The decision of the Police Chief or Fire Chief may be
appealed to the City Manager. In such a case, the notice of appeal shall be in
writing and filed in the City Manager's Office within ten days of the issuance
of a final decision by the Police Chief or Fire Chief. The City Manager shall
schedule a hearing on the matter within 30 days from the date the notice of
appeal is filed.
   (B)   Any alarm system owner who has been assessed a civil penalty under
this chapter may appeal the assessment directly to the City Manager without
first appearing before the Police Chief or Fire Chief. The notice of appeal
shall be in writing and filed in the City Manager's office within ten days of
the issuance of the assessment notice. The City Manager shall schedule a
hearing on the matter within 30 days from the date the notice of appeal is
filed. The decision of the City Manager shall be final.
   (C)   Failure to perfect an appeal within the time and in the manner
provided for in this section shall constitute a waiver of the right to appeal.
(Ord. passed 11-13-01)
§ 98.08 NOTICE AND HEARING.
   Before the Police Chief or Fire Chief revokes a permit pursuant to this
chapter, or if an appeal is taken pursuant to §
98.02(C) from a decision of the Police Chief or Fire Chief denying an
application for a permit, the Police Chief or Fire Chief shall cause a written
notice to be sent by certified mail to the permittee or applicant affected at
the address stated on the permit or application. This notice shall advise the
affected party of a right to appear before the City Manager, with or without
legal counsel, at a stated time and place, for the purpose of presenting any
evidence relevant to such revocation or denial, and for the purpose of hearing
all evidence submitted and examining or cross-examining any person providing
such evidence. Any permittee or applicant under this chapter may appeal to the
City Council from any final decision of the City Manager.
(Ord. passed 11-13-01)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Chapter
   
110.   GENERAL LICENSING, TAXATION AND REGULATIONS
   
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
   
112.   RESERVED
   
113.   TAXICABS
   
114.   RESERVED
   
115.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
   
116.   COMMERCIAL SOLICITATION
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL LICENSING, TAXATION AND REGULATIONS
Section
General Regulations
   
110.01   Permitting the posting of signs prohibiting the carrying of concealed
weapons on certain municipal property
Licensing and Taxation
   
110.15   Definitions
   
110.16   Purpose
   
110.17   License and payment of fee required
   
110.18   Exemptions
   
110.19   Reserved
   
110.20   Licenses are non-assignable and personal
   
110.21   Notice to licensees presumed
   
110.22   License, year; when license fee due and payable
   
110.23   Penalties for late payment of fees
   
110.24   Separate businesses; multiple businesses
   
110.25   New license required upon alteration in nature of business
   
110.26   Application for license
   
110.27   Reserved
   
110.28   Duties of licensees
   
110.29   Local governmental approval and compliance of applicant with chapter
as prerequisites to issuance of license
   
110.30   Reasons for refusal or revocation of a license
   
110.31   Right to a conference upon refusal of a license
   
110.32   City Manager to issue license; payment of a fee prerequisite
   
110.33   Reserved
   
110.34   Revocation
   
110.35   Form and contents of license
   
110.36   Duplicate licenses
   
110.37   Record of conferences
   
110.38   Providing or serving notice to an applicant or licensee
   
110.39   Revocation of prior license for late payment of fee; refusal to issue
new license until fee paid
   
110.40   Duty to determine whether license required and fee due
   
110.41   Notice of deficiency
   
110.42   Request for a conference
   
110.43   When deficiency becomes final
   
110.44   Conference held
   
110.45   Collection of deficiency
   
110.46   Appeals
   
110.47   Enforcement of chapter
   
110.48   State statutory exemptions from municipal license taxes
GENERAL REGULATION
§ 110.01 PERMITTING THE POSTING OF SIGNS PROHIBITING THE CARRYING OF CONCEALED
WEAPONS ON CERTAIN MUNICIPAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   Posting of signs required. The City Manager is authorized and
instructed to post conspicuous signage at appropriate locations on or within
each park and each building or portion of a building owned, leased as lessee,
operated, occupied, managed or controlled by the city, as well as the
appurtenant premises to the buildings, indicating that carrying a concealed
handgun is prohibited therein.
   (B)   Location of signs. Signs on buildings shall be visibly posted on the
exterior of each entrance by which the general public can access the building.
The City Manager shall exercise discretion in determining the number and
appropriate location of signs to be placed on or within appurtenant premises
and parks.
(Ord. 95-F, passed 11-14-95)
LICENSING AND TAXATION
§ 110.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENT. The person having authority to represent a manufacturer, producer or
distributor of goods or services.
   BUSINESS. Any trade, occupation, profession or other activity engaged in by
any person or entity or caused to be engaged in by any person or entity for
gain, profit, benefit or advantage, direct or indirect, except that such term
does not include occasional or isolated sales or transactions by a person or
entity who does not hold himself out as engaged in a business and such term
does not include businesses engaged in the manufacturing of goods or businesses
engaged in the wholesale distribution or wholesale sale of goods.
      (1)   A person "conducts a business" when he or she engages in one act of
any business. If a person or entity is (i) listed in the yellow pages of the
telephone directory issued by a telephone system serving the city, (ii) listed
on the internet or other forms of electronic media, as a business, or (iii) has
taxable business valuation property listed in Person County, that shall be
prima facie evidence that the person is conducting a BUSINESS.
      (2)   A person or entity conducts a BUSINESS "within the city" when he or
she maintains a business location within the city or when, either personally or
through agents, he or she (i) solicits business within the city, or (ii) picks
up or delivers goods or services within the city.
   CITY MANAGER. The duly appointed City Manager of the City of Roxboro or his
or her designee.
   FISCAL YEAR. The period beginning with July 1 and ending on June 30 next
following.
   GROSS RECEIPTS OF THE BUSINESS.
      (1)   For a business with its principal place of business within
Roxboro’s corporate limits, total receipts from all sales of goods or services;
and
      (2)   For businesses not having a principal place of business within
Roxboro’s corporate limits, total receipts from sales or services generated
within Roxboro’s corporate limits. (See also Section
110.27(A)).
   LICENSEE. A person who has paid the privilege license tax levied by this
chapter, and has obtained a privilege license.
(Ord. passed 5-18-11)
§ 110.16 PURPOSE.
   (A)   This chapter is enacted primarily for regulatory purposes. The purpose
of this chapter is to prevent the operation of covered businesses until the
person or entity applying for the license has complied with certain city
ordinances and other local governmental and state regulations. Issuance of a
license pursuant to this chapter does not excuse the licensee from compliance
with any other ordinance or statute. This chapter does not prevent the city
from increasing or decreasing the amount of any license fee or regulating any
business.
   (B)   A license issued pursuant to this chapter reflects that the
appropriate fee has been paid. Issuance of a license constitutes regulatory
approval and does not excuse a licensee from compliance with any other
applicable ordinance, regulation, or statute. Therefore, issuing a license,
does not authorize the carrying on of a business for which additional licenses
or qualifications are required by any applicable local, state or federal
regulation or law or that the recipient is otherwise engaged in a legal
activity or operating a business in a legal manner.
(Ord. passed 5-18-11; Am. Ord. passed 9-11-18)
§ 110.17 LICENSE AND PAYMENT OF FEE REQUIRED.
   Subject to §
110.18, no person or entity may conduct any business within the city until it
has paid the fee required by this chapter and has been issued a valid license
pursuant to this chapter. Licenses shall be renewed, and license fee shall be
paid, annually in accordance with this chapter.
(Ord. passed 5-18-11; Am. Ord. passed 9-11-18) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.18 EXEMPTIONS.
   Persons or entities who pick up or deliver goods within the city are not
required to obtain a peddlers license based solely on the pick up or delivery
of goods as part of a transaction for the purchase and sale of such goods (for
example: a soft drink distributor not located in Roxboro may deliver a truck
load of soft drinks to a grocery store in Roxboro without becoming liable to
pay peddlers license fee).
(Ord. passed 5-18-11; Am. Ord. passed 9-11-18)
§ 110.19 RESERVED.
§ 110.20 LICENSES ARE NON-ASSIGNABLE AND PERSONAL.
   Every license issued under this chapter shall be personal and shall not be
assignable.
(Ord. passed 5-18-11; Am. Ord. passed 9-11-18)
§ 110.21 NOTICE TO LICENSEES PRESUMED.
   Each person who conducts a business regulated under this section may be
subject to licensing requirements. It is the duty of such person to verify the
applicable requirements of this chapter. If licenses are not obtained and/or
fees not paid, the proceedings allowed by law may be taken against such person
or business. This notice shall be conclusively presumed, whether or not such
persons or businesses have actual notice.
(Ord. passed 5-18-11; Am. Ord. passed 9-11-18)
§ 110.22 LICENSE, YEAR; WHEN LICENSE FEE DUE AND PAYABLE.
   (A)   Unless other specified, the license issued is valid for the 12-month
period beginning July 1 and ending June 30.
   (B)   The license fee is due on July 1 of each year.
   (C)   If a person begins a business after July 1, the license fee due for
that year shall be due and payable before the business begins.
   (D)   A person may not commence a business conducted within the city which
is licensed pursuant to this chapter until the application is approved and fee
is paid and may not continue such business beyond the period for which the
license is issued.
   (E)   The beer and wine license tax is due and payable after a permit is
issued by the state and no later than by June 2 of each year to avoid any late
penalty.
(Ord. passed 5-18-11; Am. Ord. passed 9-11-18)
§ 110.23 PENALTIES FOR LATE PAYMENT OF FEES.
   (A)   If fees imposed by this chapter, except those for beer and wine, are
not paid on or before August 2 of each year, there shall be assessed an
additional fee equal of $10 for the license per month or fraction thereof until
paid, not to exceed 25% of the amount so prescribed, but in any event not less
than $10.
   (B)   Upon discovering any business which has been operating within the city
without applying for a license and paying the fee imposed by this chapter, the
City Manager is authorized to assess and collect the delinquent fees plus
penalties due for each taxable year that the same has remained unpaid, not
exceeding three years including the current year for which the license fee may
be required.
   (C)   No license shall be granted until the license fee has been paid.
   (D)   All fees imposed on businesses shall be paid before the business is
begun. If not paid within 30 days after the business has begun, the penalties
provided in divisions (A) and (B) of this section shall apply from the date
such business began.
(Ord. passed 5-18-11; Am. Ord. passed 9-11-18)
§ 110.24 SEPARATE BUSINESSES; MULTIPLE BUSINESSES.
   (A)   A separate license is required, and a separate fee must be paid for
each separate place of business operated within Roxboro's corporate limits by
the license.
   (B)   If two or more separate regulated businesses are operated at the same
location by the same license, the City Manager may issue two or more licenses
upon the payment of the total amount of fees due for all businesses operated at
the same time.
(Ord. passed 5-18-11; Am. Ord. passed 9-11-18)
§ 110.25 NEW LICENSE REQUIRED UPON ALTERATION IN NATURE OF BUSINESS.
   When a license is issued to carry on a certain line of business and, after
the issuance of such license, the licensee shall so change or alter his
business as to bring it under a classification for which a different kind of
license fee is required, the licensee shall, before making such change, deliver
its license to the City Manager, together with an application for a license
applicable to the proposed change, and shall pay to the City Manager the proper
license fee. The City Manager shall thereupon cancel the old license and shall
issue to the licensee a new and appropriate license.
(Ord. passed 5-18-11; Am. Ord. passed 9-11-18)
§ 110.26 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Every application for a license required by this chapter shall be made
in writing to the City Manager on a form provided by the city. Such application
shall be signed by either the applicant or its agent and furnish all the
information provided on the form, which shall include:
      (1)   The name and nature of the business for which the license is
sought;
      (2)   Whether the applicant is an individual, a partnership, corporation,
or some other entity;
      (3)   The address where the business is conducted and a mailing address
for the business, if different;
      (4)   The name and address of the person filling out the application and
his or her relationship to the business;
      (5)   All telephone numbers applicable to business;
      (6)   The start date in which the business began or is to begin in the
city, along with the application date; and
      (7)   Any other information which the City Manager determines to be
necessary.
   (B)   In addition to the information furnished by applicants on the
application form as provided in division (A) of this section, every person
subject to the provisions of
Chapter 116 of this code who applies for a license shall furnish to the City
Manager the name and address of the person whom he or she represents, together
with a description of the goods or services which he or she offers for sale. No
license shall be issued to any person subject to
Chapter 116 who does not provide such additional information.
   (C)   To the extent permitted by law, all information furnished or obtained
under authority of this chapter shall be kept in confidence by the City Manager
and used solely for the administration of this chapter, provided that summaries
of the information may be shared with other city officials for purposes of
research, analysis, and budgetary matters.
   (D)   No person shall willfully make a false statement on a license
application.
(Ord. passed 5-18-11; Am. Ord. passed 9-11-18) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.27 RESERVED.
§ 110.28 DUTIES OF LICENSEES.
   (A)   Each person who conducts business in the city shall permit the City
Manager to inspect the business premises during normal business hours to
determine the nature of the business conducted and to examine the books and
records to determine the nature and amount of business transacted.
   (B)   Every license must be prominently displayed at the place of business
of the licensee named therein or, if such licensee has no fixed place for doing
business, such licensee must keep such license wherever such business is being
operated and, in a place where it can be seen at any time by an official to
inspect the same.
   (C)   A licensee shall report a change in the information contained in the
application for a license required by this chapter within ten days after the
change occurs. If the change results in a separate or additional application
and/or fee, the City Manager shall reissue a license reflecting the change with
payment. If the change does not result in a separate or additional fee, but the
change affects the information on the face of the license, the City Manager
shall reissue a license reflecting the change in information upon a payment of
$5.
   (D)   If a licensee sells, transfers or goes out of business, the licensee
must give notice to the City Manager of such intended event at least 48 hours
prior to the date of the actual sale, transfer, or termination of business.
   (E)   The license fee shall not be abated nor shall a refund of any part of
the license fee be made in any case where the licensee fails to begin
operations, surrenders the license, discontinues business or has a license
revoked before the end of the period for which such license is issued.
(Ord. passed 5-18-11; Am. Ord. passed 9-11-18)
§ 110.29 LOCAL GOVERNMENTAL APPROVAL AND COMPLIANCE OF APPLICANT WITH CHAPTER
AS PREREQUISITES TO ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   The City Manager shall not issue any license when the application therefor
is refused by the City Council or by any local government board, commission or
official, in any case where the approval of the City Council or of such other
local government board, commission or official, is required before business may
commence, nor shall the City Manager issue any license until the applicant
therefore has complied with every provision of this chapter, including the
execution and delivery of any bond required.
(Ord. passed 5-18-11)
§ 110.30 REASONS FOR REFUSAL OR REVOCATION OF A LICENSE.
   The City Manager shall refuse to issue a license, or shall revoke a license
already issued, for any of the following reasons.
   (A)   The applicant misrepresents a fact in the application.
   (B)   The applicant refuses to provide information necessary to issue a
license.
   (C)   The applicant has not obtained a certificate of occupancy or other
city, state or local government approval required by law as a condition
precedent to conducting business when required to do so by local ordinance or
by state law.
(Ord. passed 5-18-11; Am. Ord. passed 9-11-18)
§ 110.31 RIGHT TO A CONFERENCE UPON REFUSAL OF A LICENSE.
   (A)   If, after receipt of the completed application, the City Manager
believes that a reason exists to deny a license, he shall refuse to accept
payment of the fee and shall not issue the license. At the applicant's request,
the City Manager shall give the applicant a written statement of the reasons
for refusing the license. The applicant may, within ten days after receipt of
such statement, request a conference to discuss the denial. Such request shall
specify why the application should not have been denied. The City Manager shall
arrange the conference within a reasonable time, not to exceed 30 days after
receipt of the request for a conference.
   (B)   If the City Manager denies a license application, the applicant may
reapply for a license at any time thereafter. If the reason for which the
application was initially denied no longer exists, and if no other reason
exists to deny to issue a license, the City Manager shall issue the license.
(Ord. passed 5-18-11; Am. Ord. passed 9-11-18)
§ 110.32 CITY MANAGER TO ISSUE LICENSE; PAYMENT OF FEE A PREREQUISITE.
   If, after receipt of the completed application and fee, the City Manager
determines that the application meets the standards of this chapter, he or she
shall issue a license.
(Ord. passed 5-18-11; Am. Ord. passed 9-11-18)
§ 110.33 RESERVED.
§ 110.34 REVOCATION.
   (A)   The City Manager shall revoke a license if reason exists to revoke it
as set forth in this chapter. Before the City Manager may revoke a license, he
or she shall give the licensee ten days advance written notice of the grounds
for revocation. The licensee may, within ten days after the day on which the
notice is served, request in writing a conference with the City Manager. The
request shall specify the reasons why the license should not be revoked. The
City Manager shall arrange the conference within a reasonable time, not to
exceed 30 days. The licensee may continue to operate its business until the
conference is conducted.
   (B)   If the licensee fails to request a conference within ten days after
the day on which notice is served, the City Manager shall revoke the license.
If the licensee requests a conference, the City Manager may not revoke the
license until after the conference.
   (C)   If the City Manager revokes a license, the former licensee may apply
for a new license at any time thereafter. If the reason for which the license
was revoked no longer exists, and if no other reason exists to deny a license,
the City Manager shall issue the license.
(Ord. passed 5-18-11)
§ 110.35 FORM AND CONTENTS OF LICENSE.
   Every license issued shall show on the face thereof the name of the
licensee, the nature of the business and the location thereof (provided such
business has a fixed location), the time for which issued, the amount of the
fee and the penalty, if any, paid. Any license requiring the approval of the
City Council or of any other local government board, commission or official,
shall indicate such approval on its face. The City Manager shall keep an exact
copy of each license issued, including the approval of the City Council or of
any board, commission or official endorsed on the face of the same.
(Ord. passed 5-18-11; Am. Ord. passed 9-11-18)
§ 110.36 DUPLICATE LICENSES.
   The City Manager shall, when requested, issue duplicate licenses when such
evidence as he or she may require is presented to show that the original has
been lost or destroyed. The fee fixed by the City Council from time to time
shall be paid for each duplicate license so issued.
(Ord. passed 5-18-11)
§ 110.37 RECORD OF CONFERENCES.
   The City Manager shall maintain for three years a written record of each
conference held pursuant to this chapter. The record shall contain the
applicant’s or licensee’s name, a copy of the applicant’s or licensee’s written
request for a conference, the date of the conference, and a brief statement of
the issues discussed and the result reached. A copy of this record shall be
served upon the applicant. After three years the City Manager may dispose the
record pursuant to G.S. § 121-5.
(Ord. passed 5-18-11)
§ 110.38 PROVIDING OR SERVING NOTICE TO AN APPLICANT OR LICENSEE.
   Whenever this chapter requires the City Manager to provide or serve a
written statement or notice to an applicant or a licensee, he or she may do so
in any one of three ways.
   (A)   By personally delivering the statement or notice to the applicant or
licensee.
   (B)   By mailing the statement or notice by registered or certified mail,
return receipt requested, to the address specified for the purpose in the
licensee application.
   (C)   By causing the statement or notice to be served on the applicant or
licensee in accordance with the procedures for service or process under Rule 4,
North Carolina Rules of Civil Procedure.
(Ord. passed 5-18-11)
§ 110.39 REVOCATION OF PRIOR LICENSE FOR LATE PAYMENT OF FEE; REFUSAL TO ISSUE
NEW LICENSE UNTIL FEE PAID.
   The license fee is due each year. If a business fails to pay the license fee
when due, its license shall not be renewed, and no new license shall be issued
to the licensee for that business until all past due privilege license taxes
owed by the licensee are paid.
(Ord. passed 5-18-11; Am. Ord. passed 9-11-18)
§ 110.40 DUTY TO DETERMINE WHETHER LICENSE REQUIRED AND FEE DUE.
   (A)   Each person has the duty to determine whether the business he or she
conducts is subject to a license and fee under this chapter and if so, whether
the license has been obtained and the tax fee been paid for the current tax
year.
   (B)   If the City Manager has reason to believe that a person is conducting
a business in the city in
(Ord. passed 5-18-11; Am. Ord. passed 9-11-18)
§ 110.41 NOTICE OF DEFICIENCY.
   If the City Manager determines that a person has not paid the fee due under
this chapter, either for the current license year or for a prior license year,
he or she shall give the person written notice of the deficiency. The notice of
deficiency shall specify: the total amount of fees due; the section of this
chapter upon which the fee is based; the amount of fee paid; any penalty due;
the balance owed; the manner and time period in which the person may respond to
the notice of deficiency; and the consequences to the person if he or she fails
to respond as specified.
(Ord. passed 5-18-11; Am. Ord. passed 9-11-18)
§ 110.42 REQUEST FOR A CONFERENCE.
   A person who receives a notice of license deficiency may, within ten days
after the day on which the notice is served, request in writing a conference.
The request shall specify the person's objections to the notice of deficiency.
(Ord. passed 5-18-11; Am. Ord. passed 9-11-18)
§ 110.43 WHEN DEFICIENCY BECOMES FINAL.
   If the licensee fails to request a conference about the notice of
deficiency, the City Manager's determination of deficiency becomes final and
the City Manager shall proceed to collect the deficiency.
(Ord. passed 5-18-11; Am. Ord. passed 9-11-18)
§ 110.44 CONFERENCE HELD.
   If the licensee requests a conference, the City Manager shall not proceed to
collect the deficiency until he hears the licensee's objections and determines
that the deficiency should become final. The City Manager shall maintain, for
three years, records of each conference held with a licensee.
(Ord. passed 5-18-11; Am. Ord. passed 9-11-18)
§ 110.45 COLLECTION OF DEFICIENCY.
   The City Manager may use any one, or a combination, of the following methods
to collect a deficiency:
   (A)   Criminal prosecution in accordance with §
110.47.
   (B)   Civil penalties in accordance with §
110.47.
   (C)   Equitable relief in accordance with §
110.47.
(Ord. passed 5-18-11; Am. Ord. passed 9-11-18)
§ 110.46 APPEALS.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of this chapter, a person may appeal to the
City Council a decision by the City Manager:
      (1)   That an applicant is not entitled to a license;
      (2)   That a licensee's license should be revoked;
      (3)   Concerning the amount of fees owed by an applicant; and/or
      (4)   That a person has not paid the amount of fees due for current
license year or any prior years.
   (B)   An appeal may be taken only if the applicant has properly pursued and
exhausted his right to have a conference with the City Manager on any of the
matters specified in division (A) of this section.
   (C)   An appeal is taken by filing with the City Manager a written notice of
appeal. This notice of appeal must be filed not later than ten days after the
applicant is served with the record of the conference held with the City
Manager.
   (D)   The City Council shall hear and decide the appeal within 60 days after
notice of appeal is filed, unless the hearing is continued for good cause. The
appellant shall be given at least five working days’ notice of the date and
time of hearing and shall be served with a written copy of the Council’s
decision following the hearing. The burden of establishing the correctness of
the City Manager’s decision shall be on the City Manager.
   (E)   The City Council’s decision shall be by majority vote, with a quorum
present.
(Ord. passed 5-18-11; Am. Ord. passed 9-11-18)
§ 110.47 ENFORCEMENT OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   A violation of §§
110.17 or
110.26(D) constitutes a misdemeanor punishable as provided in G.S. § 14-4.
Payment of a fine imposed in criminal proceedings pursuant to this chapter does
not relieve a person of his or her liability for taxes imposed under this
chapter.
   (B)   A violation of §
110.28 shall subject the offender to a civil penalty as provided for in §
10.99. A violation of §
110.28 shall subject the offender to a civil penalty of $10. If the offender
does not pay the penalty within ten days after he or she has been cited for a
violation, the city may attempt to recover the penalty by filing a civil action
in the nature of debt. Payment of this civil penalty does not relieve a person
of his liability for taxes imposed under this chapter.
   (C)   The city may seek appropriate equitable relief from a court of
competent jurisdiction to prevent or redress violations of this chapter.
   (D)   Each day that a violation of §§
110.17 or
110.28 exists after the person has been notified of the violation shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense.
   (E)   This chapter may be enforced by any one, all, or a combination of the
remedies authorized and prescribed by this chapter.
(Ord. passed 5-18-11; Am. Ord. passed 9-11-18)
§ 110.48 STATE STATUTORY EXEMPTIONS FROM MUNICIPAL LICENSE TAXES.
   (A)   Occupations and professionals.
      Accountants
      Architects
      Art of healing
      Attorneys-at-law
      Auctioneers
      Banks-banking associations, national bank, and the like
      Bondsmen
      Burglar alarm dealers
      Bus companies
      Chiropodists
      Chiropractors
      Dentists
      Doctors
      Embalmers/morticians
      Engineers
      Exterminators
      Home inspectors
      Insurance companies
      Landscape architects
      Massage therapists
      Mortgage companies
      Ophthalmologists
      Opticians
      Optometrists
      Osteopaths
      Photographers
      Physicians
      Private detectives
      Real estate agents/brokers
      Real estate appraisers
      Real estate mortgage companies
      Surgeons
      Surveyors
      Telephone companies
      Trucking companies
      Veterinarians
   (B)   Household appliances/office machines: (selling or renting).
      10-Key - for office use
      Alarm systems - installing, servicing and monitoring
      Billing machines- for office use
      Calculators - for office use
      Cash registers
      Check processors
      Computer hardware - for office use
      Copiers - for office use
      Fax machines - for office use
      Printers - for office use
      Refrigerators - for home use
      Sewing machines - for home use
      Typewriters - for office use
      Vacuum cleaners - for home use
      Washing machines - for home use
   (C)   Miscellaneous businesses.
      Breweries
      Lighting systems
      Lottery gaming
      Motion picture distributors
      Manufacturing motion pictures
      Motor fuels - distributors/wholesaler
      Natural gas supplier
      Telecommunication services (taxed under G.S. § 105-164.4(a)(4c)
      Vending merchandising machines (five of same type)
      Video programming (taxed under G.S. § 105-164.4(a)(6)
      Wineries
Privilege License Schedule A Fee
Gross Receipts Fee
Gross Receipts          Fee
0-1,000,000             $75
1,000,001 - 3,000,000   $275
3,000,001 - 5,000,000   $475
5,000,001 - 7,000,000   $675
7,000,001 - 9,000,000   $875
9,000,001 -11,000,000   $1,075
11,000,001-13,000,000   $1,275
                        $0.00
13,000,001 - 15,000,000 $1,475
                        $0.00
15,000,001 -17,000,000  $1,675
17,000,001 -19,000,000  $1,875
19,000,001 -21,000,000  $2,075
21,000,001 - 23,000,000 $2,275
23,000,001 -25,000,000  $2,475
25,000,001 and up       $2,675
 
(Ord. passed 5-18-11)
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
111.01   Consumption, display of alcoholic beverages
   
111.02   Sunday sales
§ 111.01 CONSUMPTION, DISPLAY OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   (A)   No person shall display or consume beer, wine or any other
intoxicating liquor in any public place or upon or in any public street,
sidewalk, alley or parking lot owned, leased or maintained by the city or by
the state and within the city limits; no person shall consume such substances
on any such place owned, leased or maintained by the city outside the corporate
limits. This section shall not apply to those persons lawfully selling,
purchasing or consuming alcoholic beverages within a designated area during a
special event that has been permitted under
Chapter 95.
   (B)   No person shall consume any intoxicating liquors upon the private
property or private business premises of another without permission of the
owner or person entitled to possession of such premises.
(`90 Code, § 13-4) (Ord. passed 12-14-82; Ord. passed 7-8-86; Am. Ord. passed
8-9-05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.02 SUNDAY SALES.
   Any establishment located in the city limits and holding an on-premises malt
beverage permit and/or an on-premises unfortified wine permit and/or an on-
premises fortified wine permit and/or a mixed beverages permit pursuant to G.S.
§ 18B-1001 is permitted to sell beverages allowed by its permit beginning at
10:00 a.m. on Sundays.
(Ord. passed 9-11-18)
CHAPTER 112: RESERVED
CHAPTER 113: TAXICABS
Section
General Provisions
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Taxicab Inspector
   
113.03   Responsibility of owner; compliance
   
113.04   Federal statutes and regulations
   
113.05   Information filed by owner
Regulations
   
113.20   Insurance
   
113.21   Maximum fares
   
113.22   Fare schedule in vehicle
   
113.23   Excess fare; failure to pay
   
113.24   Inspection of vehicles
   
113.25   Maintenance record
   
113.26   Defective vehicles
   
113.27   Vehicle identification
   
113.28   Lighted sign
   
113.29   Hours of operation
   
113.30   Most direct route
   
113.31   Parking next to taxicab stands
   
113.32   Stopping at bus stop
   
113.33   Report of accident
License
   
113.45   Required
   
113.46   Application form
   
113.47   City Manager action
   
113.48   Appeal to City Council
   
113.49   Fee
   
113.50   Issuance
   
113.51   Memorandum license
   
113.52   Assignment or transfer
   
113.53   Expiration
   
113.54   Renewal
   
113.55   Suspension; revocation
   
113.56   Change of ownership
   
113.57   Replacement vehicle
   113.58   When vehicle retired and not replaced
Driver’s Permit
   
113.70   Required
   
113.71   Information on application
   
113.72   Photographs and fingerprints
   
113.73   Physician’s certificate
   
113.74   Action of City Manager
   
113.75   Identification of driver
   
113.76   Expiration and renewal
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CERTIFICATE. A certificate of public convenience and necessity issued in
accord with this chapter.
   DRIVER'S PERMIT. The permit issued by the city, after examination,
authorizing a person to drive a taxicab operating under this chapter.
   OWNER. The person who owns a taxicab operating under this chapter, or the
person who is in charge of the operation of the taxicab.
   TAXICAB. Every vehicle driven or propelled by gasoline, electric motor or
other mechanical devices, other than motor buses operating along regular routes
or schedules, which is used for the purpose of carrying, transporting or
conveying any person from one place to another, for which service a charge or
fee is made, not including any transportation networking company regulated
under G.S. Ch. 20, Art. 10A.
   TAXICAB COMPANY. A sole proprietorship, corporation, professional
corporation, non-profit corporation, limited liability company, limited
partnership, limited liability partnership or any other partnership whether or
not formed under the laws of the State of North Carolina in the business of
owning, operating, leasing or providing taxi cabs or taxi cab services for hire
by the public. All foreign business enterprises must be licensed by the
Secretary of State of North Carolina to do business in North Carolina.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 113.02 TAXICAB INSPECTOR.
   (A)   There is created the office of Taxicab Inspector, who shall be
appointed by the City Manager.
   (B)   The Taxicab Inspector shall be responsible for the inspection of
taxicabs, the practical administration of this chapter and other ordinances,
and the safety and welfare of the public in connection with the operation and
use of taxicabs. The Taxicab Inspector shall advise the City Manager, the Chief
of Police with respect to matters governed or incidentally involved in the
operation or administration of this chapter. He or she shall make
recommendations to the City Manager with respect to the adequacy of taxicab
service in the city. He or she shall make such studies and recommendations as
he or she may deem advisable, looking toward the more efficient operation of
taxicabs to the end that the public safety and welfare will be served and
proper and adequate taxicab service to the general public will be promoted. He
or she shall report to the City Manager, the names of all taxicab drivers'
permits recommended, granted or denied and all those recommended to be revoked,
and shall make such other reports to the City Manager and the Council as may be
requested from time to time.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 113.03 RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER; COMPLIANCE.
   Every owner of a taxicab or taxicab company shall comply with the provisions
of this chapter and require that all drivers or chauffeurs driving or proposing
to drive any taxicabs for the owner adhere to and at all times conform to the
requirements of this chapter. No such owner shall drive or operate any taxicab
upon the streets of the city in violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter or other ordinances of the city. Further, no owner shall knowingly
permit or cause to be driven or operated upon any of the streets or other
public ways of the city any taxicab belonging to the owner by any driver or
chauffeur who has not complied with or who violates any of the provisions of
this chapter or other ordinances of the city relating to the chauffeur or
driver.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 113.04 FEDERAL STATUTES AND REGULATIONS.
   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to relieve or attempt
to relieve operators and owners of taxicabs from compliance with any rule,
regulation or statute made by the Congress of the United States or promulgated
pursuant to authority of any action of the Congress of the United States or
other authorized Federal agency.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 113.05 INFORMATION FILED BY OWNER.
   Every owner of a taxicab or taxicab company shall maintain on file with the
Taxicab Inspector his or her name, business address, garage address, all
business telephones listed in his or her name, the names of all drivers, their
license numbers and addresses and shall, within 48 hours after any change in
connection therewith is made, report the change to the Taxicab Inspector.
(Ord. passed - - )
REGULATIONS
§ 113.20 INSURANCE.
   (A)   No person engaged in the business of transporting passengers for hire
over the public streets of the city shall operate on the public streets of the
city any taxicab, except those operated under the jurisdiction of the State
Utilities Commission, without furnishing and keeping in effect for each taxicab
so operated a policy of insurance The policy of insurance shall obligate the
operator to be responsible for money damages for legal liability incurred on
account of bodily injury to persons or damage to or destruction of property
resulting from the operation of the operator's taxicab upon the streets of the
city, and shall be such amounts as the City Council shall from time to time
require.
   (B)   The policy of insurance shall be filed with the Taxicab Inspector as a
condition precedent to the operation of any taxicab over the streets of the
city.
   (C)   Any insurance policy filed in accordance with this section shall
provide that the same shall not be canceled without first giving 30 days’
notice to the policy holder. If a taxicab owner or taxi cab company owner
receives a notice of cancellation of an insurance policy, or any line of
coverage, the owner will notify the Taxicab Inspector within five business
days.
   (D)   It shall be deemed a sufficient compliance with this section if a
certificate issued by the insurer showing that the insured has secured the
required insurance and that the same is in force and is filed with the Taxicab
Inspector. If the certificate is filed, the original policy may be surrendered.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 113.21 MAXIMUM FARES.
   The maximum rates to be charged passengers of taxicabs operating under this
chapter shall be such as are prescribed from time to time by the City Council.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 113.22 FARE SCHEDULE IN VEHICLE.
   No owner of a taxicab shall allow or permit the same to be driven or
operated upon the streets of the city unless there is posted and kept posted in
the taxicab a printed schedule of fares and rates not exceeding the maximum
amounts prescribed by the Council. The schedule of fares and rates shall be in
such form and posted in such places in the interior of the taxicab as may be
approved by the Taxicab Inspector.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 113.23 EXCESS FARE; FAILURE TO PAY.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or driver of any taxicab to charge or
collect from any passenger any fare in excess of the rates prescribed by the
Council or for any passenger to fail or refuse to pay any fare charged in
accordance therewith.
(Ord. passed - - ) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.24 INSPECTION OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   Before a taxicab may be operated under a license issued under this
chapter, the owner thereof shall cause the same to be delivered to and
inspected by the Taxicab Inspector, who shall examine the same to determine
that the cab is mechanically and structurally in good repair and working order
and will not be unsafe to operate.
   (B)   In addition to the inspection required above prior to the initial
operation of a taxicab, the Taxicab Inspector shall have the right, at any
time, after displaying proper identification, to enter into or upon any taxicab
for the purpose of inspection and of ascertaining whether or not the taxicab is
unsafe or in any way unsuitable for taxicab service.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 113.25 MAINTENANCE RECORD.
   Every owner is required to institute a system of regular monthly inspections
of all taxicabs and equipment owned and operated by him or her (or his or her
taxicab company) and to keep all such taxicabs and their equipment in proper
and safe repair and in good sanitary condition at all times. A record of all
such inspections shall be kept by the owner and shall be available to the
Taxicab Inspector at all times.
(Ord. passed - - ) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.26 DEFECTIVE VEHICLES.
   If the Taxicab Inspector finds, upon any inspection made as provided in this
chapter, that a taxicab is unsafe or in any way unsuitable for taxicab service,
he or she is authorized and empowered to immediately order the same out of
service and require that the same be kept out of service until it has been
repaired and re-inspected and approved by the Taxicab Inspector. Any owner
whose taxicab is found to be unsafe for taxicab operation shall have such
repairs and alterations made as may be required, and no such owner shall keep
any taxicab in taxicab service during the period in which it is found by the
Inspector to be unsafe or unsuitable for taxicab service.
(Ord. passed - - ) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.27 VEHICLE IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Company name. No person shall operate or cause to be operated within
the city any taxicab carrying passengers for hire from place to place within
the city unless the correct name and telephone number of the person or firm
owning and operating the vehicle is clearly and visibly marked on both sides of
the vehicle in permanent letters at least four inches high.
   (B)   Vehicle number. The Taxicab Inspector shall assign a number to each
taxicab permitted to be operated under the provisions of this chapter. The
numbers shall begin with number one and shall run consecutively from that
number up to and including the total number of taxicabs authorized to be
operated in the city. No two taxicabs shall be numbered the same, it being the
intent of this section that the numbering of taxicabs in the city shall not be
according to the number operated by any individual firm or owner, but shall be
according to the total number of taxicabs authorized to be operated within the
city. Each person receiving a license under this chapter shall appear before
the Taxicab Inspector for assignment of a number for the taxicab covered by the
license, and the number so assigned shall be permanently marked on the sides of
the taxicab, immediately below the required name and telephone number, in
numerals four inches high. No person shall operate or cause to be operated any
taxicab without the number being painted thereon as required by this section,
or to operate or cause to be operated any taxicab which is numbered in any
manner except as required by this section. No person shall operate more than
one taxicab with the same numbers marked thereon.
(Ord. passed - - ) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.28 LIGHTED SIGN.
   Each taxicab operated in the city shall have on the top thereof an
electrically lighted sign displaying the word “Taxi.”
(Ord. passed - - ) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.29 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   The regulation of hours for each taxicab shall be under the supervision of
the City Manager, it being the intention to so regulate and distribute the
hours as to make certain, as nearly as possible, that as many cabs as are
needed may be available at any given time.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 113.30 MOST DIRECT ROUTE.
   Any taxicab driver employed to carry a passenger to a definite point shall
take the most direct route possible that will carry the passenger safely and
expeditiously to his or her destination.
(Ord. passed - - ) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.31 PARKING NEXT TO TAXICAB STANDS.
   No person, while operating or in control of any taxicab, shall park the
taxicab or allow it to remain stationary, whether occupied or not, in any
street adjacent to premises or parking lots designated for the use of taxicabs.
The stopping of a taxicab at the points herein referred to for sufficient time
to let off passengers, and no longer, shall not be deemed a violation of this
section.
(Ord. passed - - ) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.32 STOPPING AT BUS STOP.
   The driver of a taxicab shall not park or stand the same at any regular bus
stop in the city or ask or solicit employment at any such bus stop. It shall
likewise be unlawful for the owner of any taxicab to permit or allow any driver
employed by him or her to violate any provision of this section.
(Ord. passed - - ) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.33 REPORT OF ACCIDENT.
   No driver of any taxicab shall move the same or cause the same to be moved,
after a collision or accident involving the taxicab, until the driver has first
reported the same to the Police Department of the city and a police officer
arrives at the scene of the accident or collision and authorizes the moving of
the taxicab.
(Ord. passed - - ) Penalty, see §
10.99
CERTIFICATE OF PUBLIC CONVENIENCE AND NECESSITY
§ 113.45 REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate any taxicab in the city without first having
obtained a license from the City Manager or designee authorizing the operation.
(Ord. passed - - ) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.46 APPLICATION FORM.
   (A)   All persons applying to the City Manager or designee for a license for
the operation of a taxicab company or one or more taxicabs shall file with the
City Manager or designee a sworn application therewith, on the following form
provided by the city:
         “TO THE CITY MANAGER OF THE CITY OF ROXBORO:
         The undersigned hereby makes application for a license for the
operation (i) of taxicabs or (ii) a taxicab company under and in accordance
with the provisions of
Chapter 113 of the Roxboro Code of Ordinances, and presents to the City Manager
the following information:
            (1)   The applicant is familiar with the Ordinances of the City of
Roxboro relating to liability insurance, driver regulations, regulations of
rates and other matters pertaining to the operation of taxicabs.
            (2)   The individual, corporate or trade name and business address
of the applicant is:
                                                                        
               (Name) (Address)
               The registered agent of the corporation, partnership or other
business entity is:
                                                                         
               (Name) (Address)
            (3)   Applicant is:
               A.   An individual and sole owner of the taxicab business to be
operated under the above name.
               B.   A partnership consisting of the following persons: (Give
names and addresses)
                                                                                           
.
               C.   A corporation chartered under the laws of
                    in the year
                                 , and officers of the corporation are: (Give
names and business addresses)
                                                                                                    
.
            (4)   Applicant is requesting a license to operate (number)
                 of taxicabs.
            (5)   In support of this application, there is attached hereto and
made a part hereof the following exhibits:
               Exhibit A. A complete list of applicant's motor equipment,
showing year, make, model and carrying capacity of each unit.
               Exhibit B. Insurance policies or certificates of insurance for
the vehicles, owner(s).
               Exhibit C. Statement showing applicant has made complete
arrangements for off-street parking of all such motor vehicles.
               Exhibit D. Statement of proposed fares for transportation of
persons and property.
               Exhibit E. Statement of experience of applicant in conducting
taxicab business.
                      (Signed)
                                                         
                              Owner (s)
               ATTEST: (Notary Public)
               My commission expires:
                                                      .”
   (B)   The applicant shall also furnish any additional commercially
reasonable information that the City Manager or designee shall require.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 113.47 CITY MANAGER ACTION.
   (A)   No license shall be granted under this chapter unless the City Manager
or designee shall, after a review of the application and a personal interview
of the applicant(s), if requested by the City Manager, determine that the
requirement of this chapter have been met.
   (B)   In determining whether public convenience and necessity require the
operation of a taxicab or taxicabs for which application for a certificate or
certificates is made, the Council shall consider and investigate whether the
demand of the public requires additional taxicab service; the adequacy of
existing mass transportation and taxicab service; the financial responsibility
and experience of the applicant; the ability of the applicant to earn a fair
return on the capital invested; the number, kind and type of equipment and the
color scheme to be used; the effect which such additional taxicab service may
have upon traffic congestion and parking; whether the additional taxicab
service will result in a greater hazard to the public; and such other relevant
facts as the Council may deem advisable or necessary.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 113.48 APPEAL TO CITY COUNCIL.
   (A)   If the City Manager or designee denies and application for a license,
the owner(s)/applicant(s) may request a hearing before the City Council.
Appeals shall be made in writing within 30 calendar days of denial of the
application.
   (B)   Appeals shall be made on a form provide by the Taxicab Inspector. The
City Council may adopt a fee for the appeal.
   (C)   The City Manager or designee shall forward the application and the
written reasons for denial of the application to the City Council, as well as
the appeal form received.
   (D)   The City Clerk shall schedule the appeal at a convenient time, but in
case later than 60 days after receipt of a completed appeal form and fee.
   (E)   The City Council will consider the appeal in a quasi-judicial
proceeding and base their decision on sworn or verified testimony of the
parties and witnesses present, and any written evidence accepted by the
Council. Decisions shall be based on substantial, competent and relevant
evidence submitted at the public hearing.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 113.49 FEE.
   The owner of each taxicab for which a license is granted shall pay to the
city for each such cab a fee, the amount of which shall be as set from time to
time by the City Council. The fee shall be in addition to, and not in lieu of,
any other license fees and charges established by proper authority and
applicable to taxicabs in the city.
(Ord. passed - - ) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.50 ISSUANCE.
   The City Manager, designee or Council shall grant to every person who has
filed application therefor as provided in this chapter a license for the
taxicab(s) or taxicab company, subject to such commercially reasonable
conditions as the City Manager or Council may require, provided that:
   (A)   The owner thereof shall have complied with all the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   The vehicle(s) for which application for a certificate is made is
found to be in strict compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 113.51 MEMORANDUM LICENSE.
   For each taxicab for which a license has been granted a memorandum license
shall be issued in such form as the City Manager may, from time to time,
prescribe, such memorandum license to be displayed at all times in a
conspicuous place in the taxicab for which issued.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 113.52 ASSIGNMENT OR TRANSFER.
   No license may be assigned or transferred except upon written application to
the City Manager or designee setting forth the purpose, terms and conditions of
the assignment or transfer. The City Manager or designee shall, after
investigation, approve or disapprove the assignment or transfer.
(Ord. passed - - ) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.53 EXPIRATION.
   All licenses shall expire one year form the date the license was granted.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 113.54 RENEWAL.
   Upon application prior to the termination of each year, the City Manager or
designee may renew any license or cause a new license to be issued for the
ensuing year in the absence of any contrary evidence regarding the continued
validity of the facts of the application for the taxicab service.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 113.55 CSUSPENSION; REVOCATION.
   (A)   Licenses issued under this chapter may be suspended or revoked by the
City Manager or designee at any time in case:
      (1)   The owner fails to operate the taxicab in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter or violates any provision of this chapter;
      (2)   The owner ceases to operate the taxicab for a period of 30
consecutive days without having obtained permission for cessation of the
operation from the City Manager or designee; or
      (3)   For any other reason which the City Manager or designee may deem
warrants suspension or revocation.
   (B)   No license shall be revoked unless and until 48-hours notice as shown
by the record of service of the notice of a hearing thereon has been given to
the holder of the license and the hearing is duly had thereon.
   (C)   A license which has been suspended or revoked by the City Manager
shall be surrendered by the holder thereof, and the operation of any taxicab
covered by the license shall cease.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 113.56 CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP.
   Change of ownership of or title to any taxicab or taxicab company shall
automatically revoke any license previously granted for the operation of the
taxicab or taxicab company. The purchaser of any such taxicab or taxicab
company may not operate the vehicle as a taxicab until he or she has applied
for and been granted a new license in the manner provided in this chapter. For
the purposes of this section, a change of ownership is deemed to have taken
place, in addition to other methods usually employed, if the owner of any
taxicab leases the same to any person under any lease or other arrangement
whereby the person shall have the right, upon the payment of an amount of money
or other consideration, to acquire title at any future date to the taxicab or
any other thing of value.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 113.57 REPLACEMENT VEHICLE.
   (A)   Whenever an owner sells or transfers title to any taxicab for which
licenses have been granted and the vehicle is retired from use as a taxicab,
and, within the 30 days after such sale or transfer, purchases another taxicab,
the City Manager or designee shall, as a matter of right, upon written
application within 30 days of the purchase, issue new licenses for the
operation of no greater number of taxicabs than those so sold or transferred,
provided the owner has complied with all the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Any owner whose taxicabs, for which licenses have been granted, have
been destroyed involuntarily or who voluntarily destroys any taxicab, will, as
a matter of right, upon written application to the City Manager or designee
within 30 days after the destruction, be issued new licenses for the operation
of no greater number of taxicabs than those so destroyed, upon satisfactory
evidence presented to the City Manager or designee of the destruction, provided
the owner has complied with all the provisions of this chapter.
§ 113.58 WHEN VEHICLE RETIRED AND NOT REPLACED.
   Any owner who permanently retires any taxicab from taxicab service and does
not replace the same within 30 days thereof shall immediately surrender any
license granted for the operation of the taxicab to the City Manager or
designee, and the owner may not secure any additional license for the operation
of a taxicab without having first made application therefor in the manner
provided in this chapter.
(Ord. passed - - )
(Ord. passed - - ) DRIVER’S PERMIT
§ 113.70 REQUIRED.
   No person shall drive any taxicab carrying passengers for hire from place to
place within the city unless he or she has first applied for and secured a
permit from and paid a $15 fee to the City Manager or designee.
(Ord. passed - - ) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.71 INFORMATION ON APPLICATION.
   An application for a driver's permit required by this subchapter shall be
filed with the Taxicab Inspector. The application shall be in writing, signed
and sworn to by the applicant, and shall contain the following specific
information:
   (A)   The full name, age and address of the applicant.
   (B)   The length of time of his or her residence in the city and in North
Carolina, and whether or not he or she is a citizen of the United States.
   (C)   His or her full personal description, including his or her height,
weight, race, color of eyes, complexion, color of hair and body and facial
marks and defects, if any.
   (D)   His or her previous experience in driving taxicabs.
   (E)   Whether or not he or she has been convicted of a felony against this
state, or conviction of any offense against another state which would have been
a felony if committed in North Carolina and full information concerning same.
   (F)   Whether he or she has been convicted of any violation of the law or
ordinance in the operation of a motor vehicle, and if so, full information
concerning the same; whether he or she has been convicted of any federal or
state law relating to the sale, possession or use of narcotic or barbiturate
drugs or alcoholic beverages, and if so, full information concerning the same.
   (G)   The number and date of issuance of the state driver's or chauffeur's
license issued to the applicant.
   (H)   A consent to a criminal background check and use of the applicants
photographs and finger prints to be conducted by the NC Department of Public
Safety at the request of the city, and consent that the applicant's finger
prints may be forwarded by the Department of Public Safety to the FBI for a
national criminal history check.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 113.72 PHOTOGRAPHS AND FINGERPRINTS.
   Each applicant for a permit under this subchapter shall have his or her full
fingerprints taken and shall have his or her photograph, both front and side
view, with his or her hat on and hat off, taken, and such fingerprints and
photographs of the applicant shall be filed with the Taxicab Inspector and
shall accompany the written application mentioned in §
113.71 and shall constitute a part of the application. The finger prints are
not a public record.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 113.73 PHYSICIAN’S CERTIFICATE.
   Each applicant for a permit under this subchapter shall submit with his or
her application as a part thereof a certificate of a reputable physician in the
city showing that, after examination, the applicant is not afflicted with any
disease, physical disability or physical affliction which could materially
impair his or her ability to drive a taxicab in a safe manner. The certificate
shall also specifically state the condition of the hearing and eyesight of the
applicant. The physicians certificate is not a public record.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 113.74 ACTION OF CITY MANAGER.
   (A)   The Taxicab Inspector shall transmit each application for a permit
under this chapter, together with the fingerprints and photographs of the
applicant and the certificate of the physician, to the City Manager or designee
for its consideration. The Taxicab Inspector shall make such recommendations to
the City Manager concerning any such application as he or she may deem
consistent with the public interest, welfare, morals and safety. The City
Manager or designee, upon favorable findings by it, shall order the permit
issued.
   (B)   The following factors shall be deemed sufficient grounds for refusing
to issue a permit or for revoking a permit already issued:
      (1)   Conviction of a felony against this state or conviction of any
offense against another state which would have been a felony if committed in
this state;
      (2)   Violation of any federal or state law relating to the use,
possession or sale of alcoholic beverages or narcotic of barbiturate drugs;
      (3)   Addiction to or habitual use of alcoholic beverages or narcotic or
barbiturate drugs;
      (4)   Violation of any federal or state law relating to prostitution;
      (5)   Non-citizenship in the United States;
      (6)   Habitual violation of traffic laws or ordinances.
   (C)   The City Council or designee may likewise refuse to issue the permit
to anyone whose physical or mental condition as shown on the physician's
certificate is such that, it would be unsafe to passengers or to the public
generally for such a person to drive a taxicab.
   (D)   Appeals may be made to the City Council.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 113.75 IDENTIFICATION OF DRIVER.
   (A)   Issuance. When a permit to drive a taxicab is issued by the City
Manager in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter, the permittee
shall pay a fee for the issuance to him or her of an identification card by the
Taxicab Inspector.
   (B)   Contents. The card shall not be less than 3-3/4-inches by 4-3/4-inches
in dimension, shall contain a full-view photograph of the permittee and his or
her name, together with the number of the chauffeur's license issued to him or
her by the state shall have printed thereon in type the following language:
      “TO THE PASSENGER OF THIS CAB: If the description of the driver of this
cab does not conform to the photograph herein, you will please leave the cab
and notify the Police Department immediately, giving the name of the cab and
the operating name of the concern.”
   (C)   Display. The identification card issued under division (A) of this
section shall be kept by the driver to whom it is issued on the inside of the
taxicab which he or she is operating, in a permanent container which the owner
shall furnish for that purpose in the space immediately above the front
windshield and in the middle thereof, measured from the left door to the right
door. The identification card shall at all times be in full view of the
passengers riding in either the front or the rear seat of the taxicab, and the
identification card container in which the identification card is inserted
shall be permanently attached in such location in each taxicab which the driver
is operating or has in his or her charge.
(Ord. passed - - ) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.76 EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL.
   All permits issued under this subchapter shall automatically expire one year
following the date of issuance. The permits may be renewed for periods of 12
months by the City Manager or designee upon application and compliance with the
same terms and conditions as are prescribed for original applications and the
issuance of original permits.
(Ord. passed - - )
CHAPTER 114: RESERVED
CHAPTER 115: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
General Provisions
   
115.01   Findings
   
115.02   Purpose
   
115.03   Definitions and classifications
Licensing and Regulation
   
115.15   License required
   
115.16   Issuance of license
   
115.17   Fees
   
115.18   Expiration of license
   
115.19   Suspension
   
115.20   Revocation
   
115.21   Appeal
   
115.22   Transfer
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 115.01 FINDINGS.
   Based on evidence concerning the adverse secondary effects of adult uses on
the community presented in hearings and in reports made available to the City
Council and on findings incorporated in the cases of the City of Renton v.
Playtime Theatres, Inc., 475 U.S. 41 (1986), Young v. American Mini Theatres,
426 U.S. 50 (1976), and Barnes v. Glen Theatre Inc., 501 U.S. 560 (1991), and
on studies in other communities, including but not limited to Phoenix, Arizona;
Minneapolis, Minnesota; Houston, Texas; Indianapolis, Indiana; Amarillo, Texas;
Garden Grove, California; Los Angeles, California; Whittier, California;
Austin, Texas; Seattle, Washington; Oklahoma City, Oklahoma; Cleveland, Ohio;
and Beaumont, Texas; and also on finding from the Report of the Attorney
General's Working Group On The Regulation of Sexually Oriented Businesses,
(June 6, 1989, State of Minnesota), the Roxboro City Council finds:
   (A)   Sexually oriented businesses lend themselves to ancillary unlawful and
unhealthy activities that are presently uncontrolled by the operators of the
establishments. Further, there is presently no mechanism to make the owners of
these establishments responsible for the activities that occur on their
premises.
   (B)   Certain employees of sexually oriented businesses defined in this
chapter as adult theatres and cabarets engage in higher incidence of certain
types of illicit sexual behavior than employees of other establishments.
   (C)   Sexual acts, including masturbation and oral and anal sex, occur at
sexually oriented businesses, especially those which provide private or semi-
private booths or cubicles for viewing films, videos, or live sex shows.
   (D)   Offering and providing such space encourages such activities, which
creates unhealthy conditions.
   (E)   Persons frequent certain adult theatres, adult arcades, and other
sexually oriented businesses for the purpose of engaging in sex within the
premises of such sexually oriented businesses.
   (F)   At least 50 communicable diseases may be spread by activities
occurring in sexually oriented businesses, including but not limited to
syphilis; gonorrhea; human immunodeficiency virus infection (HIV-AIDS); genital
herpes; hepatitis B; Non A, Non B amebiasis; salmonella infections and shigella
infections.
   (G)   Since 1981 and to the present, there have been an increasing
cumulative number of reported cases of AIDS caused by the human
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) in the United States: 600 in 1982, 2,200 in 1983,
4,600 in 1984, 8,555 in 1985 and 253,448 through December 31, 1992.
   (H)   As of May, 2000, there have been 777 reported cases of AIDS in the
state of North Carolina.
   (I)   Since 1981 and to the present, there have been an increasing
cumulative number of persons testing positive for the HIV antibody test in
North Carolina.
   (J)   The number of cases of early (less than one year) syphilis in the
United States reported annually has risen, with 33,613 cases reported in 1982
and 45,200 through November of 1990.
   (K)   The number of cases of early gonorrhea in the United States reported
annually remains at a high level, with over one-half million cases being
reported in 1990.
   (L)   The Surgeon General of the United States, in his report of October 22,
1986, has advised the American public that AIDS and HIV infection may be
transmitted through sexual contact, intravenous drug abuse, exposure to
infected blood and blood components, and from an infected mother to her
newborn.
   (M)   According to the best scientific evidence, AIDS and HIV infection, as
well as syphilis and gonorrhea, are principally transmitted by sexual acts.
   (N)   Sanitary conditions in some sexually oriented businesses are
unhealthy, in part, because the activities conducted there are unhealthy, and,
in part, because of the unregulated nature of the activities and the failure of
the owners and operators of the facilities to self-regulate those activities
and maintain those facilities.
   (O)   Numerous studies and reports have determined that semen is found in
the areas of sexually oriented businesses where persons view adult oriented
films.
   (P)   The findings noted in divisions (A) through (O) of this section raise
substantial governmental concerns.
   (Q)   Sexually oriented businesses have operational characteristics that
should be reasonably regulated in order to protect those substantial
governmental concerns.
   (R)   A reasonable licensing procedure is an appropriate mechanism to place
the burden of reasonable regulation on the owners and operators of sexually
oriented businesses. Further, such a licensing procedure will place a
heretofore nonexistent incentive on the operators of such businesses to ensure
that they are run in a manner consistent with the health, safety and welfare of
patrons and employees, as well as the citizens of the city. It is appropriate
to require reasonable assurances that the licensees of sexually oriented
businesses are the actual operators of such businesses, and are fully in
possession and control of the premises and activities occurring therein.
   (S)   Removal of doors on adult booths and requiring sufficient lighting on
premises with adult booths advances a substantial government interest in
curbing the illegal and unsanitary sexual activity occurring in adult theatres.
   (T)   Requiring licensees of sexually oriented businesses to keep
information regarding current employees and certain past employees will help
reduce the incidence of certain types of criminal behavior by facilitating the
identification of potential witnesses or suspects, and by preventing minors
from working in such environments.
   (U)   The disclosure of certain information by those persons ultimately
responsible for the day-to-day operation and maintenance of sexually oriented
businesses, where such information is substantially related to the operation of
such uses, will aid in preventing the spread of sexually transmitted diseases.
   (V)   It is desirable in the prevention of the spread of communicable
diseases to obtain a limited amount of information regarding certain employees
who may engage in the conduct which this chapter is designed to prevent, or who
are likely to be witnesses to such activity.
   (W)   The fact that an applicant for an adult use license has been convicted
of a sexually-related crime leads to the rational assumption that the applicant
may engage in that conduct in contravention of this chapter.
   (X)   The barring of such individuals from the management of adult uses for
a period of years serves as a deterrent to and prevents conduct which leads to
the transmission of sexually transmitted disease.
   (Y)   The general welfare, health, morals and safety of the citizens of the
city will be promoted by the enactment of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 2-13-01)
§ 115.02 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate sexually oriented businesses
in order to promote the health, safety, morals and general welfare of the
citizens of the city, and to establish reasonable and uniform regulations to
prevent the deleterious location, concentration and operation of sexually
oriented businesses within the city. The provisions of this chapter have
neither the purpose nor effect of imposing a limitation or restriction on the
content of any communicative materials, including sexually oriented materials.
Similarly, it is not the intent nor effect of this chapter to restrict or deny
access by adults to sexually oriented materials protected by the First
Amendment, or to deny access by the distributors and exhibitors of sexually
oriented entertainment to their intended market. Neither is it the intent nor
effect of this chapter to condone or legitimize the distribution of obscene
material.
(Ord. passed 2-13-01)
§ 115.03 DEFINITIONS AND CLASSIFICATIONS.
   A comprehensive list of definitions concerning sexually oriented businesses
and list of classifications of sexually oriented businesses are found in §§ 22-
2 and 22-3 of the Zoning Ordinance, which sections are incorporated herein by
reference.
(Ord. passed 2-13-01)
LICENSING AND REGULATION
§ 115.15 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It is unlawful:
      (1)   For any person to operate a sexually oriented business without a
valid sexually oriented business license issued by the city pursuant to this
chapter.
      (2)   For any person who operates a sexually oriented business to employ
a person to work for the sexually oriented business who is not licensed as a
sexually oriented business employee by the city pursuant to this chapter.
      (3)   For any person to obtain employment with a sexually oriented
business without having secured a sexually oriented business employee license
pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   An application for a license must be made on a form provided by the
city.
   (C)   All applicants must be qualified according to the provisions of this
chapter. The application may request and the applicant shall provide such
information (including fingerprints) as to enable the city to determine whether
the applicant meets the qualifications established in this chapter.
   (D)   If a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is an
individual, the person must sign the application for a license as applicant. If
a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is other than an
individual, each individual who has a 20% or greater interest in the business
must sign the application for a license as applicant. Each applicant must be
qualified under §
115.16, and each applicant shall be considered a licensee if a license is
granted.
   (E)   The completed application for a sexually oriented business license
shall contain the following information and shall be accompanied by the
following documents:
      (1)   If the applicant is:
         (a)   An individual, the individual shall state his/her legal name and
any aliases and submit proof that he/she is 18 years of age;
         (b)   A partnership, the partnership shall state its complete name,
and the names of all partners, whether the partnership is general or limited,
and a copy of the partnership agreement, if any;
         (c)   A corporation, the corporation shall state its complete name,
the date of its incorporation, evidence that the corporation is in good
standing under the laws of its state of incorporation, the names and capacity
of all officers, directors and principal stockholders, and the name of the
registered corporate agent and the address of the registered office for service
of process.
      (2)   If the applicant intends to operate the sexually oriented business
under a name other than that of the applicant; he or she must state: 1) the
sexually oriented business' fictitious name, and 2) submit the required
registration documents.
      (3)   Whether the applicant has been convicted of a specific criminal
activity as defined in this chapter, and, if so, the specified criminal
activity involved, the date, place, and jurisdiction of each.
      (4)   Whether the applicant has had a previous license under this chapter
or other similar sexually oriented business ordinances from another city, town,
or county denied, suspended or revoked, including the name and location of the
sexually oriented business for which the permit was denied, suspended or
revoked, as well as the date of the denial, suspension or revocation, and
whether the applicant or a person residing with the applicant has been a
partner in a partnership or an officer, director or principal stockholder of a
corporation that is licensed under this chapter whose license has previously
been denied, suspended or revoked, including the name and location of the
sexually oriented business for which the permit was denied, suspended or
revoked, as well as the date of denial, suspension or revocation.
      (5)   Whether the applicant or a person residing with the applicant holds
any other licenses under this chapter or other similar sexually oriented
business ordinance from another city, town or county, and, if so, the names and
locations of such other licensed businesses.
      (6)   The single classification of license for which the applicant is
filing.
      (7)   The location of the proposed sexually oriented business, including
a legal description of the property, street address, and telephone number(s),
if any.
      (8)   The applicant's mailing address and residential address.
      (9)   A recent photograph of the applicant(s).
      (10)   The applicant's driver's license number, Social Security number,
and/or his or her state or federally-issued tax identification number.
      (11)   A sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the premises,
including a statement of total floor space occupied by the business. The sketch
or diagram need not be professionally prepared, but it must be drawn to a
designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the interior of the
premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches.
      (12)   A current certificate and straight-line drawing prepared within 30
days prior to application by a registered land surveyor, depicting the property
lines and the structures containing any existing sexually oriented businesses
within 2,000 feet of the property to be certified; the property lines of any
established religious institution/synagogue, school, public park or recreation
area within 2,000 feet of the property to be certified; the property lines of
any established residence within 500 feet of the property to be certified. For
purposes of this section, a use shall be considered existing or established if
it is in existence at the time an application is submitted.
      (13)   If an applicant wishes to operate a sexually oriented business,
other than an adult motel, which shall exhibit on the premises, in a viewing
room or booth of less than 150 square feet of floor space, films, video
cassettes, other video reproductions, or live entertainment which depict
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, then the applicant
shall comply with the application requirements set forth in § 22-8 of the
Zoning Ordinance.
   (F)   Before any applicant may be issued a sexually oriented business
employee license, the applicant shall submit, on a form to be provided by the
city, the following information:
      (1)   The applicant's name or any other name (including "stage" names) or
aliases used by the individual;
      (2)   Age, date, and place of birth;
      (3)   Height, weight, hair and eye color;
      (4)   Present residence address and telephone number;
      (5)   Present business address and telephone number;
      (6)   Date, issuing state and number of driver's permit or other
identification card information;
      (7)   Social Security number; and
      (8)   Proof that the individual is at least 18 years of age.
   (G)   Attached to the application form for a sexually oriented business
employee license, as provided above, shall be the following:
      (1)   A color photograph of the applicant, clearly showing the
applicant's face, and the applicant's fingerprints on a form provided by the
Police Department. Any fees for the photographs and fingerprints shall be paid
by the applicant.
      (2)   A statement detailing the license history of the applicant for the
five years immediately preceding the date of the filing of the application,
including whether such applicant previously operated or is seeking to operate,
in this or any other county, city, state, or country, has ever had a license,
permit, or authorization to do business denied, revoked, or suspended, or had
any professional or vocational license or permit denied, revoked, or suspended.
In the event of any such denial, revocation, or suspension, state the name, the
name of the issuing or denying jurisdiction, and describe in full the reason
for denial, revocation, or suspension. A copy of any order or denial,
revocation or suspension shall be attached to the application.
      (3)   A statement whether the applicant has been convicted of a specified
criminal activity as defined in this ordinance and, if so, the specified
criminal activity involved, the date, place and jurisdiction of each.
(Ord. passed 2-13-01)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 115.16 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The   application shall then be referred to the appropriate city
departments for an investigation to be made on such information as is contained
on the application. The application process shall be completed within 30 days
from the date the completed application is filed. After the investigation, the
city shall issue a license, unless it is determined by a preponderance of the
evidence that one or more of the following findings is true:
      (1)   The applicant has failed to provide information reasonably
necessary for issuance of the license, or has falsely answered a question or
request for information on the application form;
      (2)   The applicant is under the age of 18 years;
      (3)   The applicant has been convicted of a specified criminal activity
as defined in this chapter;
      (4)   The sexually oriented business employee license is to be used for
employment in a business prohibited by local or state law, statute, rule or
regulation, or prohibited by a particular provision of this chapter; or
      (5)   The applicant has had a sexually oriented business employee license
revoked by the city within two years of the date of the current application.
Denial, suspension, or revocation of a license issued pursuant to this division
shall be subject to appeal as set forth in §
115.21.
   (B)   A license granted pursuant to this section shall be subject to annual
renewal upon the written application of the applicant and a finding by the city
that the applicant has not been convicted of any specified criminal activity as
defined in this chapter, or committed any act during the existence of the
previous license which would be grounds to deny the initial license
application. The renewal of the license shall be subject to the payment of the
fee as set forth in §
115.17.
   (C)   Within 30 days after receipt of a completed sexually oriented business
application, the city shall approve or deny the issuance of a license to an
applicant. The city shall approve the issuance of a license to an applicant,
unless it is determined by a preponderance of the evidence that one or more of
the following findings is true:
      (1)   An applicant is under 18 years of age.
      (2)   An applicant or a person with whom the applicant is residing is
overdue in payment of the city's taxes, fees, fines or penalties assessed
against or imposed upon him/her in relation to any business.
      (3)   An applicant has failed to provide information reasonably necessary
for issuance of the license, or has falsely answered a question or request for
information on the application form.
      (4)   An applicant has been denied a license by the city to operate a
sexually oriented business within the preceding 12 months, or whose license to
operate a sexually oriented business has been revoked within the preceding 12
months.
      (5)   An applicant has been convicted of a specified criminal activity as
defined in this chapter.
      (6)   The premises to be used for the sexually oriented business have not
been approved by the Health Department, Fire Department, and Building Officials
as being in compliance with applicable laws and ordinances.
      (7)   The license fee required by this chapter has not been paid.
      (8)   An applicant of the proposed establishment is in violation of or is
not in compliance with any one or more of the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   The license, if granted shall state on its face the name of the person
or persons to whom it is granted, the expiration date, the address of the
sexually oriented business, and the classification for which the license is
issued, as set forth in the Zoning Ordinance. All licenses shall be posted in a
conspicuous place at or near the entrance to the sexually oriented business, so
that they may be easily read at any time.
   (E)   The Health Department, Fire Department, and Building Officials shall
complete their certification that the premises is in compliance or not in
compliance within 20 days of receipt of the application by the city.
   (F)   A sexually oriented business license shall be issued for only one
sexually oriented business classification.
(Ord. passed 2-13-01)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 115.17 FEES.
   (A)   Every application for a sexually oriented business license (whether
for a new license or for renewal of an existing license) shall be accompanied
by a $250 non-refundable application and investigation fee.
   (B)   In addition to the application and investigation fee requited in
division (A), above, every sexually oriented business that is granted a license
(new or renewal) shall pay to the city an annual non-refundable license fee of
$100 within 30 days of license issuance or renewal.
   (C)   Every application for a sexually oriented business employee license
(whether for new license or for renewal of an existing license) shall be
accompanied by an annual $25 non-refundable application, investigation, and
license fee.
   (D)   All license applications and fees shall be submitted to the City Tax
Collector's office.
(Ord. passed 2-13-01)
§ 115.18 EXPIRATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Each license shall expire one year from the date of issuance and may
be renewed only by making application as provided in §
115.15. Application for renewal shall be made at least 30 days before the
expiration date, and when made less than 30 days before the expiration date,
the expiration of the license will not be affected.
   (B)   When the city denies renewal of a license, the applicant shall not be
issued a license for one year from the date of denial. If, subsequent to
denial, the city finds that the basis for denial of the renewal license has
been corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted a license, if at least
90 days have elapsed since the date denial became final.
(Ord. passed 2-13-01)
§ 115.19 SUSPENSION.
   The city shall suspend a license for a period not to exceed 30 days if it
determines that a licensee or an employee of a licensee has:
   (A)   Violated or is not in compliance with any section of this chapter;
   (B)   Refused to allow an inspection of the sexually oriented business
premises as authorized by this chapter.
(Ord. passed 2-13-01)
§ 115.20 REVOCATION.
   (A)   The city shall revoke a license if a cause of suspension as set forth
in §
115.19 occurs and the license has been suspended within the preceding 12
months.
   (B)   The city shall revoke a license if it determines that:
      (1)   A licensee gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted during the application process;
      (2)   A licensee has knowingly allowed possession, use, or sale of
controlled substances on the premises;
      (3)   A licensee has knowingly allowed prostitution on the premises;
      (4)   A licensee knowingly operated the sexually oriented business during
a period of time when the licensee's license was suspended;
      (5)   Except in the case of an adult motel, a licensee has knowingly
allowed any act of sexual intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation,
or other sex act to occur in or on the licensed premises; or
      (6)   A licensee is delinquent in payment to the city, county, or state
for any taxes or fees past due.
   (C)   When the city revokes a license, the revocation shall continue for one
year, and the licensee shall not be issued a sexually oriented business license
for one year from the date the revocation became effective. If, subsequent to
revocation, the city finds that the basis for the revocation has been corrected
or abated, the applicant may be granted a license, if at least 90 days have
elapsed since the date the revocation became effective.
(Ord. passed 2-13-01)
§ 115.21 APPEAL.
   After dental of an application, or denial of a renewal of an application, or
suspension or revocation of any license, the applicant or licensee may seek
prompt judicial review in the nature of a mandamus action of such
administrative action in any court of competent jurisdiction. The city shall
answer a complaint within 15 days of service (as opposed to the typical 30-day
answer period) and will not seek more than a five-day extension of time to
answer, if any. The city will consent to and join in a request by the applicant
for an expedited hearing, trial or other proceeding.
(Ord. passed 2-13-01)
§ 115.22 TRANSFER.
   A licensee shall not transfer his/her license to another, nor shall a
licensee operate a sexually oriented business under the authority of a license
at any place other than the address designated in the application.
(Ord. passed 2-13-01)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 116: COMMERCIAL SOLICITATION
Section
   
116.01   Intent
   
116.02   Definitions
   
116.03   Permit required
   
116.04   Permit application
   
116.05   Procedures for considering application
   
116.06   Permit renewal
   
116.07   Appeals
   
116.08   Revocation of permit
   
116.09   Exemptions
   
116.10   Solicitation regulated near rights-of-way
 
   
116.99   Penalty
§ 116.01 INTENT.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate door-to-door salesmen, itinerant
merchants, and peddlers doing business in the city, and to thereby promote the
public safety, health, and welfare.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 116.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. A person, other than a merchant with an established
retail store in the city, who (i) transports an inventory of goods to a
building, vacant lot, or other location in the city, and who, at that location,
displays the goods for sale and sells the goods at retail or offers the goods
for sale at retail, or (ii) travels from place to place with an inventory of
goods, who sells the goods at retail, and who delivers the identical goods (a
PEDDLER); or (iii) a person who travels from dwelling to dwelling selling or
offering for sale or taking orders for the sale of goods, wares, magazines,
periodicals, services or other merchandise of any kind (a DOOR-TO-DOOR
SALESMAN) This definition shall not apply to food truck operators, which are
regulated by the city's Unified Development Ordinance. This definition shall
apply to pyrotechnic sales tents, unprepared food sales from vehicles, tents,
or other such facilities, and any other such temporary sales not otherwise
permitted by the city's Unified Development Ordinance.
   PERSON. An individual, a firm, an association, a partnership, a limited
liability company, a corporation, or another group acting as a unit.
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. 02-2023, passed 4-11-23)
§ 116.03 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall conduct any business within the city as an itinerant
merchant until such person has obtained a commercial solicitation permit, in
accordance with this chapter and has paid an administrative fee to the city of
$50 for processing of the permit.
   (B)   No person shall conduct any business within the city as a door-to-door
salesman, itinerant merchant, or peddler unless:
      (1)   Such activity occurs between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m.;
      (2)   The commercial solicitation permit is carried at all times by the
permittee when engaged in the activity and is displayed when requested by any
police officer or person solicited; and
      (3)   All other permits or licenses required by law have been obtained.
(Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. 02-2023, passed 4-11-23)
§ 116.04 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   Applications for commercial solicitation permits under this chapter
shall be submitted to the city on a form, provided by the city, and shall
include, but not be limited to, the following information:
      (1)   The full name of the applicant;
      (2)   The permanent residence address of the applicant;
      (3)   The applicant's temporary address in or in the vicinity of the
city, if applicable;
      (4)   The name and address of the applicant's employer or the
organization with which the applicant is associated in connection with
activity;
      (5)   The type(s) of goods, wares, merchandise, food, periodicals or
services to be sold, offered for sale, displayed, or delivered;
      (6)   The period for which the application is sought, which shall not
exceed one year from the date of issuance of the permit, except that permits
may be renewed in accordance with §
116.06;
      (7)   A record of all crimes of which the applicant has been convicted or
has pleaded no contest in the ten years preceding the submittal of the
application;
      (8)   The age and height of the applicant and any other additional
information which the city may reasonably require for identification, including
a copy of the document(s) used by the applicant to verify personal
identification (e.g., driver's license, passport, picture I.D.); and
      (9)   A complete listing of and information concerning all other permits
or licenses, which were obtained by the applicant.
   (B)   If an application is filed by an employer, there shall also be filed
separate applications for each individual engaging in the activity, giving the
information set forth above for each such individual and signed and sworn to by
each such individual, and a separate permit shall be issued for each such
individual.
(Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. 02-2023, passed 4-11-23)
§ 116.05 PROCEDURES FOR CONSIDERING APPLICATION.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a complete application, the Planning and Development
Director, or their designee, shall make such investigation as is reasonably
necessary to verify the information in the application and to assure compliance
with the provisions of this chapter and shall issue a permit unless the
applicant:
      (1)   Has not submitted a complete application, along with the
administrative fee for the permit;
      (2)   Is not permitted by law to engage in the activity due to age;
      (3)   Has been convicted of, or has pleaded no contest to, a felony
charge within the ten years preceding the submittal of the application;
      (4)   Has been, within the previous five years, convicted of, or pleaded
no contest to, a misdemeanor charge under G.S. § 66-257, or a misdemeanor
charge, involving theft, fraud, forging, uttering, or other crimes of like
nature or any crime involving moral turpitude;
      (5)   Does not have valid driving privileges in the state in those cases
where the applicant will be operating a vehicle in the course and scope of the
commercial solicitation;
      (6)   Has not obtained all other necessary licenses, permits, or
inspections, including privilege licenses;
      (7)   Has not provided written permission from the property owner for the
location where the commercial operations shall take place (this section shall
not apply to peddler or door-to-door sales operations);
      (8)   Proposes to display goods for retail sale on a residentially-zoned
parcel;
      (9)   Proposes to display goods for sale at a single location or
combination of locations for more than 14 days in a calendar year.
   (B)   The Police Chief shall have up to 72 hours to approve or deny an
application and issue a permit.
(Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. 02-2023, passed 4-11-23)
§ 116.06 PERMIT RENEWAL.
   Commercial solicitation permits may be renewed by following the procedures
in §§
116.04 and
116.05.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 116.07 APPEALS.
   he appeal of a refusal to issue a permit or the revocation of a permit shall
be made to the City Manager by filing a written notice of appeal, specifying
with particularity the grounds upon which the appeal is made, no later than
then days from the date of the refusal to issue a permit or the revocation of a
permit. The City Manager shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of the
appeal, shall give due notice to all parties, and shall render a decision
within a reasonable time. The order or decision of the City Manager shall be
final municipal action for the purpose of judicial review.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 116.08 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   Permits issued under this chapter may be revoked by the Police Chief, after
notice and hearing, for any of the following causes:
   (A)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for the permit;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in connection
with the selling of goods, wares, merchandise and services;
   (C)   Any violation of this code and/or other ordinance of the city;
   (D)   Conducting the activity under this code and/or any ordinance of the
city in an unlawful manner or in such a manner as to constitute a breach of the
peace or to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals or general
welfare of the public; and
   (E)   Where evidence is presented, it is shown that the applicant has been
arrested for a felony or a misdemeanor under G.S. § 66-257 or a misdemeanor
involving theft, fraud, forgery, moral turpitude, criminal trespass, or a
threat to the public safety during the permit period, or has otherwise violated
the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 116.09 EXEMPTIONS.
   TThe following are exempt from the provisions of this chapter:
   (A)   The delivery of goods or services which have been ordered before
delivery;
   (B)   The circulation of petitions for signature or lawful distribution of
advertising materials, flyers, or materials expressing views on political,
social, or religious matters;
   (C)   The lawful promotion or expression of views concerning political,
social, religious and other like matters;
   (D)   The selling or offering for sale of goods, wares, merchandise, food,
periodicals or services by bona fide members or representatives of charitable,
religious, civic, educational or fraternal organizations who have either a 501
(c) letter from the Internal Revenue Service, and/or are foreign or North
Carolina nonprofit corporations, and/or are licenses with the Secretary of
State, Charitable Solicitation Licensing Division, and who receive no
compensation of any kind for their services, and such sale or offering by
children under the age of 18 years who are students in a public or private
school for school activities;
   (E)   The solicitation of contributions or pledges thereof for bona fide
nonprofit organizations;
   (F)   The selling or delivery of goods to business establishments; and
   (G)   The selling of an individual's household personal property at a yard
sale (on residential properly only) or sales and services of nominal profit by
children under the age of 18 years, on the premises of the individual's
residence;
   (H)   Any person or group who holds a permit issued under the Code of
Ordinances Ch. 95.
(Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. 02-2023, passed 4-11-23)
§ 116.10 COMMERCIAL SOLICITATION PROHIBITED NEAR RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   No person shall stand or loiter in the main traveled portion,
including the shoulders and median, of any city or state highway or street, or
stop any motor vehicle for the purpose of soliciting employment, business or
contributions from the driver or occupant of any motor vehicle that impedes the
normal movement of traffic on the public highways or streets; provided that the
provisions of this section shall not apply to:
      (1)   Licensees, employees or contractors of the Department of
Transportation or of any municipality engaged in construction or maintenance or
in making traffic or engineering surveys; or
      (2)   As provide below.
   (B)   No person shall conduct any business as an itinerant merchant or
peddler within 20 feet of any right-of-way in the city, or on any sidewalk
without a permit as provide above.
   (C)   Only individuals over the age of 15 may solicit motor vehicles on
roads other than state-maintained roads to solicit employment, business or
contributions, or deliver or offer to deliver a tangible thing to an occupant
of a motor vehicle if:
      (1)   The vehicle is traveling on a street that has a speed limit of 35
mph or less.
      (2)   The vehicle is in one of the following locations:
         (a)   On a two-way street and the vehicle is located in the travel
lane that is rightmost from the driver's viewpoint;
         (b)   On a one-way street with two or more travel lanes and the
vehicle is located in the travel lane that is rightmost or leftmost from the
driver's view point;
         (c)   On a street with one travel lane, and the vehicle is located in
the travel lane; and
      (3)   The vehicle is approaching a traffic signal or sign the requires
the vehicle to come to a complete stop; and
      (4)   The individual is on a paved sidewalk.
      (5)   The individual may only solicit during daylight hours. Daylight
hours are from 20 minutes after sunrise to 20 minutes before sunset.
      (6)   The individual must wear Class II or Class III ANSI 107-2004
outerwear that is reasonably clean and in good repair. No more than four square
inches of the outerwear may be obscured by anything attached to or resting on
the outerwear.
      (7)   The individual may not carry or display a sing greater than two
square feet in area, or display anything with illuminated, animated, blinking,
chasing, flashing, or moving effects that may be seen by a person with 20-20
vision from a distance of four feet.
      (8)   Individuals may not solicit in work zones.
      (9)   While delivery or offer to deliver is occurring, it is not a
violation of this ordinance if the driver of the vehicle comes to a complete
stop in order to comply with a traffic signal or a stop sign.
      (10)   It is not a violation of this chapter if the individual is on the
side of the vehicle closest to the edge of the road way while delivering or
offering to deliver a tangible thing to a vehicle or accept a tangible thing
from a vehicle.
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. 02-2023, passed 4-11-23)
§ 116.99 PENALTY.
   Commercial solicitation without a permit or otherwise in violation of any of
the provisions of this chapter, including failing to surrender a revoked
permit, shall constitute a criminal misdemeanor and shall subject the offender
to a fine of not more than $500 or imprisonment for not more than 30 days or a
civil penalty under §
10.99 of this Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. passed - - )
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
Chapter
   
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Damage to city property
   
130.02   Firearms
   
130.03   Spitting on sidewalks or public buildings
   
130.04   Playing on streets and sidewalks
   
130.05   Burning on pavement
§ 130.01 DAMAGE TO CITY PROPERTY.
   No person shall injure, deface or otherwise damage any property belonging to
the city or to any department of the city. The scope of this prohibition
includes, but is not limited to cemetery property, waterworks and property of
the Fire Department.
(`90 Code, § 13-1)
Penalty, see § 10.99
Statutory reference:
   Damage to public building, see G.S. § 14-132
   Damaging property, see G.S. §§ 14-127, 14-128, 14-149
   Injury to property of public utility, see G.S. § 62-323
§ 130.02 FIREARMS.
   (A)   No person shall shoot or discharge within the corporate limits of the
city or upon any property owned by the city any gun, pistol or similar device
which constitutes a deadly weapon. The Chief of Police or any member of the
Police Department is authorized to seize and hold subject to order of the court
any such gun, pistol or any similar device which constitutes a deadly weapon,
which shall be used, shot or discharged within the city or upon any property
owned by the city in violation of this section. Violation of this section shall
constitute a misdemeanor and be punishable by a fine or imprisonment or both.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall interfere with acts taken properly
pursuant to §
92.26.
   (C)   It shall be a defense to a charge under this section that the firearm
was discharged in lawful defense of person or property, or pursuant to the
lawful directions of a law enforcement officer.
(`90 Code, § 13-2)
Penalty, see § 10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see G.S. § 160A-189
§ 130.03 SPITTING ON SIDEWALKS OR PUBLIC BUILDINGS.
   No person shall spit on the sidewalks of the city or upon the steps, floors,
walls or any other part of any public building.
(`90 Code, § 13-3)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 130.04 PLAYING ON STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   Unless expressly allowed by a permit issued pursuant to
Chapter 95, no person shall play any game or throw any stone, ball or other
missile in or on the streets or sidewalks of the city.
(`90 Code, § 13-5; Am. Ord. passed 8-9-05)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 130.05 BURNING ON PAVEMENT.
   No person shall burn any refuse or other material on the paved streets or
sidewalks of the city.
(`90 Code, § 13-6)
Penalty, see § 10.99
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
Chapter
   
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
   
151.   HOUSING AND BUILDING CODE
   
152.   RESERVED
   
153.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
   
154.   RESERVED
   
155.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
   
156.   ZONING CODE
   
157.   RIPARIAN BUFFERS
   
158.   RESERVED
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
   
150.01   Applicability of codes
   
150.02   State Building Code rules and regulations adopted
   
150.03   Codes on file
   
150.04   Building Inspector
   
150.05   Building permit fees
§ 150.01 APPLICABILITY OF CODES.
   The provisions of this chapter and the regulatory codes herein adopted shall
apply to the following:
   (A)   The location, design, materials, equipment, construction,
reconstruction, alternation, repair, maintenance, moving, demolition, renewal,
use and occupancy of every building or structure of every kind, or any
appurtenances connected or attached to the building or structure of every kind.
   (B)   The installation, erection, alteration, repair, use and maintenance of
plumbing systems consisting of house sewers, building drains, waste and vent
systems, hot and cold water supply systems and all fixtures and appurtenances
thereof.
   (C)   The installation, erection, alteration, repair, use and maintenance of
mechanical systems consisting of heating, ventilating, air conditioning and
refrigeration systems, fuel-burning equipment and appurtenances thereof.
   (D)   The installation, erection, alteration, repair, use and maintenance of
electrical systems and appurtenances thereof.
(`90 Code, § 4-1; Am. Ord. passed 9-12-02)
§ 150.02 STATE BUILDING CODE RULES AND REGULATIONS ADOPTED.
   All state rules, regulations and standards adopted by the North Carolina
Building Code Council or other state agency authorized to regulate the matters
set forth in § 150.01 are hereby adopted by reference as the Building Code of
the city, to ensure safe and stable design, methods of construction, minimum
standards and use of materials in buildings or structures hereafter erected,
enlarged, altered, repaired or otherwise constructed or reconstructed.
(`90 Code, § 4-4) (Am. Ord. passed 9-12-02)
§ 150.03 CODES ON FILE.
   Copies of all codes adopted by this chapter shall be kept on file in the
office of the Building Inspector.
(`90 Code, § 4-8) (Am. Ord. passed 9-12-02)
§ 150.04 BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   There is created the office of Building Inspector, which shall be
filled by appointment by the City Manager.
   (B)   The Building Inspector shall:
      (1)   Prepare and submit to the City Council a report covering the
activities of his or her office annually or as required by the City Council.
      (2)   Condemn the buildings or premises that exist in violation of this
chapter and fire and health laws.
      (3)   Inspect all buildings repaired, altered or constructed to ascertain
if the construction, alteration or repairs conform to the permit issued.
      (4)   Issue building permits in accordance with State Building Code
provisions, rules, regulations, and standards.
      (5)   Perform all of the duties and responsibilities set forth in state
law and enforce all of the building inspection provisions set forth in G.S. Ch.
160A, Art. 5.
(`90 Code, § 4-2) (Am. Ord. passed 9-12-02)
Statutory reference:
   Administrative search and inspection warrant, see G.S. § 15-27.2
§ 150.05 BUILDING PERMIT FEES.
   Building permit fees, in amounts which are kept on file in the office of the
City Clerk, shall be paid to the Building Inspector prior to the issuance of
the permit and the beginning of construction.
(`90 Code, § 4-3) (Am. Ord. passed 9-12-02)
CHAPTER 151: HOUSING AND BUILDING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   How chapter known and cited
   
151.02   Intent and findings of the City Council
   
151.03   Purpose and scope
   
151.04   Owner’s responsibilities generally
   
151.05   Occupants’ responsibilities generally
   
151.06   Conditions rendering residential buildings unfit for human habitation
   
151.07   Declaration of unsafe non-residential building or structure
   
151.08   Unlawful to rent or occupy property after expiration of time limits
under any orders issued pursuant to this chapter
   
151.09   Unauthorized removal of orders, notices
   
151.10   Definitions
   
151.11   Chapter supplemental; alternative remedies
Administrative and Enforcement
   
151.20   Duties and powers of enforcing agent(s)
   
151.21   Preliminary investigation; issuance of complaint; hearing
   
151.22   Methods of service of complaints and orders
   
151.23   Determination, issuance of order after hearing
   
151.24   Failure to comply with order; Council may consider ordinance enforcing
order
   
151.25   Remedies; appeal by owner to Superior Court
   
151.26   Summary ejectment if occupants fail to obey order or ordinance to
vacate
   
151.27   Emergency enforcement
   
151.28   Collection of costs
Minimum Standards
   
151.40   International Property Maintenance Code - certain chapters and index
adopted as minimum standards
 
   
151.99   Penalties and fees
§ 151.01 HOW CHAPTER KNOWN AND CITED.
   This chapter shall be known, and cited as, as the “Minimum Housing and
Unsafe Building Code” and may be referred to herein as “this chapter.”
(Ord. passed 12-12-17)
§ 151.02 INTENT AND FINDINGS OF THE CITY COUNCIL.
   (A)   It is hereby found and declared that the existence and occupation of
dwellings in this city's jurisdiction that are unfit for human habitation are
inimical to the welfare and dangerous and injurious to the health, safety and
morals of the people of this city and county, and that a public necessity
exists for the repair, closing or demolition of such dwellings. Whenever this
city finds that there exists in the city dwellings that are unfit for human
habitation due to dilapidation, defects increasing the hazards of fire,
accidents or other calamities, lack of ventilation, light or sanitary
facilities, or due to other conditions rendering the dwellings unsafe or
unsanitary, or dangerous or detrimental to the health, safety, morals, or
otherwise inimical to the welfare of the residents of the city; and
   (B)   It is hereby found that when there exists within the city's
jurisdiction structures which the city Council find to be hazardous to the
health, safety and welfare of the residents of the city due to the attraction
of insects and/or snakes and/or rodents or conditions creating a fire hazard,
dangerous conditions constituting a threat to children or conditions creating a
fire hazard, dangerous conditions constituting a threat to children or
conditions creating frequent use by vagrants as living quarters in the absence
of sanitary facilities.
   (C)    The City Council is authorized by state law to exercise its police
powers to repair, close or demolish the dwellings in the manner herein
provided; and pursuant to the authority granted by G.S. § 160A-193, it is the
further intent of this ordinance to provide for the repair, closing or
demolition of any such unsafe or unsanitary dwellings, and abandoned structures
in accordance with the provisions as are set forth in this chapter for the
repair, closing or demolition of dwellings and/or structures, and to establish
minimum standards of fitness for the initial and continued occupancy of all
buildings used for human habitation.
(Ord. passed 12-12-17)
§ 151.03 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to stop, remedy and prevent the decay
and deterioration of places of habitation and to eliminate blighted
neighborhoods by providing minimum requirements for dwellings for the
protection of life, health, safety, welfare and property of the owners and
occupants of dwellings and the general public.
   (B)   Additionally, the purpose of this chapter is to stop, remedy and
prevent the decay and deterioration of places of non-residential buildings and
structures for the protection of life, health, safety, welfare and property of
the owners and occupants of non-residential buildings and the general public.
   (C)   The provisions of this chapter apply to all residential buildings, and
their accessory structures, all non-residential buildings and non-residential
structures within the city as now or may later be fixed. Demountable buildings
or structures when used, or intended to be used, for human habitation, shall be
subject to the applicable provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 12-12-17)
§ 151.04 OWNER'S RESPONSIBILITIES GENERALLY.
   (A)   An owner remains liable for duties imposed by the Chapter even though:
      (1)   An obligation is also imposed on the occupants; or
      (2)   The owner has, by agreement, imposed on the occupant(s) the duty of
furnishing required equipment or complying with this chapter.
      (3)   Public Areas. Every owner of a dwelling containing two or more
dwelling units shall be responsible for maintaining in a clean and sanitary
condition the shared or public area of the dwelling and premises thereof.
      (4)   In all cases, the owner shall be responsible for the availability
of rubbish and garbage storage facilities.
   (B)   It shall be a defense to §§
151.24 et seq. that violations of this chapter were caused solely by a tenant
(s) or tenants' guests. Owner(s) are responsible for ensuring that the dwelling
or building is brought into compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. passed 12-12-17)
§ 151.05 OCCUPANTS' RESPONSIBILITIES GENERALLY.
   Every occupant of a dwelling unit shall:
   (A)   Cleanliness. Keep that part of his or her dwelling and dwelling unit
and premises thereof which he or she occupies and controls in a clean and
sanitary condition.
   (B)   Rubbish and garbage. Dispose of all his or her rubbish and garbage in
a clean and sanitary manner by placing it in the supplied storage facilities.
   (C)   Supplied plumbing fixtures. Keep all supplied plumbing fixtures
therein in a sanitary condition and be responsible for the exercise of
reasonable care in the proper use and operation of same.
   (D)   Care of facilities, equipment and structure. Not destroy, deface, or
impair any of the facilities or equipment, or any part of the structure of a
dwelling or dwelling unit.
(Ord. passed 12-12-17)
§ 151.06 CONDITIONS RENDERING RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION.
   (A)   Every dwelling and dwelling unit used as a human habitation, or held
out for use as a human habitation shall comply with all of the minimum
standards of fitness for human habitation and all other applicable requirements
of this chapter.
   (B)   No person shall occupy as owner-occupant, or let to another for
occupancy or use as a human habitation any dwelling or dwelling unit which does
not comply with all of the minimum standards of fitness for human habitation
and all other applicable requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   The following standards shall constitute the minimum standards for
structural condition of a dwelling or dwelling unit. The inspector will
determine that a residential building is unfit for human habitation if any of
the following conditions exist:
      (1)   Walls or partitions or supporting members, sills, joists, rafters,
or other structural members list, lean or buckle, and/or are rotten,
deteriorated, or damaged, and/or have holes or cracks which might admit
rodents. Supporting members are not adequate if 33% or more are damaged or
deteriorated. Non-supporting, enclosing or outside walls or coverings are not
adequate if 55% or more are damaged or deteriorated.
      (2)   Floors or roofs have inadequate supporting members and strength to
be reasonably safe for the purpose used. Supporting members are not adequate if
33% or more are damaged or deteriorated. Non-supporting, enclosing or outside
walls or covering arc not adequate if 55% or more are damaged or deteriorated.
      (3)   Foundations, foundation walls, piers or other foundation supports
are deteriorated or damaged.
      (4)   Steps, stairs, landings, porches, or other parts and appurtenances
are maintained in such condition that they will fail or collapse.
      (5)   Adequate facilities for egress in case of fire or panic are not
provided.
      (6)   Interior walls and ceilings of all rooms, closets, and hallways are
not furnished of suitable materials, which will by use of reasonable household
methods promote sanitation and cleanliness, and are not maintained in such
manner so as to enable the occupants to maintain reasonable privacy between
various spaces.
      (7)   The roof, flashing, exterior walls, floors, and all doors and
windows exposed to the weather are not constructed and maintained so as to be
weather and watertight.
      (8)   Chimneys or parts thereof are defective, deteriorated or in danger
of falling, or in such condition or location as to constitute a fire hazard.
      (9)   The ground is used for floors, or wood floors are on the ground.
   (D)   Irrespective of division (A) above, the enforcing agent shall find
residential dwelling units to be unfit for human habitation if a dwelling unit
contains more than five separate types of violations of any of the minimum
standards set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. passed 12-12-17)
§ 151.07 DECLARATION OF UNSAFE NON-RESIDENTIAL BUILDING OR STRUCTURE.
   (A)   Every structure within the city's jurisdiction shall be deemed in
violation of this chapter whenever such structure constitutes a hazard to the
health, safety or welfare of the city citizens. The enforcing agent may declare
a non-residential structure or building to be unsafe as a result of:
      (1)   Vacancy or abandonment;
      (2)   Dilapidated conditions causing or contributing to blight, disease
and/or safety hazards;
      (3)   The attraction of insects and/or rodents and/or snakes including
the collection of garbage or rubbish in or near the structure which might
attract rodents and/or snakes and/or insects or become breeding places for
rodents and/or snakes and/or insects;
      (4)   Conditions creating a fire hazard;
      (5)   Dangerous conditions constituting a threat to children, such as the
use of such structure or nearby grounds or facilities by children as a play
area, or violations of the State Building Code which might result in danger to
children using the structure or facilities as a play area;
      (6)   Repeated use of such structure in the absence of sanitary
facilities, for living, sleeping, cooking or eating;
      (7)   In violation of the State Building Code, or the State Electrical
Code or the Fire Prevention Code which constitutes a fire hazard in such
structure or the International Property Management Code as adopted by the city
in §
151.40; and
      (8)   Violation of the standards established by the city in this chapter.
   (B)   It is the policy of the City Council to encourage property owners to
secure unoccupied buildings from entry temporarily, until the building may be
repaired or demolished. It shall be no defense to the enforcement of this
chapter that an unoccupied building has been secured from entry by boarding up
the doors, windows or other entry points. If a building remains unoccupied and
boarded up for a period of more than one year, it shall be taken as evidence
that the owner(s) have abandoned the intent and purpose to repair, alter or
improve the building.
(Ord. passed 12-12-17; Am. Ord. passed 3-19-18)
§ 151.08 UNLAWFUL TO RENT OR OCCUPY PROPERTY AFTER EXPIRATION OF TIME LIMITS
UNDER ANY ORDERS ISSUED PURSUANT TO THIS CHAPTER.
   (A)   If any order issued and served in accordance with this chapter
requires that a dwelling or dwelling unit be closed and vacated and said order
is not complied with within the time specified therein, it shall be unlawful
for any person that had knowledge of the issuance of the order to occupy any
portion of the building under order for any purpose.
   (B)   When the enforcing agent finds that a building is unfit for human
habitation within the meaning of this chapter and has notified the owner to
such effect and the time limit set by the inspector for the correction of
defects and vacating same has expired, it shall be unlawful for any person
(including, but not limited to, owner or owner's agent) to receive rentals,
offer for rent, or occupy said building/dwelling unit for any purpose.
(Ord. passed 12-12-17)
§ 151.09 UNAUTHORIZED REMOVAL OF ORDERS, NOTICES.
   No person, without the written consent of the inspector, shall remove or
permit the removal of any complaint, notice or order posted in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 12-12-17)
§ 151.10 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement
of this chapter.
   BASEMENT. A portion of a dwelling which is located partly underground,
having direct access to light and air from windows located above the level of
the adjoining ground.
   CELLAR. A portion of a dwelling which is located partly or wholly
underground having an adequate access to light and air from windows located
partly or wholly below of the adjoining ground.
   DETERIORATED. A dwelling may be unfit for human habitation and can be
repaired, altered, or improved to comply with all of the minimum standards
established by this chapter at a cost not in excess of 50% of its value, as
determined by the inspector.
   DILAPIDATED. A dwelling is unfit for human habitation and cannot be
improved, repaired, or altered to comply with all of the minimum standards
established by this chapter except at a cost in excess of 50% of its value, as
determined by the inspector.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, manufactured home or mobile home or part
thereof which is wholly or partly used or intended to be used for living,
sleeping or habitation by human occupants and includes any outhouses and
appurtenances belonging thereto or usually enjoyed therewith, except that it
does not include any manufactured home of health care home which is used solely
for a seasonal vacation purpose. Temporary housing, except for temporary family
health care structures as defined below, shall not be regarded as a dwelling.
The term dwelling shall include within its meaning the terms rooming house and
rooming unit, as hereinafter defined.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms located within a dwelling and
forming a single habitable unit with facilities which are used or intended to
be used for living, sleeping, cooking and eating.
   EXTERMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rodents or other
pests by removing or making inaccessible materials that may serve as their
food; by poisoning, spraying, fumigating, or trapping; or by any other
recognized and legal pest elimination methods approved by the inspector.
   GARBAGE. The waste resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking, and
consumption of food.
   GENDER. Words having a masculine gender shall include the feminine and
neuter gender.
   HABITABLE ROOM. A room or enclosed floor space used or intended to be used
for living, sleeping, cooking, or eating purposes, excluding bathroom, water
closet compartments, laundries, heater rooms, foyers, or communication
corridors, closets and storage spaces.
   INFESTATION. The presence, within or around a dwelling, or any insects,
rodents or other pests in such number as to constitute a menace to the health,
safety or welfare of the occupants or the public.
   INSPECTOR. The Roxboro City Manager or his or her designee or agent.
INSPECTOR shall be synonymous with "public officer," as that term is used in
G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 19, Part 6.
   MULTIPLE DWELLINGS. Any dwelling containing more than two dwelling units.
   OCCUPANCY. Any person over one year of age, living, sleeping, cooking or
eating in, or having actual possession of a dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming
unit.
   OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care or control of a building, or part
thereof, in which dwelling units or rooming units are let.
   OWNER. 
      (1)   Any person who alone, jointly, or severally with others:
         (a)   Shall have title to any dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming unit,
with or without accompanying actual possession thereof; or
         (b)   Shall be a mortgagee of record for any dwelling, dwelling unit
or rooming unit; or
         (c)   Shall have charge, care, or control of any dwelling, dwelling
unit or rooming unit, as owner or agent of the actual owner, or as executor,
executrix, administrator, administrix, trustee or guardian of the estate of the
actual owner.
      (2)   Any such person thus representing the actual owner shall be bound
to comply with the provisions of this chapter and of rules and regulations
adopted pursuant thereto, to the same extent as if he were the owner.
   PARTY or PARTIES-IN-INTEREST. All individuals, associations and corporations
who have interests of record in a non-residential building or structure,
dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming unit and any persons who are in possession
thereof.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization or other legal entity.
   PLUMBING. Shall mean and include all of the following supplied facilities
and equipment; gas pipes, gas burning equipment, water pipes, mechanical
garbage disposal units, (mechanical sink grinders), sewage disposal pipes,
water closets, sinks, installed dishwashers, lavatories, bathtubs, shower
baths, installed washing machines, catch basins, drains, vents, and any other
similar supplied fixtures, together with all connections to water, sewer or gas
lines.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Any officer who is in charge of any department or branch
of the government of the City of Carthage or person, county, or the State of
North Carolina relating to health, fire, building regulations or other
activities concerning dwellings in the city.
   ROOMING HOUSE. Any dwelling, or that part of any dwelling containing one or
more rooming units, in which space is let by the owner or operator to four or
more persons who are not husband and wife, son or daughter, mother or father,
or sister or brother of the owner of operator.
   ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
used or intended to be used for living or sleeping but not for cooking or
eating purposes.
   RUBBISH. Non-food waste materials. The term shall include items such as:
paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior, rubber, leather, tree branches,
yard trimmings, tin cans, metals, mineral, glass and dust.
   SUPPLIED. Paid for, furnished, or provided by, or under the control of, the
owner or operator.
   TEMPORARY FAMILY HEALTH CARE STRUCTURE. A transportable residential
structure as authorized by G.S. § 160A-383.5, providing an environment
facilitating a caregiver's provision of care for a mentally or physically
impaired person that is:
      (1)   Primarily assembled at a location other than its site of
installation;
      (2)   Is limited to one occupant who shall be the mentally or physically
impaired person;
      (3)   Has no more than 300 gross square feet; and
      (4)   Complies with applicable provisions of the State Building Code and
G.S. § 143-139.1(b). These structures are deemed to be permitted accessory
structures by state law.
   TEMPORARY HOUSING. Any tent, trailer or other structure used for human
shelter, which is designed to be transportable and which is not attached to the
ground, to another structure, or to any utilities on the same premises for more
than 30 consecutive days.
   UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION. Conditions exist in a dwelling, dwelling unit,
rooming house, or rooming unit which violate or do not comply with one or more
of the minimum standards of fitness or one or more of the requirements
established by this chapter.
   VACANT INDUSTRIAL WAREHOUSE. Any building or structure designed for the
storage of goods or equipment in connection with manufacturing processes, which
has not been used for that purpose for at least one year and has not been
converted to another use.
   VACANT MANUFACTURING FACILITY. Any building or structure previously used for
the lawful production or manufacturing of goods, which has not been used for
that purpose for at least one year and has not been converted to another use.
   WORDS HAVING CERTAIN MEANING. Whenever the words “dwelling, dwelling unit,
rooming house, rooming unit, or premises” are used in this chapter, they shall
be construed as though they were followed by the words “or any part thereof.”
(Ord. passed 12-12-17)
§ 151.11 CHAPTER SUPPLEMENTAL; ALTERNATIVE REMEDIES.
   This chapter shall not be construed to impair or limit in any way the power
of the city to define and declare nuisances and to cause their abatement by
summary action or otherwise, or to enforce this chapter by criminal process as
authorized by G.S. § 14-4 or to enforce this chapter by civil action pursuant
to G.S. § 160A-175. The enforcement of any remedy provided in this chapter
shall not prevent the enforcement of any other remedy or remedies provided
herein or in other ordinances or laws.
(Ord. passed 12-12-17)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 151.20 DUTIES AND POWERS OF ENFORCING AGENT(S).
   (A)   The inspector is hereby designated as the officer to enforce the
provisions of this chapter. It shall be the duty of the inspector to:
      (1)   Locate abandoned structures within the city and its
extraterritorial jurisdiction and determine which structures are in violation
of this chapter;
      (2)   Take such action pursuant to this chapter as may be necessary to
provide for the repair, closing or demolition of such structures;
      (3)   Keep an accurate record of all enforcement proceedings begun
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter and to keep a record of the results
of inspections made under this chapter and an inventory of those dwellings that
do not meet the minimum standards of fitness herein prescribed;
      (4)   Perform such other duties as may be prescribed in this chapter or
assigned to him or her by the Roxboro City Council.
   (B)   The inspector is granted and permitted such powers as may be necessary
to carry out the intent and the provisions of this chapter, including the
following powers in addition to others granted in this chapter:
      (1)   To investigate the conditions of buildings within the city and its
extraterritorial jurisdiction in order to determine which structures are
abandoned and in violation of this chapter; and
      (2)   To obtain administrative search warrant(s) pursuant to G.S. § 15-
27.2.
      (3)   To enter upon premises for the purpose of making inspections; and
      (4)   To administer oaths and affirmations, examine witnesses and receive
evidence; and
      (5)   To designate such other officers, agents and employees of the city
as he or she deems necessary to carry out the provisions of this chapter.
      (6)    To investigate the conditions, and to inspect dwellings and
dwelling units located in the city, in order to determine which dwellings and
dwelling units are unfit for human habitation, and for the purpose of carrying
out the objectives of this chapter with respect to such dwellings and dwelling
units;
      (7)   To take such action, together with other appropriate departments
and agencies, public and private, as may be necessary to effect rehabilitation
of housing which is deteriorated;
(Ord. passed 12-12-17; Am. Ord. 03-2023, passed 4-11-23)
§ 151.21 PRELIMINARY INVESTIGATION; ISSUANCE OF COMPLAINT; HEARING.
   Whenever the inspector finds any building or structure or portion thereof to
be hazardous to the health, safety and welfare of the residents of the city as
defined in in this chapter, or if a petition is filed with the office of the
inspector by at least five residents of the city charging that any structure
exists in violation of this chapter, or whenever it appears to the inspector,
upon inspection, that any structure exists in violation hereof, he shall, if
his preliminary investigation disclosed a basis for such charges, issue and
cause to be served upon the owner of and parties-in-interest in such structure
a complaint. Such complaint shall state the charges and contain a notice that a
hearing will be held before the inspector at the location of the property
subject to the complaint, or at another location within the city limits not
less than ten days nor more than 30 days after the serving of the complaint.
The owner or any party-in-interest shall have the right to file an answer to
the complaint and to appear in person, or otherwise, and give testimony at the
place and time fixed in the complaint. Any person desiring to do so may attend
such hearing and give evidence relevant to the matter being heard. The rules of
evidence prevailing in courts of law or equity shall be not controlling in
these hearings.
(Ord. passed 12-12-17)
§ 151.22 METHODS OF SERVICE OF COMPLAINTS AND ORDERS.
   (A)   Complaints or orders issued by the inspector pursuant to this chapter
shall be served upon persons either personally or by registered or certified
mail. When service is made by registered or certified mail, a copy of the
complaint or order will also be sent by regular mail. Service shall be deemed
sufficient if the registered or certified mail is unclaimed or refused, but the
regular mail is not returned by the post office within ten days after the
mailing. If regular mail is used, a notice of the pending proceedings shall be
posted in a conspicuous place on the premises affected.
   (B)   If the whereabouts of such persons are unknown and cannot be
ascertained by the inspector in the exercise of reasonable diligence, or, if
the owners are known but have refused to accept service by registered or
certified mail, and the inspector shall make an affidavit to that effect, and
the serving of such complaint, ordinance or order upon such person may be made
by publication in a newspaper having general circulation in the city at least
once, no later than the time at which personal service is required. Where
service is made by publication, a notice of the pending proceedings shall be
posted in a conspicuous place on the premises affected by the complaint or
order.
   (C)   That whenever a determination is made pursuant to §
151.23 of this chapter that a dwelling must be vacated and closed, or removed
or demolished, notice of the order shall be given by first-class mail to any
organization involved in providing or restoring dwellings for affordable
housing that has filed a written request for such notices. A minimum period of
45 days from the mailing of such notice shall be given before removal or
demolition by action of the inspector, to allow the opportunity for any
organization to negotiate with the owner to make repairs, lease, or purchase
the property for the purpose of providing affordable housing. The inspector or
City Clerk shall certify the mailing of the notices, and the certification
shall be conclusive in the absence of fraud. Only an organization that has
filed a written request for such notices may raise the issue of failure to mail
such notices, and the sole remedy shall be an order requiring the inspector to
wait 45 days before causing removal or demolition.
(Ord. passed 12-12-17)
§ 151.23 DETERMINATION, ISSUANCE OF ORDER AFTER HEARING.
   (A)   Determination for dwellings. After such notice and hearing as provided
in §
151.21, if the inspector finds that the dwelling under consideration is unfit
for human habitation he or she shall state in writing his or her findings of
fact in support of that determination. The inspector shall issue and cause to
be served upon the owner thereof an order to repair, alter, and improve such
structure or remove or demolish the same within a specified period of time.
   (B)   Determination for all other buildings and structures. If, after notice
and hearing, the inspector determines that the non-residential building or
structure has not been properly maintained so that the safety or health of its
occupants or members of the general public is jeopardized for failure of the
property to meet the minimum standards established by this chapter, the
inspector shall state in writing findings of fact in support of that
determination and shall issue and cause to be served upon the owner thereof an
order.
   (C)   Limitations on order.
      (1)   If the repair, alteration or improvement of the dwelling or
abandoned structure can be made at a cost of either (i) no more than 50% of the
value of the dwelling or building, as determined and published most recently by
the County Tax Assessor, or (ii) a reasonable cost in relation to the value of
the building or structure, the order may require the owner, within the time
specified, to repair, alter, or improve the building, structure or dwelling in
order to render it fit for human habitation or, in the case of non-residential
buildings to bring it into compliance with the standards of this chapter within
a reasonable period of time, which takes into account the scope of the required
repairs. The order may require that the property be vacated and closed only if
continued occupancy during the time allowed for repair will present a
significant threat of bodily harm, taking into account the nature of the
necessary repairs, alterations, or improvements; the current state of the
property; and any additional risks due to the presence and capacity of minors
under the age of 18, or occupants with physical or mental disabilities. The
order shall state that the failure to make timely repairs as directed in the
order shall make the dwelling subject to the issuance of an unfit order under §
151.25, or;
      (2)   (a)   If the repair, alteration or improvement of the dwelling,
building, or structure can be made at a cost of either (i) more than 50% of the
value of the dwelling or building, as determined and published most recently by
the County Tax Assessor, or (ii) an unreasonable cost in relation to the value
of the building or structure, the order may require the owner, within the time
specified, to remove or demolish the structure or dwelling within a reasonable
period of time which takes into account the scope of the required repairs.
         (b)   Historic exception. However, notwithstanding any other provision
of law and this chapter, if the building, structure, or dwelling is located in
the Historic Landmarks and Preservation Overlay district and the Historic
Preservation Commission (if any) determines, after a public hearing as provided
by ordinance, that the dwelling is of particular significance or value toward
maintaining the character of the district, and the dwelling has not been
condemned as unsafe, the order may require that the dwelling be vacated and
closed consistent with state law.
      (3)   General exception for vacant manufacturing or industrial
facilities. An order may not require repairs, alterations, or improvements to
be made to vacant manufacturing facilities or vacant industrial warehouse
facilities to preserve the original use. The order may require such building or
structure to be vacated and closed, but repairs may be required only when
necessary to maintain structural integrity or to abate a health or safety
hazard that cannot be remedied by ordering the building or structure closed for
any use.
(Ord. passed 12-12-17; Am. Ord. 03-2023, passed 4-11-23)
§ 151.24 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ORDER; COUNCIL MAY CONSIDER ORDINANCE ENFORCING
ORDER.
   (A)   Remedy. If the owner of any unsafe, unfit or abandoned dwelling,
building structure as defined in this chapter shall fail to comply with an
order of the inspector to repair, alter, or improve, vacate and close the same
within the time specified therein, the inspector may either request an
emergency meeting with the City Council or place the matter on the agenda of
the next scheduled Council meeting. At the meeting the Council may consider an
ordinance finding that failure to comply with the order jeopardized the public
health safety and welfare of the general public and/or the occupants of the
building structure or dwelling. If the Council finds that the public or
occupant's health and safety are jeopardized, the Council shall adopt an
chapter:
      (1)   Describing the property;
      (2)   Listing the Council's findings;
      (3)   Directing that the chapter be recorded in the person county
registry and indexed in the grantor index in the name of the property owner(s);
and
      (4)   Directing that the inspector cause the building or dwelling to be
repaired, altered and repaired or vacated and closed. If the building or
dwelling is to be closed the ordinance will direct the inspector to post the
property with a placard reading:
         (a)   For non-residential buildings. “This building is unfit for any
use; the use or occupation of this building for any purpose is prohibited and
unlawful;” or
         (b)   For dwellings. “This building is unfit for human habitation; the
use or occupation of this building for human habitation is prohibited and
unlawful.”
   (B)   Any person who occupies or knowingly allows the occupancy of a non-
residential building or structure so posted shall be guilty of a Class 3
misdemeanor. Any person who occupies or knowingly allows the occupancy of a
dwelling so posted shall be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor.
   (C)   Further in rem remedy - demolition. If the City Council has adopted an
ordinance ordering a dwelling to be repaired, vacated or closed under §
151.24(A), and if the owner fails to comply with that chapter in regard to a
residence in one year or a two years in the case of non-residential buildings
or structures, the Council may consider another ordinance if the Council finds
that: the owner has abandoned the intent and purpose to repair, alter or
improve the building, structure or dwelling in order to render it fit for human
habitation or, for non-residential buildings, to have abandoned the intention
to repair and that the continuation of the dwelling in its vacated and closed
status would be inimical to the health, safety, morals and welfare of Carthage
in that the dwelling would continue to deteriorate, would create a fire and
safety hazard, would be a threat to children and vagrants, would attract
persons intent on criminal activities, would cause or contribute to blight and
the deterioration of property values in the area, and would render unavailable
property and a dwelling which might otherwise have been made available to ease
the persistent shortage of decent and affordable housing in the city. Any
chapter enacted shall set forth the following:
      (1)   If it is determined that the repair of the dwelling to render it
fit for human habitation can be made at a cost not exceeding 50% of the then
current value of the dwelling, the ordinance shall require that the owner
either repair or demolish and remove the building, structure or dwelling within
90 days; or
      (2)   If it is determined that the repair of the dwelling to render it
fit for human habitation cannot be made at a cost not exceeding 50% of the then
current value of the dwelling, the chapter shall require the owner to demolish
and remove the building, structure or dwelling within 90 days.
      (3)   Any ordinance so adopted shall be served on the owner of the
property and recorded in the Person County Office of the Register of Deeds and
shall be indexed in the name of the property owner in the grantor index.
      (4)   If the owner fails to comply with this ordinance, the inspector
shall effectuate the purpose of the chapter.
(Ord. passed 12-12-17)
§ 151.25 REMEDIES; APPEAL BY OWNER TO SUPERIOR COURT.
   (A)   The City Council shall also hear any appeals from any decision or
order of the inspector.
   (B)   An appeal from any decision or order of the inspector may be taken to
the Council by any person aggrieved thereby or by any officer, Council or
Commission of the city. Any appeal from the inspector shall be taken within ten
days from the rendering of the decision or service of the order by filing with
the Office of the Inspector, a notice of appeal to the Council which shall
specify the grounds upon which the appeal is based. Upon the filing of any
notice of appeal, the inspector shall forthwith transmit to the Council all the
papers constituting the record upon which the decision appealed from was made.
When an appeal is from a decision of the inspector refusing to allow the person
aggrieved thereby to do any act, his decision shall remain in force until
modified or reversed. When any appeal is from a decision of the inspector
requiring the person aggrieved to do any act, the appeal shall have the effect
of suspending the requirement until the hearing by the Council, unless the
inspector certifies to the Council, after the notice of appeal is filed with
him, that because of facts stated in the certificate (a copy of which shall be
furnished the person making the appeal), a suspension of his requirement would
cause imminent peril to life or property. In that case the requirement shall
not be suspended except by a restraining order, which may be granted for due
cause shown upon not less than one day's written notice to the inspector by the
Council, or by a court of record upon petition made pursuant to division (F) of
this section.
   (C)   The Council shall fix a reasonable time for hearing appeals, shall
give due notice to the parties, and shall render its decision within a
reasonable time. Any party may appear in person or by agent or attorney. The
Council may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the decision or
order appealed from, and may make any decision and order that in its opinion
ought to be made in the matter, and to that end it shall have all the powers of
the inspector. The Council shall have power also in passing upon appeals, when
practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships would result from carrying out
the strict letter of the ordinance, to adapt the application of the ordinance
to the necessities of the case to the end that the spirit of the ordinance
shall be observed, public safety and welfare secured, and substantial justice
done.
   (D)   Every decision of the Council shall be subject to review by
proceedings in the nature of certiorari instituted within 15 days of the
decision of the Council, but not otherwise.
   (E)   Any person aggrieved by an order issued by the inspector or a decision
rendered by the Council may petition the superior court for an injunction
restraining the inspector city from carrying out the order or decision and the
court may, upon such petition, issue a temporary injunction restraining the
inspector pending a final disposition of the cause. The petition shall be filed
within 30 days after issuance of the order or rendering of the decision. The
court shall hear and determine the issues raised and shall enter such final
order or decree as law and justice may require. It shall not be necessary to
file bond in any amount before obtaining a temporary injunction under this
section.
   (F)   If any building, structure or dwelling is erected, constructed,
altered, repaired, converted, maintained, or used in violation of this chapter
or any valid order or decision of the inspector or Council made pursuant to any
ordinance or code adopted under authority of this ordinance or the general
statutes, the inspector or Council may institute any appropriate action or
proceedings to prevent the unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction,
alteration or use, to restrain, correct or abate the violation, to prevent the
occupancy of the building, structure or dwelling, or to prevent any illegal
act, conduct or use in or about the premises.
(Ord. passed 12-12-17)
§ 151.26 SUMMARY EJECTMENT IF OCCUPANTS FAIL TO OBEY ORDER OR ORDINANCE TO
VACATE.
   (A)   Notice before ejectment from dwellings only. An action to remove an
occupant of a dwelling who is a tenant of the owner may not be in the nature of
a summary ejectment proceeding pursuant to this section unless such occupant
was served with notice at least 30 days before the filing of the summary
ejectment proceeding that the Council has ordered the inspector to proceed to
exercise his duties under §
151.24 of this chapter to vacate and close or remove and demolish the dwelling.
   (B)   Ejectment procedure for residential and non-residential buildings and
structures. If any occupant fails to comply with an order to vacate a dwelling,
the inspector may file a civil action in the name of the city to remove such
occupant. The action to vacate the dwelling shall be in the nature of summary
ejectment and shall be commenced by filing a complaint naming as parties-
defendant any person occupying such dwelling. The Clerk of Superior Court shall
issue a summons requiring the defendant to appear before a magistrate at a
certain time, date and place not to exceed ten days from the issuance of the
summons to answer the complaint. The summons and complaint shall be served as
provided in G.S. § 42-29. The summons shall be returned according to its tenor,
and if on its return it appears to have been duly served, and if at the hearing
the inspector produces a certified copy of an ordinance adopted by the
governing body pursuant to §
151.24 authorizing the officer to proceed to vacate the occupied dwelling, the
magistrate shall enter judgment ordering that the premises be vacated and that
all persons be removed. The judgment ordering that the dwelling be vacated
shall be enforced in the same manner as the judgment for summary ejectment
entered under G.S. § 42-30. An appeal from any judgment entered hereunder by
the magistrate may be taken as provided in G.S. § 7A-228, and the execution of
such judgment may be stayed as provided in G.S. § 7A-227.
(Ord. passed 12-12-17)
§ 151.27 EMERGENCY ENFORCEMENT.
   The decision of the inspector pursuant to this chapter shall be final in
cases of emergency, which, in his opinion, involve imminent danger to human
life or health. The inspector shall promptly cause such building, structure or
portion thereof to be made safe or abated. For this purpose, the inspector may
at once enter such structure or land on which it stands, or abutting land or
structure, with such assistance and at such cost as he may deem necessary. The
inspector may vacate adjacent structures and protect the public by appropriate
fences or such other means as may be necessary, and for this purpose, may close
a public or private way.
(Ord. passed 12-12-17)
§ 151.28 COLLECTION OF COSTS.
   (A)   The expense of the action shall be paid by the person in default. If
the expense is not paid, it is a lien on the land or premises where the
nuisance occurred. A lien established pursuant to this division shall have the
same priority and be collected as unpaid ad valorem taxes.
   (B)   Liens on residential and non-residential buildings. The amount of the
cost of repairs, alterations or improvements, or vacating and closing, or
removal or demolition by the inspector shall be a lien against the real
property upon which the cost was incurred, which lien shall be filed, have the
same priority, and be collected as the lien for special assessment provided in
G.S. Ch. 160A, Article 10.
   (C)   Additional lien created in actions about residential buildings. Where
the original action was brought against a dwelling(s), the expense of the
action is also a lien on any other real property owned by the person in default
within the city limits or within one mile of the city limits, except for the
person's primary residence. A lien established pursuant to this division is
inferior to all prior liens and shall be collected as money judgment. This
subsection shall not apply if the person in default can show that the nuisance
was created solely by the actions of another. (See G.S. § 160A-193.)
   (D)   The inspector will notify the City Attorney to write a notice of lien
and cause it to be recorded in the county registry and/or judgments.
   (E)   Cost recovery in the case of actions against non-residential
buildings. If the dwelling is removed or demolished by the inspector, shall
sell the materials of the dwelling, and any personal property, fixtures or
appurtenances found in or attached to the dwelling, and shall credit the
proceeds of the sale against the cost of the removal or demolition and any
balance remaining shall be deposited in the superior court by the inspector,
shall be secured in a manner directed by the court, and shall be disbursed by
the court to the persons found to be entitled thereto by final order or decree
of the court. Nothing in this section shall be construed to impair or limit in
any way the power of the city to define and declare nuisances and to cause
their removal or abatement by summary proceedings, or otherwise.
(Ord. passed 12-12-17)
MINIMUM STANDARDS
§ 151.40 INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE-CERTAIN CHAPTERS AND INDEX
ADOPTED AS MINIMUM STANDARDS.
   (A)   The following chapters and index of the 2015 International Property
Maintenance Code, as copyrighted by the International Code Council, Inc. shall
be applicable to those buildings and structures, residential and non-
residential, as if fully set forth in this article, with any additions,
insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in this division.
      (1)   Chapter 3 General Requirements;
      (2)   Chapter 4 Light, Ventilation and Occupancy Limitations;
      (3)   Chapter 5 Plumbing Facilities and Fixture Requirements;
      (4)   Chapter 6 Mechanical and Electrical Requirements;
      (5)   Chapter 7 Fire Safety Requirements;
      (6)   Chapter 8 Referenced Standards; and
      (7)   Index.
   (B)   Amendments to the International Property Maintenance Code which are
adopted and published by the International Code Council, Inc., from time to
time, shall be effective as to this Ordinance 105 on the effective date
prescribed by the International Code Council, Inc.
(Ord. passed 12-12-17)
§ 151.99 PENALTIES AND FEES.
   (A)   Civil citations. If the violation continues after the deadline to
correct a violation established after the violation hearing by the order
requiring removal or correction of a violation, and no appeal has been filed
with the office of the inspector, then the inspector may issue a civil citation
with a fine in an initial amount of $100 against the violator. Thereafter, upon
issuing a second civil citation that each day the violation continues is an
additional separate and distinct offense and that additional citations with
additional fines of $100 shall apply each day the violation continues. Any
unpaid citations and delinquency charges shall be cumulative and shall be
recovered in a civil action in the nature of debt as well as any attorney fees
incurred by the city incident thereto.
   (B)   Criminal citations. If the violation continues after the deadline to
correct a violation established after the violation hearing by the order
requiring removal or correction of a violation, and no appeal has been filed
with the office of the inspector, then the Police may issue a criminal citation
with a fine of up to $500 against the violator.
   (C)   Multiple notices not required. A hearing is not required for issuance
of consequent civil citations with fines after the issuance of the first
citation. This ordinance may be enforced by the simultaneous issuance of both
civil citation(s) and a criminal citation, in addition to any other remedies
provided in this chapter. See G.S. §§ 160A-175 and 160A-193.
(Ord. passed 12-12-17)
CHAPTER 152: RESERVED
CHAPTER 153: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
   
153.01   Adoption by reference
§ 153.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The flood damage prevention ordinance, copies of which are on file in the
office of the City Clerk, is adopted and incorporated as part of this code of
ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. passed 6-9-98; Am. Ord. passed 5-10-07)
CHAPTER 154: RESERVED
CHAPTER 155: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
   
155.01   Adoption by reference
§ 155.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The subdivision regulations ordinance is adopted and incorporated in the
Unified Development Ordinance which is a part of this code of ordinances as
fully as if set out at length herein. Copies of the Unified Development
Ordinance are on file in the office of the City Clerk.
(Ord. passed 8-13-64; Am. Ord. passed 10-15-85; Am. Ord. passed 1-14-86; Am.
Ord. passed 11-13-90; Am. Ord. 03-2023, passed 4-11-23)
CHAPTER 156: ZONING CODE
Section
   
156.01   Adoption by reference
§ 156.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The zoning ordinance is adopted and incorporated in the Unified Development
Ordinance which is a part of this code of ordinances as fully as if set out at
length herein. Copies of the Unified Development Ordinance are on file in the
office of the City Clerk.
(Ord. passed 8-13-64; Am. Ord. passed 2-13-01; Am. Ord. 03-2023, passed 4-11-
23)
CHAPTER 157: RIPARIAN BUFFERS
Section
   
157.01   Background
   
157.02   Intent
   
157.03   Definitions
   
157.04   Applications
   
157.05   Plan requirements
   
157.06   Design standards for riparian buffers
   
157.07   Buffer management and maintenance
   
157.08   Enforcement procedures
   
157.09   Waivers; variances
   
157.10   Conflict with other regulations
§ 157.01 BACKGROUND.
   (A)   Buffers adjacent to stream systems and coastal areas provide numerous
environmental protection and resource management benefits which can include the
following:
      (1)   Restoring and maintaining the chemical, physical and biological
integrity of the water resources;
      (2)   Removing pollutants delivered in urban stormwater;
      (3)   Reducing erosion and controlling sedimentation;
      (4)   Stabilizing stream banks;
      (5)   Providing infiltration of stormwater runoff;
      (6)   Maintaining base flow of streams; and
      (7)   Providing riparian wildlife habitat.
   (B)   It is the desire of the City Public Services Department to protect and
maintain the native vegetation in riparian and wetland areas by implementing
specifications for the establishment, protection and maintenance of vegetated
buffers along all stream systems and within the city's jurisdictional
authority.
(Ord. passed 8-13-03)
§ 157.02 INTENT.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish minimal acceptable requirements
for the riparian buffers to protect the streams, wetlands and floodplains of
the city; to protect the water quality of watercourses, reservoirs, lakes, and
other significant water resources within the city; to protect the city's
riparian and aquatic ecosystems; and to provide for the environmentally sound
use of city land resources.
(Ord. passed 8-13-03)
§ 157.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTIVE CHANNEL. The area of the stream channel that is subject to continuous
flows and that includes the portion of the channel below where the floodplain
flattens.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPS). Conservation practices or management
measures which control soil loss and reduce water quality degradation caused by
nutrients, animal wastes, toxins, sediment and runoff.
   BUFFER. A vegetated area, including trees, shrubs and herbaceous vegetation,
which exists or is established to protect a stream system, lake and reservoir.
Alteration of this natural area is strictly limited.
   DEVELOPMENT. The improvement of property for any purpose involving building;
subdivision or the division of a tract or parcel of land into two or more
parcels; the combination of any two or more lots, tracts or parcels of property
for any purpose; the preparation of land for any of the above purposes.
   NON-POINT SOURCE POLLUTION. Pollution which is generated by various land use
activities rather than from an identifiable or discrete source and is conveyed
to waterways through natural processes, such as rainfall, storm runoff or
ground water seepage rather than direct discharge.
   100-YEAR FLOODPLAIN. The area of land adjacent to a stream that is subject
to inundation during a storm event that has a recurrence interval of 100 years
as delineated by flood maps.
   POLLUTION. Any contamination or alteration of the physical, chemical, or
biological properties of any waters that will render the waters harmful or
detrimental to: public health, safety or welfare; domestic, commercial,
industrial, agricultural, recreational or other legitimate beneficial uses.
   STREAM CHANNEL. Part of a water course either naturally or artificially
created which contains a perennial base flow of groundwater origin. Base flows
of groundwater origin can be distinguished by any of the following physical
indicators:
      (1)   Hydrophytic vegetation, hydric soil or other hydrologic indicators
in the area(s) where groundwater enters the stream channel, in the vicinity of
the stream headwaters, channel bed or channel banks;
      (2)   Flowing water not directly related to a storm event; or
      (3)   Historical records of a local high groundwater table, such as well
and stream gauge records.
   STREAM ORDER. A classification system for streams based on stream hierarchy.
The smaller the stream, the lower its numerical classification. For example, a
first order stream does not have tributaries and normally originates from
springs and/or seeps. At the confluence of two first order streams, a second
order stream begins, and so on.
   STREAM SYSTEM. A stream channel together with the 100-year floodplain.
   STREAMS. Perennial and intermittent watercourses identified through site
inspection and USGS maps. Perennial STREAMS are those which are depicted on a
USGS 7.5 minute maps with a solid blue line. Intermittent STREAMS are those
which are depicted on a USGS 7.5 minute maps with a dotted blue line.
   WATER POLLUTION HAZARD. A land use or activity that causes a relatively high
risk of potential water pollution.
(Ord. passed 8-13-03)
§ 157.04 APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   This chapter shall apply to all proposed development adjacent to all
streams, lakes, ponds and water bodies shown on the current USGS 7.5 minute
maps except for that development, which meets waiver or variance criteria as
outlined in §
157.09.
   (B)   This chapter shall apply to all timber harvesting activities, except
those timber harvesting operations which are implementing a forest management
plan which has been deemed to be in compliance with the regulations of this
chapter and has received approval from the State of North Carolina.
   (C)   This chapter shall apply to all surface mining operations except that
the design standards shall not apply to active surface mining operations which
are operating in compliance with an approved State of North Carolina surface
mining permit.
   (D)   This chapter shall not apply to agricultural operations that are
covered by an approved NRCS conservation plan that includes the application of
best management practices.
(Ord. passed 8-13-03)
§ 157.05 PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   In accordance with §
157.04, a plan approved by the appropriate agency is required for all
development, forest harvesting operations, surface mining operations and
agricultural operations.
   (B)   The plan shall set forth an informative, conceptual and schematic
representation of the proposed activity by means of maps using a scale of one
inch to 100 feet, graphs, charts or other written or drawn documents so as to
enable the agency an opportunity to make a reasonably informed decision
regarding the proposed activity.
   (C)   The plan shall contain the following information:
      (1)   A location or vicinity map;
      (2)   Field delineated and surveyed streams, springs, seeps, bodies of
water and wetlands (including a minimum of 200 feet into adjacent properties);
      (3)   Field delineated and surveyed forest buffers;
      (4)   Limits of the ultimate 100-year floodplain;
      (5)   Hydric soils mapped in accordance with the NRCS soil survey of the
site area; and
      (6)   Steep slopes greater than 15% for areas adjacent to and within 100
feet of streams, wetlands or other water bodies.
   (D)   The buffer plan shall be submitted to the City Public Services
Director in conjunction with the required grading plan for any development and
the riparian buffer should be clearly delineated on the final grading plan.
(Ord. passed 8-13-03)
§ 157.06 DESIGN STANDARDS FOR RIPARIAN BUFFERS.
   (A)   A riparian buffer for a stream system shall consist of a forested
strip of land extending along both sides of a stream and its adjacent wetlands,
floodplains or slopes. The riparian buffer width shall be adjusted to include
contiguous sensitive areas, such as steep slopes or erodible soils, where
development or disturbance may adversely affect water quality, streams,
wetlands or other water bodies.
   (B)   The riparian buffer shall begin at the edge of the stream bank of the
active channel.
   (C)   (1)   The required width for all riparian buffers (i.e., the base
width) shall be a minimum of 50 feet, with the requirement to expand the buffer
depending on:
         (a)   Stream order;
         (b)   Percent slope;
         (c)   100-year floodplain; and
         (d)   Wetlands or critical areas.
      (2)   Minimum riparian buffers shall be as follows:
 
Minimum Riparian Buffer Description
50 feet                 Stream order 1 through 3, slope zero through 5%, 100-
                        year floodplain and wetlands or critical areas
65 feet                 Stream order 4 through 10, slope 6 through 25%
75 feet                 Stream order greater than 11, greater than 26%
Greater than 75         Based on site conditions
 
   (D)   The following land uses and/or activities are designated as potential
water pollution hazards and must be set back from the edge of the stream bank
of the active channel by the distance indicated below:
      (1)   Storage of hazardous substances: 150 feet;
      (2)   Drain fields from on-site sewage disposal and treatment system
(i.e., septic systems): 100 feet;
      (3)   Raised septic systems: 50 feet;
      (4)   Solid waste landfills or junkyards: 200 feet;
      (5)   Confined animal feedlot operations: 250 feet;
      (6)   Treatment plant: 100 feet; and
      (7)   Land application of bio-solids: 100 feet.
   (E)   The riparian buffer shall be composed of two distinct zones, with each
zone having its own set of allowable uses and vegetative targets as specified
in this chapter.
      (1)   Zone 1: Streamside zone.
         (a)   The function of the streamside zone is to protect the physical
and ecological integrity of the stream ecosystem.
         (b)   The streamside zone will begin at the edge of the stream bank of
the active channel and extend a minimum of 30 feet from the top of the bank.
         (c)   Allowable uses within this zone are highly restricted to:
            1.   Flood control structures;
            2.   Utility rights-of-way perpen-dicular to stream;
            3.   Footpaths only, if feasible; and
            4.   Road crossings, where per-mitted.
         (d)   The vegetative target for the streamside zone is to be forested.
      (2)   Zone 2: Outer zone.
         (a)   The function of the outer zone is to prevent encroachment into
the forest buffer and to filter runoff from residential and commercial
development.
         (b)   The outer zone will begin at the landward edge of the zone l and
provide a minimum width of 20 feet between zone 1 and the nearest permanent
structure.
         (c)   There shall be no septic systems, permanent structures or
impervious cover, with the exception of paths, within the outer zone.
         (d)   The vegetative target for the outer zone shall be native shrubs
for inner ten feet and outer ten feet shall be native shrubs or grass, although
the planting of native vegetation should be encouraged to increase the total
width of the buffer.
(Ord. passed 8-13-03)
§ 157.07 BUFFER MANAGEMENT AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   The riparian buffer, including wetlands and floodplains, shall be
managed to enhance and maximize the unique value of these resources. Management
includes specific limitations on alteration of the natural conditions of these
resources. The following practices and activities are restricted within zone 1
of the riparian buffer, except with approval by Public Services Director:
      (1)   Clearing of existing vegetation;
      (2)   Soil disturbance by grading, stripping or other practices;
      (3)   Filling or dumping;
      (4)   Drainage by ditching, underdrains or other systems;
      (5)   Use, storage or application of pesticides, except for the spot
spraying of noxious weeds or non-native species consistent with recommendations
of the State Forestry Service;
      (6)   Housing, grazing or other maintenance of livestock; and
      (7)   Storage or operation of motorized vehicles, except for maintenance
and emergency use approved by the Public Services Director.
   (B)   The following structures, practices and activities are permitted in
the riparian buffer, with specific design or maintenance features, subject to
the review of the Public Services Director:
      (1)   Crossings, bridges, paths and utilities:
         (a)   An analysis shall be conducted to ensure that no economically
feasible alternative is available;
         (b)   The right-of-way shall be the minimum width needed to allow for
maintenance access and installation;
         (c)   The angle of the crossing shall be perpendicular to the stream
or buffer in order to minimize clearing requirements; and
         (d)   The minimum number of crossings should be used within each
subdivision and no more than one crossing is allowed for every 500 feet of
buffer.
      (2)   Stormwater management:
         (a)   An analysis shall be conducted to ensure that no economically
feasible alternative is available and that the project is either necessary for
flood control or significantly improves the water quality or habitat in the
stream;
         (b)   In new developments, on-site and structural alternatives will be
preferred over larger facilities within the stream buffer;
         (c)   When constructing stormwater management facilities (i.e., BMPs),
the area cleared will be limited to the area required for construction, and
adequate maintenance access, as outlined in the most recent edition of North
Carolina State Standard Manual; and
         (d)   Material dredged or otherwise removed from a BMP shall be stored
outside the buffer.
      (3)   Stream restoration projects, facilities and activities approved by
the State of North Carolina are permitted within the riparian buffer.
      (4)   Water quality monitoring and stream gauging are permitted within
the riparian buffer, as approved by the State of North Carolina.
      (5)   Individual trees within the riparian buffer may be removed which
are in danger of falling, causing damage to dwellings or other structures or
causing blockage of the stream.
      (6)   Other timber-cutting techniques approved by the Public Services
Director may be undertaken within the riparian buffer under the advice and
guidance of State and/or Federal Forestry Agency, only if necessary to preserve
the forest from extensive pest infestation, disease infestation or threat from
fire.
   (C)   All plats prepared for recording and all right-of-way plats shall
clearly:
      (1)   Show the extent of any riparian buffer on the subject property by
metes and bounds;
      (2)   Label the riparian buffer;
      (3)   Provide a note to reference any riparian buffer stating: "There
shall be no clearing, grading, construction or disturbance of vegetation except
as permitted by the City of Roxboro's Public Services Director;" and
      (4)   Provide a note to reference any protective covenants governing all
riparian buffers areas stating: "Any riparian buffer shown hereon is subject to
protective covenants which may be found in the land records and which restrict
disturbance and use of these areas."
   (D)   All riparian buffer areas shall be maintained through a declaration of
protective covenant, which is required to be submitted for approval by Public
Services Director. The covenant shall be recorded in the land records and shall
run with the land and continue in perpetuity.
   (E)   All lease agreements must contain a notation regarding the presence
and location of protective covenants for forest buffer areas and which shall
contain information on the management and maintenance requirements for the
riparian buffer for the new property owner.
   (F)   An offer of dedication of a riparian buffer area to the Public
Services Director shall not be interpreted to mean that this automatically
conveys to the general public the right of access to this area.
   (G)   The city shall inspect the buffer annually and immediately following
severe storms for evidence of sediment deposition, erosion or concentrated flow
channels and corrective actions taken to ensure the integrity and functions of
the riparian buffer.
   (H)   Riparian buffer areas may be allowed to grow into their vegetative
target state naturally but methods to enhance the successional process such as
active reforestation may be used when deemed necessary by the Public Services
Director to ensure the preservation and propagation of the buffer area.
Riparian buffer areas may also be enhanced through reforestation or other
growth techniques as a form of mitigation for achieving buffer preservation
requirements.
(Ord. passed 8-13-03)
§ 157.08 ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Public Services Director is authorized and empowered to enforce
the requirements of this chapter in accordance with the procedures of this
section.
   (B)   If, upon inspection or investigation, the Director or his or her
designee is of the opinion that any person has violated any provision of this
chapter, he or she shall with reasonable promptness issue a correction notice
to the person. Each such notice shall be in writing and shall describe the
nature of the violation, including a reference to the provision within this
chapter which has been violated. In addition, the notice shall set a reasonable
time for the abatement and correction of the violation.
   (C)   If it is determined that the violation or violations continue after
the time fixed for abatement and correction has expired, the Director shall
issue a citation by certified mail to the person who is in violation. Each such
notice shall be in writing and shall describe the nature of the violation,
including a reference to the provision within this chapter which has been
violated and what penalty, if any, is proposed to be assessed. The person
charged has 30 days within which to contest the citation or proposed assessment
of penalty and to file a request for a hearing with the Director or his or her
designee. At the conclusion of this hearing, the Director or his or her
designee will issue a final order, subject to appeal to the appropriate
authority. If, within 30 days from the receipt of the citation issued by the
Director, the person fails to contest the citation or proposed assessment of
penalty, the citation or proposed assessment of penalty shall be deemed the
final order of the Director.
   (D)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter may be liable
for any cost or expenses incurred as a result thereof by the city for
replacement of damaged or disturbed vegetation. Additional penalties may be
assessed under division (E) of this section.
   (E)   Penalties which may be assessed for those deemed to be in violation
may include:
      (1)   A civil penalty not to exceed $500 for each violation with each
day's continuance considered a separate violation;
      (2)   A criminal penalty in the form of a fine of not more than $500 for
each violation or imprisonment for not more than 90 days or both. Every day
that such violations shall continue will be considered a separate offense; and
      (3)   Anyone who knowingly makes any false statements in any application,
record, plat or plan required by this chapter shall upon conviction be punished
by a fine of not more than $500 for each violation or imprisonment for not more
than 30 days or both.
   (F)   In addition to any other sanctions listed in this chapter, a person
who fails to comply with the provisions of this chapter shall be liable to the
city in a civil action for damages in an amount equal to twice the cost of
restoring the buffer. Damages that are recovered in accordance with this action
shall be usedfor the restoration of buffer systems or for the administration of
programs for the protection and restoration of water quality, streams, wetlands
and floodplains.
(Ord. passed 8-13-03)
§ 157.09 WAIVERS; VARIANCES.
   (A)   This chapter shall apply to all proposed development except for that
development which, prior to the effective date of this chapter:
      (1)   Is covered by a valid, unexpired plat in accordance with
development regulations;
      (2)   Is covered by a current, executed public works agreement;
      (3)   Is covered by a valid, unexpired building permit;
      (4)   Has been accepted to apply for a building permit; or
      (5)   Has been granted a waiver in accordance with current development
regulations.
   (B)   The Public Services Director may grant a variance for the following:
      (1)   Those projects or activities where it can be demonstrated that
strict compliance with the chapter would result in practical difficulty or
financial hardship;
      (2)   Those projects or activities serving a public need where no
feasible alternative is available;
      (3)   The repair and maintenance of public improvements where avoidance
and minimization of adverse impacts to non-tidal wetlands and associated
aquatic ecosystems have been addressed; or
      (4)   For those developments which have had buffers applied in
conformance with previously issued requirements.
   (C)   (1)   Waivers for development may also be granted by the following
condition, if deemed appropriate by the Director:
      (2)   The buffer width may be relaxed and the buffer permitted to become
narrower at some points as long as the average width of the buffer meets the
minimum requirement. This averaging of the buffer may be used to allow for the
presence of an existing structure or to recover a lost lot, as long as the
streamside zone (zone 1) is not disturbed by the narrowing and no new
structures are built within the 100-year floodplain.
   (D)   The applicant shall submit a written request for a variance to the
Public Services Director. The application shall include specific reasons
justifying the variance and any other information necessary to evaluate the
proposed variance request. The agency may require an alternatives analysis that
clearly demonstrates that no other feasible alternatives exist and that minimal
impact will occur as a result of the project or development.
   (E)   In granting a request for a variance, the Public Services Director may
require site design, landscape planting, fencing, the placement of signs and
the establishment of water quality best management practices in order to reduce
adverse impacts on water quality, streams, wetlands, and floodplains.
(Ord. passed 8-13-03)
§ 157.10 CONFLICT WITH OTHER REGULATIONS.
   Where the standards and management requirements of this chapter are in
conflict with other laws, regulations and policies regarding streams, steep
slopes, erodible soils, wetlands, floodplains, timber harvesting, land
disturbance activities or other environmental protective measures, the more
restrictive shall apply.
(Ord. passed 8-13-03)
CHAPTER 158: RESERVED
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
Table
   
I.   ANNEXATIONS
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
             Annexing that tract or parcel of land lying and being in the City of Roxboro,
      9-13-  Roxboro Township, Person County, North Carolina, containing 3.89 acres, more or
94-1  94     less, as shown on that plat of survey entitled "Burton Street Annexation,”
             surveyed by Ernest B. Wood Jr., RLS, dated August, 1994, and recorded in the
             Person County Registry in Plat Cabinet 9, Hanger 27-10.
             Annexing those tracts or parcels of land lying and being in Roxboro Township
             and adjacent to the City of Roxboro and described as follows: Tract #1
             containing 12.241 acres as shown on that plat of survey entitled, "C. C.
94-2  11-1-  Winstead, Jr.,” surveyed by Phillip J. Hall, dated March, 1975, and recorded in
      94     Plat Cabinet 1, Page 148; Tract #2 containing 6.85 acres as shown on that plat
             of survey as Lot A, entitled, "Jack T. Parrott, Betsy H. Kidd, and Betty W.
             Howerton,” surveyed by Neal C. Hamlett and dated May, 1980, recorded in Plat
             Cabinet 1, Page 75.
             Annexing Tract 1 consisting of 8.28 acres, more or less, and Tract 3 consisting
             of 8.16 acres, more or less, as shown on that plat of survey entitled "Georgia-
             Pacific Corp-oration,” surveyed by Alan C. Rowland, RLS, dated September 10,
      12-6-  1993, and the plat being recorded in Person County Registry in Plat Cabinet 8
94-3  94     at Hanger 59-3; and Tract 1 consisting of 14.00 acres, more or less, and Tract
             2 consisting of 8.11 acres, more or less, as shown on that plat of survey
             entitled "Person North Park,” surveyed by Neal C. Hamlett, RLS, dated April,
             1994, and the plat being recorded in Person County Registry in Plat Cabinet 9
             at Hanger 18-6 & 7.
             Annexing that tract or parcel of land lying and being in Roxboro Township,
      12-6-  Person County, and is bounded on the west by the existing city limits and on
94-4  94     the north by Stephens Drive, as set out in that survey entitled "Property of
             Claiborne G. Dixon,” recorded in the Person County Registry in Deed Book 138,
             Page 526, as made by Phillip J. Hall, RLS, dated April, 1975.
             Annexing that tract or parcel of land lying and being in Roxboro Township,
             containing 0.11 acres, more or less, and designated as Parcel B on the map plat
             of survey entitled "Property of Harry M. Price and Rena E. Price,” surveyed by
95-1  2-14-  Neal C. Hamlett, RLS, dated June, 1992, recorded in Plat Cabinet 4 at Page 21
      95     of the Person County Registry; and that tract or parcel of land lying and being
             in Roxboro Township, containing 0.50 acres as shown on map plat of survey,
             entitled, "Property of J.D. Dixon,” surveyed by Paul L. Bailey, RLS in May,
             1980, being recorded in the Person County Registry in Plat Book 24 at Page 125.
             Annexing all of lots 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 7, 13, 18, 19, 20, 39, 40, 53, and 57, in
95-2  2-14-  the subdivision known as Cedar Ridge Properties and Allenton Realty and
      95     Insurance Company, according to a plat of the same duly recorded in Plat
             Cabinet 3, Page 52 of the Person County Registry.
             Annexing Tax Map 131, Lot 34: the same being bounded on the north by Tanglewood
             Circle (a subdivision roadway) and by Tract B as shown on the plat hereinafter
             cited; on the east by lands serving as the sites for Hospital Pharmacy; on the
      3-20-  south by properties on the Ridge Road Company; and on the west by the
95-3  95     aforestated Tanglewood Circle; and being that realty designated as Tract A,
             containing 0.59 of an acre, more or less, as is depicted on, and being in
             accordance with, that plat of actual survey of same entitled, "Property of H.
             W. Newell & Gus Slaughter,” dated September 1979, by Phillip J. Hall &
             Associates, recorded in the Person County Registry at Plat Cabinet 1, Page 416.
             Annexing the following two tracts of land which are part of Tax Map 69, Lot 76:
             that certain tract or parcel of land lying and being in Roxboro Township,
             containing 0.401 acres, as shown on map plat of survey entitled, "Property of
             J. D. Dixon,” surveyed by Paul Bailey, RLS, in March, 1980, said plat being
95-4  5-9-95 recorded in the Person County Registry in Plat Book 24 at Page 124; that
             certain tract or parcel of land lying and being in Roxboro Township, containing
             2,400 square feet as shown on that plat of survey entitled, "Property of J. D.
             Dixon,” surveyed by Paul Bailey, RLS, dated March, 1980, being duly recorded in
             the Person County Registry in Plat Book 24 at Page 124.
             Annexing that tract or parcel of land and being in Roxboro Township, containing
             0.065 acres denoted as Tract A, located on the north side of Morehead Street,
95-5  8-8-95 and 6.468 acres denoted as Tract B located on the west side of Ridge Road as
             shown on that plat of survey entitled "Annexation Survey City of Roxboro Ridge
             Road Area One” surveyed by Neal C. Hamlett, RLS, dated April, 1995, and
             recorded in the Person County Registry in Plat Cabinet 9 at Hanger 90-5.
             Annexing those tracts of parcels of land lying and being in Roxboro Township,
             containing 22.5 acres, more or less, as shown on those plats of survey entitled
             "Dr. Clayton Johnston” surveyed by W. R. Cates, Jr. dated October 10, 1967 and
95-6  10-17- recorded in Plat Book 12-139; and "A. D. and Christene H. Lewis” surveyed by W.
      95     R. Cates, Jr., dated December 12, 1967 and recorded in Plat Book 12-152; and
             "Winfield J. and Alice M. Sargent” surveyed by W. R. Cates, dated October 31,
             1972 and "Christine W. Stewart” surveyed by E. B. Wood, Jr., dated June, 1990,
             in the Person County Registry.
             Annexing those tracts or parcels of land lying and being in Roxboro Township
             and adjacent to the city and described as follows: Tract #1, containing 12.241
      3-18-  acres as shown on that plat of survey entitled "C. C. Winstead, Jr.,” surveyed
96-1  96     by Phillip J. Hall, dated March, 1975, and recorded in Plat Cabinet 1, Page
             148; and Tract #2 containing 6.85 acres as shown on that plat of survey as Lot
             A, entitled "Jack T. Parrott, Betsy H. Kidd and Betty W. Howerton,” surveyed by
             Neal C. Hamlett and dated May, 1980, recorded in Plat Cabinet 1, Page 75.
             Annexing that parcel of land located at the end of Garrett Street in Roxboro
96-2  11-12- Township. That same parcel as described in the plat labeled, "Annexation Survey
      96     for City of Roxboro - Garret Street” surveyed by Ernest B. Wood, Jr., RLS 2648,
             dated November, 1996, and containing 6.76 acres.
             Annexing those parcels of land located at the end of Garrett Street in Roxboro
96-3  12-17- Township. Those same parcels, being Parcel A and Parcel B, as described in the
      96     plat labeled "Survey for Samuel Edward Yarboro” surveyed by Neal C. Hamlett,
             RLS 2465, dated January 22, 1980, and containing a total of 1.49 acres.
             Annexing that parcel beginning at an existing iron pipe, which is the
             southwestern corner of Garrett Street on the western side of U.S. 501, Roxboro
             Township; thence running 149.26' S 09 degrees 39' 13" E, along the boundary of
             the Samuel E. Yarboro Property and the existing city limits to an iron pipe;
97-1  1-14-  thence running 110.09' S 76 degrees 53' 15" W, along the boundary of the C. L.
      97     Brooks Estate Property to an iron pipe; thence running 151.06' N 09 degrees 39'
             13" W, along the existing city limits, and the boundary of Bobbie K. King and
             Others Property to an iron pipe; thence running 110.00' N 77 degrees 49' 28" E,
             along Garrett Street, to the point and place of beginning; containing 0.38
             acre.
             Annexing a territory beginning at a point in the western property line of James
             E. Winslow, Jr., said point being N 27-25-30 W 54.41' from James E. Winslow,
             Jr’s southwestern corner; thence with the western line of James E. Winslow, Jr.
             N 27-25-30 W 113.99'; thence along Dr. Thomas Long’s southern line N 24-36-00 W
             149.97; thence along Dr. Thomas Long’s western line N 51-44-28 E 306.16 to a
             point in the right-of-way for Carver Drive; thence N 11-51-06 W to a point in
             Carver Drive; thence N 11-51-06 W 35.68 to a point in the right-of-way for
97-2  3-17-  Carver Drive; thence along the western lines of Charles A. Heuy, Dr. Mark A.
      97     Pifer and Triad Properties of Roxboro N 13-10-53 W 316.63; thence with the
             lines of Triad Properties of Roxboro N 13-10-53 W 207.76; thence S 89-34-47 E
             31.05; thence N 13-46-25 W 79.30; thence S 88-06-21 E 386.93 to the existing
             city limits; thence with the existing city limits S 44-46-51 E 251.54; thence S
             45-12-57 W 350.55; thence S 32-13-41 W 263.23; thence S 23-15-48 W 454.23 to
             the point of beginning, containing 6.17 acres as shown on that plat named
             "Annexation Survey City of Roxboro Ridge Road,” surveyed by Neal C. Hamlett,
             RLS and dated September, 1995.
97-6  10-14- Annexing a portion of N.C. 49 South, beginning at a corner of the existing city
      97     limits being S 77-17-20 W 458.32' of NCGS monument "Texaco."
      10-14- Annexing a portion of U.S. 501 South, beginning at a corner of the existing
97-7  97     city limits west of Franklin Street, northwest corner of lands owned by
             Franklin D. Outlaw.
             Annexing the tract or parcel of land located in Roxboro Township and bounded on
      3-19-  the north by Town and County Builders of Roxboro, on the east by Town and
—   01     Country Builders of Roxboro, on the south by W.H. Associates, BiSib, LLC and on
             the west by Old Durham Road and consisting of 13.93 acres with 2.71 acres
             currently in the existing city limits.
             Annexing a parcel of land beginning at a point S 04-28-05 E 101' from an
             existing iron pin, corner of city property and Mary Allen property in the
             southern edge of the Old Bushy Fork Road, thence with the line of Mary Allen S
             04-28-05 E 52.01 to the corner of the city and Mary Allen thence with the line
             of Mary Allen S 68-48-00 W 67' to the corner of Mary Allen and Mary Stewart
—   5-8-01 Estate thence with the line of Mary Stewart Estate S 04-28-05 E 100' to the
             corner of Mary Stewart Estate and Woody and Anderson Property, thence along the
             existing city limits and Woody and Anderson Property and the city, 55.21' to
             the corner of Woody and Anderson Property and the city, thence with the
             existing city limits S 86-19-00 E 105.96' to a corner of the city limits thence
             along the existing city limits S 20-339-25 E 217.5' to a point and place of
             beginning.
             Annexing the parcel of land beginning at the control corner located in the
             center of SR 1346 thence N 81-27-31 E 166' to an iron found thence S 09-14-19 E
             191.7' to an iron found thence S 68-41-51 E 127.28' to an iron found thence
             along the existing city limits S 03-28-08 E 249.39' to an iron found thence
             along the existing city limits N 59-49-36 W 61.32' to an iron found thence
      12-8-  along the existing city limits N 59-49-36 W 11.40' to an iron set thence along
—   03     existing city limits N 62-14-39 W 201.20' to an iron set thence S 03-27-52 E
             273.81' to a nail set in the center line of NC 57 thence along the center line
             of NC 57 N 56-21-16 W 63.54' to a nail set in the intersection of NC 57 and SR
             1346 thence along the centerline of SR 1346 N 04-08-37 W 152.23' to a nail set
             thence along SR 1346 N 05-05-53 W 253.34' to a nail set thence along SR 1346 N
             05-40-37 W 100.19' to a nail set thence along SR 1349 N 07-06-21 W 64.48' to
             the place and point of beginning, containing 2.39 acres.
             Annexing a parcel of land beginning at nail in the center of the right-of-way
             of Allie Clay Road SR1524 and thence with the center of Allie Clay Road N 89-
             00-11 W 402.72' to a nail in the center of the right- of-way thence N 05-49-00
             E 307.77' to an iron stake thence N 82-08-47 W 355.87' to an iron stake thence
—   6-29-  N 15-06-08 W 97.06' to an iron stake thence N 31-24-07 W 118.87' to an iron
      06     stake thence N 62-31-10 W 148.67' to a point on the right-of-way of the Norfolk
             and Western Railway thence with the Norfolk and Western Railway right-of-way N
             45-01-40 E 1496.91' thence N 03-56-12 E 1687.40' to a nail in the right-of-way
             of Allie Clay Road being that point and place of beginning and containing
             20.433 acres.
             Annexing a parcel of land commencing at a calculated point (NC Grid coordinates
AO-   10-12- N.969,579.08 feet, E.2,006,765.82 feet NAD 83/11, (combined grid factor
2023- 23     0.99985426)) in the center line of Ridge Road (SR 1363) at the northeast corner
01           of Colman Investments, LLC (see Deed Book 1073, Page 413, Person County
             Registry).
             Annexing all those tracts of land containing 138.385 acres (6,028,049 square
AO-          feet) located in Roxboro Township, Person County, North Carolina; said tracts
2023- 12-12- having been conveyed to Henry O. Newell, Jr. and others by deeds recorded under
02    23     DB 184 pg. 902 and DB 213 pg. 856 of the Person County Registry, being shown on
             that map entitled “Annexation Plat, City of Roxboro, Property of: Henry O.
             Newell Jr. et al” dated September 6, 2023, prepare by CE Group.
             Annexing a property beginning at a point; a Control Corner which is the
             southeast corner of property of Roxboro Housing Authority; thence N 06°56'15" E
             356.72' to the point of beginning of the annexation parcel; thence with the
             existing City Limit N 06°56'15" E a distance of 679.89 feet to a point; thence
AO-          with the new City Limits S 84 °25'45" E a distance of 119.98 to a point; thence
2023- 12-12- S 82°51'46" E a distance of 109.28 feet to a point; thence S 06°57'00" W a
03    23     distance of 298.92 feet to a to a point; thence S 78°49'32" E a distance of
             146.21 feet to a point; thence S 06°59'32" W a total distance of 372.28 feet to
             a point; thence N 83°07'09" W a distance of 374.61 feet to the point of
             beginning of the annexation parcel, having an area of 211,264 square feet or
             4.850 acres, as shown on the Annexation Plat Roxboro Community Development
             Corp. prepared by Thomas & Hutton 9/12/23.
            
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to North Carolina General Statutes
References to 1990 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTES
G.S. Section Code Section
G.S. Section              Code Section
1A-1, Rule 5              95.10
7A-227                    151.26
7A-228                    151.26
                          38.07,
                          53.999,
                          70.98,
14-4                      95.99,
                          96.999,
                          110.47,
                          151.10
14-4(a)                   10.99,
                          97.07
14-4(c)                   10.99
14-127                    130.01
14-128                    130.01
14-132                    130.01
14-149                    130.01
14-151.1                  51.019
14-159.1                  97.37
14-399                    96.009
                          53.152,
15-27.2                   150.04,
                          151.21
15-27.2 et seq.           34.18
18B-1001                  111.02
Ch. 20, Art. 10A          113.01
20-4.01(39)               95.02
20-37.6                   Ch. 76, Sch. II
20-97                     Charter, Sec.
                          8.1
20-140.2                  71.01
20-140.4                  71.02
20-156(b)                 70.03
20-162                    72.01
20-169                    95.35
20-219.2(a)               94.07
20-219.9                  94.06
42-29                     151.26
42-30                     151.26
44A-4                     94.10
44A-5                     94.10
44A-6                     94.10
47-30                     53.133
62-323                    130.01
66-257                    116.05,
                          116.08
105-164.4(a)(4c)          110.48
105-164.4(a)(6)           110.48
105-349                   Charter, Sec.
                          4.5
105-369                   37.21
113-274                   92.26
113-274(c)(1a)            92.26
113-300.2                 92.26
121-5                     110.37
Ch. 130A, Art. 9          53.005,
                          53.108
130A-184                  92.02
130A-190                  92.15
130A-200                  92.02
136-92                    96.010
136-95                    96.007
136-141 et seq.           94.13
136-143                   94.13
143-129                   36.01
143-129(g)(3)             36.01
143-139.1(b)              151.10
143-213(18)               52.002
143-214.2                 97.37
143-214.7                 53.101
143-215.1                 52.002,
                          52.051
143-215.1(b)              52.051
143-215.1(d)              52.002
143-215.1(g)              52.051
143-215.3(a)(14)          52.002
143-215.6A                53.004,
                          53.191
143-215.6B                52.121
143-215.6B(f)             52.121
143-215.6B(g)             52.121
143-215.6B(h)             52.121
143-215.6B(i)             52.121
153A-275                  52.001
Ch. 159                   31.77
159-1 et seq.             31.77
159-17                    Charter, Sec.
                          2.6
                          Charter, Sec.
159-25                    4.4,
                          31.77
159-25(a)                 31.77
159-28(b)                 37.51
159-33                    37.81
Ch. 160A                  36.01
Ch. 160A, Art. 5          150.04
Ch. 160A, Art. 7, Part 2  Charter, Sec.
                          4.1
                          Charter, Secs.
                          5.1,
Ch. 160A, Art. 10         5.3,
                          6.1,
                          151.28
Ch. 160A, Art. 19, Part 2 53.020
Ch. 160A, Art. 19, Part 6 151.10,
                          159.01
160A-1                    Charter, Sec.
                          1.2
160A-61                   31.16
                          Charter, Sec.
160A-63                   2.7,
                          30.04
160A-64                   30.05
160A-67                   30.02
160A-69                   30.02,
                          30.18
160A-70                   30.03
160A-71                   30.15
                          Charter, Sec.
160A-74                   2.5,
                          30.19
160A-147                  31.15
160A-148                  31.18
                          10.99,
160A-175                  151.11,
                          151.99
160A-175(a)               97.07
160A-175(d)               97.07
160A-175(e)               97.07
160A-188                  92.25
160A-189                  130.02
                          53.191,
                          97.07,
160A-193                  151.02,
                          151.28,
                          151.99
160A-203.1                93.02
160A-217                  96.078
160A-217(a)               96.070
160A-218                  96.072
160A-223 - 160A-236       96.074
160A-226                  96.071
160A-266(c)               Charter, Sec. 11.1
160A-296(a)(3)            96.078
160A-301(d)               94.01
160A-303.1                96.008
160A-312                  52.001
160A-383.5                151.10
160A-385.1                53.005,
                          53.108
163-279(a)(4)             Charter, Sec.
                          3.1
163-293                   Charter, Sec.
                          3.1
                          
 
REFERENCES TO 1990 CODE
`90 Code Section 2001 Code Section
`90 Code Section 2001 Code Section
2-51             30.01
2-52             30.02
2-53             30.03
2-54             30.04
2-55             30.05
2-61             30.15
2-62             30.16
2-63             30.17
2-64             30.18
2-65             30.19
2-66             30.20
2-71             31.01
2-76             31.30
2-77             31.31
2-78             31.32
2-86             31.15
2-87             31.16
2-88             31.17
2-89             31.18
2-96             31.45
2-97             31.46
2-98             31.47
2-106            31.60
2-107            31.61
2-111            31.75
2-112            31.76
2-113            31.77
2-114            31.78
3-2              92.23
3-3              92.24
3-4              92.25
3-5              92.26
3-6              92.27
4-1              150.01
4-2              150.04
4-3              150.05
4-4              150.02
4-8              150.03
6-3              90.01
6-4              90.02
6-5              90.03
6-6              90.04
6-7              90.05
6-8              90.06
6-9              90.07
6-10             90.08
7-1              38.01
7-2              38.02
7-3              38.03
7-4              38.04
7-5              38.05
7-6              38.06
7-7              38.07
8-1              91.01
8-2              91.02
8-3              91.03
8-26             91.15
8-27             91.16
8-28             91.17
8-29             91.18
8-30             91.19
8-31             91.20
8-32             91.99
8-33             91.21
8-34             91.22
8-35             91.23
8-56             34.01
8-57             34.02
8-58             34.03
8-59             34.04
8-76             34.15
8-77             34.16
8-78             34.17
8-79             34.18
8-80             34.19
9-1              50.01
9-2              50.15
9-3              50.16
9-4              50.17
9-5              50.18
9-6              50.19
9-7              50.20
9-8              50.21
9-9              50.22
9-10             50.02
9-11             50.23
9-12             50.24
9-13             50.25
10-1             97.20
10-2             97.21
10-3             97.22
10-4             97.23
10-5             97.24
10-6             97.25
10-7             97.26
10-8             97.27
10-9             97.28
10-10            97.29
10-11            97.30
10-12            97.31
10-13            97.32
10-14            97.33
10-15            97.34
10-16            97.35
10-17            97.36
10-18            97.37
10-19            97.38
11-1             70.01
11-2             70.98
11-3             70.02
11-26            71.01
11-27            71.02
11-28            71.03
11-29            71.04
11-30            71.05
11-31            73.04
11-32            73.01
11-33            73.02
11-34            73.03
11-35            70.03
11-36            71.06
11-37            71.07
11-38            71.08
11-39            71.09
11-40            71.10
11-41            71.11
11-42            71.12
11-43            71.13
11-44            71.14
11-45            71.15
11-61            Ch. 75, Sch. I
11-62            Ch. 75, Sch. I
11-64            Ch. 75, Sch. I
11-81            Ch. 75, Sch. II
11-82            Ch. 75, Sch. II
11-83            Ch. 75, Sch. II
11-146           70.15
11-147           70.16
11-148           70.17
11-149           70.18
11-181           70.30
11-182           70.31
11-183           70.32
11-184           70.33
11-201           72.01
11-202           72.02
11-203           Ch. 76, Sch. I
11-204           72.03
11-205           72.04
11-206           72.05
11-207           72.06
11-208           72.07
11-209           72.08
11-210           72.09
11-211           Ch. 76, Sch. II
11-216           72.20
11-217           72.21
11-218           72.22
11-219           72.23
13-1             130.01
13-2             130.02
13-3             130.03
13-4             111.01
13-5             130.04
13-6             130.05
16-1             33.01
16-2             33.02
16-3             33.03
16-4             33.04
17-1             74.01
17-2             74.02
17-3             74.03
18-1             96.001
18-2             96.003
18-3             96.004
18-4             96.005
18-5             96.006
18-6             96.007
18-7             96.008
18-8             96.009
18-9             96.010
18-10            96.011
18-11            96.012
18-12            96.013
18-13            96.014
18-21            96.025
18-22            96.026
18-26            96.040
18-27            96.041
18-28            96.042
18-29            96.043
18-30            96.044
18-36            96.055
18-37            96.056
18-38            96.057
18-39            96.058
18-40            96.059
18-41            96.060
18-46            96.070
18-47            96.071
18-48            96.072
18-49            96.073
18-50            96.074
18-51            96.075
18-52            96.076
18-53            96.077
18-54            96.078
18-55            96.079
18-56            96.080
18-66            96.090
18-67            96.091
18-68            96.092
18-69            96.093
20-1             51.001
20-2             51.002
20-3             51.015
20-4             51.016
20-5             51.017
20-6             51.018
20-7             51.019
20-8             51.020
20-9             51.021
20-31            51.035
20-32            51.036
20-33            51.037
20-34            51.038
20-51            51.050
20-52            51.051
20-54            51.052
20-55            51.053
20-56            51.054
20-57            51.055
20-77            51.065
20-78            51.066
20-91            51.080
20-92            51.081
20-93            51.082
20-94            51.083
20-95            51.084
20-96            51.085
20-97            51.086
20-98            51.087
20-99            51.088
20-111           51.100
20-113           51.101
20-131           51.115
20-137           51.116
20-151           51.003
Appendix A, § 1 37.01
Appendix A, § 2 37.02
Appendix A, § 3 37.03
Appendix A, § 4 37.04
Appendix A, § 2137.15
Appendix A, § 2237.16
Appendix A, § 2337.17
Appendix A, § 2437.18
Appendix A, § 2537.19
Appendix A, § 2637.20
Appendix A, § 3137.35
Appendix A, § 3237.36
Appendix A, § 3337.37
Appendix A, § 3637.50
Appendix A, § 3737.51
Appendix A, § 4137.65
Appendix A, § 4237.66
Appendix A, § 4337.67
Appendix A, § 4637.80
Appendix A, § 4737.81
                 
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.   Date Passed Code Section
—        8-13-64     156.01
—        8-13-64     155.01
66-3       5-10-66     96.058
66-3       5-10-66     96.077
70-1       6-9-70      Ch. 75, Sch. I
—        2-13-73     96.058,
                       96.072
                       50.01,
                       50.15,
—        6-11-74     50.16,
                       50.18,
                       50.25
                       96.055,
—        5-10-77     96.056,
                       96.059,
                       96.060
—        7-12-77     Ch. 76, Sch. I
—        5-11-82     72.07
—        12-14-82    111.01
—        11-8-83     96.080
—        12-13-83    97.31
—        12-18-83    97.23
—        1-10-84     96.080
—        10-15-85    155.01
—        1-14-86     155.01
—        7-8-86      111.01
—        2-9-88      97.26
—        7-12-88     Ch. 75, Sch. II
                       72.20,
—        8-9-88      72.22,
                       72.23
                       51.065,
—        2-14-89     51.066,
                       51.080 –
                       51.088
—        11-13-90    155.01
91-03      5-14-91     51.116
                       92.02,
                       92.03,
—        4-5-93      92.15 –
                       92.22,
                       92.40 –
                       92.45
—        10-12-93    51.016
94-4       12-6-94     T.S.O. I
95-1       2-14-95     T.S.O. I
95-2       2-14-95     T.S.O. I
94-1       9-13-94     T.S.O. I
94-2       11-1-94     T.S.O. I
94-3       12-6-94     T.S.O. I
95-3       3-20-95     T.S.O. I
95-4       5-9-95      T.S.O. I
95-5       8-8-95      T.S.O. I
95-6       10-17-95    T.S.O. I
95-F       11-14-95    110.01
                       92.17,
—        3-18-96     92.18,
                       92.41
96-1       3-18-96     T.S.O. I
96-2       11-12-96    T.S.O. I
96-C       11-12-96    37.19
96-3       12-17-96    T.S.O. I
97-1       1-14-97     T.S.O. I
97-2       3-17-97     T.S.O. I
97-C       3-17-97     37.19
—        10-14-97    T.S.O. I
—        10-14-97    T.S.O. I
—        6-9-98      153.01
—        4-11-00     90.01 –
                       90.08
—        9-25-00     91.04
—        8-8-00      97.01 –
                       97.08
                       115.01 –
                       115.03,
—        2-13-01     115.15 -
                       115.19,
                       115.20 –
                       115.22
—        2-13-01     156.01
—        3-19-01     T.S.O. I
—        5-8-01      T.S.O. I
                       Adopting Ordinance,
—        11-13-01    98.01 -
                       98.08
—        3-13-02     Ch. 76, Sch. II
—        5-14-02     91.15
—        9-12-02     150.01 –
                       150.05
—        10-8-02     51.040 –
                       51.047
—        1-14-03     Adopting Ordinance
—        8-13-03     157.01–
                       157.10
—        12-8-03     T.S.O. I
—        7-13-04     Ch. 75, Sch. 1
—        8-10-04     Ch. 75, Sch. 1
—        4-12-05     50.15
                       38.05,
                       73.02,
                       73.03, Ch. 76, Schs.
                       I,
—        8-9-05      II, 93.21,
                       94.01,
                       96.001,
                       96.002,
                       111.01,
                       130.04
—        5-9-06      50.21
—        6-29-06     T.S.O. I
                       95.01 –
                       95.14,
—        9-12-06     95.25 –
                       95.40,
                       95.99
—        5-10-07     153.01
                       72.07,
—        10-16-07    72.99,
                       Ch. 76, Sch. III
                       Ch. 76, Schs.
—        10-16-07    I,
                       II
—        6-10-08     Ch. 76, Schs. III,
                       IV
—        11-17-08    Ch. 76, Sch. IV
                       53.001 –
                       53.006,
                       53.020 –
                       53.024,
                       53.035 –
                       53.045,
—        6-18-10     53.060,
                       53.061,
                       53.075 –
                       53.082,
                       53.999,
                       Ch. 53, Apps. A and
                       B 
—        9-14-10     51.053
—        5-18-11     110.15 –
                       110.48
—        2-14-12     33.05 –
                       33.08
                       52.001,
                       52.002,
                       52.015 –
                       52.023,
                       52.035 –
                       52.038,
                       52.050,
                       52.051,
—        3-19-12     52.065 –
                       52.078,
                       52.090 –
                       52.092,
                       52.105,
                       52.120 –
                       52.124,
                       52.135 –
                       52.137,
                       52.999
—        4-10-12     92.28
—        5-14-12     91.15
—        6-12-12     50.21
                       53.100 -
                       53.110,
                       53.120 -
                       53.124,
                       53.130 -
—        6-12-12     53.138,
                       53.150 -
                       53.157,
                       53.180 -
                       53.183,
                       53.190 -
                       53.192
                       Charter, Secs.
—        9-18-12     2.2,
                       2.3
—        11-19-12    96.002
                       92.01 -
                       92.03,
                       92.15 -
—        3-11-13     92.28,
                       92.40 -
                       92.45,
                       92.99
—        4-14-15     50.25
                       92.01 -
                       92.03,
                       92.15 -
—        6-9-15      92.28,
                       92.40 -
                       92.45,
                       92.99
—        6-9-15      92.23,
                       92.28
                       72.10, Ch. 76, Schs.
—        5-10-16     I -
                       IV
                       95.01 -
                       95.14,
—        12-13-16    95.25 -
                       95.40,
                       95.99
—        3-20-17     Ch. 75, Sch. I
—        10-17-17    93.01 -
                       93.05
—        - -17       94.01 -
                       94.15
                       151.01 -
                       151.11,
—        12-12-17    151.20 -
                       151.28,
                       151.40,
                       151.99
—        3-19-18     151.07
                       110.16 -
                       110.18,
                       110.20 -
                       110.26,
—        9-11-18     110.28,
                       110.30 -
                       110.32,
                       110.35,
                       110.39 -
                       110.47
—        9-11-18     111.02
                       113.01 -
                       113.05,
                       113.20 -
                       113.33,
                       113.45 -
—        - -         113.58,
                       113.70 -
                       113.76,
                       116.01 -
                       116.10,
                       116.99
                       95.01 -
                       95.14,
                       95.25 -
—        6-11-19     95.40,
                       95.50 -
                       95.62,
                       95.99
—        7-9-19      96.001 -
                       96.003
—        4-14-20     51.033,
                       51.034
—        11-9-21     93.20 -
                       93.22
—        3-8-22      95.25 -
                       95.40
                       116.02 -
02-2023    4-11-23     116.05,
                       116.09,
                       116.10
                       151.20,
03-2023    4-11-23     151.23,
                       155.01,
                       156.01
04-2023    5-9-23      91.05
05-2023    5-9-23      32.01
06-2023    6-13-23     96.100 -
                       96.111
AO-2023-01 10-12-23    T.S.O. I
AO-2023-02 12-12-23    T.S.O. I
AO-2023-03 12-12-23    T.S.O. I
 
