TOWN OF SHALLOTTE, NORTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2015 S-3 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 14-17, passed 12-2-2014, and
State legislation current through 2014 A.L.S. #5
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
432 Walnut Street, 12th Floor
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
CHARTER AND RELATED LOCAL LAWS
Section
Town Charter
   
Sec. 1.   Incorporation
   
Sec. 2.   Corporate limits
   
Sec. 3.   Mayor and board of commissioners [Aldermen]
   
Sec. 4.   Same; election, fees; terms of office
   
Sec. 5.   Powers and duties
   
Sec. 6.   Secretary of the board
   
Sec. 7.   Town Marshal
   
Sec. 8.   Power to apply taxes
   
Sec. 9.   Violations
   
Sec. 10.   Sale of alcoholic beverages
   
Sec. 11.   Police; appointment; territorial jurisdiction
Related Local Laws
   
Sec. 1.   Session Laws of 1951, Chapter 909
   
Sec. 2.   Session Laws of 1959, Chapter 519, as amended
   
Sec. 3.   Session Laws of 1961, Chapter 1109
   
Sec. 4.   Session Laws of 1961, Chapter 1123
   
Sec. 5.   Session Laws of 1965, Chapter 486
Editorial note:
   Any material in brackets has been added by the editors to clarify the
meaning of the text.  The editors have added section catchlines to facilitate
the use of this compilation and indexing; however, formal citations and
references should be to the original act, and not to this compilation.
CHARTER
SEC. 1.  INCORPORATION.
   The Town of Shallotte, in the County of Brunswick, be, and the same is
hereby incorporated by the name and style of the Town of Shallotte, and is
hereby invested with all the powers, rights, privileges and immunities
enumerated in chapter 62 of volume 2 of the Code of North Carolina, entitled,
“Cities and Towns,” and subject to the restrictions and liabilities specified
in the same not inconsistent with this act.
(Pr. L. 1899, c. 339, Sec. 1)
Statutory reference:
   Cities and towns are now governed primarily by G.S. Ch. 160A
Sec. 2.  CORPORATE LIMITS.
   The corporate limits of the Town of Shallotte in Brunswick County are hereby
extended so that such corporate limits shall be as follows, provided such
extension is approved at an election held pursuant to the provisions of this
act:
   “Beginning at an iron pipe on the North side of U.S. Highway No. 17, 50 feet
from center, said iron stake being 3100 feet a northeasterly course from where
the Old Holmes line crosses said highway as measured along the northern margin
of said highway; and also being 209 feet a northeasterly course from the
southeast corner of the Shallotte Baptist Church property, as measured along
northern margin of said highway; runs thence South 88 degrees 30 minutes West
2842 feet to a stake on the North side of Smith’s Avenue; thence with the
northern margin of said avenue North 52 degrees 12 minutes West 1100 feet to a
stake; thence North 87 degrees West 2470 feet to a stake; thence South 80
degrees West 2877.5 feet to the run of Mulberry Swamp; thence down said run as
it meanders to Shallotte River; thence up Shallotte River to a stake on the
South edge of said river 60 feet above the mouth of Bobbie Pike; thence with
Bobbie’s Pike the following course and distances: South 7 degrees 45 minutes
East 1017 feet South 35 degrees East 238 feet, South 19 degrees East 78 feet;
thence with Bobbie’s Pike South 14 degrees West 449.5 feet to a post on the
South edge of Old Highway No. 17; thence North 59 degrees 12 minutes East
2741.5 feet to a stake on the West side of a branch; thence South 30 degrees 30
minutes East 224.1 feet to a stake; thence North 59 degrees 30  52 degrees 30
minutes West 236 feet to a white oak on the South side of Shallotte River;
thence North 55 degrees 55 minutes East 1850 feet to a stake; thence North 10
degrees East 3515 feet to the point of beginning.”
(Pr. L. 1899, c. 339, Sec. 2; S.L. 1949, c. 4, Sec. 1; S.L. 1959, c. 501, Sec.
1)
Sec. 3.  MAYOR AND BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS [ALDERMEN].
   The officers of the Town of Shallotte shall consist of a mayor and five (5)
commissioners [aldermen] and the present mayor and commissioners [aldermen]
shall continue to hold office until their successors are elected on the first
Tuesday after the first Monday in May, 1947, and have qualified.  The town
commissioners [aldermen] may impose the duties of town treasurer upon one of
its own members and pay such member a salary of five dollars ($5.00) per month
for performing the duties of treasurer.
(S.L. 1947, c. 507, Sec. 1)
Sec. 4.  SAME; ELECTION, FEES; TERMS OF OFFICE.
   (A)   In the municipal election held in 1965, and quadrennially thereafter,
the candidate for mayor receiving the highest number of votes shall be elected
for a term of four (4) years.  In the election of 1965, the two (2) candidates
for town commissioner [alderman] receiving the highest number of votes shall be
elected for a term of four (4) years, and the three (3) candidates receiving
the next highest number of votes shall be elected for a term of two (2) years. 
In the municipal election of 1967, and biennially thereafter, all town
commissioners [aldermen] shall be elected for a term of four (4) years. 
Municipal elections in the Town of Shallotte shall be held in accordance with
the general municipal election laws as contained in Art. 3, Ch. 160 of the
General Statutes.
   (B)   Any person desiring to become a candidate for the office of mayor or
commissioner [Alderman] shall, at least two (2) weeks prior to election day,
file with the town clerk a statement of such candidacy in substantially the
following form:
“STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA, TOWN OF SHALLOTTE
   I,                                , hereby give notice that I reside at    
                       Street, Town of Shallotte, Brunswick County, State of
North Carolina; I am a candidate for election to the office of (mayor, or
commissioner [alderman]), to be voted upon at the town election to be held on
the first Tuesday after the first Monday in May, 20  , and I hereby request
that my name be printed on the official ballot for the said election for such
office.
                                                           
   (Witness)               (Signature)”
   (C)   Candidates for mayor shall pay at the time of the signing of said
statement the sum of five dollars ($5.00) to the Clerk, and candidates for
membership on the board of commissioners [aldermen] shall pay the sum of one
dollar ($1.00) to said Clerk; and such filing fees shall go to the town’s
general fund, to be applied on the expense of holding the election.  Only those
persons signing such statement and paying the required fee shall be entitled to
have his name printed on the official ballot.
   (D)   The candidate for mayor receiving the highest number of votes in the
town election shall be declared to be elected mayor and the five (5) candidates
for town commissioner [alderman] receiving the highest number of votes shall be
declared to be elected as commissioners [aldermen].
(S.L. 1947, c. 507, Sec. 3; S.L. 1965, c. 235, Sec. 1)
Statutory reference:
   Filing fees and notices of candidacy are governed  by G.S. Ch. 163
Sec. 5.  POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The commissioners [aldermen] of said town shall have power to pass all
bylaws, rules and regulations necessary for the good government of said town,
not inconsistent with the laws of this state, and shall also have power to
abate all nuisances and may impose such fines and penalties as may be necessary
to abate them.  The governing body of said town is hereby authorized and
empowered to impose, levy and collect such taxes as municipal corporations are
authorized by the general laws of the state to impose, levy and collect,
subject only to such limitations as are imposed by the general laws of the
state with respect thereto.
(S.L. 1949, c. 144, Sec. 1)
Sec. 6.  SECRETARY OF THE BOARD.
   It shall be the duty of the commissioners [aldermen] when organized to
appoint one (1) of their number as secretary, whose duty it shall be to keep a
record of all proceedings of said commissioners [aldermen], and said
commissioners [aldermen] may require the treasurer and Marshal each to enter
into a bond approved by the commissioners [aldermen], payable to the State of
North Carolina, to the use of the Town of Shallotte, conditioned for the
faithful performance of their duties, approved by the commissioners [aldermen].
(Pr. L. 1899, c. 339, Sec. 6)
Sec. 7.  TOWN MARSHAL.
   When it shall be necessary for the preservation of the public peace, good
order and common decency, or the protection of life, liberty, person or
property of individuals, the Town Marshal shall have the authority, and it
shall be the duty of such Marshal, to arrest the body of offending parties who
have violated the law in the presence of such Marshal, without warrant, and
take such person or persons before the mayor of said town as early as
practicable, to be dealt with as the law directs, and for every resistance of
such authority by such offenders or others, the party so resisting shall be
punished as the ordinances of said town shall provide, and if necessary the
Marshal shall have power to call to his aid any bystander to assist in making
any legal arrest, and anyone so summoned or called, who refuses or fails to
arrest, shall, upon conviction before the mayor, be punished as the ordinances
of said town shall prescribe.
(Pr. L. 1899, c. 339, Sec. 7)
Editor’s note:
   Section 3 of Chapter 339, Private Laws of 1899, provided for election of a
town marshal; however, the rewriting of that section by c. 507,  S.L. 1947, did
not carry forward the office of marshal.
Sec. 8.  POWER TO APPLY TAXES.
   The commissioners [aldermen] shall have the power to apply the taxes
collected under this act, together with all fines and forfeitures, to the
public streets or [sic] said town as they may find necessary.
(Pr. L. 1899, c. 339, Sec. 8)
Sec. 9.  VIOLATIONS.
   The provisions of G.S. § 160A-175 govern violations and enforcement of
ordinances adopted by the Board of Aldermen.
(Pr. L. 1899, c. 339, Sec. 9)  (Amendment adopted June 16, 1997)
Statutory reference:
   Penalties for ordinance violations, see G.S. § 160A-175
Sec. 10.  SALE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to manufacture or sell any
spirituous liquors, or to sell any wine, cider, malt liquors or any other
intoxicating drink within the limits of said town or within one and one-half
(1-1/2) miles of the outer limits of said town; and any [sic] person violating
any of the provisions of this section shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor
and upon conviction shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $50 or imprisoned
for not more than 30 days, in the discretion of the court.
(Pr. L. 1899, c. 339, Sec. 10)
Editor’s note:
   G.S. Chapter 18B, enacted in 1989, as amended, governs sale and distribution
of alcoholic beverages, and supersedes local acts similar to this section.  See
also Related Local Act, referenced herein, establishing alcoholic beverage
control stores in the town.
Sec. 11.  POLICE; APPOINTMENT; TERRITORIAL JURISDICTION.
   The Chief of Police and other police officers shall be appointed by the
board of town commissioners [Aldermen] and said board may appoint persons who
are not residents of the municipality to such positions.  The police officers
of the Town of Shallotte shall have full authority, when in hot pursuit of any
person who is charged with the violation of any criminal offense within the
municipality, to pursue such offender beyond the corporate limits of the town
and as far as the line of an adjoining county and to arrest such offender; and
the common law doctrine of hot pursuit shall be applicable to such offenses and
such officers.
(S.L. 1947, c. 507, Sec. 4)
Statutory reference:
   Territorial jurisdiction of police officers, see G.S. § 160A-286
RELATED LOCAL LAWS
Sec. 1.  SESSION LAWS OF 1951, CHAPTER 909.
   Section 1.  From and after the ratification of this act, all that territory
embraced within the territorial limits of the Town of Shallotte, in Brunswick
County, shall be a bird sanctuary.
   Section 2.  From and after the ratification of this act, it shall be
unlawful for any person to hunt, kill or trap any birds within the territorial
limits referred to in section 1 of this act.  Any person violating the
provisions of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be fined not more than $50 or imprisoned not more than 30
days.
Sec. 2.  SESSION LAWS OF 1959, CHAPTER 519, AS AMENDED.
   Section 1.  The board of aldermen of the Town of Shallotte may on its own
motion and shall upon a petition to said board signed by at least 15 percent of
the registered and qualified voters of the Town of Shallotte order an election
to be held on the question of whether or not town alcoholic beverage control
stores may be operated in the Town of Shallotte and if a majority of the votes
cast in such election shall be for the operation of such stores, it shall be
legal for alcoholic beverage control stores to be set up and operated in the
Town of Shallotte, but if a majority of the votes cast in said election shall
be against the operation of said alcoholic beverage control stores, no such
stores shall be set up and operated in the Town of Shallotte under the
provisions of this act.
   Section 2.  The board of aldermen of the Town of Shallotte may submit the
questions herein above mentioned and call a special election for the purpose of
submitting said question on or before October 11, 1959.  In the event said
special election is called, same shall be held and conducted on the dates fixed
by the board of aldermen of the Town of Shallotte.  A new registration of
voters for such election shall not be necessary and all qualified voters who
are properly registered prior to the registration for the election and those
who register in said alcoholic beverage control election shall be entitled to
vote in said election.  In said election a ballot shall be used upon which
shall be printed upon separate lines for each proposition “For City Alcoholic
Beverage Control Stores,” “Against City  Alcoholic    Beverage  Control 
Stores.”  Those favoring setting up and operating alcoholic beverage control
stores in the Town of Shallotte shall mark in the voting square to the left of
the words “For City Alcoholic Beverage Control Stores” printed on the ballot
and those opposed to city alcoholic beverage control stores shall mark in the
voting square to the left of the words “Against City Alcoholic Beverage Control
Stores.”  Except as otherwise provided herein, if a special election is called,
the special election authorized shall be conducted under the same statutes,
rules and regulations applicable to general elections for the board of aldermen
of the Town of Shallotte and the cost thereof shall be paid from the general
fund of the Town of Shallotte.
   Section 3.  If a subsequent election shall be held and at such election a
majority of the votes shall be cast “Against City Alcoholic Beverage Control
Stores,” the city alcoholic beverage control board shall within three (3)
months from the canvassing of such votes and declaration of the results thereof
close such stores and shall thereafter cease to operate the same and within
said three (3) months the control board shall dispose of all alcoholic
beverages on hand, all fixtures and all other property in the hands and under
the control of said board and convert the same into cash and turn the same over
to the city treasurer.  Thereafter, all public, public-local and private laws
applicable to the sale of intoxicating beverages within said Town of Shallotte
in force and effect prior to the authorization to operate City Alcoholic
Beverage Control Stores shall be in full force and effect the same as if such
election had not been held, and until and unless another election is held under
the provisions of this act in which a majority of the votes shall be cast “For
City Alcoholic Beverage Control Stores.”  No election shall be called and held
in the Town of Shallotte under the provisions of this act within three (3)
years from the holding of the last election thereunder.  It shall be the duty
of the board of aldermen of the Town of Shallotte to order the alcoholic
beverage control election on its own motion or within 60 days after a petition
shall have been presented, filed and signed by at least 15 percent of the
registered and qualified voters of the Town of Shallotte requesting the same.
   Section 4.  If the operation of city alcoholic beverage control stores is
authorized under the provisions of this act, the board of aldermen of the Town
of Shallotte shall immediately create a city board of alcoholic control to be
composed of a chairman and two (2) other members who shall be well-known for
their character, ability and business acumen.  Said board shall be known and
designated as “The Town of Shallotte Board of Alcoholic Control.”  The members
and chairman of said board shall be designated by the mayor and governing body
of the city and the member designated as chairman shall serve for his first
term a period of three (3) years.  As to the other members, one (1) member
shall serve for his first term a period of two (2) years and the other member
shall serve for his first term a period of one (1) year; and all terms shall
begin with the date of their appointment.  Thereafter, as the terms of the
chairman and members expire, their successors in office shall serve for terms
of three (3) years each, and until their successors are appointed and
qualified.  Any vacancy shall be filled by the board of aldermen for the
unexpired term.  Compensation of the members of said city board of alcoholic
control shall be fixed by the board of aldermen of the Town of Shallotte.
   Section 5.  The said Town of Shallotte Board of Alcoholic Control shall have
all of the powers and duties imposed by G.S. § 18-45 on county boards of
alcoholic control and shall be subject to the powers and authority of the state
board of alcoholic control the same as county boards of alcoholic control as
provided in G.S. § 18-39.  The said Town of Shallotte Board of Alcoholic
Control and the operation of any city alcoholic beverage control stores
authorized under the provisions of this act shall be subject to and in
pursuance with the provisions of article 3 of chapter 18 of the General
Statutes of North Carolina except to the extent which the same may be in
conflict with the provisions of this act.  Wherever the word “county” board of
alcoholic control appears in said article, it shall include the Town of
Shallotte Board of Alcoholic Control.  The Town of Shallotte Board of Alcoholic
Control shall have authority to employ legal counsel and such other employees
as it may deem wise and fix their compensation.
   Section 6.  (a) Out of the gross profits derived from the operation of said
alcoholic beverage control stores and after the payment of all costs and
operating expenses and after retaining sufficient and proper working capital,
the amount thereof to be determined by the Town of Shallotte Board of Alcoholic
Control, said board shall further expend an amount as necessary for law
enforcement purposes of not less than five percent (5%) nor more than 10
percent thereof, to be determined by quarterly audit, which amount shall
supplement and not supplant the amount usually budgeted for such purposes by
the Town of Shallotte.  In the expenditure of said funds, the city board of
alcoholic control shall employ one (1) or more persons as law enforcement
officer or officers to be appointed by and directly responsible to the said
board.  The person or persons so appointed shall, after taking the oath
prescribed by law for peace officers, have the same powers and authorities
within Brunswick County as other peace officers. And any such person or persons
so appointed, or any other peace officer while in hot pursuit of anyone found
to be violating the prohibition laws of this state, shall have the right to go
into any other county of the state and arrest such defendant therein so long as
such hot pursuit of such person shall continue, and the common law of hot
pursuit shall be applicable to said offenses and such officer or officers.  Any
law enforcement officer appointed by the said board of alcoholic control and
any other peace officer are hereby authorized, upon request of the sheriff or
other lawful officer in any other county, to go into such other county and
assist in suppressing a violation of the prohibition laws therein, and while so
acting, shall have such powers as a peace officer as are granted to him in
Brunswick County and be entitled to all the protection provided for said
officer while acting in his own county.
   (b)   Out of the net profits derived from the operation of said alcoholic
beverage control stores, the Town of Shallotte Board of Alcoholic Control
shall, on a quarterly basis, pay over to the following named governing bodies,
departments, boards and agencies amounts equal to the percentages of the net
profits which shall be expended by said governing bodies, departments, boards
and agencies for these purposes and none other as follows:
      (1)   five percent (5%) to Union Primary School [;]
      (2)   five percent (5%) to Shallotte Middle School [;]
      (3)   10 percent to West Brunswick High School [; and]
      (4)   80 percent to the general fund of the Town of Shallotte.
   Section 6.1.  All sales of wines in the Town of Shallotte are restricted to
the Shallotte ABC Store.
   Section 7.  The Town of Shallotte Board of Alcoholic Control may authorize
the establishment and operation of additional stores within the municipality
if, in its discretion, it finds the same desirable.
Editor’s note:
   Subsection (b) of Section 6 was enacted by S.L. 1975 c. 474; Section 6.1 was
enacted by S.L. 1971, c. 376.  The statutes cited in Section 5 were repealed in
1971.  See Charter Sec. 10 above.
Sec. 3.  SESSION LAWS OF 1961, CHAPTER 1109.
   Section 1.  There is hereby created a board to be known as the airport
commission of the Towns of Shallotte and Ocean Isle, and which board is hereby
constituted a body politic and corporate.  The said board shall be comprised of
seven (7) members, all of whom shall be experienced businessmen with no
qualifications as to residence.  The membership of said board shall be named as
provided for in chapter 63 of the General Statutes of North Carolina.  The
members of said board shall receive no compensation, per diem or otherwise, but
shall be allowed and paid actual expenses incurred in the transaction of
business and at the instance of the said commission.  In the event that either
the aldermen of the Town of Shallotte or the commissioners of the Town of Ocean
Isle do not deem it advisable or any one (1) of said municipal bodies do not
enter into an agreement to set up said airport commission as provided for under
chapter 63 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, then in such event the
municipality desiring to create such a commission may do so having all powers
herein conferred with the right and privilege of calling such commission in the
name of the particular municipality.
   Section 2.  Said airport commission shall, in addition to the powers
conferred in chapter 63 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, have the
following powers:
   (1)   To sue and be sued in the name of said airport commission; to acquire
by purchase and condemnation, and to hold lands for the purpose of
constructing, maintaining or operating the airport facilities hereinafter
referred to; and make such contracts and to hold such personal property as may
be necessary for the exercise of the powers of said airport commission.
   (2) To issue bonds and/or other securities or obligations for the purpose of
providing funds for such acquisition of lands, construction, maintenance and/or
operating the said airport facilities, said bonds, if and when issued, shall be
denoted “airport commission bonds of Shallotte and Ocean Isle” and shall be
issued in such form and denominations and shall mature at such time or times
not exceeding 50 years after their date and shall bear such rate of interest
not exceeding six percent (6%) per annum payable either annually or
semiannually as the airport commission may determine; provided, however, that
neither the airport commission board, nor the individual members thereof, shall
have authority to pledge the credit of or contract for or on behalf of any of
the governmental units participating in the establishment of an airport
commission under this act.  The bonds shall be signed by the chairman of said
airport commission board and the corporate seal affixed or impressed on each
bond and attested by the secretary to said board.  The coupons to be attached
to said bond shall bear the facsimile signature of the chairman officiating at
the time of issuance of said bond.  Such bonds and/or notes issued for the
purpose or purposes above set out may be sold at private sale for not less than
par to any U.S. governmental agency with the approval of the board of aldermen
of Shallotte and the board of commissioners of the Town of Ocean Isle, jointly,
but if such private sale is not made to a U.S. governmental agency, then the
sale shall be made under the provisions of the Municipal Finance Act of the
state with the approval of the local government board and commission.
   Bonds and notes issued under this act shall be exempt from all state, county
or municipal taxes or assessments, direct or indirect, general or special, and
the interest paid on said bonds or notes shall not be subject to taxation as
income, nor shall said bonds or notes, or coupons of said bonds, be subject to
taxation when constituting part of the surplus of any bank, trust company or
other corporation.
   (3)   Any resolution or resolutions authorizing any bonds may contain
provisions which shall be part of the contract with the holders of the bonds,
as to:
   a.   Pledging any and all revenue received by the airport commission in the
operation of said airport facilities after operational costs.
   b.   The rates of any charges by said commission for the use of the
facilities of said commission and the use and disposition of such revenues.
   c.   The setting aside of reserve and sinking funds and the rate and
disposition thereof.
   d.   Limitations on the purposes to which the proceeds of sale of any issue
of bonds to be issued may be applied.
   e.   Limitations on the issuance of additional bonds, and
   f.   The procedure, if any, by which the terms of any contract with
bondholders may be amended or abrogated, the amount of bonds the holders of
which must consent thereto, and the manner in which the consent may be given.
   (4)   To do all things necessary or convenient to carry out all powers
expressly given in this act.
   Sec. 3.  That it is hereby declared to be the policy of the State of North
Carolina to promote, encourage and develop air transportation, service and
facilities in connection with the commerce of the United States, and to foster
and preserve in full vigor air transportation, and that Shallotte and Ocean
Isle, individually or jointly, are hereby declared to be an area which should
be developed in connection with the interior of the State of North Carolina and
other states, and that it is hereby declared and deemed by the State of North
Carolina necessary and desirable and in the public interest of the entire state
that there shall be established air transportation facilities in areas of
Shallotte and Ocean Isle in accordance with the provisions of the Acts of
Congress in the United States and the laws of North Carolina.  The said airport
commission shall be regarded as performing an essential governmental function
in undertaking the construction, maintenance and operation of the said
facilities and in carrying out the provisions of this act in relation thereof,
and shall be required to pay no taxes or assessment upon any of the properties
acquired or used by it for such purposes.
Sec. 4.  SESSION LAWS OF 1961, CHAPTER 1123.
   Sec. 1.  The mayor of the Town of Shallotte, in Brunswick County, shall
receive as compensation for his services the sum of $300 per annum, to be paid
in equal monthly installments out of the general fund of said town.
Sec. 5.  SESSION LAWS OF 1965, CHAPTER 486.
   Sec. 1.  G.S. § 18-127 is hereby amended by adding at the end thereof the
following:
   “The Town of Shallotte is hereby authorized to hold an election as provided
in this section, notwithstanding the population limitation or any previous vote
by the county.  Provided, that in such election the only issue submitted shall
be for the “off-premises” sale of beer.”
TITLE I:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
      
11.   EXTRATERRITORIAL BOUNDARIES
CHAPTER 10:  RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time; computing time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.19   Damaging ordinances prohibited
   
10.20   Provisions considered as continuations
   
10.21   Procedure, form; publication
   
10.22   Official copy
   
10.23   Ordinance book
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01  TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the Town of Shallotte shall be
designated as the Code of Shallotte and may be so cited.
§ 10.02  INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03  APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation, shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04  CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule.  Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense.  However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions.  For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BOARD.  The Board of Aldermen of the town.
      CHARTER.  The Charter of the Town of Shallotte, North Carolina.
      CODE, THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES, or THIS CODE.  This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or
sections.
      COMPUTATION OF TIME.  The time within which an act is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and the last day; and if the last day is
Saturday, Sunday or a legal holiday, that day shall be excluded.
      COUNTY.  Brunswick County, North Carolina.
      GENDER.  Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine
and neuter.
      GENERAL STATUTES or G.S.  The latest edition of the GENERAL STATUTES of
North Carolina, as amended.
      GOVERNOR.  The Governor of North Carolina.
      JOINT AUTHORITY.  All words giving a joint authority to three or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving authority to a majority of
those persons or officers.
      MAY.  The act referred to is permissive.
      MAYOR.  The Mayor of the town.
      MONTH.  A calendar month.
      MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, MUNICIPALITY or TOWN.  The Town of Shallotte,
North Carolina.
      NUMBER.  Words used in the singular include the plural, and the plural
includes the singular number.
      OATH.  An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may
be substituted for an oath, and in these cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall
be equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT.  An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this municipality unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
      OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD.  Whenever certain hours are named in this code,
they shall mean standard time or daylight saving time as may be in current use
in this town.
      OWNER.  Applied to any property, includes any part owner, joint owner,
tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the whole or a
part of the property.
      PERSON.  Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver.  Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING.  Next before or next after, respectively.
      PROPERTY.  Real and personal property.
         (a)   PERSONAL PROPERTY.  Every species of property except real
property as herein defined.
         (b)   REAL PROPERTY.  Lands, tenements and hereditaments.
      SHALL.  The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIDEWALK.  Any portion of a street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION.  Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE.  The State of North Carolina.
      STREET.  Any public way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard,
parkway, alley, lane or bridge and the approaches thereto within the town.
      SUBCHAPTER.  A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a
heading in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the
chapter, setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the
heading.  Not all chapters have subchapters.
      TENANT or OCCUPANT.  Applied to a building or land, includes any person
who occupies the whole or a part of the building or lands whether alone or with
others.
      TENSE.  Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present.
      TOWN.  The Town of Shallotte, in the County of Brunswick, North Carolina.
      WRITTEN.  Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR.  A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed; equivalent to the
words YEAR OF OUR LORD.
(1979 Code, § 1-1002)
Statutory reference:
   Computation of time, see G.S. § 1-593
§ 10.06  RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this municipality shall be by the
following rules, unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of
the legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance:
   (A)   ANDorOR.  Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants.  When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses.  Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term.  A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07  SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
(1979 Code, § 1-1007)
§ 10.08  REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09  REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this municipality exercising the powers, duties
or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10  ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express that intent, the spelling shall be corrected and word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published.  No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11  OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within this municipality for the transaction of all municipal
business.
§ 10.12  REASONABLE TIME; COMPUTING TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last.  If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13  ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced.  All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14  ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   (A)   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other
ordinances pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in
full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary
implication.
   (B)   Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall be
construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
      (1)   Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture
incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective
date of this code;
      (2)   Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment
of money for the town or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the town or
any evidence of the town’s indebtedness;
      (3)   Any contract or obligation assumed by the town;
      (4)   Any ordinance fixing the salary of any town officer or employee;
      (5)   Any right or franchise granted by the town;
      (6)   Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating,
relocating, opening, widening, paving and the like, any street or public way in
the town;
      (7)   Any appropriation ordinance;
      (8)   Any ordinance which, by its own terms, is effective for a stated or
limited term;
      (9)   Any ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing taxes
therefor;
      (10)   Any zoning ordinance or zoning map amendment;
      (11)   Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any subdivision plat;
      (12)   Any ordinance describing or altering the boundaries of the town;
      (13)   The administrative ordinances or resolutions of the town not in
conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this code;
      (14)   Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes not included herein;
      (15)   Any ordinance establishing or prescribing street grades in the
town; and/or
      (16)   Any personnel ordinance.
   (C)   Nor shall any ordinance be construed to revive any ordinance or part
thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance which is repealed by
this chapter; and all ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full
force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length herein.
Statutory reference:
   Statutes not repealed by General Statutes, see G.S. § 164-7
§ 10.15  EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.  Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect
from their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided or ordinances required
by state law to be effective only after having met specific requirements.
§ 10.16  REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in anyway be effected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall by itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17  ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal or
in any way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering
system hereof and printed for inclusion herein.  When subsequent ordinances
repeal any chapter, section or subsection, or any portion thereof, the repealed
portions may be excluded from this code by omission from reprinted pages.  The
subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted in the case of
repeal, shall be prima facie evidence that the subsequent ordinances numbered
or omitted are readopted as a new code by the town.
   (B)   Amendments to any of the provisions of the code shall be made by
amending provisions by specific reference to the section number of this code in
language substantially similar to the following: “Section                of the
Code of Ordinances, Town of Shallotte, North Carolina, is hereby amended as
follows: [...].” The new provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (C)   If a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to be added,
language substantially similar to the following shall be used: “The Code of
Ordinances, Town of Shallotte, North Carolina, is hereby amended by adding a
section, to be numbered               , which section shall read as follows:
[...].” The new section shall then be set out in full as desired.
(1979 Code, § 1-1008)
   (D)   All sections, articles, chapters or provisions desired to be repealed
must be specifically repealed by section, article or chapter number, as the
case may be.
§ 10.18  SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section.  Example: 
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text
of the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example: 
(G.S. § 160A-11)
      (2)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information.  Example:
   § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see G.S. §§ 132-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the prior code of ordinances
of the town but the numbering has changed, the original prior code section
number shall be indicated in the history by “(1979 Code, §       )” or “(1994
Code, § ____).”  The history notes following sections and the references
scattered throughout the code are not part of the code, but are merely for the
benefit for the user of the code.
§ 10.19  DAMAGING ORDINANCES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall tear or deface any of the town ordinances.
(1979 Code, § 1-1009)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 10.20  PROVISIONS CONSIDERED AS CONTINUATIONS.
   The provisions appearing in this code, so far as they are the same as
ordinances adopted prior to this code and included herein, shall be considered
as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
(1979 Code, § 1-1003)
§ 10.21  PROCEDURE, FORM; PUBLICATION.
   Every ordinance amending or repealing any ordinance and every new ordinance
shall be proposed in writing and shall be approved as to form by the Town
Attorney.  Ordinances shall have ordinance numbers and section captions.
(1979 Code, § 1-1041)
§ 10.22  OFFICIAL COPY.
   A true copy of an ordinance, which has been duly enacted by the Board,
signed by the Mayor, and attested to by the Clerk shall be known as an official
copy of any ordinance for the town.
(1979 Code, § 1-1043)
Statutory reference:
Pleading and proving city ordinances, see G.S. § 160A-79
§ 10.23  ORDINANCE BOOK.
   The Clerk shall file a true copy of each ordinance, until it is codified in
this code, in an ordinance book separate and apart from the Board’s minute
book.  The ordinance book shall be appropriately indexed and maintained for
public inspection in the office of the Clerk.
(1979 Code, § 1-1044)
Statutory reference:
Similar requirements on the ordinance book, see G.S. § 160A-78
§ 10.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of any
section or division of this code of ordinances for which no other penalty is
provided, or failing or neglecting or refusing to comply with same, shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor and subject to a fine not to
exceed $50 or imprisonment not to exceed 30 days, and each day that any of the
provisions of this code of ordinances are violated shall constitute a separate
offense.
(G.S. § 14-4(a))  (1979 Code, § 1-1006)
Statutory reference:
   Provisions concerning enforcement of ordinances, see G.S. § 160A-175
CHAPTER 11:  EXTRATERRITORIAL BOUNDARIES
Section
   
11.01   Establishment
   
11.02   Clerk’s duties
   
11.03   Amendments to ordinances
   
11.04   Boundaries
§ 11.01  ESTABLISHMENT.
   The town hereby establishes the boundaries for the extraterritorial
enforcement of zoning ordinances, subdivision regulations and building
inspections shown on the face of that certain map entitled “Town of Shallotte
and ETJ Area” and attached hereto.  These boundaries are also described in that
certain metes and bounds description as set forth in §
11.04.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 11.02  CLERK’S DUTIES.
   The official copy of this chapter and map shall be on record in the office
of the Town Clerk for public inspection during normal business hours, and the
Town Clerk shall cause a certified copy of this chapter and map, together with
any subsequent amendments thereto, to be recorded in the office of the
Brunswick County, North Carolina Registry.  The Town Clerk shall also cause
signs, signposts or similar readily identifiable markers to be installed at all
points of intersection of the above described boundary with all roads.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 11.03  AMENDMENTS TO ORDINANCES.
   The ordinances creating the Planning Board and Board of Adjustment are
hereby amended to include two representatives each from the extraterritorial
area.  To fill these positions, the Town Board shall request the Brunswick
County Commissioners by resolution to appoint these representatives.  If the
Brunswick County Commissioners fails to appoint these representatives within 90
days following receipt of the resolution, these positions may be filled by
appointment of the Town Board of Aldermen.  These representatives from the
extraterritorial area shall have equal rights, privileges and duties with the
other members of the agency to which they are appointed, regardless of whether
the matters at issue arise within the city or within the extraterritorial area.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 11.04  BOUNDARIES.
   The boundaries of the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the town are
delineated on a map titled “Town of Shallotte and ETJ Area” in combination with
the following written description:
   Beginning at a point on U.S. Hwy. 17 at the intersection of U.S. Hwy. 17 and
SR 1345; thence following U.S. Hwy. 17 in a southwesterly direction for
approximately 1800 feet to the intersection of U.S. Hwy. 17 and SR 1136; thence
following SR 1136 to its intersection with N.C. Hwy. 130; thence following N.C.
Hwy. 130 for approximately 200 feet in a northwesterly direction to its
intersection with SR 1134; and thence following SR 1134 for approximately 520
feet in a southwesterly direction to a point where Sharon Creek intersects with
SR 1134; thence following the run of Sharon Creek in a southerly direction to
the confluence of Sharon Creek and the Shallotte River; thence following the
Shallotte River in a southerly direction to the confluence of the Shallotte
River and Copas Creek; thence following Copas Creek in a westerly direction to
its intersection with SR 1191; thence following SR 1191 to its intersection
with SR 1145; thence in a northwesterly direction for approximately 250 feet to
the southern boundary of a lot owned by Frank Causey and continuing with the
Frank Causey southern boundary line to the rear of his property and then going
northwest with the rear of the property line to a common corner with T.M.
Phillips; thence following the rear property line of T.M. Phillips to a point
where it meets the rear of a tract of land owned by Vera Edwards; thence
continuing in a northwesterly direction to a point where the Vera Edwards
property meets with Copas Branch; thence following Copas Branch for
approximately 1900 feet; thence from said point in a northwesterly direction
for approximately 840 feet to the southeast corner of a tract of land owned by
Henry Lewis Bell; thence following the southern property line of the Bell
property to a point where it meets N.C. Highway 179; thence crossing N.C.
Highway 179 to the southeastern corner of a lot owned by Lee Vance Frink and
continuing along the southern boundary of the Frink property to a point where
it meets with a tract of land owned by Roscoe Butler; and thence continuing
with the southern boundary of the Butler property to a point where the
southwestern corner of the Butler property meets with a tract of land owned by
Fred Mintz; and thence continuing in a northerly direction for approximately
4,940 feet to a point on Saw Pit Branch and continuing in the same direction
across a tract of land owned by W.T. Russ to a point where the northeastern
corner of the Russ property meets the southwestern corner of a tract of land
owned by Dianne Stanley; thence continuing northward along the western boundary
of the Stanley property to U.S. Highway 17; thence continuing along U.S.
Highway 17 to its intersection with SR 1316; thence continuing along SR 1316 to
its intersection with U.S. Highway 17 Bypass; thence continuing north with U.S.
Highway 17 for approximately 400 feet to the southern corner of a tract of land
owned by W.J. McLamb; thence continuing along the western boundary of the
McLamb property to a point where the northern corner of the McLamb property
meets a tract of land owned by John Mintz; and thence continuing in a northerly
direction for approximately 2,880 feet to the southwestern corner of a tract of
land owned by Lloyd Milliken, thence continuing in a northerly direction along
the western boundary of the Milliken property to SR 1320; thence continuing
with SR 1320 to its intersection with N.C. Highway 130, thence continuing
northwestward with N.C. Highway 130 for approximately 280 feet to a point on
the northern side of N.C. Highway 130 where the northwestern corner of the
Lloyd Milliken property meets said road; thence continuing along the boundary
of the Milliken property in an easterly direction to a point where the Milliken
property adjoins a tract of land owned by Atlantic Telephone; thence continuing
along the rear property line of Atlantic Telephone to an unnamed road between
the Atlantic Telephone property and West Brunswick High School; thence
continuing across the unnamed road to the northwestern corner of land on which
is located West Brunswick High School; thence continuing along the rear of the
High School property to the southwestern corner of a tract of land owned by
John Eagles; thence continuing northward along the Eagles property line to its
intersection with an unnamed creek; thence continuing in a northwesterly
direction along the unnamed creek for approximately 820 feet to the
southwestern corner of a tract of land owned by Ruby Gore; thence continuing
along the western boundary of the Gore property to a point where it meets SR
1348; thence continuing along SR 1348 for approximately 4,000 feet to the
northwestern property line of a lot owned by Carlee Hill; thence continuing
along the Hill property line in a northeasterly direction to a tract of land
owned by Brice Davis; thence continuing in a northeasterly direction along the
Davis property boundary to a tract of land owned by Frederick Mintz; thence
continuing along the Mintz property boundary to a point where it meets a tract
of land owned by the Town of Shallotte; thence continuing along the boundary of
the property owned by the Town to a point where it meets a tract of land owned
by Federal Paper Company; thence continuing along the Federal Paper Company
property line to a point where it meets the northern corner of a tract of land
owned by N.R. Boseman; thence continuing along the rear of the Boseman property
line to a point where it meets the rear of five lots owned by Andrew Gray;
thence following along the rear of the Gray lots to the rear of a lot owned by
Ronnie Scott; thence continuing along the rear of the Scott lot to a point
where it meets the Western corner of a tract of land owned by Fred Leonard;
thence continuing along the boundary of the Leonard land to a point where it
meets SR 1345; thence continuing in a southerly direction along SR 1345 to the
point of beginning.
(Ord. passed - -)
TITLE III:  ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   TOWN GOVERNMENT
      
31.   TOWN OFFICIALS
      
32.   DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
      
33.   FINANCES
      
34.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
      
35.   FIRE DEPARTMENT
      
36.   TOWN POLICIES
      
37.   ETHICS
CHAPTER 30:  TOWN GOVERNMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Governing body
   
30.02   Powers and duties
   
30.03   Mayor
   
30.04   Mayor Pro Tem
   
30.05   Power over employees
   
30.06   Committees appointed by Mayor
   
30.07   Responsibilities and duties of committees
   
30.08   Compensation
Meetings
   
30.20   Regular meetings; time and place
   
30.21   Special meetings
   
30.22   Adjourned meetings
   
30.23   Order of business
   
30.24   Rules of procedure
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01  GOVERNING BODY.
   The governing body of the town shall consist of a Mayor and Board of
Aldermen of five members.  The governing body shall be charged with the general
government and administration of the affairs of the town.
(1979 Code, § 2-1001)
Statutory reference:
   Board to organize town government, see G.S. § 160A-146
§ 30.02  POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The powers and duties of the governing body shall be set out in the General
Statutes of North Carolina, the Town Charter and the ordinances of the town.
(1979 Code, § 2-1002)
§ 30.03  MAYOR.
   The Mayor shall be the chief executive officer of the town, and as such,
shall perform the following duties:
   (A)   Keep himself or herself informed as to the town’s business;
   (B)   Preside over the meetings of the Board of Aldermen;
   (C)   Sign all contracts, ordinances, resolutions, franchises and all other
documents as authorized by the Board;
   (D)   Appoint all committees and outline their duties, under the general
direction of the Board;
   (E)   Make recommendations to the Board concerning the affairs of the town,
as he or she  deems necessary;
   (F)   Represent the town at ceremonies and other official occasions; and
   (G)   Perform other duties as authorized by the General Statutes, the Town
Charter and this code.
(1979 Code, § 2-1003)
Statutory reference:
   Duties of the Mayor, see G.S. § 160A-69
§ 30.04  MAYOR PRO TEM.
   At the first meeting after their election, the Board shall select one of
their number to act as Mayor Pro Tem.  The Mayor Pro Tem shall have no fixed
term of office, but shall perform all the duties of the Mayor in the Mayor’s
absence or disability.
(1979 Code, § 2-1004)
Statutory reference:
   Mayor Pro Tem, see G.S. § 160A-70
§ 30.05  POWER OVER EMPLOYEES.
   The Board of Aldermen shall have the authority to generally organize and
supervise the employees of the town, including the power to:
   (A)   Prescribe rules.  Prescribe rules and regulations as it shall deem
necessary or expedient for the conduct of administrative employees subject to
its authority and shall have the power to revoke, suspend or amend any rule or
regulation;
   (B)   Investigate.  Either by itself or any officer or person designated for
the purpose by it, investigate and examine or inquire into the affairs or
operation of any department, division or employee; and shall have the power to
employ consultants and professional counsel to aid in investigations,
examinations or inquiries;
   (C)   Overrule officials.  Set aside any action taken by a town
administrative official and may supersede him or her in the functions of his or
her office;
   (D)   Delegate duties.  Direct any official, department, division or
employee to perform the work for any official, department, division or
employee;
   (E)   Provide for administrative committees.  Designate committees as it
shall find necessary for the proper consideration of administrative problems. 
The committees shall meet at the request of the Board and shall make
recommendation on matters referred to them as they shall find necessary for the
best interests of the town; and
   (F)   Summon employees.  Require any employee of the town to appear before
and report to the Board at any meeting.
(1979 Code, § 2-1005)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of the Board to adopt personnel regulations, see G.S. § 160A-164
   Authority of the Board to conduct investigations, see G.S. § 160A-80
§ 30.06  COMMITTEES APPOINTED BY MAYOR.
   Committees shall, unless otherwise ordered, be appointed by the Mayor.  All
reports of committees shall be in writing, and committee members shall receive
compensation for extra and special service as the Board may designate.
(1979 Code, § 2-1006)
§ 30.07  RESPONSIBILITIES AND DUTIES OF COMMITTEES.
   Each committee shall be held responsible for its respective department or
the special object for which it is appointed, and shall make recommendations to
the Mayor and the Board of Aldermen as it deems advisable.
(1979 Code, § 2-1007)
§ 30.08  COMPENSATION.
   The compensation of the Mayor and Board  members shall be as provided in the
annual budget ordinance, and as the same may be amended from time to time.
(1979 Code, § 2-1008)
Statutory reference:
   Compensation of Mayor and Board Members, see G.S. § 160A-64
MEETINGS
§ 30.20  REGULAR MEETINGS; TIME AND PLACE.
   The Board of Aldermen shall hold a pre-agenda meeting at 5:15 p.m. followed
by the regular meeting at 6:00 p.m. on the first Tuesday of each month in the
Shallotte Meeting Chambers located at 110 Cheers Street. Meeting date, time and
location may be amended from time to time, in which case notice shall be given
in accordance with applicable law.
(1979 Code, § 2-1021)  (1994 Code, § 30.15)  (Ord. 05-02, passed 3-1-2005; Ord.
10-04, passed 4-6-2010)
Statutory reference:
   Quorum, see G.S. § 160A-74
   Voting, see G.S. § 160A-75
§ 30.21  SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   Special meetings of the Board of Aldermen may be held according to the
procedures set out in the applicable General Statutes.
(1979 Code, § 2-1022)  (1994 Code, § 30.16)
§ 30.22  ADJOURNED MEETINGS.
   Any meeting of the Board of Aldermen may be continued or adjourned or
recessed from day to day, or for more than one day.
(1979 Code, § 2-1023)  (1994 Code, § 30.17)
§ 30.23  ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   At the hour appointed for the meeting of the Board of Aldermen, the
Mayor shall take the chair and direct a call of the members by the Town Clerk,
who shall note the absentees.  If a quorum is not present, the Mayor shall send
for the absentees, and upon the appearance of a quorum shall call to order and
proceed with the order of business.  If a quorum fails to attend, the meeting
shall stand adjourned to a time agreed on by a majority of the members
present.  The Mayor may, when present, substitute any member of the Board to
perform the duties of the chair, but substitution shall not extend beyond
adjournment, except by special consent of the Board.
   (B)   Unless the Board agrees in advance otherwise, the business of the
Board shall be taken up for consideration and disposition at regular meetings
in the following order:
      (1)   Call to order;
      (2)   Reading or disposition of minutes of the previous meeting;
      (3)   Reports of boards and standing committees;
      (4)   Reports of special committees;
      (5)   Unfinished business;
      (6)   New business;
      (7)   Announcements; and
      (8)   Adjournment.
   (C)   If the Board directs any matter to be the special business of a future
meeting, the matter shall have precedence over all other business at that
meeting.
(1979 Code, § 2-1024)  (1994 Code, § 30.18)
§ 30.24  RULES OF PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Agenda.  All reports, communications, ordinances, resolutions,
contract documents or other matters to be submitted to the Board of Aldermen
should be delivered or submitted to the Town Clerk prior to the meeting.
   (B)   Rules of debate and decorum.
      (1)   Manner of speaking.  Every member desiring to speak shall address
the chair and upon recognition by the Mayor shall confine himself or herself to
the question under debate, avoiding all personalities and indecorous language.
      (2)   Interrupting the speaker.  A member, once recognized, shall not be
interrupted when speaking, unless it is to call him or her to order or as
otherwise provided under applicable rules of parliamentary procedure.  If a
member, while speaking, is called to order, he or she shall cease speaking
until the question of order is determined and, if in order, he or she shall be
permitted to proceed.
      (3)   Addressing the Board.  Any person desiring to address the Board
shall first secure the permission of the Mayor.  Any interested parties or
their authorized representatives may address the Board on matters listed on the
agenda of the Board.  After a motion is before the Board, no person shall
address the Board without first securing the permission of the Board to do so.
      (4)   Manner of addressing Board; time limit. Every person addressing the
Board shall give his or her name and address for the records, and unless
special time is granted by the Board, shall limit his or her remarks to ten
minutes.  All remarks shall be addressed to the Board as a body and not to any
member thereof.  No person, other than Board members and the person having the
floor, shall be permitted to enter into any discussion either directly or
through a member of the Board.  No question shall be asked a member except
through the Mayor.
      (5)   Request to have statement abstracted.  A member may request from
the Mayor the privilege of having an abstract of his or her statement on any
subject under consideration by the Board entered in the minutes.
      (6)   Request to record synopsis of discussion in the minutes.  The Clerk
may be directed by the Mayor, with consent of the Board, to enter in the
minutes a synopsis of the discussion on any question coming before the Board.
      (7)   Questions of order.  All questions of order shall be decided by the
Mayor without debate, subject to an appeal to the Board.
      (8)   Robert’s Rules of Order.  When any point of procedure shall arise,
the latest revised edition of Robert’s Rules of Order shall determine the
question of procedure.
(1979 Code, § 2-1025)  (1994 Code, § 30.19)
CHAPTER 31:  TOWN OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Consolidation of offices
   
31.02   Employees serve at pleasure of Board
   
31.03   Interest of town officers
Officers
   
31.15   Town Clerk; duties
   
31.16   Town Attorney
   
31.17   Tax Collector; duties
   
31.18   Finance Director
   
31.19   Town Administrator
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01  CONSOLIDATION OF OFFICES.
   Except as otherwise provided by law, the Board of Aldermen may in its
discretion consolidate any two or more offices and assign the duties of any
such offices to one or more persons.
(1979 Code, § 2-2011)
§ 31.02  EMPLOYEES SERVE AT PLEASURE OF BOARD.
   All employees elected or appointed by the Board of Aldermen shall hold their
office at the pleasure of the Board and may be removed at any time by the
Board.
(1979 Code, § 2-2012)
§ 31.03  INTEREST OF TOWN OFFICERS.
   No member of the Board of Aldermen shall be pecuniarily interested, directly
or indirectly, in any contract made or entered into by the Board, nor in any
matter where the rights or liabilities of the town are, or may be, involved. 
(1979 Code, § 2-2013)
OFFICERS
§ 31.15  TOWN CLERK; DUTIES.
   The Town Administrator shall appoint a Town Clerk.  It shall be the duty of
the Town Clerk to:
   (A)   Act as secretary to the Board;
   (B)   Keep a true record of all the proceedings of the Board;
   (C)   Keep the original of all ordinances in a book especially provided for
that purpose;
   (D)   Act as custodian for all the books, papers, records and journals of
the Board; and
   (E)   Perform other duties as may be required of him or her by law or by the
Board of Aldermen or Town Administrator.
(1979 Code, § 2-2001)  (Ord. 05-13, passed 12-7-2005)
Cross-reference:
   Duties of Clerk as purchasing agent, see §
33.02
Statutory reference:
   Duties of the Clerk specified, see G.S. § 160A-171
   Minutes to be kept, see G.S. § 160A-72
§ 31.16  TOWN ATTORNEY.
   The Town Administrator shall appoint a Town Attorney, whose duties shall be
to:
   (A)   Prosecute or defend any and all suits or actions at law or equity to
which the town may be a party, or in which it may be interested, or which may
be brought against, or by, any officer of the town or in the capacity of the
person as an officer of the town;
   (B)   See to the full enforcement of all judgments or decrees rendered or
entered in favor of the town;
   (C)   See to the completion of all special assessment proceedings and
condemnation proceedings;
   (D)   Draft or review any contract, lease or other document or instrument to
which the town may be a party, and approve all ordinances and resolutions to
the Board as to form;
   (E)   At the request of the Board, draft ordinances covering any subjects
within the power of the town;
   (F)   Attend meetings of the Board upon request; and
   (G)   Perform any other duties required of him or her by other laws and
ordinances.
(1979 Code, § 2-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Duties of the Attorney, see G.S. § 160A-173
§ 31.17  TAX COLLECTOR; DUTIES.
   The Town Administrator shall provide for the appointment of a Tax Collector,
whose duties shall be to:
   (A)   Collect all taxes and assessments due to the town;
   (B)   Supply the Mayor and Board with any information as they may require of
him or her relative to the performance of his or her duties;
   (C)   Make periodic reports to the Board listing therein all funds collected
by him or her; and
   (D)   Perform other duties required by law, or as the Board of Aldermen or
Town Administrator may direct.
(1979 Code, § 2-2003)  (Ord. 05-13, passed 12-7-2005)
§ 31.18  FINANCE DIRECTOR.
   The Board of Aldermen shall provide for the appointment of a Finance
Director, whose duties shall be to:
   (A)   Keep the books and accounts of the town;
   (B)   Receive and disburse all monies of the town as required under state
law;
   (C)   Countersign and preaudit all checks, drafts, contracts, purchase
orders or other documents obligating town funds;
   (D)   Report to the Board concerning the finances of the town, as it may
require;
   (E)   Maintain all records of the bonded debt of the town and maintain
sinking funds;
   (F)   Supervise the investment of idle funds; and
   (G)   Perform other duties assigned by the general statutes, the Town
Charter, the Board or Town Administrator. The Finance Director shall be deemed
a department head position.
(1979 Code, § 2-2004)  (Ord. 05-13, passed 12-7-2005)
Statutory reference:
   Duties of the Finance Officer, see G.S. § 159-25
   Fiscal control generally, see G.S. §§ 159-7 et seq.
Editor’s note:
   The Finance Director shall also serve as the Town Budget Officer.
§ 31.19  TOWN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Board of Aldermen shall appoint a Town Administrator and he or she shall
serve at the pleasure of the Board of Aldermen.
   (A)   Duties. It shall be the duty of the Town Administrator to:
      (1)   Direct and supervise the administration of all departments,
employees, offices and agencies of the town, subject to the general direction
and control of the Board of Aldermen, except as otherwise provided by law;
      (2)   Attend all meetings of the Board of Aldermen and recommend any
measures he or she deems expedient;
      (3)   Ensure that all laws of the state, the Town Charter, and the
ordinances, resolutions and regulations of the Board of Aldermen are faithfully
executed within the town;
      (4)   Prepare and submit, with the assistance of the Finance Director,
the town’s annual budget and capital reserve program to the Board;
      (5)   Hire, discipline and terminate all employees of the town in
accordance with the town's personnel policies, except for elected officials or
Board of Aldermen-appointed officials; the Town Administrator shall not
terminate any department head without approval of the Board;
      (6)   Prepare and submit any report that the Board of Aldermen may
require concerning the operations of town departments, offices and agencies
subject to his or her direction and control; and
      (7)   Perform any other duties that may br required or authorized by the
Board of Aldermen.
   (B)   Acting Administrator.  By letter filed with the Town Clerk, the Town
Administrator may designate, subject to the approval of the Board of Aldermen,
a qualified person to exercise his or her office during his or her temporary
absence or disability.  During any temporary appointment, the Board of Aldermen
may revoke the designation at any time and make another appointment until the
Administrator returns or the disability ceases.
   (C)   Interim Administrator.  When the position of Town Administrator is
vacant, the Board of Aldermen may designate a qualified person to exercise the
powers and perform the duties of the Administrator until the vacancy is filled.
   (D)   Effective date.  Effective date of this section is January 1, 2006.
(Ord. 05-13, passed 12-7-2005)
CHAPTER 32:  DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Departments enumerated
Planning Board
   
32.15   Purpose
   
32.16   Membership and vacancies; terms of office and posts
   
32.17   Rules of conduct
   
32.18   Meetings
   
32.19   General powers and duties
   
32.20   Basic and special studies
   
32.21   Comprehensive Plan or Land Use Plan
   
32.22   Zoning ordinance
   
32.23   Subdivision regulations
   
32.24   Urban renewal
   
32.25   Public facilities
   
32.26   Miscellaneous powers and duties
   
32.27   Annual report of activities and analysis of expenditures and budget
request for ensuing fiscal year
   
32.28   Advisory Council and special committees
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01  DEPARTMENTS ENUMERATED.
   Effective January 1, 2006, the administrative organization of the town shall
be divided into the following departments:
   (A)   Police Department;
   (B)   Fire Department;
   (C)   Public Works Department;
   (D)   Administration Department, including Town Clerk and Tax Collector;
   (E)   Water and Sewer Department;
   (F)   Planning Department; and
   (G)   SRFTC.
(1979 Code, § 2-3001)  (Ord. 05-13, passed 12-7-2005; Ord. 14-17, passed 12-2-
2014)
PLANNING BOARD
§ 32.15  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the Planning Board is to accomplish the following:
   (A)   Make studies of the area within the town’s planning and zoning
jurisdiction.
   (B)   Determine objectives to be sought in the development of the town.
   (C)   Prepare and adopt plans for achieving these objectives.
   (D)   Develop and recommend policies, ordinances, administrative procedures,
and other means for carrying out plans in a coordinated and efficient manner.
   (E)   Advise the Board of Aldermen concerning the use and amendment of means
for carrying out plans.
   (F)   Exercise any functions in the administration and enforcement of
various means for carrying out plans that the Board of Aldermen may direct.
   (G)   Perform any other related duties that the Board of Aldermen may
direct.
(Ord. passed 7-6-2004)
§ 32.16  MEMBERSHIP AND VACANCIES; TERMS OF OFFICE AND POSTS.
   (A)   Membership and vacancies. The Planning Board shall consist of seven
members. Five members shall be citizens and residents of the town and shall be
appointed by the Board of Aldermen. Two members shall be citizens and residents
of the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the town as described in G.S. § 160A-
360 and shall be appointed by the County Board of Commissioners. Vacancies
occurring for reasons other than expiration of terms shall be filled as they
occur for the period of the unexpired term. Faithful attendance at the meetings
of the Board is considered a prerequisite for the maintenance of membership on
the Board. A vacancy shall exist on the Board if a member is absent from 25% or
more of the Board’s meetings within a year. A secretary shall be appointed by
the Planning Board.
   (B)   Terms of office and posts. The following post numbers, residency
requirements, and appointment effective dates shall be assigned to each of the
seven Planning Board member positions:
      (1)   Post 1: town resident/first Tuesday of January, odd years;
      (2)   Post 2: town resident/first Tuesday of January, even years;
      (3)   Post 3: town resident/first Tuesday of January, odd years;
      (4)   Post 4: town resident/first Tuesday of January, even years;
      (5)   Post 5: town resident/first Tuesday of January, odd years;
      (6)   Post 6: ETJ resident/first Tuesday of January, even years; and,
      (7)   Post 7: ETJ resident/first Tuesday of January, odd years.
   (C)   Appointments. Except for the first appointments made at the regular
meeting of the Board of Aldermen on or about December 2005, which shall be made
specifically for one or two-year terms, all members thereafter shall be
appointed for two-year terms unless serving an unexpired term. Even-numbered
posts shall serve initial two-year terms beginning on or about January 3, 2006
and ending two years thereafter in January 2008. Thereafter, even-numbered
posts shall consist of two-year terms. Odd-numbered posts shall serve initial
one-year terms beginning on or about January 3, 2006 and ending one year
thereafter in January 2007. Thereafter, odd-numbered posts shall consist of
two-year terms.
(Ord. passed 7-6-2004; Ord. 05-10, passed 11-4-2005; Ord. 11-06, passed 3-1-
2011)
§ 32.17  RULES OF CONDUCT.
   Members of the Board may be removed for cause, including violation of any
rule stated below:
   (A)   Faithful attendance at all meetings of the Board and conscientious
performance of the duties required of members of the Board shall be considered
a prerequisite of continuing membership on the Board.
   (B)   No Board member shall take part in the hearing, consideration, or
determination, of any application in which he/she is personally or financially
interested. Personally interested is defined to mean that a Board member or a
Board member’s family either owns, has financial interest in, or has property
abutting property being considered by the Board.
   (C)   No Board member shall discuss any case with any parties thereto prior
to the meeting on that case; provided however, that members may receive and/or
seek information pertaining to the case from any other member of the Board, or
staff prior to the meeting. Board members shall disclose publicly any contact
made by any party to a matter before the Board.
   (D)   Members of the Board shall not express individual opinions on the
proper judgment of any case with any parties thereto prior to the Board’s
determination of that case. Violation of this rule shall be cause for dismissal
from the Board.
   (E)   Members shall serve at the pleasure of the Board of Aldermen.
   (F)   Planning Board members shall receive a monthly stipend to offset
expenses as may be determined by the Board of Aldermen. The initial monthly
expense stipend shall be $45 per month per member and this amount may be
increased by the Board of Aldermen by approved resolution or motion; however,
the salary shall not be reduced except by adoption of an ordinance. Monthly
expense reports shall not be required to be filed by the Planning Board members
to collect this monthly expense stipend.
   (G)   Violation of the town’s Code of Ethics as set forth in Chapter 37,
which shall be incorporated into the UDO as if fully set forth herein.
(Ord. passed 7-6-2004; Ord. 05-10, passed 11-4-2005; Ord. 07-22, passed 5- -
2007; Ord. 10-17, passed 1-11-2011; Ord. 11-06, passed 3-1-2011)
§ 32.18  MEETINGS.
   (A)   Meetings of the Planning Board will normally occur on the second
Tuesday of the month at a time and place designated by the Board and shall be
open to the public. A quorum shall consist of four members of the Board.
      (1)   All items requested to be considered by the Planning Board or Board
of Aldermen shall be filed with the town in a timely manner and as set forth by
the filing deadline schedule established by the town. Such filing deadline
schedule will be published and available to the public.
      (2)   Once an application, petition, or item for consideration by the
Planning Board or Board of Aldermen is placed on a meeting agenda by the town,
if removed or withdrawn by the applicant or his or her agent without permission
of the appropriate Board less than 48 hours before the scheduled start of the
scheduled meeting, then any applications, petitions, or items for consideration
on the parcel or parcels in question shall not be heard by either Board for a
period of 180 days from the date of such withdrawal.
      (3)   The Planning Board or Board of Aldermen, upon consideration of the
specific facts or circumstances surrounding the withdrawal or removal of a
matter from the agenda within the 48-hour period before a scheduled meeting,
may vote to excuse such withdrawal or removal from the agenda and either
reschedule the matter in question or allow the applicant to resubmit the matter
without prejudice.
      (4)   The Planning Board or Board of Aldermen by a vote of a majority of
its members may excuse the withdrawal or removable of any matter from its
meeting agenda as set forth in subsection (A)(3) above, in the sole discretion
of the Board considering such matter.
   (B)   All regular members may vote on any issue unless they have
disqualified themselves for one or more of the reasons listed in §
32.17. A vote of a majority of the members present and voting shall decide
issues before the Board.
   (C)   Special meetings may be called by the chairperson. It shall be the
duty of the chairperson to call such a meeting upon a recommendation of the
Board. During a special meeting, no other business may be considered except
that which was specified by advanced notice. The Clerk to the Planning Board
shall notify all members of the Board in writing not less than five days in
advance of such special meeting. Notice of time, place, and subject of such
meeting shall be published in a newspaper having general circulation in the
town when possible in accordance with G.S. § 143-128.12(b).
   (D)   The order of business at regular meetings shall be as follows:
      (1)   Call to order.
      (2)   Approval of minutes of previous meetings.
      (3)   Approval of the agenda.
      (4)   Public input.
      (5)   Old business.
      (6)   New business.
      (7)   Announcements.
      (8)   Adjournment.
   (E)   The petitioner or applicant may withdraw the petition or application
at any time; but if a motion is pending to make a recommendation to grant or
deny, such motion shall have precedence.
   (F)   The Board shall render its decisions in the form of a recommendation
on any properly filed petition or application within 60 days after its
introduction at a regularly scheduled meeting and after all documents have been
properly submitted. The 60-day time period will not begin until the petitioner
has furnished the Administrator with all required permits.
   (G)   The Board shall elect a chairperson and vice-chairperson from among
its members at its first regular board meeting in January each year, or as soon
thereafter as is reasonably possible. The term of the chairperson and vice-
chairperson shall expire on the first Monday of each January, unless such
presiding officer(s) shall resign, be removed, or otherwise become unable or
ineligible to serve on the Board or as presiding officer. In such event, a new
chairperson or vice-chairperson shall be elected by the Board from among its
members at the next regular board meeting. The chairperson and vice-chairperson
shall be eligible for reelection. The chairperson shall act as the presiding
officer at all Board meetings and, in his or her absence, the vice-chairperson
shall act as the presiding officer for the meeting in question. Should neither
the chairperson nor the vice-chairperson be present at a board meeting, then
the Planning Board members present at the meeting shall vote on a presiding
officer to serve at that meeting or until the chairperson or vice-chairperson
arrive to the meeting. The Board shall operate its meetings generally under
Robert’s Rules of Order, latest edition; however, failure to precisely follow
the format of Robert’s Rules of Order shall not invalidate any action taken at
a Board meeting. Such rules may be modified upon approval of the Board of
Aldermen. All meetings of the Board shall be open to the public and all records
of the Board shall be a public record as set forth in the General Statutes of
North Carolina including exceptions.
(Ord. passed 7-6-2004; Ord. 05-10, passed 11-4-2005; Ord. 7-15, passed 3- -
2007; Ord. 11-06, passed 3-1-2011)
§ 32.19  GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   It shall be the duty of the Planning Board, in general, to:
   (A)   All proposed amendments to the zoning ordinance or zoning map shall be
submitted to the Planning Board for review and comment. If no written report is
received from the Planning Board within 30 days of referral of the amendment to
that board, the governing board may proceed in its consideration of the
amendment without the Planning Board report. The governing board is not bound
by the recommendations, if any, of the Planning Board.
   (B)   Prepare and from time to time amend and revise a comprehensive and
coordinated plan for the physical, social, and economic development of the
area.
   (C)   Establish goals and policies for guiding action in the development of
the area.
   (D)   Prepare and recommend to the Board of Aldermen ordinances promoting
orderly development along the lines indicated in the Comprehensive or Land Use
Plan.
   (E)   Determine whether specific proposed developments conform to the
principles and requirements of the Comprehensive or Land Use Plan for the
growth and improvement of the area.
   (F)   Keep the Board of Aldermen and the general public informed and advised
as to these matters.
   (G)   Make recommendations for the timely implementation of programs to meet
the goals and policies as adopted in the Land Use Plan or Comprehensive Plan.
   (H)   Perform any other duties which may be lawfully assigned to it.
(Ord. passed 7-6-2004; Ord. 07-39, passed 9- -2007)
§ 32.20  BASIC AND SPECIAL STUDIES.
   As background for its Comprehensive Plan or Land Use Plan and any ordinances
it may prepare, the Planning Board may gather maps and aerial photographs of
manmade and natural physical features of the area, statistics on past trends
and present conditions with respect to population, property values, the
economic base of the community, land use, and such other information as is
important or likely to be important in determining the amount, direction, and
kind of development to be expected in the area and its various parts. The
Planning Board may make studies as to the community’s social, economic, as well
as its physical needs. In addition, the Planning Board may make, cause to be
made, or obtain special studies on the location, condition, and adequacy of
specific facilities, which may include but are not limited to studies of
housing; commercial and industrial facilities; parks, playgrounds, and
recreational facilities; public and private utilities; and traffic,
transportation, and parking facilities. All town officials shall, upon request,
furnish to the Planning Board such available records or information as it may
require in its work. The Board or its agents may, in the performance of its
official duties, enter upon lands and make examinations or surveys and maintain
necessary monuments thereon.
(Ord. passed 7-6-2004)
§ 32.21  COMPREHENSIVE PLAN OR LAND USE PLAN.
   (A)   Zoning regulations shall be made in accordance with a Comprehensive
Plan or CAMA Land Use Plan. When adopting or rejecting any zoning amendment,
the governing board shall also approve a statement describing whether its
action is consistent with an adopted Comprehensive Plan or CAMA Land Use Plan
and any other officially adopted plan that is applicable, and briefly
explaining why the board considers the action taken to be reasonable and in the
public interest as set forth in G.S. § 160A-383.
   (B)   The plan and any ordinances or other measures to effectuate it shall
be made with the general purpose of guiding and accomplishing a coordinated,
adjusted, and harmonious development of the town and its environs which will,
in accordance with present and future needs, best promote health, safety,
morals, and the general welfare, as well as efficiency and economy in the
process of development; including, among other things, adequate provisions for
traffic, the promotion of safety from fire and other dangers, adequate
provision for light and air, the promotion of the healthful and convenient
distribution of population, the promotion of good civic design and arrangement,
wise and efficient expenditure of public funds, and the adequate provision of
public utilities, services, and other public requirements and the improvement
of the community social and economic attributes.
   (C)   Before adopting the Comprehensive Plan or Land Use Plan, the Planning
Board shall hold at least one public hearing thereon and following any other
procedures as required by the General Statutes, Coastal Management, and/or the
Board of Aldermen.
(Ord. passed 7-6-2004; Ord. 07-39, passed 9- -2007)
§ 32.22  ZONING ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The Planning Board shall prepare and submit to the Board of Aldermen
for its consideration and possible adoption a zoning ordinance for the control
of the height, area, bulk, location, and use of buildings and premises in the
area, in accordance with the provisions of G.S. § 160A-381 et seq.
   (B)   The Planning Board may initiate, from time to time, proposals for
amendment of the zoning ordinance, based upon its studies and Comprehensive
Plan or Land Use Plan. In addition, it shall review and make recommendations to
the Board of Aldermen concerning all proposed amendments to the zoning
ordinance.
(Ord. passed 7-6-2004)
§ 32.23  SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Planning Board shall review, from time to time, the need for
regulations for the control of land subdivision in the area and submit to the
Board of Aldermen its recommendations, if any, for adoption or revision of such
regulations.
   (B)   In accordance with such regulations, the Planning Board shall review
and make recommendations to the Board of Aldermen concerning all proposed plats
of land subdivision.
(Ord. passed 7-6-2004)
§ 32.24  URBAN RENEWAL.
   The Planning Board shall make findings and recommendations concerning urban
renewal projects in the area as provided by G.S. § 160A-500 et seq.
(Ord. passed 7-6-2004)
§ 32.25  PUBLIC FACILITIES.
   The Planning Board shall review with the Administrator and other town
officials and report its recommendations to the Board of Aldermen upon the
extent, location, and design of all public structures and facilities, on the
acquisition and disposal of public properties, and on the establishment of
building lines, mapped street lines, and proposals to change existing street
lines. However, in the absence of a recommendation from the Planning Board, the
Board of Aldermen may, if it deems wise, after the expiration of 30 days from
the date on which the questions has been submitted in writing to the Planning
Board for review and recommendation, take final action.
(Ord. passed 7-6-2004)
§ 32.26  MISCELLANEOUS POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Planning Board may conduct such public hearings as may be required
to gather information necessary for the drafting, establishment, and
maintenance of the Comprehensive Plan.
   (B)   The Planning Board shall have power to promote public interest in and
an understanding of its recommendations, and to that end it may publish and
distribute copies of its recommendations and may employ such other means of
publicity and education as it may determine.
   (C)   Members or employees of the Planning Board, when duly authorized by
the Planning Board, may attend planning conferences or meetings of planning
institutes or hearings upon pending planning legislation, and the Planning
Board may, by formal and affirmative vote, pay, within the Planning Board’s
budget, the reasonable traveling expenses incident to such attendance.
   (D)   The Planning Board may conduct public hearings for informational
purposes.
(Ord. passed 7-6-2004)
§ 32.27  ANNUAL REPORT OF ACTIVITIES AND ANALYSIS OF EXPENDITURES AND BUDGET
REQUEST FOR ENSUING FISCAL YEAR.
   (A)   The Planning Board shall, in May of each year, submit in writing to
the Board of Aldermen a written report of its activities, and analysis of the
expenditures to date for the current fiscal year, and for review and approval,
its requested budget of funds needed for operation during the ensuing fiscal
year.
   (B)   The Planning Board is authorized to appoint such committees and
employees, and to authorize such expenditures as it may see fit, subject to
limitations of funds provided for the Planning Board by the Board of Aldermen
in the town’s annual budget.
(Ord. passed 7-6-2004)
§ 32.28  ADVISORY COUNCIL AND SPECIAL COMMITTEES.
   (A)   The Planning Board may seek the establishment of an unofficial
advisory council and may cooperate with this council to the end that its
investigations and plans may receive fullest consideration, but the Board may
not delegate to such advisory council any of its official prerogatives.
   (B)   The Planning Board may set up special committees to assist in the
study of specific questions and problems.
(Ord. passed 7-6-2004)
CHAPTER 33:  FINANCES
Section
Purchasing
   
33.01   Disbursement of funds
   
33.02   Purchasing agent
   
33.03   Purchasing order
   
33.04   Small underpayments and overpayments
Fiscal Procedures
   
33.15   Countersignatures upon all drafts
PURCHASING
§ 33.01  DISBURSEMENT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   In accordance with the Local Government Budget and Fiscal Control Act,
no bill or claim against the town may be paid unless it has been approved by
the officer or employee responsible for the function or agency to which the
expense is charged.  No check or draft of the town shall be valid unless it
bears on its face the certificate of the Finance Officer as follows:
      “This disbursement has been approved as required by the Local Government
Budget and Fiscal Control Act.”
   (B)   No contract, agreement or purchase order shall be valid unless it
bears the Finance Officer’s certificate as follows:
      “This instrument has been preaudited in the manner required by the Local
Government Budget and Fiscal Control Act.”
(1979 Code, § 2-4001)
Statutory reference:
   Preaudit of disbursements required, see G.S. § 159-28
§ 33.02  PURCHASING AGENT.
   The Finance Officer shall serve as purchasing agent and as such shall:
   (A)   Make or approve all purchases of material, equipment and supplies
authorized by the Board of Aldermen;
   (B)   Establish sets of standards and specifications to control purchases by
the town;
   (C)   Prepare and publish specifications and notices to bidders;
   (D)   Advise the Board as to anticipated needs for purchases and make
purchases in advance of needs as authorized by the Board;
   (E)   Store material, equipment and supplies in advance of actual need;
   (F)   Keep records of all purchases made by him or her and of the
destination or ultimate use of the material, equipment and supplies; and
   (G)   Cause to be kept an inventory of all municipal property in his or her
custody and of all municipal property in the custody of the other officers and
employees of the town.
(1979 Code, § 2-4002)
§ 33.03  PURCHASING ORDER.
   (A)   Before any order is given for items to be paid by the town or any
purchase made by any town employee, a purchasing order must first be obtained
from the Finance Officer.
   (B)   Any town employee purchasing goods without a purchase order from the
Finance Officer will be held responsible for the cost of the goods.
   (C)   Any departmental expenditure exceeding $500 must have prior approval
of the Town Administrator before a purchase order is issued.
(1979 Code, § 2-4003)  (Ord. passed  - -)
§ 33.04  SMALL UNDERPAYMENTS AND OVERPAYMENTS.
   The Tax Collector of the town shall treat small underpayments of taxes as
fully paid and the Tax Collector shall not refund small overpayments of taxes
unless the taxpayer requests a refund of any small overpayment of taxes before
the end of the fiscal year in which the small overpayment is made.  For the
purposes of this section, a SMALL UNDERPAYMENT shall be a payment made, other
than in person, that is no more than $1 less than the taxes due on a tax
receipt.  A SMALL OVERPAYMENT shall be a payment made, other than in person,
that is no more than $1 greater than the taxes due on a tax receipt.
(Ord. passed 4-6-1993)
FISCAL PROCEDURES
§ 33.15  COUNTERSIGNATURES UPON ALL  DRAFTS.
   All checks and drafts issued by the town, regardless of amount, must be
signed by the Finance Officer and countersigned by the Mayor.
(1979 Code, § 2-4041)
Statutory reference:
   Dual signatures on checks, see G.S. § 159-25
CHAPTER 34:  POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
34.01   Creation
   
34.02   Composition of Department
   
34.03   Police officers’ duties
   
34.04   Personnel
   
34.05   Conditions of employment
   
34.06   Requirements of employment
   
34.07   Specific duties of the Chief
Cross-reference:
   Emergency response plan, see
Ch. 36
   State of emergency, see §
92.01
§ 34.01  CREATION.
   The Town Police Department is hereby created subject to the terms, authority
and conditions set out in this chapter.
(1979 Code, § 3-1001)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal law enforcement in general, see G.S. §§ 160A-281 et seq.
§ 34.02  COMPOSITION OF DEPARTMENT.
   The Police Department of the town shall consist of a Chief of Police and
officers, patrol officers and police officers of designated grade as the Board
of Aldermen deems necessary.
(1979 Code, § 3-1002)
§ 34.03  POLICE OFFICERS’ DUTIES.
   (A)   The Chief of Police and the members of the Police Department shall
have the duty of enforcing all the ordinances of the town and the laws of this
state within the town, and other duties as may be prescribed by ordinance.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of each member of the police force, upon
information furnished him or her, or upon his or her knowledge of any violation
of the ordinances of the town or of the laws of this state, to secure proper
warrants for the arrest and trial of any and all offenders against any
ordinances or laws.
(1979 Code, § 3-1003)
§ 34.04  PERSONNEL.
   Effective January 1, 2006, upon recommendation of the Town Administrator,
the Board of Aldermen shall have the duty of hiring persons, including the
Chief of Police,  as may be necessary to man the police force of the town and
to provide the town with adequate police protection.  The Board of Aldermen
designates that the Chief of Police, upon approval of the Town Administrator,
shall act on its behalf to hire members of the Police Department for positions
that the Board of Aldermen has previously budgeted in the current fiscal year
budget.  Members of the Police Department shall be discharged and disciplined
as set forth in the personnel policies of the town.
(1979 Code, § 3-1004)  (Ord. 05-13, passed 12-7-2005)
§ 34.05  CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT.
   Effective January 1, 2006, an appointee shall serve six months probation.
(1979 Code, § 3-1006)  (1994 Code, § 34.06)  (Ord. 05-13, passed 12-7-2005)
§ 34.06  REQUIREMENTS OF EMPLOYMENT.
   Every person appointed as a law enforcement officer shall:
   (A)   Be a citizen of the United States;
   (B)   Be at least 20 years of age;
   (C)   Be of good moral character;
   (D)   Be fingerprinted and a search made of local, state and federal
fingerprint files;
   (E)   Not have been convicted of a felony or an offense involving moral
turpitude;
   (F)   Have a high school diploma or its equivalent;
   (G)   Pass an examination conducted by a physician employed by the town; and
   (H)   Be certified in accordance with state law.
(1979 Code, § 3-1007)  (1994 Code, § 34.07)  (Ord. 05-13, passed 12-7-2005)
§ 34.07  SPECIFIC DUTIES OF THE CHIEF.
   (A)   The Chief of Police commands the force under his or her order, and is
responsible for its discipline and efficiency.  Further, he or she shall
recommend to the Board of Aldermen and Town Administrator the reforms and
changes in the Police Department which practical experience shows should be
instituted.  Periodically the Chief may be required to make out a statement of
conduct of the affairs of the Department, and shall include therein any
suggestions for the improvement in the service or personnel of the Department. 
Effective January 1, 2006, the Police Chief shall report to the Town
Administrator. The Chief of Police shall be deemed a department head position.
   (B)   Additional, specific functions of the Chief of Police are:
      (1)   To issue to the force under his or her command any orders and
directives as may be necessary to preserve the public peace, prevent crime,
arrest offenders and to protect public and private property and persons in the
town;
      (2)   To enforce the laws, ordinances, police regulations and executive
orders applicable to his or her jurisdiction;
      (3)   To suspend from duty any members of the Department for
incompetence, neglect of duty, immorality, drunkenness, drinking intoxicants
when on duty, or who shall be found unfit for duty when called on emergency
service, or who fail to obey orders given by proper authority, and in addition
for any just or reasonable cause in the judgment of the Board of Aldermen or
Town Administrator; and
      (4)   To require the proper submission and handling of the necessary and
required reports.
(1979 Code, § 3-1008)  (1994 Code, § 37.08)  (Ord. 05-13, passed 12-7-2005)
CHAPTER 35:  FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
35.01   Town of Shallotte Fire Department created
   
35.02   Officers
   
35.03   Duties of the Fire Chief
   
35.04   Membership
   
35.05   Equipment
   
35.06   General provisions
   
35.07   Enforcement
   
35.08   Bylaws
   
35.09   Personnel
   
35.10   Nuisance fire alarms
   
35.11   Fire watch and medical coverage
Cross-reference:
   Open burning, see §§
93.035 through
93.039
§ 35.01  TOWN OF SHALLOTTE FIRE DEPARTMENT CREATED.
   The Shallotte Fire Department, herein referred to as the Department, the
object of which shall be the prevention and extinguishment of fire and the
protection of life and property within the limits of the town and county fire
district, is hereby created.
(1979 Code, § 3-2001)  (Ord. passed 1-20-1982; Res. passed 11-17-1982)
§ 35.02  OFFICERS.
   (A)   The Fire Department shall consist of a Fire Chief, officers and
firefighters of designated grade as approved by the Board of Aldermen.
   (B)   The Fire Chief shall be appointed by the Town Administrator subject to
approval of the Board of Aldermen, and his or her tenure of office shall depend
upon his or her good conduct and efficiency.  The Fire Chief shall be
technically qualified by training and experience and shall have the ability to
command and hold the respect and confidence of members.  The Fire Chief shall
automatically qualify to hold the position of Chief under the bylaws of the
Fire Department, once hired by the town; any provisions to the contrary
contained in the Fire Department’s bylaws are hereby amended. The Chief shall
report to the Town Administrator. The Fire Chief shall be deemed a department
head position.
   (C)   The Chief shall be held accountable to the Town Administrator subject
to the general direction and control of the Board of Aldermen and shall make
written and/or verbal reports as the Board of Aldermen or Town Administrator
may require.
   (D)   All other officers of the Department must satisfy the eligibility
requirements for their positions contained in the bylaws and shall be held
accountable to the Chief, and subject to removal by him or her for cause,
subject to approval by the Town Administrator.
(1979 Code, § 3-2002)  (Ord. passed 1-20-1982; Ord. 05-13, passed 12-7-2005;
Ord. 10-3, passed 1-26-2010)
§ 35.03  DUTIES OF THE FIRE CHIEF.
   The Fire Chief shall:
   (A)   Observe the bylaws governing the Department and be responsible to the
Town Administrator, subject to the general direction and control of the Board
of Aldermen, for the personnel, morale and general efficiency of the Fire
Department;
   (B)   Determine the number and kind of companies of which the Department is
to be composed, and the response of the companies to alarms;
   (C)   At least once a month, conduct suitable drills or instructions in the
operation and handling of equipment, first aid and rescue work, salvage, a
study of buildings in the town, fire prevention, water supplies and all other
matters generally considered essential to good firemanship and safety of life
and property from fire;
   (D)   Assist the proper authorities in suppressing the crime of arson by
investigating or causing to be investigated the cause, origin and circumstances
of all fires;
   (E)   Enter any and all buildings and premises as necessary and in a lawful
manner at any reasonable hour for the purpose of making inspections and to
serve written notice upon the owner or occupant to abate, within a specified
time, any and all fire hazards that may be found.  Any person so served with a
notice to abate any fire hazard or hazards shall comply therewith and promptly
notify the Chief;
   (F)   See that complete records are kept of all fires, inspections,
apparatus and minor equipment, personnel and other information about the work
of the Department;
   (G)   Report monthly to the Board of Aldermen and the Town Administrator the
conditions of apparatus and equipment; the number of fires during the month,
their location and cause, and date of same and loss occasioned thereby; the
number and purpose of all other calls received and responded to; the number of
members responding to each fire or other call, and any changes in the
membership; and
   (H)   Make a complete annual report to the Board of Aldermen and the Town
Administrator within one month after the close of the fiscal year, which report
to include the information specified in divisions (F) and (G) above, together
with comparative data for previous years, and recommendations for improving the
effectiveness of the Fire Department.
   (I)   Directing emergency management programs related to risk management
involving community planning, emergency planning process, strategic and
operational planning related to the town Administration Department;
   (J)   Maintaining standard certification in emergency management to enhance
current and assist in the development of new plans, policies and programs in
efforts to enhance the quality of life of town citizens to effectively prepare
for, respond to, recover from and mitigate against all hazards and disasters
related to the town’s geographical location and vulnerability to hazards and
disasters; and
   (K)   Maintaining an active member status in good standing with the North
Carolina Emergency Management Association to enhance local planning related to
risk management.
(1979 Code, § 3-2003)  (Ord. passed 1-20-1982; Ord. 05-13, passed 12-7-2005;
Ord. 14-17, passed 12-2-2014)
§ 35.04  MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The membership of the Town of Shallotte Fire Department shall consist
of the Fire Chief and such persons as are duly elected to membership from among
the able-bodied citizens of the town and vicinity of the town in accordance
with the By-laws of the Department.  Preferably, members shall be property
owners whose business activities are normally in the confines of the town and
who have telephones in their homes.  Candidates for membership shall first
satisfy a medical and physical examination as prescribed by the Chief and
approved by the Board of Aldermen.
   (B)   Any member of the Department may be suspended or discharged from the
Department by the Chief for just cause at any time he may deem such action
necessary for the good of the Department.  On written request of such member to
the Board of Aldermen, he shall have a hearing on the charges brought by the
Chief.
(1979 Code, § 3-2004)  (Ord. passed 1-20-1982) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 35.05  EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   The Town of Shallotte Fire Department shall be equipped with apparatus
and other equipment as may be required from time to time to maintain its
efficiency and properly protect life and property from fire.
   (B)   Recommendations of apparatus and equipment needed shall be made by the
Fire Chief, and after approval by the Board of Aldermen shall be purchased in a
manner as may be designated by the Board of Aldermen.
   (C)   All equipment of the Department shall be safely and conveniently
housed in places designated by the Board of Aldermen.
   (D)   Suitable arrangement or equipment shall be provided for citizens to
turn in an alarm, and for notifying all members of the Department so that they
may promptly respond.
   (E)   No person shall use any fire apparatus or equipment for any private
purpose, nor shall any person willfully and without proper authority take away
or conceal any article used in any way by the Department.
   (F)   No person shall enter any place where fire apparatus is housed or
handle any apparatus or equipment belonging to the Department unless
accompanied by, or having the special permission of an officer or authorized
member of the Department.
(1979 Code, § 3-2005)  (Ord. passed 1-20-1982)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 35.06  GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Each member of the Town of Shallotte Fire Department shall be issued a
badge designating his or her rank.
   (B)   All motor equipment and all personal cars of Department members
properly identified as such shall have the right-of-way over all other traffic
when responding to an alarm.
   (C)   Each member of the Department driving a car shall be issued a suitable
insignia to be attached to the car.
   (D)   No person shall drive any vehicle over fire hoses except upon specific
orders from the Fire Chief or other officer in charge where the hose is issued.
   (E)   No person shall park any vehicle or otherwise cause any obstruction to
be placed within 25 feet of the entrance to any fire station or other place
where fire apparatus is stored, or within ten feet of any fire hydrant or
cistern.
   (F)   No person shall maliciously turn in or cause to be turned in a false
alarm.
(1979 Code, § 3-2006)  (Ord. passed 1-20-1982)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 35.07  ENFORCEMENT.
   It is hereby made the special duty of the Chief of Police and/or other peace
officers who may be on duty and available for fire duty, to respond to all fire
alarms and assist the Department in the protection of life and property, in
regulating traffic, maintaining order and in enforcing observance of all
sections of this chapter.
(1979 Code, § 3-2007)  (Ord. passed 1-20-1982)
§ 35.08  BYLAWS.
   (A)   The Town of Shallotte Fire Department shall be governed in its day-to-
day operations and activities by the provisions of this chapter and a body of
bylaws to be known as “Bylaws of the Town of Shallotte Fire Department,”
referred to in this chapter as the “Bylaws of the Department.”  The Bylaws
shall be enacted from time to time, as necessary, by the Department for its
proper government in complying with the spirit, purpose and provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   The Bylaws of the Department shall be subject to the review by the
Board of Aldermen in its discretion, and any bylaw or portion thereof found by
the Board to be contrary to the spirit, purpose and provisions of this chapter
shall be repealed or amended, as required, in order to comply with this
chapter.
   (C)   The body of bylaws bearing the same date as the date of enactment of
this section has been approved by the Board of Aldermen as an initial body of
Bylaws for the Department subject to the powers of amendment and enactment of
additional bylaws as contained therein and the Board of Aldermen authority of
review, as contained in division (B) of this section.
   (D)   Should any conflict of interpretation or application arise at any time
between the bylaws of the Department and the provisions of this chapter, the
provisions of this chapter shall control.
(Ord. passed 1-20-1982)
Cross-reference:
   Adoption of fire code, see §
93.003
   State law adopted by reference, see §
93.007
§ 35.09  PERSONNEL.
   Effective January 1, 2006, upon recommendation of the Fire Chief, the Town
Administrator shall have the duty of hiring persons as may be necessary to man
the Fire Department of the town and to provide the town with adequate fire
protection.  The Fire Chief upon approval of the Town Administrator, may hire
members of the Fire Department for positions that the Board of Aldermen has
previously budgeted in the current fiscal year budget.  Members of the Fire
Department shall be discharged as set forth in the personnel policies of the
town.
(Ord. 05-13, passed 12-7-2005)
§ 35.10  NUISANCE FIRE ALARMS.
   (A)   A nuisance fire alarm or the activation of an alarm for the purpose of
summoning the Fire Department; or which causes the Fire Department to be
summoned at a time wen no fire or emergency exists on the premises, may be
caused by:
      (1)   Error or mistake.  Any action by an person, firm or corporation, or
other entity or agency thereof, owning or operation any dwelling, building or
place, which result in the activation of any alarm system when no emergency
exists.
      (2)   Malfunction. Any activation of any alarm system caused by a flaw in
the normal operation, design, installation, maintenance of the system, by
faulty equipment or by a change in the environment or premises upon or within
which the alarm system is operating.
      (3)   Intentional misuse.  Any intentional activation of an alarm system
when no fire or other emergency is in progress.
   (B)   There shall be no civil penalty imposed upon the responsible party or
alarm subscriber for a single error, mistake or unintentional alarm caused by:
      (1)   Natural or man-made catastrophe or an act of God. Such events
include tornadoes, floods, earthquakes or other similarly violent conditions.
      (2)   Being a victim of vandalism causing physical damage to the
premises.
      (3)   Telephone line outage.
      (4)   Being a victim of attempted entry of a location causing visible,
physical or other evidence of damage to the location.
      (5)   Severe weather causing physical damage to premises.
      (6)   The testing of a local/audible alarm system by a licensed alarm
business agent or employee who is present at the premises servicing, repairing
or installing the alarm when such testing does not result in the alarm being
activated for an uninterrupted period exceeding 60 seconds.
      (7)   Unauthorized entry by another.
   (C)   (1)   There shall be a civil penalty imposed upon the alarm
subscriber, responsible party or alarm subscriber in accordance with the town’s
fee schedule for an repeated or continual alarm malfunction.
      (2)   All audible alarms must be reset and cease to sound after 15
minutes of continuous activation. An alarm that sounds continuously in excess
of 15 minutes from the time the fire department arrives at the alarm location
shall constitute a violation every 60-minute period following the initial 15
minutes during which the alarm continues to sound shall constitute a civil
penalty for each 60-minute period of continuous operation of an alarm.
   (D)   There shall be a civil penalty imposed upon the responsible party for
an intentional misuse of an alarm or by any of the following acts:
      (1)   Causing vandalism and physical damage to the premises.
      (2)   Attempting entry of a location causing a visible, physical or other
evidence of damage to the location.
      (3)   Knowingly and willfully activating an alarm when there is no
emergency.
(Ord. 10-11, passed 7-6-2010)
§ 35.11 FIRE WATCH AND MEDICAL COVERAGE.
   (A)   A fire watch must be established during special events where there is
a great potential for fire or life safety hazards or in the event of a fire
alarm and/or sprinkler system becomes non-monitored and/or unprotected due to
system failure or malfunction.
   (B)   In the event of a fire alarm and/or sprinkler system becomes non-
monitored and/or unprotected due to system failure or malfunction for a period
exceeding 12 hours, a fire watch must be provided.
      (1)   The fire watch shall be staffed with no less than three off-duty
and certified town staff members and one UL Certified Class A Pumper.
      (2)   The fire watch staff shall be composed of a fire officer, engineer
and firefighter.
      (3)   The responsible party shall be billed for the fire watch in
accordance with the town’s fee schedule.
      (4)   A fire watch composed of firefighter from outside the town’s
authority and jurisdiction is not permitted.
   (C)   In the event a fire alarm and/or sprinkler system becomes non-
monitored and/or unprotected due to system failure or malfunction for a period
not exceeding 12 hours, a fire watch may be performed by the responsible party.
      (1)   The responsible party must inspect the facility hourly for signs of
fire.
      (2)   The responsible party must document each inspection and note all
findings.
      (3)   The responsible party shall immediately  notify 911 of any signs of
smoke or fire and transfer all information to arriving fire department
personnel.
   (D)   Medical coverage must be established during special events where there
is a great potential for life safety hazards.
      (1)   Medical coverage shall be staffed with no less than one off-duty
and certified Town of Shallotte Emergency Medical Technician.
      (2)   The responsible party shall be billed for the medical coverage in
accordance with the town’s fee schedule.
      (3)   Brunswick County EMS may provide medical coverage otherwise,
medical coverage composed of emergency medical technicians from outside the
town’s authority and jurisdiction is not permitted.
(Ord. 10-11, passed 7-6-2010)
CHAPTER 36:  TOWN POLICIES
Section
Disposing of Town Property
   
36.01   Authority of designated official
   
36.02   Method of disposal; procedures
   
36.03   Written report required
Construction Contracts for Minority Businesses
   
36.15   Goals for participation established
   
36.16   Compilation of minority business list
   
36.17   Notice; inspection of documents
   
36.18   Pre-bid conferences
   
36.19   Published summary of policy
   
36.20   Maintain records
   
36.21   Single prime contractor requirements
   
36.22   Noncompliance
Annexation by Petition
   
36.35   Adoption of policy
Emergency Response Plan
   
36.45   Operations
   
36.46   Warning and evacuating procedures
   
36.47   Preparedness
   
36.48   Recovery and re-entry
Cross-reference:
   State of emergency, see §
92.01
DISPOSING OF TOWN PROPERTY
§ 36.01  AUTHORITY OF DESIGNATED OFFICIAL.
   A designated official is hereby authorized, pursuant to G.S. § 160A-266(c),
to dispose of any surplus personal property owned by the town, whenever he or
she determines, in his or her discretion, that:
   (A)   The item or group of items had a fair market value of less than $500;
   (B)   The property is no longer necessary for the conduct of public
business; and
   (C)   Sound property management principles and financial considerations
indicate that the interest of the town would best be served by disposing of the
property.
(Ord. passed 1-6-1988)
§ 36.02  METHOD OF DISPOSAL; PROCEDURES.
   (A)   A designated official may dispose of any surplus personal property by
any means which he or she judges reasonably calculated to yield the highest
attainable sale price in money or other consideration, including but not
limited to the methods of sale provided in G.S. §§ 160A-265 et seq.  The sale
may be public or private, and with or without notice and minimum waiting
period.
   (B)   The surplus property shall be sold to the party who tenders the
highest offer, or exchange for any property or services useful to the town if
greater value may be obtained in that manner, and the designated official is
hereby authorized to execute and deliver any applicable title documents.  If no
offers are received within a reasonable time, a designated official may retain
the property, obtain any reasonably available salvage value, or cause it to be
disposed of as waste material.  No surplus property may be donated to any
individual or organization except by resolution of the Board of Aldermen.
(Ord. passed 1-6-1988)
§ 36.03  WRITTEN REPORT REQUIRED.
   The designated official shall, on or before February 1, report in writing to
the Board of Aldermen on any property disposed of under these provisions from
July 1 through December 31 of the previous year, and shall, on or before August
1, report in writing to the Board of Aldermen on any property disposed of under
these provisions from January 1 through June 30 of that year.  The written
report shall generally describe the property sold or exchanged, to whom it was
sold, or with whom exchanged, and the amount of money or other consideration
received for each sale or exchange since the last report was submitted.
(Ord. passed 1-6-1988)
CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTS FOR MINORITY BUSINESSES
§ 36.15  GOALS FOR PARTICIPATION ESTABLISHED.
   The Board of Aldermen shall have a verifiable goal of 10% for participation
by minority businesses in building construction contracts awarded pursuant to
G.S. § 143-128.
(Ord. passed 5-2-1990)
§ 36.16  COMPILATION OF MINORITY BUSINESS LIST.
   (A)   The official, employee or agent responsible for advertising the
contracts shall compile a list of minority businesses within the bidding area,
using information obtained from the North Carolina Department of Economic and
Community Development, Minority Business Development Agency or from other
institutions or agencies providing the information.
   (B)   This list shall be updated by the Town Clerk or his or her designee
for the town on a regular basis, not to exceed annually, and shall be open for
inspection and shall be available so that minority businesses will have the
opportunity to add their names to the list.  Copies of this subchapter shall be
transmitted to the businesses on the list as soon as practicable along with the
name of the official, employee or agent who shall serve as the contract person
for minority businesses and be responsible for answering project related
questions posed by minority businesses.
(Ord. passed 5-2-1990)
§ 36.17  NOTICE; INSPECTION OF DOCUMENTS.
   (A)   For each building contract put out for bids under the separate
specification or the single prime contract systems, notice of the contract
shall be transmitted to minority businesses on the above list.
   (B)   For each building contract put out for bids under the separate
specification or single prime contract systems, documents related to the
contract shall be available for inspection at a convenient and accessible
location, of which minority businesses shall receive notice.
(Ord. passed 5-2-1990)
§ 36.18  PRE-BID CONFERENCES.
   For each building contract put out for bids under the separate specification
or single prime contract systems, the contact person designated pursuant to §
36.16 shall hold a pre-bid conference to orient contractors and subcontractors
to the policy expressed in this subchapter as well as bid procedures and
regulations.  Minority businesses on the list obtained and maintained as
provided herein shall be notified of and invited to these pre-bid conferences.
(Ord. passed 5-2-1990)
§ 36.19  PUBLISHED SUMMARY OF POLICY.
   For each building contract put out for bids under the separate specification
or single prime contract system, published notice of the contract shall include
a summary of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 5-2-1990)
§ 36.20  MAINTAIN RECORDS.
   For any building contract put out for bids under the separate specification
contract system, the contract person designated herein shall maintain records
with respect to:
   (A)   Those contractors or subcontractors notified of the project and the
number of these contractors and subcontractors that are minority businesses as
defined in G.S. § 143-128 appearing on the list of minority businesses
maintained pursuant to §
36.16;
   (B)   Those contractors or subcontractors that bid or otherwise respond to
notice of the project and the number of these that are on the maintained list
of minority businesses;
   (C)   Those contractors or subcontractors awarded contracts as part of the
project and the number and identity of those that are on the list of minority
businesses; and
   (D)   The percentage of work on the project that is to be performed by
minority businesses appearing on the list maintained pursuant to this
subchapter.
(Ord. passed 5-2-1990)
§ 36.21  SINGLE PRIME CONTRACTOR REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   For any building contract put out for bids under the single prime
contract system, the single prime contractor shall notify those minority
businesses appearing on the list of minority businesses maintained pursuant to
§
36.16 of the portion of the project which will be subcontracted by the single
contractor and solicit bids from those minority businesses.
   (B)   For any building contract put out for bids under the single prime
contract system, the single prime contractor shall also submit with his or her
bids records with respect to:
      (1)   Those subcontractors notified of the project and of those elements
of the project for which subcontracts will be let and the number of these
subcontractors that are minority businesses as defined in G.S. § 143-128
appearing on the list of minority businesses maintained pursuant to §
36.16;
      (2)   Those subcontractors that bid or otherwise respond to notice of the
project and the number of these that are on the maintained list of minority
businesses;
      (3)   Those subcontractors awarded contracts as part of the project and
the number and identity of those that are on the maintained list of minority
businesses; and
      (4)   The percentage of work on the project that is to be performed by
minority businesses is to be performed by minority businesses appearing on the
list maintained pursuant to this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 5-2-1990)
§ 36.22  NONCOMPLIANCE.
   These policies shall be a part of the request for proposals for any such
contract, and noncompliance by any single prime bidder shall be grounds for
declaring the bid nonresponsive.
(Ord. passed 5-2-1990)
ANNEXATION BY PETITION
§ 36.35  ADOPTION OF POLICY.
   Inasmuch as orderly growth and development are in the best interest of the
town and its residents, the town hereby adopts the following policy with
respect to petitions for voluntary annexations, which policy is to be in effect
for all petitions for voluntary annexations considered and/or acted upon after
March 15, 1994:
   (A)   Prior to any annexation:
      (1)   The developer and/or owner of the property to be annexed must
provide the Town Planning Board with a metes and bounds survey plat accurately
showing the property proposed for annexation, which survey to have been
prepared by a registered surveyor or engineer;
      (2)   The developer and/or owner of property previously subdivided and
having made certain street improvements, shall upgrade the streets to town
standards; and
      (3)   The developer and/or owner of the property to be annexed must
comply with all other applicable ordinances of the town, including the town’s
subdivision ordinances, ordinances concerning public utilities and street
specifications.
   (B)   Acreage fees, capital reserve fees, permit fees, tap fees and water
and sewer rates will be paid at in-town rates after annexation in addition to
an administrative fee to cover advertising and administration costs.
(Ord. passed 7-18-1990; Ord. passed 3-15-1994)
Cross-reference:
   Acreage fees, see
Ch. 151
EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
§ 36.45  OPERATIONS.
   (A)   Purpose.  The purpose of this plan is to formulate and establish a
pre-designed plan of action for dealing with major emergency situations which
may occur in or near the town.  This plan further  strives to ensure all
departments, agencies and resources available in the town will be used
completely and efficiently.  The primary concern of this plan is to ensure the
safety and welfare of the residents of the town.
   (B)   Contingencies.
      (1)   This plan takes into account the possibility the emergency may be
beyond the realm of capabilities which the town has at its disposal.  It
includes outside agencies who can and would assist in emergency situations.
      (2)   The town has entered into a mutual aid agreement with the following
law enforcement agencies in the county:
 
Brunswick County Sheriff’s Department(910) 253-2777
                                       (800) 672-6379
CCOM Emergency:                        911
                                       (910) 253-7490
Town of Ocean Isle Beach:              (910) 579-2166
Town of Sunset Beach:                  (910) 579-2151
Town of Holden Beach:                  (910) 842-6707
 
   (C)   Types of disasters.
      (1)   Fires:
         (a)   Chemical;
         (b)   Structural; and
         (c)   Forest or wetlands.
      (2)   Chemical spills:
         (a)   Truck; and
         (b)   Nuclear plant.
      (3)   Severe weather:
         (a)   Hurricane; and
         (b)   Damaging wind.
      (4)   Earthquakes; and
      (5)   Airplane crash: FAA:   1-800-992-7433
   (D)   Crisis team.
(1) Mayor.  Designated agent to declare any emergency and notify other agencies
    and town employees if affected.
(2) Administration            754-4032
    Department:
(3) Police Department:        754-6008
(4) Public Works  Department:754-4032
(5) Fire Department:          754-6262
(6) Calabash Rescue Squad:    579-7474
(7) DOT:                      754-6527
(8) BEMC:                     754-9951 (Office)
                            754-6722 (Maintenance)
                            800-682-5309 (Outages)
 
   (E)   Manpower.
      (1)   Shallotte Town Hall:   754-4032
      (2)   Administration Department;
      (3)   Police Department;
      (4)   Water/Sewer Department;
      (5)   Building Inspector;
      (6)   Calabash Rescue Squad Captain.
      (7)   Department of Transportation;
      (8)   BEMC;
      (9)   Shallotte Fire Department; and
      (10)   County Emergency Management.
   (F)   Command Post.
      (1)   Unless otherwise designated the Command Post shall be located at
the Shallotte Administrative Building located at 106 Cheers Street.  The
Command Post shall be manned by an adequate number of personnel for
communications.  A radio system is located at the Command Post which is capable
of communicating with all responding agencies.  The telephone number for the
Command Post is (910) 754-6008.
      (2)   The department head, or a delegate from each responding agency, may
be required to be present at the Command Post to make any necessary decisions. 
      (3)   The responsibility of the Command Post is to coordinate the entire
emergency response; insuring each agency is advised of their respective roles
and to serve as a line of communications between all responding agencies.
      (4)   It is the responsibility of the Mayor to request support from
outside agencies.
      (5)   Any press releases dealing with the emergency situation shall be
made through the Command Post by the Mayor, or persons appointed by the Mayor. 
A tape recorder must be present during any interview with the news media.
      (6)   Radio frequencies:
 
List of Radio Frequencies             Transmit Receive
Brunswick County Law Enforcement      458.450  53.450
Brunswick County Law Enforcement Task 453.450  452.450
Brunswick County Departments          458.575  453.575
Mutual Aid                            458.700  453.700
Town of Shallotte                     458.525  453.525
Shallotte Fire Department             154.415  154.415
 
      (7)   Monitoring capacity.
N.C. Highway Patrol:           42.500
                              1-800-334-7411 (Elizabethtown)
National Weather Service:      162.400 (Myrtle Beach)
                              162.550 (Wilmington)
Emergency Law Enf. Mutual Aid: 458.700
Shallotte Rescue Squad:        155.280
Calabash Rescue Squad:         155.280
Coast Guard:                   156.800 (16)
                              156.650  (13 Boats/Bridges)
                              156.425  (68)
                              157.100 (22A)
                              157.150 (23A)
                              (919) 278-5592 or 278-5945
Wildlife:                      159.285
                              1-800-662-7137 (Reference Boating Accident)
Marine fisheries:              159.225
                              159.240
                              1-800-248-4536 (Wilmington)
                              1-800-682-2632 (Morehead City)
 
   (G)   Medical facilities.
      (1)   First responders shall have communication with the Command Post by
the local Fire Department.  Through a method of triage in the field the injured
persons would be sent to the designated medical facilities in the area.  The
following medical facilities in our area would be used:
 
Brunswick County Hospital:     754-8121
Dosher Memorial Hospital:      1-910-457-5271
Grand Strand Hospital:         1-803-449-4411
New Hanover Memorial Hospital: 1-910-343-7000
 
      (2)   Depending on the number of fatalities, a temporary morgue could be
established at a site designated by the regional medical examiner’s office.
   (H)   Fuel supply.
      (1)   During emergency operations, large amounts of fuel will be used by
vehicles and equipment.
      (2)   The request for such mass deliveries shall be handled through the
Command Post.
   (I)   Assisting agencies.  When the emergency response needs exceed the
capabilities of the town’s agencies, then outside agencies should be contacted
for assistance.  Emergency Management Coordinator shall be contacted at 253-
4376.  The Coordinator shall be summons to the Command Post and further request
for outside assistance should be routed through the Coordinator via web EOC.
(Ord. 907, passed 9-17-1996; Ord. 14-17, passed 12-2-2014)
§ 36.46  WARNING AND EVACUATING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Historically, the major natural disaster threat to the coastal area of
the state has been hurricanes.  Accordingly the following action plan has been
developed to cope with the effects of hurricanes and their accompanying storm
surge.
   (B)   (1)   The first threat recognition will come from forecasts provided
by the National Weather Service. As soon as a tropical depression forms in the
Atlantic Ocean or Gulf of Mexico, the Town Administrator is to inform the Mayor
and Chief of Police and Fire Chief.
      (2)   Upon assurance of a hurricane watch and/or warning from the
National Weather Service, the County Emergency Management will, in accordance
with the county hurricane evacuation policy, contact all local police.  The
Chief  of Police or his or her designate will inform the Mayor of all hurricane
watches or warning notices and contact department heads as directed by the
Mayor.
      (3)   As part of the control group specified in the County Emergency
Plan, the Mayor will inform the county of actions to be taken by the town.
   (C)   Evacuation decisions for the town are the responsibility of the Mayor,
Mayor Pro Tem, Chief of Police or other persons as designated by the Board of
Aldermen.  Specifically, the Mayor determines when to open the Command Post and
coordinates other town personnel in carrying out the following:
      (1)   Notify the public as early as possible that evacuations may be
necessary (Town Clerk or Police Chief);
      (2)   Line up emergency rescue facilities (Police Chief); and
      (3)   Mayor signs State of Emergency/ Evacuation Order.
         (a)   Notify radio;
         (b)   Call in Fire Department;
         (c)   Call in town employees;
         (d)   Relocate any town records, equipment and the like which could be
damaged by water; and
         (e)   At deadline, fire and police make street-to-street checks.
   (D)   Emergency shelters.  Evacuation shelters are provided in the ten
schools in the county.  The first shelter to open would be West Brunswick High
School.  These shelters are maintained and stocked in accordance with the
County Emergency Plan.
(Ord. 907, passed 9-17-1996)
§ 36.47  PREPAREDNESS.
   (A)   The town participates in as many as two meetings a year to discuss
emergency preparedness procedures.
   (B)   In the early spring lines of communication with the North Carolina
Department of Crime Control and Public Safety and with the County Emergency
Management Office are tested when statewide tornado exercises are held.
   (C)   Before the start of the hurricane season, supplies and procedures of
individual departments are checked.
(Ord. 907, passed 9-17-1996)
§ 36.48  RECOVERY AND RE-ENTRY.
   (A)   Appointment of a “Post Disaster Recovery Team.”  In the event of a
major storm having landfall in or near the town or whenever evacuation orders
are issued, the Mayor may appoint a “Post Disaster Recovery Team.”  The total
team, under the Mayor’s leadership, may consist of the following, or others in
case of the potential unavailability of some team members:
      (1)   Town Board of Aldermen members;
      (2)   Town Administrator;
      (3)   Water/Sewer Director;
      (4)   Police Chief;
      (5)   County Building Inspector; and
      (6)   Fire Department Chief and Assistant Chief.
   (B)   The Mayor may appoint a Team Leader who will be responsible to the
Mayor.  The base of operations will be designated by the Mayor.
   (C)   The Post Disaster Recovery Team will share responsibility for the
following as the Mayor so directs:
      (1)   Establishing an overall restoration schedule;
      (2)   Setting restoration priorities;
      (3)   Determining requirements for outside assistance and requesting
assistance, through the Mayor, when appropriate;
      (4)   Keeping the appropriate county and state officials informed;
      (5)   Keeping the public informed, as instructed;
      (6)   Assembling and maintaining records of actions taken and
expenditures and obligations incurred;
      (7)   Recommending to the Mayor to proclaim or continue the local state
of emergency if warranted;
      (8)   Commencing and coordinating cleanup, debris removal and utilities
restoration which would include coordination or restoration activities
undertaken by private utility companies;
      (9)   Coordinating repair and restoration of essential public facilities
and services in accordance with determined priorities.  This will include
contacting appropriate state, local and federal authorities;
      (10)   Assisting private businesses and individual property owners in
obtaining information on the various types of assistance that might be
available to them from county, state and federal agencies; and
      (11)   Immediate cleanup and debris removal as soon as practical after
the storm, the Mayor or designee will direct appropriate town personnel and/or
private contractors; and as necessary, request state and federal assistance to
begin cleaning debris from the town’s streets.  Giving attention to streets
will be the first priority, then utilities, and finally beaches.
   (D)   Re-entry.
      (1)   Re-entry after evacuation is hereby forbidden in the town until
authorized by the  Mayor  of  the  town,  except  to  the Mayor and any
designees as he or she may hereafter authorize, such being limited to the Town
Board of Aldermen, law enforcement  officers, Water/Street Director, Fire Chief
and his or her designated officers, town employees and public utility company
representatives.  The Police Chief shall be hereby explicitly authorized to re-
enter after evacuation as to designate those emergency personnel for re-entry
deemed necessary to protect life and/or property.
      (2)   Re-entry shall be accomplished in three levels:
         (a)   Only emergency personnel;
         (b)   Property and business owners; and
         (c)   Normal traffic.
(Ord. 907, passed 9-17-1996; Ord. 14-17, passed 12-2-2014)
CHAPTER 37:  ETHICS
Section
   
37.01   Code of ethics
   
37.02   Definitions
   
37.03   Obedience to laws   
   
37.04   Integrity in exercising duties of office
   
37.05   Conflicts of interest
   
37.06   Advisory opinions
   
37.07   Faithful performance
   
37.08   Compliance with state law; openness
   
37.09   Violations
§ 37.01  CODE OF ETHICS.
   (A)   The proper operation of democratic government requires that public
officials and employees be independent, impartial and responsible to the
people; that governmental decisions and policy be made in proper channel of the
governmental structure; that public office not be used for personal gain; and
that the public have confidence in the integrity of its government.
   (B)   In recognition of these goals, the town code of ethics for town
officials is hereby adopted.  The purpose of §§
37.01 to
37.08 of the code of ethics is to establish rules of conduct and procedures to
govern behavior of town officials.  The purpose of §§
37.01 to
37.08 is to assure that the town officials receive appropriate information
about the code of ethics.  The purpose of §
37.06 is to provide a procedure for a town official to seek non-binding
advisory guidance prior to or during a continuation of a potential infraction
of the code of ethics regarding his or her conduct or the conduct of any other
town official.  The code of ethics is not intended to be exhaustive or to
replace a town official’s personal conscience.  Town officials should strive to
exceed the standards of the code of ethics and, thereby, preserve and promote
the public’s faith in the integrity of town government.
   (C)   With regard to decisions involving the town’s land use regulations,
all applicable state statutes, case law and regulations shall control over the
code of ethics only when the statutes, case law or regulations are more strict
or restrictive than the code of ethics with regard to penalties or prohibited
participation by a town official. Otherwise, this code of ethics shall be in
addition to the statutes, case law and regulations.
   (D)   The code of ethics is not intended to replace, conflict with or modify
applicable criminal or civil statutes of the state.  In the event of a
conflict, however, state law shall control over the code of ethics when the
state law is more restrictive. Otherwise, this code of ethics shall be in
addition to the statutes, case law and regulations.
(Ord. 10-17, passed 11-3-2010)
§ 37.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADVISORY GUIDANCE.  Ethics advisory guidance given pursuant to §
37.06.
   BUSINESS ENTITY.  Any business, proprietorship, firm, company, partnership,
association, joint venture, trust or corporation which is organized for
financial gain or profit.
   CLOSE RELATIVE.  Mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law,
brother-in-law, sister-in-law, grandmother, grandfather, grandson and
granddaughter, and various combinations of “step,” “half” and adopted
relationships.
   CODE OF ETHICS.  The code of ethics adopted by the Town Board of Aldermen.
   CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.  Information which has been obtained in the course
of performing a town official’s duties, and which information has not been
disclosed to members of the public or is not available to members of the public
under G.S. Chapter 132 or other law or regulation and which the town official
is not authorized to disclose, including:
      (1)   Any written information that could lawfully be excepted from
disclosure pursuant to state law, unless the town official disclosing it is
authorized to do so by state law, or pursuant to some other pertinent law,
policy or procedure; and
      (2)   Information which was obtained in the course of or by means of a
record or oral report of a lawful closed session, whether or not the disclosure
of the information would violate state law, unless the town official disclosing
it is authorized by state law to do so, or unless the town official disclosing
it has been properly authorized to disclose it pursuant to an applicable law,
policy or procedure; however, when the information is also available through
channels which are open to the public, this provision does not prohibit public
servants from disclosing the availability of those channels.
   ETHICS COMPLAINT.  A written statement submitted to the Town Attorney,
pursuant to §
37.06, detailing facts and allegations of a possible violation of the code of
ethics based upon actual knowledge or information and a reasonable belief.
   GIFT.  A voluntary transfer of property or anything of economic value to
another made gratuitously and without consideration which has a value in excess
of $100.  Town officials may accept gratuities having a value of less than
$100, so long as the gratuity is not intended and does not, in fact, influence
any official act of any town official, and is not prohibited by state law. A
GIFT includes, but is not limited to, a rebate or discount in the price of
anything of economic value, unless the rebate or discount is made in the
regular course of business to members of the public without regard to official
status.
   IMMEDIATE FAMILY.  Wife, husband, mother, father, guardian, brother, sister,
daughter and son.
   INTEREST.  A direct or indirect pecuniary or material benefit accruing to a
town official as a result of a contract, decision or transaction which is or
may be the subject of an official act or action by or with the town.  For the
purpose of this article, a town official shall be deemed to have an INTEREST in
any official act or action affecting:
      (1)   A town official’s immediate family or close relative;
      (2)   Any business entity in which the town official is an employee,
officer or director;
      (3)   Any business entity in which an excess of 5% of the stock, or legal
or beneficial ownership of the business entity, is controlled or owned directly
or indirectly by the town official; or
      (4)   Any nonprofit organization for which a town official currently is
an employee, officer, director or board member.
   OFFICIAL ACT OR ACTION.  Any legislative, quasi-judicial, administrative,
appointive or discretionary act of any town official or the Town Board of
Aldermen.
   TOWN.  The Town of Shallotte, North Carolina.
   TOWN OFFICIAL.  The Mayor or any member of the Town Board of Aldermen; a
member of the Town Planning Board or its Chairperson; or any other member of
any town board, commission, committee, or group that advises on or conducts
town business in any manner.  Town employees shall be governed by the town’s
personnel policy and not this code of ethics.
(Ord. 10-17, passed 11-3-2010)
§ 37.03  OBEDIENCE TO LAWS.
   Town officials shall obey all laws applicable to their official actions as
members of the governing body.  Town officials should be guided by the spirit
as well as the letter of the law in whatever they do.  At the same time, town
officials should feel free to assert policy positions and opinions without fear
of reprisal from fellow members or citizens.  To assert that a town official is
behaving unethically because of disagreeing with another member on any matter
before them, and not because of the official’s behavior, is unfair,
irresponsible and is itself unethical.
(Ord. 10-17, passed 11-3-2010)
§ 37.04  INTEGRITY IN EXERCISING DUTIES OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Town officials should act with integrity and independence from
improper influence as they exercise the duties of their offices.
   (B)   They should demonstrate the highest standards of personal integrity,
truthfulness, honesty and respect towards others in all activities in order to
inspire public confidence and trust in local government.
   (C)   They should use their best judgment to pursue the common good as they
see it, presenting their opinions to all in a reasonable, forthright and
consistent manner.
   (D)   They should remain incorruptible, self- governing and unaffected by
improper influence.
   (E)   They should disclose contacts and information about issues that they
receive outside of public meetings.
   (F)   They should treat other town officials and the public with respect and
honor the opinions of others even when they disagree.
   (G)   They should be careful not to reach conclusions on issues until all
sides have been heard.
   (H)   They should recognize that individual town officials are not generally
allowed to act on behalf of the town but may do so only if the Board of
Aldermen specifically authorizes it.
(Ord. 10-17, passed 11-3-2010)
§ 37.05  CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   (A)   Use of official position.
      (1)   Town officials should avoid impropriety and the appearance of
impropriety in the exercise of their official duties.  Their official actions
should be above reproach.
      (2)   No town official shall use his or her official position or the
town’s facilities for his or her private gain, nor shall he or she appear
before or represent any private person, group, company, entity, business
enterprise or interest before any department, agency, commission, board or
staff of the town, except in matters of purely civic or public concern. The
Town Administrator and department heads shall not be deemed as “staff of the
town” for the purposes of this section and may be consulted by town officials
with a conflict of interest.  A public official shall not be prohibited from
appearing before the town entities to represent his or her own personal
interest, and not that of third parties or separate entities on matters
affecting his or her own real property or business interests, if the town
official has been excluded from the voting and participation on the matter in
question. The provisions of this division are not intended to prohibit
appropriate roles and activities by a town official at town events or events
attended by the town, such as acting as a host, an ambassador or representative
of the town, and are not intended to prohibit his or her speaking before
neighborhood groups and other nonprofit organizations.
   (B)   Disclosure of confidential information.  No town official shall use or
disclose confidential information for purposes of advancing any matter in which
he or she has an interest, nor shall a town official disclose for any purpose
information gained at a closed session until the disclosure is authorized by
law.
   (C)   Special treatment. No town official or employee shall grant any
special consideration, treatment or advantage to any citizen beyond that which
is available to every other citizen.
   (D)   Incompatible employment.  No town official shall engage in or accept
employment with, or render services for, any person, business entity or
nonprofit organization, when the employment or service is incompatible with the
proper discharge of his or her official duties, or would tend to impair his or
her independence, judgment or action in the performance of his or her official
duties, unless otherwise permitted by law and unless full disclosure is made,
pursuant to the code of ethics.
   (E)   Gifts and favors.  No town official shall knowingly accept gifts from
any person, business entity or nonprofit organization.  This provision is
intended to supplement rather than replace or modify the restrictions
applicable to town officials provided in G.S. §§ 14-234 and 133-32.
   (F)   Nepotism.  Article V, section 5 of the town’s personnel policy is
hereby incorporated by reference into the code of ethics.
   (G)   Interest in official act.  Any town official who has an interest in
any official town act or action shall not participate at any time or in any
manner in the discussion or consideration of the matter.  The town official
shall also publicly disclose on the record, in open session, the existence of
the interest or conflict and shall withdraw from any voting on the matter, if
excused by a majority vote of the Town Board of Aldermen and if permitted by
G.S. § 160A-75.
(Ord. 10-17, passed 11-3-2010)
§ 37.06  ADVISORY OPINIONS.
   Upon the written request of the official or employee concerned, the Town
Attorney shall render written advisory opinions based upon the provisions of
this code of ethics and state law.  This opinion shall be filed with the Town
Clerk, but may delete the name of the official or employee involved.  If the
request for opinion shall come from the Town Attorney or any employee working
under him or her, then the request shall be submitted to the Town Administrator
for an opinion.  The Town Administrator upon receipt may seek the advice of a
private attorney in rendering the opinion.  Any opinion rendered by the Town
Attorney or the Town Administrator shall be binding and final upon the
requester.
(Ord. 10-17, passed 11-3-2010)
§ 37.07  FAITHFUL PERFORMANCE.
   (A)   Town officials should faithfully perform the duties of their offices. 
They should act as especially responsible citizens whom others can trust and
respect.  They should set a good example for others in the community, keeping
in mind that trust and respect must continually be earned.
   (B)   Town officials should faithfully attend and prepare for meetings. 
They should carefully analyze all credible information properly submitted to
them, mindful of the legal limitations placed upon communications outside of a
meeting in quasi-judicial matters.  They should demand full accountability from
those over whom the Board of Aldermen has authority.
   (C)   Town officials should be willing to bear their fair share of the
governing body’s workload.  To the extent appropriate, they should be willing
to put the town’s interests ahead of their own.
(Ord. 10-17, passed 11-3-2010)
§ 37.08  COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAW; OPENNESS.
   (A)   Town officials should conduct the affairs of the governing body in an
open and public manner in compliance with the letter and intent of state law.
They should comply with all applicable laws governing open meetings and public
records, recognizing that doing so is an important way to be worthy of the
public’s trust and confidence.  They should remember when they meet that they
are conducting the public’s business.  They should also remember that local
government records belong to the public and not to the governing body or the
town’s employees.
   (B)   In order to ensure strict compliance with the laws concerning
openness, town officials should strive to be open.  They should prohibit
unjustified delays in fulfilling public records requests.  They should take
deliberate steps to ensure that any closed sessions held by them are lawfully
conducted and that the sessions do not stray from the purposes for which they
are called.
(Ord. 10-17, passed 11-3-2010)
§ 37.09  VIOLATIONS.
   Any violation of this chapter by a town official may be cause for public or
private reprimand. Removal of a Planning Board member shall be by majority vote
of the Board of Aldermen.
(Ord. 10-17, passed 11-3-2010)
TITLE V:  PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE
      
51.   WATER
      
52.   SEWERS
      
53.   WATER AND SEWER EXTENSIONS; WATER SHORTAGE EMERGENCY PROVISIONS
      
54.   APPENDICES
CHAPTER 50:  GARBAGE
Section
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Refuse deposited in containers
   
50.03   Burning or burying
   
50.04   Accumulation prohibited
   
50.05   Containers required
   
50.06   Pre-collection practices
   
50.07   Collection schedule
   
50.08   Maintenance of containers
   
50.09   Special or bulk collections
   
50.10   Removal of dead animals
   
50.11   Contracts for waste collection
   
50.12   Commercial establishments
§ 50.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BAGS.  Plastic sacks designed for refuse with sufficient wall strength to
maintain physical integrity when lifted by top and securely tied at the top for
collection, with a capacity of not more than 30 gallons and a loaded weight not
to exceed 35 pounds.
   BUILDING MATERIAL SCRAPS.  Scrap building material from the construction,
reconstruction, remodeling or repair of a building, walkway, driveway, sign and
other structure, including but not limited to excavated earth, tree stumps,
rocks, gravel, bricks, plaster, concrete, lumber or any other similar material
used in construction or the containers or wrappings therefor.
   BULKY WASTE.  A large appliance, piece of furniture or waste material from a
residential source other than construction debris or hazardous waste, with a
weight or volume greater than that allowed for containers.
   BUNDLE.  Yard and garden trimmings or newspapers and magazines securely tied
together forming an easily handled package not exceeding three feet in length
or 35 pounds in weight.
   CARTS.  Ninety-gallon roll-out carts (trash receptacles) furnished by the
town to residents and small businesses, if applicable.
   CONSTRUCTION DEBRIS.  Waste building material resulting from construction,
remodeling, repair or demolition operations.
   CONTAINERS.  Reusable containers made of plastic, metal or fiberglass with a
capacity not to exceed 30 gallons and a loaded weight of not more than 35
pounds, with a tight-fitting lid and handles of adequate strength for lifting.
   GARBAGE.  All putrescible wastes, including animal and vegetable matter,
animal offal and carcasses and recognizable industrial byproducts, but
excluding sewage and human wastes.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE.  Waste designated as hazardous by the United States
Environmental Protection Agency or appropriate state agency.
   REFUSE.  All nonputrescible wastes.
   SOLID WASTE.  Garbage, refuse, rubbish, trash and other discarded solid
materials, including solid waste materials resulting from homes, businesses,
industrial, commercial and agricultural operations, and from community
activities, but does not include solids or dissolved materials in domestic
sewage or other significant pollutants in water resources, such as silt,
dissolved or suspended solids in industrial wastewater effluents, dissolved
materials in irrigation return flows or other common water pollutants.
   TREE TRIMMINGS.  Tree limbs, leaves, shrubbery, weeds, plants or grass.
(1979 Code, § 4-2001)  (Ord. passed 11-5-1986)
§ 50.02  REFUSE DEPOSITED IN CONTAINERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, place or deposit any garbage
or refuse of any kind on any public or private property except in approved
containers or as otherwise provided in this chapter.
(1979 Code, § 4-2002)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.03  BURNING OR BURYING.
   It shall be unlawful to burn or set fire to or bury any garbage for the
purpose of disposal.  In addition, it shall be unlawful to bury any refuse for
the purpose of disposal unless a permit therefor has been granted by the Fire
Chief.
(1979 Code, § 4-2003)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.04  ACCUMULATION PROHIBITED.
   All garbage and refuse shall be collected and placed in containers as
required by this chapter.  It shall be unlawful for any person to permit
garbage or refuse to accumulate or remain on any premises longer than is
reasonably necessary to remove and deposit same in approved containers as
required herein.
(1979 Code, § 4-2004)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.05  CONTAINERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   The owners of all buildings or premises engaged in commercial
activities shall be required to purchase or lease front-loading dumpsters,
unless the same are provided, free of charge by the town, if the building or
premises engaged in commercial activities disposes of more than 90 gallons of
refuse weekly.
   (B)   The owners of all buildings or premises engaged in commercial
activities, which do not dispose of more than 90 gallons of refuse weekly,
shall be required to lease or purchase 90-gallon roll-out carts, unless the
same are provided, free of charge, by the town.
   (C)   The occupants of every residential building or premises where garbage
may or does exist shall be required to lease or purchase 90-gallon roll-out
carts, unless the same are provided, free of charge, by the town.
   (D)   The occupants of every residential building or premises where garbage
may or does exist must utilize these carts as a primary refuse receptacle,
however, if the occupants have additional refuse that will not fit conveniently
into the carts, the occupants may put out not more than five containers and/or
bags, in addition to these carts.
(1979 Code, § 4-2005)  (Ord. passed 11-5-1986)
§ 50.06  PRE-COLLECTION PRACTICES.
   (A)   All garbage and refuse shall have the liquid drained therefrom and
shall be wrapped in paper or other like material before it is placed in the
container for collection. 
   (B)   Ashes and cinders shall be placed in a separate container provided for
that purpose and no ashes shall be deposited in any container until they are
cold. 
   (C)   Containers which fail to have a cover or which become rusted or broken
and therefore are unable to contain garbage and refuse in a satisfactory manner
shall not be used.
(1979 Code, § 4-2006)
§ 50.07  COLLECTION SCHEDULE.
   Garbage and refuse will be collected by the town according to a collection
schedule maintained in the Town Clerk’s office.  The schedule may be
periodically revised and amended by action of the Board of Aldermen.
(1979 Code, § 4-2007)
§ 50.08  MAINTENANCE OF CONTAINERS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to damage, displace or to
otherwise interfere with garbage containers or their contents except the owner
or upon permission or at the request of the owner.
   (B)   Residents and commercial establishments are responsible for the
maintenance and upkeep of dumpsters or carts provided to them for their use. 
Every precaution should be taken by residents and commercial establishments to
secure any carts or dumpsters provided to them by the town.  Carts should be
either locked in buildings or chained to a stationary object when they are not
placed out for collection.
(1979 Code, § 4-2008)  (Ord. passed 11-5-1986) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.09  SPECIAL OR BULK COLLECTIONS.
   (A)   No tree limbs, shrubbery cuttings or leaves will be collected unless
the same are made into bundles.
   (B)   Discarded furniture and appliances and bulky waste will not be
collected if the same exceeds 200 pounds in weight or exceeds five feet in any
direction.
   (C)   Hazardous or toxic wastes will not be collected.
   (D)   Construction debris will not be collected.
   (E)   Vehicle parts will not be collected.
   (F)   Dead animals will not be collected.
   (G)   No collection shall be made from vacant lots nor shall any large
rocks, tree trunks or tree limbs be collected.
   (H)   The above-referenced items, excluded from normal collection by the
town or its contractor, may be collected by the town or its contractor by
special collection for which a special charge may be assessed by the town or
its contractor.
(1979 Code, § 4-2009)  (Ord. passed 5-21-1986; Ord. passed 11-5-1986)  Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 50.10  REMOVAL OF DEAD ANIMALS.
   Dead animals will be removed from any premises by the town upon notice to
the town of the existence of the dead animal.
(1979 Code, § 4-2010)
§ 50.11  CONTRACTS FOR WASTE COLLECTION.
   If the town has exercised its authority to contract with a waste collection
contractor on an exclusive basis, in the nature of a franchise, it shall be
unlawful for any resident of the town and it shall be unlawful for any business
or corporation within the town to contract with a different contractor for the
purpose of waste collection.
(Ord. passed 11-5-1986)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.12  COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENTS.
   Unless a commercial establishment in the town regularly discards not more
trash or rubbish than would fit in a 90-gallon roll-out cart and five bags or
containers, the bags or containers defined in the town’s solid waste collection
contract with its solid waste collection contractor, the commercial
establishment shall contract with the town’s solid waste collection contractor
for dumpster service unless the commercial establishment hauls its own trash or
rubbish away to a designated landfill.  Inasmuch as the town has given an
exclusive right to pick up waste to the town’s solid waste contractor,
commercial establishments may not contract with another party to haul away
their trash or rubbish.
(Ord. passed 12-15-1992)
CHAPTER 51:  WATER
Section
   
51.01   Service contracts
   
51.02   Supervision
   
51.03   Director; duties
   
51.04   Water service pipes
   
51.05   Water connections
   
51.06   Connections under supervision of town
   
51.07   Applications for connections
   
51.08   Connection fees
   
51.09   Service pipe extensions
   
51.10   Right to enter premises
   
51.11   Water meters
   
51.12   Connections outside of town
   
51.13   Unauthorized use of water
   
51.14   Leaks; responsibility of customer
   
51.15   Water for use of customers only
   
51.16   Injury to property and fixtures
   
51.17   Tampering with meters
   
51.18   Continuity of service
   
51.19   Water rates and charges
   
51.20   Water deposits
   
51.21   Meter reading; billing; collecting
   
51.22   Suspension of service
§ 51.01  SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   All pertinent provisions of this chapter shall govern the terms and
conditions of the contracts under which the town furnishes water service to any
person, or whereby the town makes any water connections or performs any work of
any kind in connection with the furnishing of water service.
(1979 Code, § 5-1001)  (Ord. 07-38, passed 11-6-2007)
§ 51.02  SUPERVISION.
   The water system shall be under the supervision of the Mayor and Board of
Aldermen.  The duty of enforcing full compliance with all rules and regulations
governing all connections with the mains shall be vested in the Director of
Public Works.
(1979 Code, § 5-1002)  (Ord. passed 4-1-1964; Ord. 07-38, passed 11-6-2007)
§ 51.03  DIRECTOR; DUTIES.
   The Director of Public Works shall report to the Town Administrator and
perform the following duties:
   (A)   The Director shall have general supervision over all the operations of
the water system;
   (B)   The Director shall see that all rules and regulations of the town are
enforced; and
   (C)   The Director shall see that water rates and assessments are correctly
made.
(1979 Code, § 5-1003)  (Ord. 05-13, passed 12-7-2005; Ord. 07-38, passed 11-6-
2007)
§ 51.04  WATER SERVICE PIPES.
   The town, or a licensed plumber or licensed contractor, under permit of the
town, shall tap the water main for connections and extend all service pipes to
the curbing where a stop box will be placed over a stop cock, all of which
shall be under the exclusive control of the town.  No person shall be allowed
to turn the water on or off at this stop cock, except as directed by the
Director of Public Works.
(1979 Code, § 5-1004)  (Ord. 07-38, passed 11-6-2007)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.05  WATER CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Within 30 days after the water main in any street is completed,
permitted by the state, all applicable fees paid, and ready for use, the owner
of every abutting lot whereon water is needed for human use shall cause the lot
to be connected with the water main.
   (B)   Every house or building abutting any water main shall be separately
and independently connected, except in those cases where laterals from the main
have already been laid in macadam or improved streets, without provisions
having been made for the house or building, when the connection may be made to
an existing lateral.  If the house or building is on a macadam or improved
street where laterals have not been laid, the connection may be made to any
convenient lateral.  When two or more houses or units are connected with the
same water lateral, a separate water meter shall be provided for each house or
unit.
(1979 Code, § 5-1005)  (Ord. 07-38, passed 11-6-2007)
§ 51.06  CONNECTIONS UNDER SUPERVISION OF TOWN.
   The construction of laterals for water connections, and the necessary
excavation therefor, shall be done by the town, or, if done by a licensed
plumber or licensed contractor, it shall be done under the supervision of the
town and with a town- and state-approved permit.
(1979 Code, § 5-1006)  (Ord. 07-38, passed 11-6-2007)
§ 51.07  APPLICATIONS FOR CONNECTIONS.
   Every application for a water connection shall be made on a form provided by
the town, shall be signed by the applicant, shall be accompanied by the proper
fee for making the connections and shall be filed with the Director of Public
Works.
(1979 Code, § 5-1007)  (Ord. 07-38, passed 11-6-2007)
§ 51.08  CONNECTION FEES.
   For extension of water service pipe and the tapping of main, the town will
charge fees as established by the Board of Aldermen.  A copy of current
connection fees shall be kept on file in the office of the Town Clerk.
(1979 Code, § 5-1008)  (Ord. 07-38, passed 11-6-2007)
§ 51.09  SERVICE PIPE EXTENSIONS.
   No service pipe shall be allowed to run across lots, that is, from one lot
to another, but it must be taken from the main in front of the premises or from
some point adjacent thereto, unless specific permission is obtained from the
Director of Public Works.  The Director shall have the power to extend service
pipe to a building abutting or not abutting a main.  All additional expenses
for these extensions shall be paid by the owner of the property.
(1979 Code, § 5-1009)  (Ord. 07-38, passed 11-6-2007)
§ 51.10  RIGHT TO ENTER PREMISES.
   Whenever it becomes necessary to enter any premises, store or dwelling, for
the purpose of inspecting water pipes, fixtures or meters, the Director of
Public Works or Building Inspector may do so within reasonable hours; should
the Director or Inspector be refused admittance, the supply of water shall be
cut off until the examination is made and the required information is obtained,
or until repairs and alterations are made.
(1979 Code, § 5-1010)  (Ord. 07-38, passed 11-6-2007)
§ 51.11  WATER METERS.
   (A)   The water meters furnished by the town shall remain the property of
the town and will be serviced by the town.
   (B)   At the request of any customer, the town will test the accuracy of a
water meter alleged to be recording improperly.  If the meter is found to be
inaccurate, the customer’s water bill may be adjusted accordingly.  If the
meter is found to be accurate, the customer will be charged a fee of $15 and
pay for any costs incurred for testing.
(1979 Code, § 5-1011)  (Ord. 07-38, passed 11-6-2007)
§ 51.12  CONNECTIONS OUTSIDE OF TOWN.
   No connection of any water line or system outside of the town shall be made
to any part of the water system without special permission from the Board of
Aldermen on such terms as the Board shall prescribe.
(1979 Code, § 5-1012)  (Ord. 07-38, passed 11-6-2007)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.13  UNAUTHORIZED USE OF WATER.
   Only the Director of Public Works or other town employees are authorized to
turn on water.  If water is found to be in use without the knowledge of the
Director, or without being turned on by him or her or his or her agent, or if
water is used for any other purpose than that paid for, the consumer of the
water shall be guilty of a violation of this chapter.
(1979 Code, § 5-1013)  (Ord. 07-38, passed 11-6-2007)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.14  LEAKS; RESPONSIBILITY OF CUSTOMER.
   (A)   If a break occurs, or a defect is found in any pipe or fixture,
causing or permitting a leakage or waste of water, it shall be the duty of the
owner of the premises or the customer to have the break or defect repaired and
to pay for any water use that occurred during the period of damage.
(1979 Code, § 5-1014) 
   (B)   Adjustments to water and or sewer bills resulting from leaks or
damaged equipment may be made to the customer’s sewer account, provided that
repair invoices or other sufficient written evidence is provided and upon
approval of the Town Administrator.  Account adjustments over $2,000 shall be
approved by the Board of Aldermen in its discretion. If approved, adjustments
will be based on the billing history for the account.  If billing history is
not available, then the town will hold adjustment consideration until at least
three-months’ history is available.
   (C)   Pool fills.  Adjustments to the sewer account for swimming pool fills
or refills will be made on a once-per-year basis.
(Ord. 07-38, passed 11-6-2007)
§ 51.15  WATER FOR USE OF CUSTOMERS ONLY.
   It shall be unlawful for any customer to permit any person, except the
members of his or her family or employees living on the premises as a part of
the household or visitors in the home, to remove water from the premises for
any purpose except in case of fire or other emergency.  Any person unlawfully
receiving or using water shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and it is shown that
the unlawful use has been made with the knowledge and consent of the customer,
the customer shall be deemed equally guilty.
(1979 Code, § 5-1015)  (Ord. 07-38, passed 11-6-2007)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.16  INJURY TO PROPERTY AND FIXTURES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to injure, deface or destroy any
property of the town water system, including the pipes, standpipes, valves,
boxes, fire hydrants, fountains, service boxes, service valves or service
connections or any other fixtures, or in any way to contaminate the town water
supply.
(1979 Code, § 5-1016)  (Ord. 07-38, passed 11-6-2007)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.17  TAMPERING WITH METERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, after the water has been turned off for
failure to pay the water bill, to turn the water on at the meter or to bypass
the meter or in any manner to obtain water at no cost.
(1979 Code, § 5-1017)  (Ord. 07-38, passed 11-6-2007)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.18  CONTINUITY OF SERVICE.
   The town will not be liable for any damages that may result to any customer
from the shutting off of water service for any cause whatever, even in cases
where no motive is given, and no deduction from bills will be made in
consequence thereof.
(1979 Code, § 5-1018)  (Ord. 07-38, passed 11-6-2007)
§ 51.19  WATER RATES AND CHARGES.
   The rates and charges for water service shall be as established by the Board
of Aldermen, shall be due and payable bi-monthly or monthly as determined by
the town, and shall be collected in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.  A copy of the current rates and charges shall be kept on file at all
times in the office of the Town Clerk.  The town shall reserve the right to
charge user fees to individual customers within a defined area that benefit
from a water infrastructure improvement(s), including new or upgraded valves,
pumps, line improvements and related improvements.  These user fees shall be
based on the total incurred cost for the improvements, including construction,
design and permitting costs, compared to the number of benefited commercial and
residential units and gallons per day made available by the improvements.  The
town further reserves the right to charge water transmission recovery fees and
water capital reserve fees for the use of the water system.  Such fees may be
charged in the case of transmission recovery fees at the master plan or
preliminary plat approval phase of a new project or, if the project is already
approved for a final plat at the time a new or increased fee is charged, at the
time of the issuance of a zoning compliance letter or certificate of occupancy
by the town or the county for each dwelling.
(1979 Code, § 5-1019)  (Ord. 07-38, passed 11-6-2007)
Cross-reference:
   Capital reserve fees, see §
53.09
§ 51.20  WATER DEPOSITS.
   Each customer applying for water service shall make a cash deposit in an
amount fixed by the Board of Aldermen.
(1979 Code, § 5-1020)  (Ord. 07-38, passed 11-6-2007)
§ 51.21  METER READING; BILLING; COLLECTING.
   (A)   Meters will be read and bills rendered bimonthly, but the town may
vary dates or length of period covered, temporarily or permanently, if
necessary or desirable.
   (B)   Bills for water service will be figured in accordance with the rate
schedule then in effect and will be based on the amount consumed for the period
covered by the meter readings, but the amount payable for each month’s service
shall not be less than the minimum charge prescribed in the schedule of rates.
   (C)   Charges for service commence when the meter is installed and
connection is made, whether used or not.  In the case of gravity sewer, service
is commenced when the service is installed, the structure has received a
certificate of occupancy, and the sewer or water line is properly permitted by
the state.
   (D)   With the exception of irrigation meters in the discretion of the town,
readings from different meters will not be combined for billing, irrespective
of the fact that the meters may be for the same or different premises, or for
the same or different customers, or for the same or different services.
   (E)   Bills for water service are due when rendered and are delinquent after
15 days.  In the event the bill for water service is not paid in 25 days after
it was rendered, a 10% penalty on the unpaid balance shall be added and shall
be paid by the customer.
   (F)   Delinquent notices will be mailed to the customer containing a cut-off
notice, and if not paid within 20 days of mailing, water service may be
discontinued.  Penalty may be removed once annually if customer has a good
payment history for most recent 12 months.
   (G)   Failure to receive bills mailed or notices shall not prevent the bills
from becoming delinquent nor relieve the customer from payment.
(1979 Code, § 5-1021)  (Ord. passed 2-15-1994; Ord. passed 4-5-1994; Ord. 07-
38, passed 11-6-2007)
§ 51.22  SUSPENSION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   All disconnections must be requested in person or in writing by the
account holder. When water service is discontinued and all bills are paid,
including penalties, the deposit will be refunded.  Refunds will be processed
with the next billing cycle following the request and customers should allow
two weeks following the next billing cycle for a refund.  Upon request and
following the initial connection, the town will disconnect/connect service once
per year for no cost to the account holder.
   (B)   The town may discontinue service for nonpayment of utility bills. Upon
discontinuance of service for nonpayment of bills, the deposit will be applied
by the town toward settlement of the account.  Any balance will be refunded to
the customer, but if the deposit is not sufficient to cover the amount due and
payable, the town may proceed to collect the balance in any way provided by law
for the collection of debts.
   (C)   Service discontinued for nonpayment of bills will be restored only
after bills are paid in full, redeposit made and a disconnection and
reconnection charge, both of an amount fixed by the Board of Aldermen, shall be
paid for each meter reconnected.  Disconnect fees cannot be removed from the
customer’s bill.
   (D)   The town reserves the right to discontinue water service without
notice for any one or more of the following additional reasons:
      (1)   To prevent fraud or abuse;
      (2)   Customer’s willful disregard of town rules and regulations;
      (3)   Emergency repairs;
      (4)   Insufficiency of supply due to circumstances beyond the town’s
control;
      (5)   Legal process;
      (6)   Direction of public authorities; and
      (7)   Strike, riot, fire, flood, accident or any unavoidable cause.
   (E)   The town may, in addition to prosecution by law, permanently refuse
service to any customer who tampers with a meter or other measuring device.
(1979 Code, § 5-1022) 
   (F)   Connections of water to multi-family rental dwellings shall be
required to be supplied through a master meter and billed and charged for
installation and billing purposes to a viable management company or firm and
for the owner of the project.  Connections to multi-family dwellings that are
intended to be individually owned shall be separately metered and billed to the
individual owners. Commercial dwellings shall be separately metered for each
separate business operation or premises.  If a commercial dwelling is expanded
or divided or occupied separately after its original construction date in a
manner that would have required separate metering, the uses shall pay a
separate utility bill for each separate commercial use. Upon the approval of
the Director of Public Works, with the concurrence of the Town Administrator, a
legitimate commercial office suite, where restrooms and staff are to be shared
by separate commercial enterprises, may be metered as a single business.
(Ord. passed 4-1-1964; Ord. passed 3-4-1997; Ord. 07-38, passed 11-6-2007)
CHAPTER 52:  SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
52.001   Definitions
   
52.002   Prohibitions of discharges
   52.003   Prohibition of inflow sources
   52.004   Prohibition of unpolluted water
   
52.005   Limitations on radioactive wastes
   
52.006   Limitations on point of discharge
   
52.007   Holding tank wastes
   
52.008   Limitations on wastewater strength
   
52.009   Special provisions on discharges
   
52.010   Metered wastewater determination
   
52.011   Discharge reports
   
52.012   Wastewater discharge permits
   
52.013   Monitoring facilities
   
52.014   Inspection and sampling
   
52.015   Pretreatment
   
52.016   Protection from accidental discharge
   
52.017   Flow control measuring equipment
   
52.018   Injury to sewers prohibited
   
52.019   Drains from garages, service stations
   
52.020   Private wastewater disposal
Administration and Enforcement
   
52.030   Service contracts to conform
   
52.031   Supervision
   
52.032   Director of Public Works; duties
   
52.033   Right to enter premises
   
52.034   Duties of user upon unlawful discharges
   
52.035   Injunction and abatement
   
52.036   Termination of service
   
52.037   Notice and hearing
Sewer Connections
   
52.050   Accessibility to service and sewer connections required
   
52.051   Connections to be made by town
   
52.052   Applications for connections
   
52.053   Connection charges
   
52.054   Service pipe extensions
   
52.055   Certain drains not to be connected
Grease Interceptor Program
   
52.065   Purpose and intent
   
52.066   Grease and oil interceptors required
   
52.067   Violations
Charges and Fees
   
52.080   Meter reading; billing; collecting
   
52.081   Schedule of charges and fees
   
52.082   Sewer rates and charges
   
52.083   Classification of users
   
52.084   Types of charges and fees
   
52.085   Basis for determination of surcharges
   
52.086   Method of determining charge rates
   
52.087   Sampling procedures and analysis
 
   
52.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.001  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      APPROVING AUTHORITY.  The Director of Public Works of the town as
authorized by the Board of Aldermen.
      BENEFICIAL USES.  Uses of the waters of the state that may be protected
against quality degradation including domestic, municipal, agricultural and
industrial supply, power generation, recreation, aesthetic enjoyment,
navigation and the preservation and enhancement of fish, wildlife and other
aquatic resource or reserves and other uses, both tangible and intangible as
specified by federal or state law.
      BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD).  The empirical test run in accordance
with latest edition of Standard Methods for Analysis of Water and Wastewater
published by American Public Health Association and Water Pollution Control
Federation or Methods for the Analysis of Water and Wastes published by EPA to
determine the relative oxygen requirements of wastewaters effluent and polluted
waters.  BOD is a measure of the  oxygen  required  to oxidize the organic
matter in a sample, through the action of microorganisms in the sample.
      BUILDING SEWER.  A sewer conveying wastewater from the premises of a user
to a community sewer.
      CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (COD).  The quantity of oxygen used in the
chemical oxidation or decomposition of organic substances in a sample.
      COMMUNITY SEWER.  A sewer owned and operated by the town tributary to a
treatment facility operated by the town, or the county under contract with the
town.
      COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT.  Pollutants such as BOD, TSS, pH, oil and grease,
ammonia nitrogen (NH3-N), and fecal coliform bacteria, plus any additional
pollutants identified in the town’s national pollutant discharge elimination
system (NPDES) permit, if the town’s treatment works was designed to treat
these pollutants and in fact does remove the pollutants to a substantial
degree.
      COUNTY.  Brunswick County, North Carolina.
      DOMESTIC WASTES.  The liquid wastes from bathrooms, toilet rooms, home
kitchens and home laundries.
      EPA.  The federal agency named the Environmental Protection Agency.
      EXCESSIVE RADIATION DOSE.  A dose of radiation in excess of the maximum
permissible dose.  MAXIMUM PERMISSIBLE DOSE shall mean a dose of radiation to
any part of the body, internal and external or both that, in the light of
current knowledge, is not expected to cause appreciable bodily injury to a
person at any time during his or her lifetime.  Application of this section
will conform to all federal and state regulations concerning the use of
radioactive materials.
      FEDERAL ACT.  Public Law No. 92-500, the Federal Water Pollution Control
Act.
      GARBAGE.  Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation,
cooking and dispensing of food and from the handling, storage and sale of
produce.
      GREASE AND OILS.  A group of substances with similar physical
characteristics, including hydrocarbons, fatty acids, soaps, waxes, oils and
any other material that is extracted with a stated solvent from an acidified
sample and that is not volatilized during the test.
      HOLDING TANK WASTE.  Any waste from holding tanks such as vessels,
chemical toilets, campers, trailers, septic tanks and vacuum pump tank trucks.
      INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT.  Any pollutant which is not a “compatible
pollutant” as defined in this section.
      INDUSTRIAL WASTE SURCHARGE.  A charge placed on all users who discharge
wastewaters having characteristics in excess of the limits set by this chapter
on compatible pollutants.
      INDUSTRIAL WASTES.  Liquid or water-carried wastes from institutional,
commercial and industrial processes and operations, as distinguished from
domestic wastes.
      MASS EMISSION RATE.  The weight of material discharged to the community
sewer system during a given time interval.  Unless otherwise specified, the
MASS EMISSION RATE shall mean pounds per day of a particular constituent or
combination of constituents.
      POLLUTION.  An alteration of the quality of the waters of the state by
waste to a degree which unreasonably affects the waters for beneficial use or
affects the facilities which serve such beneficial uses.  POLLUTIONmay include
contamination.
      PREMISES.  A parcel of real estate or portion thereof, including any
improvements thereon, which is determined by the town to be a single user for
purposes of receiving, using and paying for service.
      RESIDENTIAL EFFLUENT PUMP STATION AND APPURTENANCES.  The portion of the
pressure sewer collection system which is owned and operated by the town, and
located on the private property of the individual user.  The system includes
the effluent pump station, septic tank, electrical service connection to
residential unit and force main to community pressure sewer line at road right-
of-way.
      SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER.  An industry that will contribute greater
than 10% of the design flow or designed pollutant loading to the treatment
works.
      STORM DRAIN or STORM SEWER.  A sewer which carries storm or surface
waters, but not sewage or industrial wastes.
      SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC WORKS.  The Superintendent or Director of Public
Works of the town acting under the direct supervision of the.
      TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS.  The measure of the solids that either float on
the surface or are held in suspension in wastes and which are removable from
the liquid by laboratory filtering.
      TOWN.  The Town of Shallotte or any authorized official(s) acting on
behalf of the town.
      TREATMENT WORKS OR PLANT.  Any devices and systems used in the storage,
treatment, recycling and reclamation of municipal wastewater or industrial
wastes of a liquid nature, including interceptor sewers, outfall sewers,
wastewater collection systems, pumping, power and other equipment and
appurtenances; extensions, improvements, remodeling, additions and alterations
thereof; elements essential to provide a reliable recycled supply such as
standby treatment units, and clearwell storage facilities; and any works,
including site acquisition of the land that will be an integral part of the
treatment process or is used for ultimate disposal of residues resulting from
such treatment; or any other method or system for preventing, abating,
reducing, storing, treating, separating or disposing of municipal wastes,
including storm water runoff, or industrial and sanitary sewer systems.
      USER CHARGE SYSTEM.  The system, developed for the EPA, that establishes
the method for the grant-receiving town to recover the costs incurred for the
annual operation and maintenance of the municipal sewerage system.  The USER
CHARGE is the current charge that sewer users are required to pay for the right
to discharge their type of wastewater into the municipal sewer collection and
treatment system.
      WASTE.  Sewage and all other waste substances, liquid, solid, gaseous or
radioactive, associated with human habitation, or of human or animal origin, or
from any producing, manufacturing or processing operation of whatever nature,
including waste placed within containers for whatever nature prior to and for
purposes of disposal.
      WASTEWATER.  Wastes and water, whether treated or untreated, discharged
into a community sewer.
      WASTEWATER CONSTITUENTS AND CHARACTERISTICS.  The individual chemical,
physical, bacteriological and radiological parameters, including volume and
flow-rate and such other parameters that serve to define, classify or measure
the contents, quality and strength of wastewater.
   (B)   Other terms used in this chapter, but not defined hereinabove, shall
have the meanings set forth in Federal Regulation 40 C.F.R. 34.905 or in the
latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater,
published by the American Public Health Association (APHA), the American
Waterworks Association (AWWA) and the Water Pollution Control Federation
(WPCF).  Unless otherwise expressly stated in this chapter, waste constituents
and characteristics shall be measured by methods set forth in the latest
edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater, and/or
Methods for Chemical Analysis of Waters and Wastes, published by the
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).
(1994 Code, § 52.01)  (Ord. passed 2-3-1982; Ord. 07-38, passed 11-6-2007)
§ 52.002  PROHIBITIONS OF DISCHARGES.
   (A)   No person shall discharge wastes to a community sanitary sewer which
cause, threaten to cause or are capable of causing, either alone or by
interaction with other substances:
      (1)   A fire or explosion;
      (2)   Obstruction of flow or injury to the treatment works;
      (3)   Danger to life or safety of personnel;
      (4)   A strong offensive odor that inhibits the effective maintenance or
operation of the treatment works;
      (5)   Air pollution by the release of toxic or malodorous gases or
noxious gas-producing substances;
      (6)   Interference with the treatment process;
      (7)   The town’s effluent or any other product of the treatment process,
residues, sludges or scums, to be unsuitable for reclamation and reuse or to
interfere with the reclamation process;
      (8)   A condition unacceptable to any public agency having regulatory
jurisdiction over the final discharge of the town’s treatment works;
      (9)   Conditions at or near the town’s treatment works which violate any
statute or any lawful rule, regulation or ordinance of any state or federal
agency having jurisdiction over the town; or
      (10)   The town’s treatment works to be hydraulically overloaded or cause
physical damage or injury to collection system or treatment works.
   (B)   No person shall discharge septic tank effluent or cesspool overflow to
any open drain, ditch, stream or well which penetrates water bearing
formations.
   (C)   This list of prohibited discharges is in addition to the pollutants of
40 C.F.R. 403.5, which are hereby included as part of this list of prohibited
pollutant discharges to the sanitary sewer system.
(1994 Code, § 52.02)  (Ord. passed 2-3-1982; Ord. 07-38, passed 11-6-2007) 
Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.003  PROHIBITION OF INFLOW SOURCES.
   Inflow sources, as defined in 40 C.F.R. 35.905, shall be prohibited in new
connections to the sanitary sewer system.
(1994 Code, § 52.03)  (Ord. passed 2-3-1982; Ord. 07-38, passed 11-6-2007) 
Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.004  PROHIBITION OF UNPOLLUTED WATER.
   (A)   Unpolluted water, including by way of illustration but not limited to
cooling water, process water or blow-down water from cooling towers or
evaporative coolers, shall not be discharged through direct or indirect
connection to a community sewer unless a permit is issued by the town.  The
town shall approve the discharge of such water only when there is no reasonable
alternative method of disposal available.  Discharge to the storm sewer system
shall be approved as a reasonable alternative method of disposal, only with the
concurrence of the local County Public Health Department.
   (B)   If a permit is granted for the discharge of such water into a
community sewer, the user shall pay the charges and fees and shall meet any
other conditions required by the town.
(1994 Code, § 52.04)  (Ord. passed 2-3-1982; Ord. 07-38, passed 11-6-2007) 
Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.005  LIMITATIONS ON RADIOACTIVE WASTES.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any radioactive waste
into a community sewer except:
   (A)   When the person is authorized to use radioactive materials by the
State Department of Health or other government agency empowered to regulate the
use of radioactive materials;
   (B)   When the waste is discharged in strict conformity with then current
North Carolina Radiation Control and Atomic Energy Commission (AEC) regulations
and recommendations for safe disposal;
   (C)   When the person is in compliance with all lawful rules and regulations
of all other applicable regulatory agencies having jurisdiction; and
   (D)   When several users are discharging radioactive wastes or materials to
the public sewer, they shall, upon notification, cooperate in limiting the
release of the material and shall file with the town a statement of their
agreed pro-rated discharges.  If this is not done within a reasonable time
after notifications, sewer use may be discontinued by the town.
(1994 Code, § 52.05)  (Ord. passed 2-3-1982; Ord. 07-38, passed 11-6-2007) 
Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.006  LIMITATIONS ON POINT OF DISCHARGE.
   No person shall discharge any substances directly into an effluent pumping
station or other opening in the sewer system other than through an approved
building sewer, unless he or she has been issued a permit by the town.  If a
permit is issued for such a direct discharge, the user shall pay the applicable
charges and fees and shall meet such other conditions necessary to properly
treat this discharge as required by the town.
(1994 Code, § 52.06)  (Ord. passed 2-3-1982; Ord. 07-38, passed 11-6-2007) 
Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.007  HOLDING TANK WASTES.
   (A)   No person shall discharge any holding tank waste, including by
definition but not limited to pumping from septic tanks into a community sewer
unless he or she has been issued a permit by the town.  Unless otherwise
allowed by the town under the terms and conditions of the permit, a separate
permit must be secured for each separate discharge.  This permit will state the
specific location of discharge, the time of day the discharge is to occur, the
volume of the discharge and the wastewater constituents and characteristics. 
If a permit is granted for discharge of the waste into a community sewer, the
user shall pay the applicable charges and fees and shall meet any other
conditions necessary to properly treat this discharge as required by the town. 
An exception to the above is that no permit will be required for discharge of
domestic wastes from recreational motor home holding tanks; provided that the
discharges are made into a town-approved facility designed to receive the
wastes.
   (B)   Monitoring facilities for holding type wastes such as those described
in §
52.013 shall be provided by the user when in the judgment of the Board of
Aldermen, they are deemed necessary for monitoring purposes.
(1994 Code, § 52.07)  (Ord. passed 2-3-1982; Ord. 07-38, passed 11-6-2007) 
Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.008  LIMITATIONS ON WASTEWATER STRENGTH.
   (A)   Brunswick County’s Sewer Use Ordinance shall apply to the treatment
standards for the town and county sewer treatment processing, or the following
minimum standards, whichever is more restrictive.
   (B)   In order that the biological treatment process is not subjected to
unacceptable levels of toxic wastes and so that the process can function
properly to meet
state and federal standards, it shall be unlawful for any person to discharge
into the town’s wastewater collection system, waters containing in excess of:
      (1)   These constituents with these concentrations.
Constituent Code Maximum Permissible Concentration
Constituent    Code  Maximum Permissible Concentration
Arsenic        AS    0.1 mg/l
Boron          B     10.0 mg/l
Barium         BA    0.5 mg/l
Cadmium        CD    0.2 mg/l
Copper         CU    0.1 mg/l
Cyanide        CN-   0.5 mg/l
Lead           PB    1.0 mg/l
Mercury        HG    0.5 ug/l*
Nickel         NI    0.5 mg/l
Silver         AG    0.03 mg/l
Total chromium CR    0.5 mg/l
Vanadium       V     0.5 mg/l
Zinc           ZN    0.5 mg/l
Chloroform     CHCL3 1.0 mg/l
*ug/l; lug/l = 0.001 mg/l
 
      (2)   Having a five-day BOD of more than 1,000 mg/l;
      (3)   Having a TSS content of more than 1,000 mg/l;
      (4)   Having a COD of more than 1,500 mg/l;
      (5)   Having a pH lower than 5.5;
      (6)   Having a pH higher than 9.5;
      (7)   Having a temperature higher than 150°F, 65.5°C;
      (8)   Containing more than 40 mg/l of oil and grease of animal or
vegetable origin;
      (9)   Containing more than 40 mg/l of oil and grease of mineral or
petroleum origin;
      (10)   Containing in excess of 0.02 mg/l total identifiable chlorinated
hydrocarbons which cannot be removed by the town’s treatment process;
      (11)   Containing 1.0 mg/l phenolic compounds which cannot be removed by
the town’s treatment process;
      (12)   Containing any toxic substances or poisonous substances in
sufficient quantities to interfere with the biological processes used at the
town’s treatment works;
      (13)   Containing strong iron pickling wastes or concentrated plating
solutions unless pretreated in such a way as to comply with all other
limitations of §
52.007;
      (14)   Containing any solid viscous substance, including but not being
limited to:  ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
bones, feathers, slurry, lime residues, slops, whole blood, fleshings, chemical
residues, paint residues, waxes, asphalt, hair, tar, plastics, wood, paunch
manure, butcher’s offal, animal viscera, lime or any solid or viscous
substances capable of causing obstructions of any kind in either the collection
system or at any point in the treatment plant.  Also any waste that will not
pass through a one-fourth-inch mesh screen or its equivalent in screening
ability is not to be discharged into the sanitary sewer collection system, but
disposed of by an alternative means;
      (15)   Containing any liquid waste or other such substance that contains
dyes or other color of a character and quantity as to prevent removal by
biological processes employed at the treatment plant;
      (16)   Containing any liquid or other substances that require excessive
amounts of chlorine for stabilization in addition to biological treatment.  The
excess chlorine demand exerted by this waste shall be determined by comparing
the chlorine demand of the waste to the average chlorine demand of all other
wastes entering the treatment plant;
      (17)   Of the industrial variety with such a volume that the peak hourly
flow exceeds 2.5% of the design flow of the treatment works.  In cases where a
peak hourly flow of more than 2.5% is discharged, the town may require the
discharger to provide holding facilities of sufficient capacity so as to
discharge into the collection system at an assigned rate over a specified
period of time; or
      (18)   Of such a nature that will cause contamination of the waste in the
collection system, or which may contaminate the treatment plant or the
receiving waters of the state, resulting in injury or harm to persons,
livestock or aquatic life.
   (C)   Users in industrial categories subject to effluent guidelines issued
under Section 304(b) of the Federal Act which are discharging incompatible
pollutants to publicly owned treatment works, are required to adopt best
practicable control technology currently available, and defined by the
Administrator pursuant to Section 304(b) of the Act.  Where the town’s
treatment works was designed to and does achieve substantial removal of
pollutants other than the four pollutants listed in the definition for
compatible pollutants in Section 24-86 (BOD, TSS, pH and fecal coliform
bacteria), the Director of Public Works may not require the user to achieve
best practicable control technology currently available, since this would lead
to an uneconomical duplication of treatment facilities.  While the term
SUBSTANTIAL REMOVAL is not subject to precise definition, it generally
contemplates removals in the order of 80% or greater; minor incidental removals
in the order of 10% to 30% are not considered “substantial.”  For some
industrial categories, it may be necessary to define pretreatment guidelines
for problems that may arise as a result of the discharge into the town’s
treatment works.  However, any adjustments required for particular industrial
categories should be considered in connection with the town’s requirements
rather than in the national pretreatment standard.  Limitations on wastewater
strength in this subchapter may be supplemented with more stringent limitations
pursuant to §
52.012.
(1994 Code, § 52.08)  (Ord. passed 2-3-1982; Ord. 07-38, passed 11-6-2007) 
Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.009  SPECIAL PROVISIONS ON DISCHARGES.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes (discharged or proposed to be discharged to
the public sewers) contain the substances or possess the characteristics
enumerated in this subchapter, and which in the judgment of the approving
authority, may have a deleterious effect upon the wastewater treatment works,
processes, equipment or receiving waters, or which create a hazard to life, or
constitute a public nuisance, the approving authority may reject the wastes.
   (B)   The town may discontinue water service, sewer service or both to any
user who violates this subchapter when in the judgment of the approving
authority, the action is necessary to protect the wastewater treatment works,
processes, equipment or receiving waters from injury or damage, or is necessary
to protect life or health.
   (C)   The town’s sewer system is planned and designed to be primarily a
gravity sewer system; however, other non-septic systems such as pressure
systems can be permitted if approved by the Board of Aldermen as set forth in §
____.
(1994 Code, § 52.09)  (Ord. 07-38, passed 11-6-2007)
§ 52.010  METERED WASTEWATER DETERMINATION.
   Individual user wastewater generation volume shall be determined, by the
town, according to one of the following methods of measurement:
   (A)   Metered wastewater discharge as measured by meter or other measuring
devices in the case of major or regional lift stations; or
   (B)   Metered water usage measured by meter or other measuring devices.
(1994 Code, § 52.10)  (Ord. passed 2-3-1982; Ord. 07-38, passed 11-6-2007)
§ 52.011  DISCHARGE REPORTS.
   The town may require that any person discharging or proposing to discharge
wastewater of the industrial variety into a community sewer file a periodic
discharge report.  The discharge report may include but not be limited to
nature of process, volume, rates of flow, mass emission rate, production
quantities, hours of operation, number and classification of employees or other
information which relates to the generation of waste including wastewater
discharge.  These reports may also include the chemical constituents and
quantity of liquid or gaseous materials stored on site even though they are not
normally discharged.  In addition to discharge reports, the town may require
information in the form of wastewater discharge permit applications and self-
monitoring reports.
(1994 Code, § 52.11)  (Ord. passed 2-3-1982; Ord. 07-38, passed 11-6-2007)
§ 52.012  WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITS.
   (A)   The town reserves the right to require necessary permits and/or other
information to determine if wastewater is satisfactory for its system.  The
applicant may be required to submit, in units and terms appropriate for
evaluation, but not limited to the following information:
      (1)   Name, address and standard industrial classification number of
applicant;
      (2)   Volume of wastewater to be discharged;
      (3)   Wastewater constituents and characteristics including but not
limited to those mentioned in §
52.008 as determined by a laboratory approved by the town;
      (4)   Time and duration of discharge;
      (5)   Average and 30-minute peak wastewater flow rates, including daily,
monthly and seasonal variations, if any;
      (6)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans and details
to show all sewers and appurtenances by size, location and elevation;
      (7)   Description of activities, facilities and plant processes on the
premises, including all materials, processes and type of materials which are or
could be discharged;
      (8)   Each product produced by type, amount and rate of production;
      (9)   Number and type of employees and hours of work; and
      (10)   Any other information as may be reasonably deemed by the approving
authority to be necessary to evaluate the permit application.
   (B)   Permit conditions.  Wastewater discharge permits shall be expressly
subject to all provisions of this chapter and all other ordinances,
regulations, charges and fees established by the town.  The conditions of
wastewater discharge permits shall be uniformly enforced by the town in
accordance with this chapter and applicable state and federal regulations. 
Permits may contain the following:
      (1)   The unit charge or schedule of charges and fees for the wastewaters
to be discharged to a community sewer;
      (2)   The average and maximum wastewater constituents and
characteristics;
      (3)   Limits on rate and time of discharge or requirements for flow
regulations and equalization;
      (4)   Requirements for installation of inspection and sampling
facilities;
      (5)   Pretreatment requirements;
      (6)   Specifications for monitoring programs which may include sampling
locations, frequency and method of sampling, number, types and standards for
tests and reporting schedule;
      (7)   Requirements for submission of technical reports or discharge
reports;
      (8)   Requirements for maintaining plant records relating to wastewater
discharges as specified by the town and affording town access thereto;
      (9)   Mean and maximum mass emission rates, or other appropriate limits
when incompatible pollutants as defined in §
52.001, are proposed or present in the user’s wastewater discharge; and
      (10)   Other conditions as may be reasonably deemed appropriate by the
town to ensure compliance with this chapter.
   (C)   Duration of permits.  Wastewater discharge permits shall be issued for
a specified time period, not to exceed five years.  A permit may be issued for
a period less than one year or may be stated to expire on a specific date.  If
the user is not notified by the town 30 days prior to the expiration of the
permit, the permit shall be extended one additional year.  The terms and
conditions of the permit may be subject to modification and change by the town
during the life of the permit as limitations or requirements as identified in §
52.008 are modified and changed.  The user shall be informed of any proposed
changes in his or her permit at least 30 days prior to the effective date of
change.  Any changes or new conditions in the permit shall include a reasonable
time schedule for compliance.
   (D)   Transfer of a permit.  Wastewater discharge permits are issued to a
specific user for a specific operation.  A wastewater discharge permit shall
not be reassigned or transferred or sold to a new owner, new user, different
premises, or another or changed operation.
   (E)   Suspension or revocation of permit.
      (1)   Any user who violates the conditions of the wastewater discharge
permit, any provision of this chapter, applicable state and federal
regulations, or any of the following is subject to having his or her permit
suspended or revoked:
         (a)   Failure of a user to factually report the wastewater
constituents and characteristics of his or her discharge;
         (b)   Failure of the user to report significant changes in operations,
or wastewater constituents and characteristics; or
         (c)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user’s premises for the
purpose of inspection or monitoring.
      (2)   Failure to report a chemical spill or accidental discharge as in §
52.034 and may be subject to penalty.
(1994 Code, § 52.12)  (Ord. passed 2-3-1982; Ord. 07-38, passed 11-6-2007) 
Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.013  MONITORING FACILITIES.
   (A)   Users who propose to discharge, or who in the judgment of the
approving authority likely could discharge wastewater with constituents and
characteristics different from that produced by a domestic premises may be
required to install a monitoring facility.
   (B)   When more than one user can discharge into a common building sewer,
the approving authority may require installation of a separate monitoring
facility for each user.  Also when, in the judgment of the approving authority,
there is a significant different in the wastewater constituents and
characteristics produced by different operations of a single user, the
approving authority may require that separate monitoring facilities be
installed for each separate discharge.
   (C)   Monitoring facilities that are required to be installed shall be
constructed, operated and maintained at the user’s expense.  The purpose of the
facility is to enable inspection, sampling and flow measurement of wastewaters
produced by a user.  If sampling or metering equipment is required by the town,
it may be provided, installed and operated at the user’s expense.  The
monitoring facility will normally be required to be located on the user’s
premises outside of the building.  The town may, however, when such a location
would be impractical or cause undue hardship on the user, allow the facility to
be constructed in the public street or sidewalk area with the approval of the
public agency having jurisdiction over the street or sidewalk, and located so
that it will not be obstructed by landscaping or parked vehicles.
   (D)   If the monitoring facility is inside the user’s fence, there shall be
accommodations to allow safe and immediate access for town personnel, such as a
gate secured with a town lock.  There shall be ample room in or near the
facility to allow accurate sampling and composite of samples for analysis.  The
entire facility and the sampling and measuring equipment shall or may be
supplied and/or maintained by the user, at his or her expense.
   (E)   Whether constructed on public or private property, the monitoring
facilities shall be constructed in accordance with the town’s requirements and
all applicable local town construction standards and specifications.  When in
the judgment of the town an existing user requires a monitoring facility, the
user will be so notified in writing.  Construction must be completed within 90
days following a written notification unless a time extension is otherwise
granted by the town.
(1994 Code, § 52.13)  (Ord. passed 2-3-1982; Ord. 07-38, passed 11-6-2007)
§ 52.014  INSPECTION AND SAMPLING.
   Brunswick County’s Sewer Use Ordinance, as amended, shall govern inspection
and sampling; however, the town also may inspect the facilities of any user to
ascertain whether the purpose of this chapter is being met and all requirements
are being complied with.  Persons or occupants of premises where wastewater is
created or discharged shall allow the town or its representatives ready access
at all reasonable times to all parts of the premises for purposes of inspection
or sampling or in performance of any of their duties.  The town shall have the
right to set up on the user’s property any devices necessary to conduct
sampling or metering operations.  Where a user has security measures in force
which would require proper identification and clearance before entry into the
premises, the user shall make necessary arrangements with his, her or their
security guards so that upon presentation of suitable identification, personnel
from the town will be permitted to enter without delay for the purposes of
performing their specific responsibilities.
(1994 Code, § 52.14)  (Ord. passed 2-3-1982; Ord. 07-38, passed 11-6-2007)
§ 52.015  PRETREATMENT.
   Brunswick County’s Ordinance No. _____, as amended, shall govern inspection
and sampling; however, the town also shall require users to make wastewater
acceptable under the limitations established herein before discharging into any
community sewer.  Any facilities required to pretreat wastewater to a level
acceptable to the town shall be provided and maintained at the user’s expense. 
Detailed plans showing the pretreatment facility and operating procedures shall
be submitted to the town for review, and shall be approved by the town before
construction of the facility.  The review and approval of such plans and
operating procedures will in no way relieve the user from the responsibility of
modifying the facility as necessary to produce an effluent complying with the
provisions of this chapter.  Any subsequent changes in the pretreatment
facility or method of operation shall be reported to and be approved by the
approving authority.
(1994 Code, § 52.15)  (Ord. passed 2-3-1982; Ord. 07-38, passed 11-6-2007)
§ 52.016  PROTECTION FROM ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE.
   (A)   Each user shall provide protection from accidental discharge of
prohibited materials or other wastes regulated by this chapter.  Facilities to
prevent accidental discharge of prohibited materials shall be provided and
maintained at the user’s expense.  Detailed plans showing facilities and
operating procedures to provide this protection shall be submitted to the town
for review and shall be approved by the town before construction of the
facility.
   (B)   The review and approval of these plans and operating procedures will
in no way relieve the user from the responsibility of modifying the facility as
necessary to provide the protection necessary to meet the requirements of this
chapter.
(1994 Code, § 52.16)  (Ord. passed 2-3-1982; Ord. 07-38, passed 11-6-2007)
§ 52.017  FLOW CONTROL MEASURING EQUIPMENT.
   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided for
any water or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and
effective operation by the property owner at his or her expense.  All flow
control equipment, including but not limited to pumps, nozzles, wires, gates,
valves and flumes, shall be subject to the approval of the approving authority.
(1994 Code, § 52.17)  (Ord. passed 2-3-1982; Ord. 07-38, passed 11-6-2007)
§ 52.018  INJURY TO SEWERS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall obstruct, break, remove or otherwise injure any portion of
any cleanout, valvebox, manhole, flushtank or other part of any public sanitary
or storm sewer.
(1994 Code, § 52.18)  (Ord. passed 2-3-1982; Ord. 07-38, passed 11-6-2007) 
Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.019  DRAINS FROM GARAGES, SERVICE STATIONS.
   No drains from garages, automobile service stations or other places which
discharge any oil or grease shall be discharged into the domestic sewer system
unless an oil and grease separator is provided and approved by the Director of
Public Works.
(1994 Code, § 52.19)  (Ord. passed 2-3-1982; Ord. 07-38, passed 11-6-2007) 
Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.020  PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of
§
52.050, and only with the permission of the Director of Public Works, the
toilet and other facilities necessary for the discharge of domestic and
industrial wastes shall be connected to a private disposal system complying
with the requirements of the appropriate state and/or local regulatory agency.
   (B)   Before commencement of construction of a private wastewater disposal
system, the owner(s) shall first obtain a written permit from the appropriate
regulatory authority and furnish a copy thereof to the town.  The copy of the
permit shall be accompanied by such supplementary data as deemed necessary by
the town to maintain an accurate file of the private wastewater disposal
systems to facilitate the planning of future public sewer service.
   (C)   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private wastewater
disposal system shall comply with all requirements of the North Carolina
Department of Environment and Natural Resources or other board or authority.
   (D)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private wastewater disposal system, a direct connection shall be made to
the public sewer within 90 days in compliance with these regulations.
   (E)   The owner(s) shall operate and maintain any private wastewater
disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the
town.
   (F)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by other state or federal
agencies.
(1994 Code, § 52.20)  (Ord. passed 2-3-1982; Ord. 07-38, passed 11-6-2007)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 52.030  SERVICE CONTRACTS TO CONFORM.
   (A)   (1)   All pertinent provisions of this chapter shall govern the terms
and conditions of the contracts under which the town furnishes sewer service to
any person, or whereby the town makes any sewer connections or performs any
work of any kind in connection with the furnishing of sewer service. 
      (2)   These provisions in this chapter shall be a part of each and every
utility contract receiving services from the town.  Payment for utility
services within 30 days from mailing or sending of the bill for such services
is required for each utility customer and account.  Failure to do so is a
breach of the utility contract and may result in the termination of services.
   (B)   The town seeks to maintain a consistent and efficient sewer system
throughout its jurisdiction. In so doing it will require new portions of its
systems and extensions to be based on a gravity sewer system wherever
possible.  Only with the specific approval of the Board of Aldermen, after
considering a recommendation from the Town Engineer, will a system other than
gravity, such as a pressure system, be allowed to connect to the town’s sewer
system. Such an approval should be based on special circumstances that make
installation of a gravity system not feasible and cost prohibitive.  Relevant
factors for the Board of Aldermen to consider in approval of a non-gravity
sewer system include but are not limited to: size of the project, future impact
on the entire sewer system, expected growth in the surrounding service area,
topography, maintenance of the on- and off-site sewer infrastructure, cost and
general maintenance of the proposed system.  Mere inconvenience and higher cost
alone are insufficient reasons to allow a non-gravity system.
   (C)   If a non-gravity sewer system is approved for a new development, or
expansion of an existing development, by the Board of Aldermen after January 1,
2006, then the individual property owners and home or property owners’
association for the development shall be responsible for the costs of
maintenance, upkeep, replacement, service and all related costs for the pumps,
infrastructure and lines located on the property of the individual homeowner.
This responsibility of the individual property owners and home or property
owners’ association shall be included in the development’s association bylaws,
covenants, conditions and/or noted on the final plat.  Failure to note such
language on the bylaws, covenants, conditions or plat shall not invalidate this
requirement.
   (D)   For a fee scheduled by the town, the town shall issue permits to allow
the property owner, at his or her own cost, to repair, replace or maintain the
individual sewer pumps, lines and other sewer infrastructure located on the
owner’s property.  The town shall specify and direct the type of pumps and
lines that may be used by the property owner in order to repair, replace or
maintain his or her sewer system. Unless approved by the town and under
authority of a permit, no work may be conducted on the property owner’s
individual sewer pump or lines.  All such work must be completed by a licensed
plumber and, upon completion of the work, inspected and approved by the town.
   (E)   The town shall have no responsibility for the cost of making repairs,
replacements or maintaining the individual pumps and lines serving residential
structures using a non-gravity sewer system in a new development, or expansion
of an existing development, approved by the town after January 1, 2006.  The
property owners connecting to non-gravity systems shall have no right of
recourse or remedy against the town for the cost of repairs, replacements or
maintenance to their individual pumps or lines located on their property.  If
the town makes any repairs or replacements or performs any maintenance to
individual sewer pumps, lines or related infrastructure, it shall have the
right to add the costs to the utility bill of the individual owner in a manner
that must be paid first before other monies received will be credited to basic
water and sewer service. Failure to pay this bill or bills by the individual
owner will result in the disconnection of utility services from the town.  The
town reserves the right to file a lien or liens against any property or
properties receiving utility services that have a delinquent account(s) thereon
in the same manner as the filing of a tax lien in the state and all other
additional rights and remedies allowed under state law.
(1994 Code, § 52.30)  (Ord. passed 2-3-1982; Ord. 07-38, passed 11-6-2007)
§ 52.031  SUPERVISION.
   The sewer system of the town shall be under the supervision of the Mayor and
Board of Aldermen.  The duty of enforcing full compliance with all rules and
regulations governing all connections with the sewer shall be vested in the
Superintendent or Director of Public Works.
(1994 Code, § 52.31)  (Ord. passed 2-3-1982; Ord. 07-38, passed 11-6-2007)
§ 52.032  DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS; DUTIES.
   The Director of Public Works shall report to the Town Administrator and
shall perform the following duties:
   (A)   The Director shall have general supervision over all the operations of
the sewerage system;
   (B)   The Director shall see that all rules and regulations of the town are
enforced; and
   (C)   The Director shall see that sewer rates and assessments are correctly
made.
(1994 Code, § 52.32)  (Ord. passed 2-3-1982; Ord. 07-38, passed 11-6-2007)
§ 52.033  RIGHT TO ENTER PREMISES.
   Whenever it becomes necessary to enter any premises, stores or dwelling, for
the purpose of inspecting sewer pipes or fixtures, the of Public Works or
Building Inspector may do so within reasonable hours; should the or Building
Inspector be refused admittance, the supply of water and/or sewer service shall
be cut off until the examination is made and the required information is
obtained, or until repairs and alterations are made.
(1994 Code, § 52.33)  (Ord. passed 2-3-1982; Ord. 07-38, passed 11-6-2007)
§ 52.034  DUTIES OF USER UPON UNLAWFUL DISCHARGES.
   Any user who discharges wastes in violation of this chapter shall, upon
discovery thereof, immediately notify the Director of Public Works so that the
town may take necessary countermeasures to minimize the damage to the community
sewer, treatment facilities, treatment processes and receiving water.  In
addition, the user shall, within 15 days of the occurrence, deliver to the
Director a written detailed report describing the cause of the discharge and
the measures taken to prevent a reoccurrence in the future.
(1994 Code, § 52.34)  (Ord. passed 2-3-1982; Ord. 07-38, passed 11-6-2007)
§ 52.035  INJUNCTION AND ABATEMENT.
   The violation of this chapter is hereby declared to be a public nuisance,
and this chapter may be enforced by injunction and order of abatement in an
action instituted in the General Court of Justice, as provided in G.S. § 160A-
175.
(1994 Code, § 52.35)  (Ord. passed 2-3-1982; Ord. 07-38, passed 11-6-2007)
§ 52.036  TERMINATION OF SERVICE.
   If any person violates any provisions of this chapter, the town may:
   (A)   Terminate water or sewer service, or both, to the property in or upon
which the violation occurred;
   (B)   Suspend for a specified period of time or permanently revoke any
permit granted to the user under any provisions of this chapter; or
   (C)   Issue a cease and desist order directing the user to:
      (1)   Comply with this chapter forthwith;
      (2)   Comply with this chapter in accordance with a time schedule set
forth by the town;
      (3)   Take appropriate remedial or preventive action; or
      (4)   A combination of divisions (C)(2) and (C)(3) of this section.
(1994 Code, § 52.36)  (Ord. passed 2-3-1982; Ord. 07-38, passed 11-6-2007)
§ 52.037  NOTICE AND HEARING.
   Water and sewer service shall be terminated, cease and desist orders shall
be issued and permits shall  be denied,  suspended  or  revoked by  the town
only after the town shall have given notice to the user of the contemplated
action and a hearing if requested.
(1994 Code, § 52.37)  (Ord. passed 2-3-1982; Ord. 07-38, passed 11-6-2007)
SEWER CONNECTIONS
§ 52.050  ACCESSIBILITY TO SERVICE AND SEWER CONNECTIONS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Accessibility and mandatory taps within town limits.  Within 30 days
after the completion of construction of any sewer main within the corporate
limits of the town, the owner of every property which lies within 150 feet of
that line, whereon improvements for human occupancy shall cause a water closet,
sink, septic tank, effluent pump station and appurtenances and a discharge line
to the property limits to be constructed in accordance with town regulations,
shall cause the property to be connected to the sewer through town action.  It
shall be the responsibility of the owner to receive authorization to connect
and to make connection to the sewer main at the owner’s expense, unless
specifically authorized by the Director of Public Works that the town will
incur the cost.  Otherwise, the connection shall be constructed and made at the
sole expense of the property owner.
   (B)   Service to users outside of the corporate limits.  Those property
owners who, being outside the corporate limits of the town, wish to tap on and
connect to municipal sewer service, are allowed to do so providing the
following conditions are met:
      (1)   The property owner must connect and subscribe to all municipal
services accessible to the property (e.g., water and sewer service).  Services
are considered accessible to properties outside the corporate limits if they
pass within 350 feet of the property in question.  These connections shall be
made at the sole expense of the property owner;
      (2)   The property owners, wishing to connect to municipal services which
are not considered accessible, shall bear the total cost of all extensions and
resulting connections to the municipal services; and
      (3)   The property owner shall, upon approval by the town, annex into the
town’s corporate limits or execute an agreement with the town that, at such
time as his or her property is eligible for annexation (i.e., contiguous to
town or within the acreage limits of the town’s satellite annexation cap), and
the town is able to execute the annexation, the property owner will present a
petition to the town for annexation of the property.
   (C)   Connections to be separate.  Every house or building accessible to any
sewer main shall be separately and independently connected, except in those
cases where laterals from the main have already been laid in macadam or
improved streets, without provisions having been made for the house or
building, when the connection may be made to an existing lateral.  If the house
or building is on a macadam or improved street where laterals have not been
laid, the connection may be made to any convenient lateral.  When two or more
houses or units are connected with the same water lateral, a separate water
meter shall be provided for each house or unit.
   (D)   Multi-family rental dwellings.  Connections to multi-family rental
dwellings shall be required to be supplied through a master meter per building
and billed and charged for installation and billing purposes to a viable
management company or firm and/or the owner of the project.  Connections to
multi-family dwellings that are intended to be individually owned shall be
separately metered and billed to the individual owners.  Commercial dwellings
shall be separately metered for each separate business operation or premises. 
If a commercial dwelling is expanded or divided or occupied separately after
its original construction date in a manner that would have required separate
metering, the uses shall pay a separate utility bill for each separate
commercial use. Upon the approval of the Director of Public Works, with the
concurrence of the Town Administrator, a legitimate commercial office suite,
where restrooms and staff are to be shared by separate commercial enterprises,
may be metered as a single business.
   (E)   Service in environmentally sensitive areas.  Unless approved by the
town, sewer service shall not be permitted to any dwelling or commercial unit
which is located in environmentally sensitive areas, such as flood plains and
wetlands.
(1994 Code, § 52.50)  (Ord. passed 2-3-1982; Ord. passed 1-6-1998; Ord. 07-38,
passed 11-6-2007)
§ 52.051  CONNECTIONS TO BE MADE BY TOWN.
   The construction of a collection lateral from sewer main to property line,
with appurtenances for sewer source connections, and the necessary excavation
therefor, shall be done by the town or other licensed contractor with town
approval.
(1994 Code, § 52.51)  (Ord. passed 2-3-1982; Ord. 07-38, passed 11-6-2007)
§ 52.052  APPLICATIONS FOR CONNECTIONS.
   Every application for a sewer connection shall be made on a form prescribed
by the town, signed by the applicant, accompanied by the proper fee for making
the connections, and shall be filed with the town.
(1994 Code, § 52.52)  (Ord. passed 2-3-1982; Ord. 07-38, passed 11-6-2007)
§ 52.053  CONNECTION CHARGES.
   For the extension of sewer service pipe and tapping of main, the town will
charge fees as established by the Board of Aldermen.  A copy of current
connection fees shall be kept on file in the office of the Town Clerk.
(1994 Code, § 52.53)  (Ord. passed 2-3-1982; Ord. 07-38, passed 11-6-2007)
§ 52.054  SERVICE PIPE EXTENSIONS.
   No service pipe shall be allowed to run across lots,  that is, from one 
lot  to  another, but  it  must  be taken from the main in front of the
premises or from some point adjacent thereto, unless specific permission is
obtained from the Director of Public Works.  The Director shall have the power
to extend service pipe to a building not abutting a main.  All additional
expenses for the extensions shall be paid by the owner of the property.
(1994 Code, § 52.54)  (Ord. passed 2-3-1982; Ord. 07-38, passed 11-6-2007)
§ 52.055  CERTAIN DRAINS NOT TO BE CONNECTED.
   No gutter drains from roofs, surface drains and drains from swimming pools,
privately owned reservoirs and other places where water is collected or stored
shall be connected with, nor discharged into the domestic sewer lines of the
town, but shall be connected with and discharged into a storm sewer system
approved by the Board of Aldermen.
(1994 Code, § 52.55)  (Ord. passed 2-3-1982; Ord. 07-38, passed 11-6-2007)
GREASE INTERCEPTOR PROGRAM
§ 52.065  PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   This subchapter was created to regulate any water or waste containing
nonemulsified fats, wax, grease or oils, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing
substances which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32º and
150ºF from entering the town sewer collection system.
(Ord. 10-14, passed 9-7-2010)
§ 52.066  GREASE AND OIL INTERCEPTORS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Grease and oil interceptors shall be provided as stipulated in
division (D) below or when liquid wastes contain an excess of 100 mg/l of
grease or contain substances which may solidify or become viscous at
temperatures between 32ºF or 0ºC and 150ºF or 65ºC, except that such
interceptors shall not be required for single-family homes or multi-family
dwelling units unless problems occur at particular locations more than twice in
a 12-month period.
   (B)   Grease interceptors to be installed shall be in conformance with the
town specifications and the State Plumbing Code.  The required interceptor
shall be designed according to the most stringent of the above current
standards, and approval of the interceptor shall be determined by the town upon
review of the proposed facility and sized according to the requirements of the
town.  The interceptor shall be located so as to be readily and easily
accessible for cleaning and inspection.  Grease and oil interceptors shall be
cleaned on a regular basis as specified by the interceptor manufacturer based
on the size of the facility and type of food served, whichever is the most
stringent or as required by the town.
   (C)   Grease and oil interceptors shall be constructed of impervious
materials capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperatures. 
They shall be of substantial construction, watertight and equipped with easily
removable covers which, when bolted in place, shall be gastight and
watertight.  Each user shall provide protection against accidental discharge of
grease and oil.  Features which prevent accidental discharge of these materials
shall be provided and maintained at the user’s expense.  Facilities and
operating procedures to provide this protection shall be submitted to the town
for review and approval prior to the construction of the facility.  Review and
approval of these plans and operating procedures by the town shall not relieve
the user of the responsibility to modify his, her or its facility as necessary
to meet the requirements of this chapter.
   (D)   Grease and oil interceptors shall be required at all facilities which
provide food service and/or preparation activities, including but not limited
to full service restaurants, fast food establishments, delis, cafeterias
(including church and school facilities where commercial equipment is installed
and the square footage and/or frequency of use indicates more than occasional
use), meat distributors, food processing facilities, grocery stores with food
preparation/service areas, bakeries, caterers and/or other similar types of
operations.
   (E)   Grease and oil interceptors shall be cleaned on a regular basis that
will ensure proper and efficient operation but not less than one time within a
60-day period with a case-by-case cause for interceptors that can go longer
(determined by a site visit).  An approved internal or under-counter
interceptor shall be cleaned at least once a week.  Cleaning shall consist of
removal of the entire contents of the device, including grease cap and sludge
pocket, and inspection of the empty device for defects and/or obstructions
which would prevent proper function.  In any case, the frequency of cleaning
required by the town can be as often as needed to keep the system operating
properly.
   (F)   Written records shall be maintained by the user indicating maintenance
and cleaning of the grease interceptor.  The record shall indicate dates of
maintenance; person performing maintenance; estimated volume of grease removed;
receipts or manifest from haulers; disposal locations; and facility manager’s
verification.  The records shall be retained for a period of three years and
shall be available at the facility for inspection by the town.
(Ord. 10-14, passed 9-7-2010)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.067  VIOLATIONS.
   Any person of business found in violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter shall become liable to the town for any expense, loss or damage
occasioned by the town by reason of the violation.  The person shall also be
liable for repairing or restoring any sanitary sewer, storm sewer and natural
outlet damaged, obstructed or impaired by the violation to its pre-existing
condition.  In addition, if sampling is required to diagnose a grease related
problem, the cost of the sampling shall be paid by the applicant if found in
violation of this subchapter.  In addition, any person who violates any
provisions of this subchapter shall be subject to a civil fine by the Town
Administrator or his or her designee, as set forth in §
52.999. 
(Ord. 10-14, passed 9-7-2010)  Penalty, see §
52.999
CHARGES AND FEES
§ 52.080  METER READING; BILLING; COLLECTING.
   (A)   Meters will be read and bills rendered bimonthly, but the town may
vary dates or length of period covered, temporarily or permanently, if
necessary or desirable.
   (B)   Bills for water and sewer service will be figured in accordance with
the rate schedule then in effect and will be based on the amount consumed for
the period covered by the meter readings, but the amount payable for each
month’s service shall not be less than the minimum charge prescribed in the
schedule of rates.
   (C)   Charges for service commence when the meter is installed and
connection is made, whether used or not.  In the case of gravity sewer, service
is commenced when the service is installed and the structure has received a
certificate of occupancy.
   (D)   With the exception of irrigation meters in the discretion of the town,
readings from different meters will not be combined for billing, irrespective
of the fact that the meters may be for the same or different premises, or for
the same or different customers, or for the same or different services.
   (E)   Bills for water and sewer service are due when rendered and are
delinquent after 15 days.  In the event the bill for water service is not paid
in 25 days after it was rendered, a 10% penalty on the unpaid balance shall be
added and shall be paid by the customer.
   (F)   Delinquent notices will be mailed to the customer containing a cut-off
notice, and if not paid within 20 days of mailing, water service may be
discontinued.  Penalty may be removed once annually if customer has a good
payment history for most recent 12 months.
   (G)   Failure to receive bills mailed or notices shall not prevent the bills
from becoming delinquent nor relieve the customer from payment.
(1979 Code, § 5-1021)  (Ord. passed 2-15-1994; Ord. passed 4-5-1994; Ord. 07-
38, passed 11-6-2007)
§ 52.081  SCHEDULE OF CHARGES AND FEES.
   (A)   A schedule of charges and fees shall be adopted by the town which will
enable it to comply with the revenue requirements of the State Clean Water
Grant Program, Pub. Law No. 660 and Pub. Law No. 92-500 and the charges and
fees shall be determined in a manner consistent with the regulations of the
grant programs that have benefited the town and its industrial users.
   (B)   All users shall participate in the town user charge system provisions
as applicable, pursuant to Federal Regulation 40 C.F.R. §§ 35.925-11, 35.925-
12, 35.928 and Appendix B and as approved by the EPA.  All industries using the
town’s treatment works are subject to industrial waste surcharges on discharges
whose characteristics exceed the limits set out in §
52.085 for certain pollutants.
   (C)   The user charge system shall include sufficient revenue to pay for the
total operation and maintenance cost necessary to the proper operation of the
treatment works.
   (D)   All users shall be notified, annually, of the water  and sewer  rate 
and  the  portion  of  the  user charges which is attributable to wastewater
treatment services by adoption of the town’s budget.
(1994 Code, § 52.70)  (Ord. passed 2-3-1982; Ord. 07-38, passed 11-6-2007)
§ 52.082  SEWER RATES AND CHARGES.
   The rates and charges for water service shall be as established by the Board
of Aldermen, shall be due and payable bi-monthly or monthly as determined by
the town, and shall be collected in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.  A copy of the current rates and charges shall be kept on file at all
times in the office of the Town Clerk.  The town shall reserve the right to
charge user fees to individual customers within a defined area that benefit
from a sewer infrastructure improvement(s), including new or upgraded lift or
pump stations, line improvements and related improvements.  These user fees
shall be based on the total incurred cost for the improvements, including
construction, design and permitting costs, compared to the number of benefited
commercial and residential units and gallons per day made available by the
improvements.  The town further reserves the right to charge sewer transmission
recovery fees and sewer capital reserve fees for the use of the sewer system.
The fees may be charged in the case of transmission recovery fees at the master
plan or preliminary plat approval phase of a new project or, if the project is
already approved for a final plat at the time a new or increased fee is
charged, at the time of the issuance of a zoning compliance letter or
certificate of occupancy by the town or the county for each dwelling.
(Ord. 07-38, passed 11-6-2007)
§ 52.083  CLASSIFICATION OF USERS.
   All users are to be classified by the town either by assigning each one to a
user classification category according to the principal activity conducted on
the user’s premises, by individual user analysis, or by a combination thereof. 
The purpose of this collective and/or individual classification is to
facilitate the regulation of wastewater discharges based on wastewater
constituents and characteristics to provide an effective means of source
control, and to establish a system of charges and fees which will ensure an
equitable recovery of the town’s cost.
(1994 Code, § 52.71)  (Ord. passed 2-3-1982; Ord. 07-38, passed 11-6-2007)
§ 52.084  TYPES OF CHARGES AND FEES.
   The charges and fees are established in the town’s schedules of charges and
fees may include but not be limited to:
   (A)   User classification charges;
   (B)   Fees for extra monitoring; such as that which requires costs above the
average cost of assessing an average or representative analysis;
   (C)   Fees for permit applications;
   (D)   Appeal fees;
   (E)   Charges and fees based on wastewater constituents and characteristics,
to include industrial cost recovery provisions of the Federal Acts;
   (F)   Industrial waste surcharges;
   (G)   Industrial user charge payments;
   (H)   Replacement costs; and
   (I)   Sewer transmission recovery fees and capital reserve fees.
(1994 Code, § 52.72)  (Ord. passed 2-3-1982; Ord. 07-38, passed 11-6-2007)
Cross-reference:
   Capital reserve fees, see §
53.09
§ 52.085  BASIS FOR DETERMINATION OF SURCHARGES.
   (A)   Charges and fees shall be based upon a minimum  basic charge for each
premises, computed on the basis of wastewater from a domestic premises with the
following characteristics:
      (1)   BOD:  250 mg/l;
      (2)   TSS:  250 mg/l;
      (3)   Oil and grease:  40 mg/l; and
      (4)   Volume:  375 gallons per day per domestic premises.
   (B)   The charges and fees for all classifications of users other than the
domestic premises shall be based on the relative difference between the average
wastewater constituents and characteristics of that classification as related
to those of a domestic premises.
   (C)   The charges and fees established for permit users shall be based upon
the measured or estimated constituents and characteristics of the wastewater
discharge of that user which may include but not be limited to BOD, COD, oil
and grease, chlorine demand and volume.
(1994 Code, § 52.73)  (Ord. passed 2-3-1982; Ord. 07-38, passed 11-6-2007)
§ 52.086  METHOD OF DETERMINING CHARGE RATES.
   (A)   The Board of Aldermen will annually review the actual cost of
operation and maintenance of the town’s wastewater treatment plants and adjust
the surcharge rates to reflect the true cost of constituent treatment as
needed.  The adjustments if any, will become effective following the first day
of each new fiscal year.  The Board may review these rates and adjust them
accordingly at any time it deems adjustments are in the best interest of the
town.
   (B)   The Board does hereby set annual rates.  Copies are available through
town offices.
(1994 Code, § 52.75)  (Ord. passed 2-3-1982; Ord. 07-38, passed 11-6-2007)
§ 52.087  SAMPLING PROCEDURES AND ANALYSIS.
   The town may require sampling at any connections that it determines to be
necessary to ensure that no violation of discharge exists.  If a violation of
any nature is discovered, costs will be charged to the owner and/or account
holder and other remedies as provided in §
52.999.
(1994 Code, § 52.76)  (Ord. 07-38, passed 11-6-2007)
§ 52.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person (including any responsible officer or employee of a
corporate violator) who willfully or negligently violates any provisions of
this chapter, or falsifies any information or data in any application, report
or other document given to the town under this chapter, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor punishable by a fine per occurrence or imprisonment, or both, as
provided in G.S. § 14-4.
   (B)   Any person (including any corporation) who violates any provisions of
this chapter shall be subject to the imposition by the Board of Aldermen of a
civil penalty not to exceed $5,000 for each violation and, in addition, shall
reimburse the town upon demand for any expenses, loss or damage actually
sustained by the town to its sewer system, treatment plant, treatment processes
or receiving waters as a result of the violation, and for the amount of any
fine or penalty imposed upon the town by any state or federal regulatory agency
as a result of the violation.  A civil penalty shall be assessed only after the
town shall have given the alleged violator notice of contemplated Board action
and a hearing if requested.  If the offender fails to pay the civil penalty so
assessed within 15 days after written notice of final assessment thereof, then
the penalty may be recovered by the town in a civil action in the nature of
debt.
   (C)   (1)   Violation of any provisions of §§
52.065 through
52.067 is a Class 3 misdemeanor as provided in G.S. § 14-4 and is punishable
upon conviction by a fine not to exceed 30 days.
      (2)   The offender shall pay the civil penalty at the Town Hall within 72
hours following the receipt of the citation.  Each separate and distinct
offense shall be subject to a civil penalty as follows:
 
First offense           $50
Second offense          $100
Third offense           $250
Each successive offense $500
 
      (3)   This subchapter may also be enforced by an appropriate equitable
remedy issuing from a court of competent jurisdiction.  In this case, the
General Court of Justice shall have jurisdiction to issue such orders as may be
appropriate, and it shall not be a defense to the application of the town for
equitable relief that there is an adequate remedy at law.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1982; Ord. 07-38, passed 11-6-2007; Ord. 10-14, passed 9-7-
2010)
CHAPTER 53:  WATER AND SEWER EXTENSIONS; WATER SHORTAGE EMERGENCY PROVISIONS
Section
Water and Sewer Extensions
   
53.01   Application and approval
   
53.02   General extension requirements
   
53.03   Financing extensions
   
53.04   Water and sewer extensions outside corporate limits
   
53.05   Specification; ownership
   
53.06   Additional subdivision requirements
   
53.07   Water and sewer connections
   
53.08   Oversized line extensions
   
53.09   Capital reserve fees
Water Shortage Emergency Provisions
   
53.20   Introduction
   
53.21   Water emergency response and management
 
   
53.99   Penalty
WATER AND SEWER EXTENSIONS
§ 53.01  APPLICATION AND APPROVAL.
   (A)   Any property owner or owners desiring water or sanitary sewer service
shall apply in writing to the Board of Aldermen requesting the extension of
water or sanitary sewer service or both.  No request for the extension of
services shall be considered unless submitted in writing in accordance with the
requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   The applicant shall furnish to the town all surveys, plats, maps,
plans, designs, volumes, permits and approvals as may be required by the town,
so that the town may determine whether the requirements of this chapter have
been met.  All plans, specifications and permits shall also meet all
requirements of, and shall be submitted to, the appropriate state agencies.
   (C)   When application is made for a water or sewer extension or both to
serve an area or development that is planned as part of a larger development
project or subdivision, all of which is not to be developed at the time
application is made, the owner or owners shall submit plans in sufficient
detail in order to determine the size and type facilities which will be
necessary to serve the entire development or subdivision when completed.
   (D)   Subject to the amount of capacity available, the  town may require
water or sewer extensions to be installed in phases in order to protect the
town from over-extending water/sewer.
   (E)   No extension to the water or sanitary sewer system of the town shall
be made and no application shall be approved except in accordance with the
requirements of this chapter, and no work shall commence on the water/sewer
projects before a state permit is obtained by or on behalf of the developer or
property owner.
(Ord. passed 8-15-1990; Ord. passed 2-1-1994; Ord. 07-38, passed 11-6-2007) 
Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.02  GENERAL EXTENSION REQUIREMENTS.
   All extensions of either water or sanitary sewer service shall be governed
by the following.
   (A)   The minimum distance for any extension of water main or sanitary sewer
main shall be determined by the Director of Public Works with approval from the
Town Administrator.  In general, the minimum distance for extensions shall be
one block.
   (B)   The size of water mains and sanitary sewer mains to be installed and
the other required system facilities shall be determined by the Board of
Aldermen in accordance with the recognized standards and accepted engineering
practices and design and in accordance with applicable system plans adopted by
the Board of Aldermen.
   (C)   All plans for water line improvements shall provide for fire
hydrants.  Hydrants shall be at intervals of not more than 800 feet, such that
any existing structure within 300 feet of the water main will be within 400
feet of a hydrant.
   (D)   After water lines/mains and fire hydrants and/or sewer lines/mains
have been constructed, the applicant/developer must submit an engineer’s
certificate that the water lines/mains and fire hydrants and/or sewer lines/
mains have been constructed in accordance with the specifications required by
the town, together with as-built Mylar plans and a digital Autocad file of the
water lines/mains and fire hydrants and/or sewer lines/mains.  Applicant/
developer shall submit to the town the actual cost of materials and labor for
any new installations before the lines may be approved for use.  After the same
have been tested  and properly dedicated to the town, the town shall own and
operate the lines/mains and fire hydrants.
(Ord. passed 8-15-1990; Ord. 07-38, passed 11-6-2007)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.03  FINANCING EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   Extensions to approved subdivision or developed property.
      (1)   (a)   When application is received requesting the extension of
water or sanitary sewer service or both to serve property within the corporate
limits which is developed or has been previously approved as a subdivision, or
where streets have previously been dedicated and accepted by the town, and
where the area is not part of a new subdivision which has not been approved by
the town, the Town Engineer or Director of Public Works shall estimate the cost
of the project and present the application for the extension, the estimated
cost and other required information to the Board for approval.  Developers may
pursue installment of water and sewer lines and related infrastructure as set
forth in the town’s UDO Art. 28 under a bond or letter of credit.  Any such
development activity shall first be approved by the town, upon consultation
with the Town Engineer, and shall commence only upon obtaining the requisite
state permits.  Failure to obtain the requisite state permits shall be a
violation of this section and subject the developer and/or property owner to
the penalties and fines set forth in §
53.99.
         (b)   If the application is approved by the Board of Aldermen, the
town may install or have installed by contract under its supervision the
extensions which have been approved, and the extension shall be financed in
accordance with division (A)(1) of this section.  Unless otherwise directed by
the Board of Aldermen, all extensions shall be funded by the property owner or
developer of an area or parcel of land.  The town also may use the assessment
process to fund utility extensions.
      (2)   When an approved water or sanitary sewer extension project has been
completed and the total cost thereof has been determined, 100% of the total
cost of the water or sanitary sewer extension or both may be assessed against
the property owners whose property abuts upon the extension at an equal rate
per front foot or per lot basis or per gallon of anticipated flow in accordance
with and under the authority granted to the town by G.S. § 160A-216.
      (3)   Any property owner or owners shall have the opportunity to pay his,
her or their proportionate share of the cost of the extensions after the
assessment roll is confirmed, rather than paying his, her or their share in
equal annual installments with interest as required by the statute.
      (4)   Applicants must make any and all required payments to town,
including without limitation capital reserve fees and acreage fees, as required
by ordinance or policy.
   (B)   Extension to proposed developments or subdivisions.
      (1)   Prior to the beginning of any construction, the property owner or
owners shall advance to the town funds in an amount equal to 100% of the total
estimated cost of the proposed extensions or enter a reimbursement agreement as
set forth below in division (E).  Upon receipt of the funds, a written contract
shall be entered into by and between the town and the property owner or owners,
under which the town will use the funds upon the following terms and
conditions:
         (a)   The funds shall be deposited in a special account of the town,
for which a separate accounting will be made;
         (b)   At the time construction of the extension is completed and the
total cost thereof determined, if the amount deposited exceeds 100% of the
total cost, the portion in excess of the amount deposited will be refunded to
the owner or owners without interest.  If the amount deposited is less than
100% of the total cost, the owner or owners shall pay the additional amount to
the town and this condition shall be a part of the written contract.  A
reimbursement agreement as set forth in division (E) below may be entered to
address these concerns;
         (c)   In lieu of depositing the required funds, the owner or owners
may provide a surety bond or some other form of security that will ensure
payment to the town the cost of extension in accordance with this chapter; and
         (d)   No refund or reimbursement of funds shall be made to the owner
or owners who pay 100% of the total cost extension under the requirements of
this division (B)(1)(d) except as provided for in division (B)(1)(b) above or
as set forth in a valid reimbursement agreement as set forth in division (E)
below.
      (2)   Applicants must make any and all required payments to the town,
including without limitation capital reserve fees and acreage fees, as required
by ordinance or policy.
   (C)   Facilities excluded in determining owner’s share of cost.
      (1)   When the town determines that it is advisable to install larger
size facilities than are necessary to serve the property requesting the
extension, the difference in the cost of the larger size facilities over the
cost the facilities required to serve the property requesting the extension
shall be paid for by the town as provided for herein.
      (2)   Fire hydrants, pumping stations and other system facilities
installed for general public use which are expressly identified in the
application or agreement approved by the Board of Aldermen shall be paid for by
the town and excluded from the total cost to be shared by the property owner or
owners as provided for herein.
   (D)   Exceptions authorized.  Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the
Board of Aldermen from extending water or sanitary sewer mains or both within
the corporate limits on their own motion without receipt of an application from
property owners and to assess the cost of the extensions in accordance with
division (A) of this section when, in the opinion of the Board of Aldermen the
general public interest demands the extension of service.
   (E)   Reimbursement agreements.  Reimbursement agreements for developers
requesting to extend sewer collection/transmission or water distribution mains
to be connected to the town’s sewer or water system may be approved by the
Board of Aldermen.  A developer or developers of land within the prescribed
distance of a town sewer/wastewater collection system or water distribution
system outlined in Chapter 54, Appendix 1 shall be responsible for all
engineering and construction costs associated with the collection/transmission/
distribution line(s) installation from the development site to the closest
point of connection to the town’s system(s).  The closest point of connection
to the town’s system shall be determined by the Director of Public Works.  Upon
completion of construction of the line in accordance with the town’s
specifications or requirements, the line(s) shall be dedicated to the town for
operation and maintenance. In order to qualify for reimbursement, the proposed
line(s) size must allow sufficient capacity for additional users, and this
determination shall be made in the sole discretion of the Board of Aldermen in
approving or not approving the subsequent reimbursement application and
contract.  The developer, or a coalition of developers, that incurs the costs
for the construction of the collection/ transmission/distribution line(s) shall
be eligible for reimbursement up to but not exceeding 100% of the costs
associated with construction of the line(s) for a period of six years in the
following manner.
      (1)   The town’s minimum standard pipe size for sewer transmission lines
shall be six inches for pressure systems and eight inches for gravity systems.
The town’s minimum standard pipe size for water distribution lines shall be six
inches.  Whenever the town’s minimum requirement for a six-inch transmission or
distribution line exceeds the size line required to serve the applicant’s
specific property, the applicant/developer shall construct the size line
designated on the town’s Wastewater Master Plan.  In cases in which a sewer
transmission or water distribution line is not designated on the Master Plan,
the size shall be determined by an engineering study prepared by the developer,
or as required and approved by the Director of Public Works or Town
Administrator.  When sound engineering demonstrates the proposed new
development(s) or project(s) requires a sewer transmission or water
distribution line greater than six inches (nominal diameter), then that size
becomes the minimum pipe size by which the agreement is based unless a larger
size is required by the Director of Public Works or Town Administrator.
      (2)   The developer’s engineer shall designate on the development
engineering plans the sewer collection/transmission and/or water distribution
line to be constructed through the reimbursement policy.
      (3)   All collection/transmission/distribution line reimbursement
agreements must be submitted to and approved by the Board of Aldermen prior to
the construction of the improvements.  To initiate a collection/transmission/
distribution line reimbursement agreement, the Developer shall complete the
Application for Sewer Transmission/Water Distribution Line Agreement form
(Chapter 54, Appendix 2).
      (4)   The developer or his or her designee shall comply with all
applicable provisions of state law regulating public contracts.  Primarily,
this includes G.S. § 143-129 “Formal Bidding Procedure” or G.S. § 143-131
“Informal Bidding Procedure,” whichever shall apply, based upon the total cost
of the sewer transmission or water distribution line(s) and support systems
constructed as part of a reimbursement agreement.
      (5)   The bid shall include unit prices for the actual line size to be
constructed as a part of the reimbursement.  The developer or his or her
designee shall provide copies of all bid proposals received, a copy of the
executed contract between the developer and the selected contractor, and a bid
tabulation which is signed and sealed by a professional engineer registered in
the state certifying the bids received and the award of the contract in
accordance with this policy.  The Director of Public Works and/or the Town
Administrator will determine if the bid is reasonable and acceptable.
      (6)   The selected contractor shall be properly licensed and qualified to
perform the sewer or water line construction.  The Director of Public Works or
the Town Administrator, upon review by the Town Engineer, will determine if the
bid/contractor is reasonable and acceptable.
      (7)   The developer or his or her designee shall submit an Application
for Sewer Transmission/Water Distribution Line Reimbursement (Chapter 54,
Appendix 3), including the construction quantities.  The application shall be
signed and sealed by a professional engineer registered in the state and shall
designate to whom the reimbursement should be payable including the applicable
address.
      (8)   The developer or his or her designee shall provide a certified tax
statement from the contractor for the sewer transmission or water distribution
line as part of the reimbursement request.
      (9)   The application for reimbursement shall be submitted to the Town
Engineer for review prior to being approved by the Board of Aldermen.
      (10)   All sewer transmission and water distribution lines extended under
the provisions of this policy shall be installed and constructed in accordance
with the approved plans, specifications and other requirements of the town. 
Upon completion of the construction of sewer collection line and/or water main
and all support systems, by the developer and acceptance of the sewer
collection line or water main by the town, the sewer collection line and/or
water main and all support systems shall become the property of the town.  The
town may specify that it does not accept dedication of any portions of any
submitted sewer or water lines or systems.
      (11)   The maximum term of the reimbursement contract shall not exceed
six years from the date of the agreement.  No reimbursement shall be made after
the six-year term or after the developer or coalition of developers has
recovered all eligible reimbursement cost of the sewer transmission and water
distribution line extension, whichever occurs first. The term of any
reimbursement agreement shall run from the execution of the agreement by all
parties until the town’s obligation for reimbursement has been met or as set
forth in the agreement but not to exceed six years.  The agreement may be
terminated (at any time) by unanimous consent of all parties (see Chapter 54,
Appendix 4).
      (12)   Costs eligible for reimbursement under this policy shall include
the construction of all off-site sewer transmission and water distribution
lines of a regional nature as determined by the Public Works Director and/or
the Town Administrator.  No costs associated with engineering design,
permitting, bidding or construction oversight shall be eligible for
reimbursement.
      (13)   All reimbursement agreements shall be two-party agreements between
the town and a developer or coalition of developers and shall be approved by
the Board of Aldermen prior to construction of the wastewater or water
facilities (see Chapter 54, Appendix 4).
      (14)   The town has established a Water/Sewer Transmission Capital
Recovery Fee charged per unit, residential or commercial.  The Water/Sewer
Transmission Capital Recovery Fee may be amended from time to time by the Board
of Aldermen.  This fee shall be collected by the town from developers or owners
that connect to a sewer transmission or water distribution line constructed by
another developer or a transmission line constructed by the town.  The Water/
Sewer Transmission Capital Recovery Fee must be paid by the developer or
property owner at the time of application for sewer service permitting or at
the time of plat approval by the town and shall be based on fees determined
from time to time by the Board of Aldermen.  This fund shall be used as the
sole source of reimbursement on an annual basis by the town to developers under
an approved reimbursement agreement. The reimbursement agreement shall identify
the areas of line that will be eligible for reimbursement to the developer(s)
who installed the line(s).
      (15)   The town shall maintain application forms, and model contracts for
use in reimbursement agreements.  These forms and contracts may be modified to
meet each and every situation as needed.
(Ord. passed 8-15-1990; Ord. 07-38, passed 11-6-2007)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.04  WATER AND SEWER EXTENSIONS OUTSIDE CORPORATE LIMITS.
   (A)   Only water service by the town may be extended beyond the corporate
limits of the town.
   (B)   All application for water extensions outside the corporate limits
shall be made in the same manner and under the same requirements as provided
for in §§  53.01 and 53.02 of this chapter.
   (C)   If an application is approved by the Board of Aldermen, the owner or
owners shall be required to pay 100% of the total cost of all extensions. 
Provided, the town may participate to the extent agreed upon by the Board of
Aldermen in the cost of larger size mains that are in excess of the size mains
required to serve the project.  No reimbursement shall be made upon annexation
and all water lines connected to the town system and located outside the
corporate limits shall become the property of the town at the time the
facilities are connected.
   (D)   Prior to the beginning of any construction, the owner or owners shall
deposit with the town funds in an amount equal to 100% of the total estimated
cost of the extensions.  Upon receipt of these funds, a written contract shall
be entered into by and between the town and the property owner or owners in
accordance with the requirements of this chapter.  The contract shall provide
that in the event the funds deposited exceed the amount of the total extension
cost when completed, then the portion in excess of the total cost will be
refunded to the owner or owners without interest.  The contract shall also
provide that if the amount deposited is less than the total cost, when
completed, the owner or owners shall pay the additional amount to the town.
   (E)   In lieu of depositing funds, the owner or owners may execute a surety
bond guaranteeing payment for the extension, or the owner or owners may have
the extension work performed under private contract with the approval of the
Board of Aldermen, provided the work is to be performed in accordance with all
construction requirements of the town and subject to inspection and approval of
the town.
   (F)   Applicants must take any and all required payments to the town,
including without limitation, capital reserve fees, transmission recovery fees,
tap fees, assessments or special fees as required by ordinance or policy.
(Ord. passed 8-15-1990; Ord. passed 5-1-1991; Ord. 07-38, passed 11-6-2007)
§ 53.05  SPECIFICATION; OWNERSHIP.
   Any water mains or sanitary sewer mains extended under the provisions of
this chapter shall be installed and constructed in accordance with the approved
plans, specifications and other requirement of the town.  All facilities
installed under the provisions of this chapter, whether within or outside the
corporate limits, shall become the sole property of the town and under its
jurisdiction and control for any and all purposes whatsoever at the time the
facilities are connected to the town system.  When required the property owner
or owners shall grant to the town such utility easements as the town may
require.  In addition, a deed to the town for water and/or sewer facilities
installed which are located outside the corporate limits, the cost of which is
borne by  individual  property owners, shall be executed prior to the time any
extensions provided for in this chapter are connected to the town systems. 
Applicant/developer shall submit to the town the actual cost of materials and
labor for any new installations before the lines may be approved for use.
(Ord. passed 8-15-1990; Ord. 07-38, passed 11-6-2007)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.06  ADDITIONAL SUBDIVISION REQUIREMENTS.
   The Board of Aldermen may in its discretion, as a condition under which
water or sewer service or both will be extended, require the owner or owners of
a proposed subdivision to enter into an agreement to improve the proposed
streets therein at their own expense and in accordance with the ordinance then
in force governing the acceptance of public streets for the town.  If required,
this section shall apply to subdivisions which are located either within or
outside the corporate limits of the town.
(Ord. passed 8-15-1990; Ord. 07-38, passed 11-6-2007)
§ 53.07  WATER AND SEWER CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   If town water and/or sewer systems are available in areas outside of
town limits, the following tap fees, rates, deposits and service charges shall
apply to applicants for service.
   (B)   The water and sewer tap fees outside the corporate limits shall be one
and one-half times the current fees inside the corporate limits.
   (C)   Unless specifically approved by the town, the water and sewer rates
and capital reserve fees outside the corporate limits of the town shall be
double the water and sewer rates and capital reserve fees inside the corporate
limits of the town.
   (D)   The town shall reserve the right to charge user fees to individual
customers within a defined area that benefit from a water/sewer infrastructure
improvement(s), including new or upgraded lift or pump stations, line
improvements and related improvements.  The user fees shall be based on the
total incurred cost for the improvements, including construction, design and
permitting costs, compared to the number of benefited commercial and
residential units and gallons per day made available by the improvements. The
town further reserves the right to charge water/sewer transmission recovery
fees and water/sewer capital reserve fees for the use of the water/sewer
systems.  The fees may be charged in the case of transmission recovery fees at
the Master Plan or preliminary plat approval phase of a new project or, if the
project is already approved for a final plat at the time a new or increased fee
is charged, at the time of the issuance of a zoning compliance letter or
certificate of occupancy by the town or the county for each dwelling.
(Ord. passed 8-15-1990; Ord. passed 7-7-1992; Ord. 07-38, passed 11-6-2007)
§ 53.08  OVERSIZED LINE EXTENSIONS.
   If the town participates in the construction cost of an oversized line, the
costs to the town for the improvements may be assessed against the property
abutting the street on which the improvement is  proposed to be made or,
alternatively, the costs for the improvements shall be paid from revenues
derived by the town from its water and sewer services or fees.
(Ord. passed 8-15-1990; Ord. 07-38, passed 11-6-2007)
§ 53.09  CAPITAL RESERVE FEES.
   (A)   In addition to all other charges prescribed by ordinance or resolution
now or hereafter in effect, prior to the issuance of a zoning compliance form,
there shall be a capital reserve fee due for tapping onto the town’s water or
sewer system, or upon any other action that causes an increased impact to the
town’s collection or distribution systems.
   (B)   The town’s capital reserve fees may be adjusted from time to time by
the Board of Aldermen to reflect changes in the cost of upgrading the town’s
distribution and collection systems and shall be calculated based on the
capital reserve fee schedule currently adopted by the Board of Aldermen.
Revenues realized with these fees shall be utilized for Enterprise Fund Capital
Reserves.
   (C)   When the property is located outside the corporate limits of the town,
the capital reserve fees shall be double those fees currently adopted by the
Board of Aldermen for properties located within the corporate limits of the
town.
(Ord. eff. 9-19-2000)
WATER SHORTAGE EMERGENCY PROVISIONS
§ 53.20  INTRODUCTION.
   The town’s Public Works Department, henceforth referred to as the
“Department,” and the Board of Town Aldermen, henceforth referred to as the
“Aldermen or Board,” shall have the charge to protect the town’s public water
supply and to ensure that the benefactors of this system are assured an
adequate supply of water even in times of water shortage. Water shortage can be
the result of climatic conditions causing drought or it may be the result of a
physical breach in the town’s water supply system (i.e., mechanical failure,
cut or broken water main and the like) impeding the flow of potable or raw
water supply.
(Ord. 07-38, passed 11-6-2007)
§ 53.21  WATER EMERGENCY RESPONSE AND MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   Declaration of water emergency.  The Town Board of Aldermen or its
authorized representative is authorized to declare that a water emergency
exists. Depending on the severity of the emergency, voluntary (Stage 1) and
mandatory (Stage 2 and Stage 3) staged water use restrictions as described in
this subchapter shall be imposed upon all water customers.
   (B)   Staged water use restrictions.
      (1)   Stage 1 - Water Conservation Alert.  A Stage 1 water shortage
emergency may be declared in the event of an immediate water shortage, as so
declared by state and/or local officials, or when there are three consecutive
days when water demand exceeds 80% of the water production capacity.  WATER
PRODUCTION CAPACITY shall be defined as the maximum volume of water that meets
or exceeds state and federal standards that the water treatment process can
produce for the town during a 24-hour period.  Water production capacity can
vary depending on system component reliability and/or raw water conditions. 
During a declared Stage I water shortage emergency the following voluntary
water conservation practices shall be encouraged:
         (a)   Inspect and repair all faulty and defective parts of faucets and
toilets;
         (b)   Use shower for bathing rather than bathtub and limit shower to
no more than five minutes;
         (c)   Do not leave faucets running while shaving, brushing teeth,
rinsing or preparing food;
         (d)   Limit the use of clothes washers and dishwashers and when used,
operate fully loaded. Operate dishwashers after the peak demand hours of 6:00
p.m. to 10:00 p.m.;
         (e)   Limit lawn watering to that necessary for plant survival. Water
lawns before the peak demand hours of 6:00 a.m. to 10:00 a.m.;
         (f)   Water shrubbery the minimum required. Water shrubbery before the
peak demand hours of 6:00 a.m. to 10:00 a.m.;
         (g)   Limit vehicle washing to a minimum;
         (h)   Do not wash down outside areas such as sidewalks, driveways,
patios and the like;
         (i)   Install water-saving showerheads and other water conservation
devices;
         (j)   Use disposable and biodegradable dishes where possible;
         (k)   Install water-saving devices in toilets such as early closing
flappers;
         (l)   Limit hours of water-cooled air conditioners; and
         (m)   Do not fill swimming or wading pools.
      (2)   Stage 2 - Water Shortage Warning.  A Stage 2 water shortage
emergency may be declared in the event of an immediate water shortage, as so
declared by state and/or local officials, or when there are two consecutive
days when water demand exceeds 90% of the water production capacity.  Water
production capacity shall be defined as the maximum volume of water that meets
or exceeds state and federal standards that the water treatment process can
produce for the town during a 24-hour period.  Water production capacity can
vary depending on system component reliability and/or raw water conditions. 
During a declared Stage 2 water shortage emergency the following activities
shall be prohibited:
         (a)   Watering lawns, grass, shrubbery, trees, flower and vegetable
gardens except by hand-held hoses, container or drip irrigation system. A
person who regularly sells plants will be permitted to use water on his or her
commercial stock.  A golf course may water its greens.  State and town licensed
landscape contractors may water any plants by hand-held hose or drip irrigation
under a written warranty;
         (b)   Filling swimming or wading pools, either newly constructed or
previously drained. Make up water for pools in operation will be allowed;
         (c)   Using water-cooled air conditioners or other equipment, in which
cooling water is not recycled, unless there are health or safety concerns;
         (d)   Washing any type of mobile equipment including cars, trucks,
trailers, boats or airplanes. Any persons involved in a business of washing
motor vehicles may continue to operate;
         (e)   Washing outside surfaces such as streets, driveways, service
station aprons, parking lots or patios;
         (f)   Washing the exterior of office buildings, homes or apartments;
         (g)   Using water for any ornamental fountain, pool, pond and the
like, unless recycled;
         (h)   Serving drinking water in food establishments such as
restaurants or cafeterias, unless requested to do so by a customer;
         (i)   Using water from a public or private fire hydrant for any reason
other than to suppress a fire or other public emergency or as authorized by the
Director of Public Works or his or her authorized representative;
         (j)   Using water to control or compact dust;
         (k)   Intentionally wasting water;
         (l)   Commercial and industrial water customers shall achieve
mandatory reductions in water usage through whatever means are available.  A
minimum reduction of 20% shall be the target; however, a greater target
reduction percentage may be required depending on the severity of the water
shortage emergency.  Compliance with the reduction target shall be determined
by the Director of Public Works or his or her authorized representative.
Variances to the target reduction may be granted by the Director or his or her
authorized representative to designated public health facilities; and
         (m)   The town may require each water-dependent business or commercial
enterprise to obtain a special license to operate during a Stage 2 water event.
      (3)   Stage 3  - Water Shortage Danger.  A Stage 3 water shortage
emergency may be declared in the event of an immediate water shortage, as so
declared by state and/or local officials, or when there is one day when water
demand exceeds 100% of the water production capacity.  Water production
capacity shall be defined as the maximum volume of water that meets or exceeds
state and federal standards that the water treatment process can produce for
the town during a 24-hour period.  Water production capacity can vary depending
on system component reliability and/or raw water conditions.  During a declared
Stage 3 water shortage emergency, the following activities shall be prohibited,
in addition to activities prohibited under Stage 2:
         (a)   Watering lawns, grass, shrubbery, trees and flowers;
         (b)   Washing motor vehicles at commercial car wash establishments;
         (c)   Watering any vegetable garden except by hand-held hose,
container or drip irrigation;
         (d)   Commercial and industrial water customers shall achieve
mandatory reductions in water usage through whatever means are available.  A
minimum reduction of 50% shall be the target;  however, a greater target
reduction percentage may be required depending on the severity of the water
emergency.  Compliance with the reduction target shall be determined by the
Director or his or her authorized representative.  Variances to the target
reduction may be granted by the Director or his or her authorized
representative to designated public health facilities;
         (e)   In the event that the prohibition of the activities listed above
is not sufficient to maintain an adequate supply of water for fire protection,
all use of water for purposes other than maintenance of public health and
safety shall be prohibited.  Residential water use shall be limited to the
amount necessary to sustain life through drinking, food preparation and
personal hygiene; and
         (f)   The town may require each water-dependent business or commercial
enterprise to obtain a special license to operate during a Stage 3 water event.
   (C)   Compliance plan during Stage 2 and Stage 3 emergencies.  The
Administrator, Director or an authorized representative may require that
commercial and industrial water customers prepare plans detailing measures to
be taken by them to achieve mandatory reductions in daily water usage during
Stage 2 and Stage 3 emergencies.  The plans shall be completed within 60
calendar days after receipt of notice to prepare them.
   (D)   Authority to discontinue service.  Pursuant to the provisions of G.S.
§ 160A-175, water service may be temporarily discontinued for failure to comply
with the mandatory restrictions in this subchapter.  All applicable penalty
fees may be applied in the event of such service suspensions.  In the event of
continued noncompliance with this subchapter, removal of meter and service will
be deemed proper and service will be discontinued and tap fees and account
deposits shall be forfeited.
   (E)   Appeals by customers of penalties and termination of service.  Any
user who receives a penalty and/or has service terminated as a result of
violations of the mandatory restrictions in this subchapter may appeal upon
notification to the Administrator.  The Administrator shall be the final
decision maker for appeals and shall transmit a written copy of the final
decision by registered or certified mail within three days after notification.
   (F)   Adoption and enforcement of this subchapter by public or private water
system.  Unless enforcement will breach previous agreement, public or private
water systems purchasing water from the town shall adopt and enforce this
entire subchapter as a condition of water service.  Upon declaration of a water
shortage emergency, the public or private water systems shall enforce the
appropriate water use restrictions for the level of declared emergency.
   (G)   Termination of restrictions.  A water emergency declaration will
expire when the Board of Aldermen or its authorized representative determines
that the condition that causes the emergency has abated.  The expiration or
cancellation of a water shortage emergency declaration shall be promptly and
extensively publicized.
(Ord. 07-38, passed 11-6-2007)
§ 53.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person (including any responsible officer or employee of a
corporate violator) who willfully or negligently violates any provisions of
this chapter, or falsifies any information or data in any application, report
or other document given to the town under this chapter, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor punishable by a fine per occurrence or imprisonment, or both, as
provided in G.S. § 14-4.
   (B)   Any person (including any corporation) who violates any provisions of
this chapter shall be subject to the imposition by the Board of Aldermen of a
civil penalty not to exceed $5,000 for each violation, and, in addition, shall
reimburse the town upon demand for any expenses, loss or damage actually
sustained by the town to its sewer system, treatment plant, treatment processes
or receiving waters as a result of the violation, and for the amount of any
fine or penalty imposed upon the town by any state or federal regulatory agency
as a result of the violation.  A civil penalty shall be assessed only after the
town shall have given the alleged violator notice of contemplated Board action
and a hearing if requested. If the offender fails to pay the civil penalty so
assessed within 15 days after written notice of final assessment thereof, then
the penalty may be recovered by the town in a civil action in the nature of
debt.
   (C)   Penalties for violation of mandatory restrictions.  Any user who is
found to have failed to comply with any of the mandatory restrictions set forth
in these regulations may be fined in accordance with G.S. § 160A-175(c) with a
civil penalty of $1,000, to be recovered by the town in a civil action in the
nature of debt if the offender does not pay the penalty within 15 days of being
cited for the violation Each day’s continuing violation is a separate and
distinct offense.
(Ord. passed 8-15-1990; Ord. 07-38, passed 11-6-2007)
CHAPTER 54:  APPENDICES
Section
   
Appendix 1   Master Utility Plan
   
Appendix 2   Application for Sewer Transmission/Water Distribution Line
Agreement
   
Appendix 3   Application for Sewer Transmission/Water Distribution Line
Reimbursement
   
Appendix 4   Sewer Transmission/Water Distribution Reimbursement Agreement
APPENDIX 1
MASTER UTILITY PLAN
See Town of Shallotte Master Utility Plan.
If a proposed utility line extension is not included on the town’s Master
Utility Plan, then applicant should consult with the town’s Public Utility
Director.
Minimum Line Sizes:
   Sewer:
 
 Six inches for pressure sewer*
 Eight inches for gravity sewer*
 * All line sizes will be approved by the town and larger lines may be
 required.
 
      Developer/applicant is required to provide all supporting sewer
infrastructure.
   Water:
 
 Six inches*
 *All line sizes will be approved by the town and larger lines may be required.
 
      Developer/applicant is required to provide all supporting water
infrastructure.
(Ord. 07-38, passed 11-6-2007)
APPENDIX 2
TOWN OF SHALLOTTE APPLICATION FOR SEWER TRANSMISSION/WATER DISTRIBUTION LINE
AGREEMENT
   (Please print or type)
The undersigned hereby applies for a Sewer Transmission/Water Distribution Line
Agreement with the Town of Shallotte. The Sewer Transmission/Water Distribution
Line Reimbursement is for the construction of an approved sewer transmission
and/or water distribution line to serve the subject project. The transmission/
distribution line(s) must be designated on the Master Wastewater Plan or
approved by the Public Works Director during plan approval. The following
information is required prior to processing the application and drafting an
Agreement to be presented to the Board of Aldermen.
Size of transmission/distribution line(s) installed:
__________________________________________________
Total acreage to be developed:
_________________________________________________________________
Size of utility required to serve project:
____________________________________________________________
Total number of residential equivalent units included in project:
________________________________________
Project Name:
______________________________________________________________________________
Location:
__________________________________________________________________________________
Date of Town Approval of Project:
_____________________________________________________________
Developer/Owner:
___________________________________________________________________________
               (Name of Person designated to receive reimbursement payment)
Company Name, Address*:
____________________________________________________________________
City, State, Zip:
_____________________________________________________________________________
Phone Number:  (    ) _________________________  Fax Number (    )
_______________________________
Project Consultant/Engineer:
___________________________________________________________________
Contact Person Phone Number: (    )
____________________________________________________________
* Note:   This address will be used for all correspondence and payments It is
the responsibility of the owner to notify the Town of Shallotte of any changes.
(Ord. 07-38, passed 11-6-2007)
APPENDIX 3
TOWN OF SHALLOTTE
APPLICATION FOR SEWER TRANSMISSION/WATER DISTRIBUTION LINE REIMBURSEMENT
   (Please print or type)
The undersigned hereby applies for a Sewer Transmission/Water Distribution Line
Reimbursement with the Town of Shallotte. The Sewer Transmission/Water
Distribution Line Reimbursement is for the construction of an approved sewer
transmission/water distribution line to serve the subject project. The
collection/transmission/distribution line(s) must be designated on the Master
Wastewater/Water Plan or approved by the Public Works Director during plan
approval. The following information is required prior to processing the
reimbursement request.
Size of transmission line installed:
_________________________________________________________________
Size of utility required to serve project:
____________________________________________________________
Project: 
_____________________________________________________________________________________
Location:
____________________________________________________________________________________
Date of Town Approval of Project:
________________________________________________________________
Developer/Owner: 
__________________________________________________________________________
               (Name of Person designated to receive reimbursement payment)
Company Name, Address*:
____________________________________________________________________
City, State, Zip:
_____________________________________________________________________________
Phone Number:  (    ) _________________________  Fax Number (  )
_______________________________
Has the project been publicly bid in accordance with North Carolina G.S. § 143-
129 or G.S. § 143-131? Yes/No
If no, when do you anticipate accepting public bids? 
_______________________________________________
Project Consultant/Engineer: 
__________________________________________________________________
Contact Person Phone Number: (    ) 
____________________________________________________________
*Note:   This address will be used for all correspondence and payments. It is
the responsibility of the owner to notify the Town of Shallotte of any changes.
The following information must be submitted with this application in order to
receive approval of this reimbursement. If the answer to any of the following
questions is “NO,” the request is incomplete and will not be processed.
   1.   Has the project been accepted for maintenance by the Town of Shallotte?
________
   2.   Has an estimate of eligible reimbursable costs with linear footage of
utility, number of valves and linear footage of bore and jack, signed and
sealed by a professional engineer registered in the State of North Carolina
been submitted with this application?  ________
   3.   Has documentation of public bid including certified bid tab statement
by a professional engineer or architect registered in the State of North
Carolina been submitted with this application? ________
   4.   Has a copy of the executed contract between the Developer and the
selected contractor been submitted with this application?  ________
   5.   Has a Certified Sales Tax Statement from the contractor for the
materials used as a part of the reimbursement been submitted with this
application?  ________
   6.   Has a copy of the final payment to the contractor, including final
invoice, been submitted with this application? ________
   7.   Has  a copy of acceptance/approval  by  NCDENR  been  submitted with
this application?  ________
I acknowledge that the above information is accurate.  I also recognize that,
dependent upon the amount of the reimbursement request as well as the number of
other reimbursement requests received by the Town of Shallotte during the
fiscal year, the reimbursement shall be paid over multiple years up to a
maximum of six (6) years and may NOT fully reimburse the applicant for all
construction costs.
By: ___________________________________________________________________
      (Print Name)
Signature: ______________________________________________________________
      (Developer/Owner)
Date: __________________________________________________________________
   ************************************************************************************
   TOWN OF SHALLOTTE STAFF USE ONLY
Approved by: ____________________________________________________________
Date: ___________________________________________________________________
Comments:
(Ord. 07-38, passed 11-6-2007)
APPENDIX 4
BRUNSWICK COUNTY NORTH CAROLINA
SEWER TRANSMISSION/WATER DISTRIBUTION REIMBURSEMENT AGREEMENT
   THIS AGREEMENT is made effective as of _________________________, 20________
by and between
the Town of Shallotte (hereinafter referred to as the “Town”)
and___________________________________, a
North Carolina Corporation (hereinafter referred to as the “Developer”) to
provide reimbursement for developer costs associated with construction of a
sewer transmission/water distribution line(s) on________________Road in
Shallotte, Brunswick County, North Carolina.
   WITNESSETH:
      WHEREAS; the Town provides wastewater collection, transmission and
treatment services and water distribution on a regional basis within the Town
and certain parts of the County; and
      WHEREAS; the Town is in the process of extending a transmission,
collection, and distribution systems and will continue to do so through its
Capital Improvement Program; and
      WHEREAS; if a developer desires to develop a tract of land within the
Town or near the Town that does not have immediate access to the Town’s sewer
or water system, the developer may elect to construct a sewer transmission or
water distribution line(s) at its sole expense to connect to the closest point
on the Town’s system(s); and
      WHEREAS; the Town’s Sewer/Water Use Ordinance contains a provision to
reimburse a developer that elects to construct a sewer transmission or water
distribution line(s) in accordance with Town and state specifications and the
conditions of the Ordinance; and
      WHEREAS; ___________________ has submitted an application requesting to
enter into a Sewer Transmission/Water Distribution Line Reimbursement Agreement
with the Town to receive reimbursement for the construction of a sewer
transmission line on ________________ Road to serve a ________unit residential
development/commercial project on a ________ acre site; and
      NOW, THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the mutual promises
hereinafter set forth, the parties hereto agree as follows:
      1.   The Developer shall construct approximately ___________linear feet
of ______-inch ( _____-in.) sewer transmission/water distribution line(s) along
________________________ Road to a  connection point on or near _________. The
transmission distribution line shall be designed by a Professional Engineer
licensed in the State of North Carolina and the Developer’s engineer shall
designate on the development engineering plans the sewer transmission/water
distribution line(s) to be constructed through the reimbursement policy.
      2.   The project must be competitively bid in accordance with the
applicable provisions of the North Carolina General Statutes regulating public
contracts. Primarily this involves G.S. § 143-129 “Formal Bidding Procedure”
based on the total projected cost of the sewer transmission/water distribution
line(s) to be constructed as part of this Agreement. The Developer or his or
her designee shall provide copies of all bid proposals received, a bid
tabulation which is signed and sealed by a professional engineer certifying the
bids received and a copy of the executed contract between the Developer and the
selected contractor that must include unit prices and be signed and sealed by a
professional engineer. All reimbursements will be based on actual contract
costs.
      3.    The selected contractor shall be properly licensed to perform the
sewer/water line(s) construction.
      4.   Upon completion of construction of the sewer/water line(s) the
Developer or his or her designee shall submit an Application for Sewer
Transmission/Water Distribution Line Reimbursement including the actual
construction quantities and a Certified Sales Tax Statement from the
contractor. The Application shall be signed and sealed by a professional
engineer registered in the State of North Carolina.
      5.   The Developer agrees that the sewer transmission/water distribution
line(s) extended under this Agreement shall be installed and constructed in
accordance with the approved plans, specifications and other requirements of
the Town. Upon completion of construction of the line by the Developer and
acceptance of the sewer/water line(s) and related infrastructure by the Town,
the Developer shall dedicate the line(s) and related infrastructure to the Town
for ownership, operation and maintenance.
      6.   The term of this Agreement shall be six (6) years from the date of
this Agreement. No reimbursements shall be made after the six-year term or
after the Developer has recovered all eligible reimbursement costs of the sewer
line extension, whichever occurs first. This agreement may be terminated at any
time by unanimous consent of the parties. No payment shall be made by the Town
to the Developer until all of the Developer’s commitments under this Agreement
are completed.
      7.   Costs eligible for reimbursement under this agreement include only
the construction of all off-site sewer transmission/water distribution line(s)
of a regional nature which consists of approximately _____________ linear feet
of transmission/distribution line(s) to be constructed on __________________
Road. No costs associated with engineering, design, permitting, bidding or
construction oversight shall be eligible for reimbursement.
      8.   The Town will collect a Sewer Transmission/Water Distribution
Recovery Fee for every Residential/Commercial Unit as set forth in its fee
schedule that connects directly or laterally to the transmission line installed
by the Developer.  The current Sewer Transmission Capital Recovery Fee is $800
per unit for sewer and $150 per unit for water and both are subject to be
amended as necessary at the discretion of the Board of Aldermen.  The fee will
be collected from individuals and/or contractors at the time they submit the
permit/application for Town sewer/water service or at the time of platting in
the sole discretion of the Town.  Individual connections or existing units that
connect directly to the line will remit the Sewer Transmission/Water
Distribution Capital Recovery Fee upon application for service. As necessary,
the Developer will only be repaid for sewer improvements out of the sewer
portion of the Transmission Recovery Fee and repaid for water improvements out
of the water portion of the Transmission Recovery Fee. The Town will establish
the ratio and division of payments in its sole discretion where both water and
sewer improvements are made by Developer.  The Sewer Transmission/Water
Distribution Capital  Recovery Fee payment and collection procedures may be
amended at any time at the discretion of the Board of Aldermen.
      9.   The Developer plans to construct/develop ________ residential/
commercial units at the ___-acre site on______________ Road.  The Developer
shall pay a Sewer Transmission Capital Recovery Fee in the amount of $
___________ and a Water Transmission Recovery Fee in the amount of
$_____________for the residential/commercial units to be constructed. This
amount shall be credited against the total actual transmission/distribution
line(s) construction cost.  The remaining balance between the total actual
construction cost and the $___________in accrued Transmission Recovery Fees
will be eligible for reimbursement during the term of this Agreement. The
amount of eligible reimbursement, after credits, is $_______________________.
      10.   The Town shall reimburse the Developer for all Residential/
Commercial Units for which a Sewer Transmission/Water Distribution Capital
Recovery Fee, as set forth above in paragraph 8, is collected by the Town for
projects or individual connections to the line constructed by the Developer
annually on or before December 31.  The reimbursements will be made in the
amount collected for each unit based on the prevailing Sewer Transmission/Water
Distribution Capital Recovery Fees paid by users connecting to the improvements
made by Developer and as set forth above in paragraph 8. Reimbursements paid to
the Developer shall not exceed the total amount of Sewer Transmission/Water
Distribution Capital Recovery Fees collected for this project and shall  not
exceed the cost of constructing the transmission/distribution line.  All Sewer
Transmission/Water Distribution Capital Recovery Fees collected by the Town
that exceed the documented construction costs of the line constructed under
this Agreement shall be retained by the Town.
      11.   The Developer will present the construction plans and
specifications for the on-site collection/distribution system for the proposed
residential development project.  Following the review and approval of the
plans by the Public Utilities Director and Town Engineer, the Town will execute
the permit application for the collection system for up to _______ Residential/
Commercial Units for submittal to the N.C. Division of Water Quality for
approval. It is understood by the parties that the construction costs
associated with the developers on-site collection/distribution system is not
eligible for reimbursement under this agreement.
      12.   Annual reimbursements of the transmission/distribution line(s)
construction costs will be made to:
   [Developer/Owner’s Address]
      13.   This Agreement shall be binding on and shall inure to the benefit
of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns. This
Agreement may not be assigned to any third party by any act of the parties
hereto or by operation of law without the prior written consent of the parties
hereto. No waiver by any party hereto of any default shall be deemed a waiver
of any prior or subsequent default under the same or other provisions of this
Agreement. This Agreement constitutes the entire understanding of the parties
hereto (whether written or oral), and is intended as a final expression of
their mutual understanding. This Agreement shall not be modified or amended
except in a writing specifically referring to this Agreement and signed by the
party or parties whose obligations are affected by such modification or
amendment. This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of North
Carolina.
   IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Sewer Transmission/
Water Distribution Line Reimbursement Agreement to be duly executed as of the
day and year first above written.
   DEVELOPER
   By: ________________________________
Attest:_____________________________________            Name:
______________________________
                                          Title:
_______________________________
Town of Shallotte
___________________________________________
Mayor
Attest:________________________________
      Clerk, Town of Shallotte
Approved As To Form:
                           ______________________________________
Attorney, Town of Shallotte
(Ord. 07-38, passed  11-6-2007)
TITLE VII:  TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   BICYCLES
      
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
75.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Authority of police and fire officials
   
70.03   Obedience to police and fire officials
   
70.04   Authorized emergency vehicles
Motor Vehicle Registration
   
70.15   Vehicles to be registered
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this traffic code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY.  A thoroughfare through the middle of a block.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE.  Vehicles of the Fire Department, police
vehicles and ambulances and emergency vehicles of municipal departments or
public service corporation as are designed or authorized by the Chief of
Police.
   BICYCLE.  Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may
ride, having two tandem wheels, either of which is over 20 inches in diameter.
   BLOCK.  A portion of any street located between any two intersections of any
two streets or public alleyways next adjacent to each other.
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE.  Every vehicle designed, maintained or used primarily
for the transportation of property.
   CROSSWALK.  The portion of any street or roadway ordinarily included within
the prolongation or connection of the lateral lines of sidewalks at
intersections.  Any portion of a roadway or street distinctly indicated for
pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface of the street or
roadway.
   CURB LOADING ZONE.  A space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive
use of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or materials.
   DRIVER.  Every person who shall drive or who shall be in actual physical
control of the operation of any vehicle.
   FREIGHT CURB LOADING ZONE.  A space adjacent to a curb for the exclusive use
of vehicles during the loading or unloading of freight or passengers.
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of the two highways which join one another at or approximately at
right angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different
highways joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
      (2)   Where a highway includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then
every crossing of each roadway of the divided highway by an intersecting
highway shall be regarded as a separate INTERSECTION.  In the event the
intersecting highway also includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then
every crossing of two roadways of the highways shall be regarded as a separate
INTERSECTION.
   LANED ROADWAY.  A roadway which is divided into two or more clearly marked
lanes for vehicular traffic.
   MOTOR VEHICLE.  Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle
designed to run upon the streets which is pulled by a self-propelled vehicle.
   MOTORCYCLE.  Every motor vehicle having a saddle for the use of the rider
and designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the
ground, but excluding a tractor.
   OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD.  Whenever certain hours are named herein they shall
mean standard time or daylight saving time as may be in current use in this
town.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICE.  Any sign, signal, marking or device, not
inconsistent with this traffic code, placed or erected by authority of the
governing body by a designated official having jurisdiction through authority
given by the governing body, for the purpose of regulating, warning,
prohibiting or guiding traffic upon the public streets and thoroughfares of the
town.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC SIGNALS.  Any device, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated, whereby traffic is alternately directed to stop and to
proceed, or to turn, or to proceed with caution.
   PARK.  The standing of any vehicle, whether occupied or unoccupied,
otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
loading or unloading passengers or cargo.
   PASSENGER CURB LOADING ZONE.  A place adjacent to a curb reserved for the
exclusive use of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers.
   PEDESTRIAN.  Any person afoot.
   POLICE OFFICER.  Every peace officer of the town, including every employee
of the town authorized and empowered to regulate traffic and to make arrests
for any violations of the provisions of this traffic code.
   PRIVATE ROAD or DRIVEWAY.  Every way or place in private ownership and used
for vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied
permission from the owner, but not by other persons.
   PUBLIC CONVEYANCE.  Any vehicle other than a taxicab or railroad train for
transporting persons for a fare.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY.  The privilege of the immediate use of the street or roadway.
   ROADWAY.  The portion of a street or highway improved, designed or
ordinarily used for vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder.  In
the event a highway includes two or more separate roadways, the term ROADWAY as
used herein shall refer to any roadways separately, but not to all roadways
collectively.
   SAFETY ZONE.  The area or space officially set apart within any roadway for
the exclusive use of pedestrians, and which space shall be so protected or
marked or indicated by visible and adequate markers or signs as shall be
visible at all times while so set apart as a SAFETY ZONE for pedestrians.
   SIDEWALK.  The portion of a street between the curb lines or the lateral
lines of a roadway and the adjacent property lines intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   STANDING.  Any stopping of any vehicle, whether or not the vehicle is
occupied during the period of stopping.
   STOP.  When required, means the complete cessation of movement of any
vehicle.
   STOPor STOPPING.  When prohibited, means any stopping of any vehicle, except
when the stopping means that it shall be necessary to stop the vehicle to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with direction of any peace
officer of the town or by reason of any traffic-control sign or signal or by
reason of any emergency.
   STREET and HIGHWAY.  The entire width between property lines of every way or
place of whatever nature, when any part thereof is open to the use of the
public as a matter of right for the purposes of vehicular traffic.
   THROUGH HIGHWAY.  Every street or highway or portion thereof at the
entrances to which vehicular traffic from intersecting streets or highways is
required by law to stop before entering or crossing the same and when stop
signs are erected as provided in this traffic code.
   TRAFFIC.  Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles of all kinds,
conveyances, tractors, bicycles, motorcycles and the like, either singly or
together, while using any street or alleyway for travel, including the
operation of, the loading or unloading of, or the parking of any vehicle upon
any of the public streets of the town.
   VEHICLE.  Every device used in, upon or by which any person or property is
or may be transported or drawn upon any street within the corporate limits,
and, for the purposes of this traffic code, any bicycle shall be deemed a
VEHICLE.
(1979 Code, § 7-1001)
Statutory reference:
   Motor vehicles, see G.S. Ch. 20
   Municipal authority to regulate traffic generally, see G.S. § 160A-300
§ 70.02  AUTHORITY OF POLICE AND FIRE OFFICIALS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the officers of the Police Department to
enforce all street traffic laws and all of the state vehicle laws applicable to
street traffic.
   (B)   Officers of the Police Department are hereby authorized to direct all
traffic by voice, hand or signal in conformance with traffic laws, provided
that, in the event of a fire or other emergency or to expedite traffic or to
safeguard pedestrians, officers of the Police Department may direct traffic as
conditions may require, notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws.
   (C)   Officers of the Fire Department, when at the scene of a fire, may
direct or assist the police in directing traffic thereat or in the immediate
vicinity.
(1979 Code, § 7-1011)
§ 70.03  OBEDIENCE TO POLICE AND FIRE OFFICIALS.
   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of a police officer or Fire Department official.
(1979 Code, § 7-1012)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04  AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   The provisions of this traffic code regulating the operation, parking and
standing of vehicles shall apply to authorized emergency vehicles, as defined
in this chapter, except as provided under state law.
(1979 Code, § 7-1013)
Statutory reference:
   Emergency vehicles, exceptions to right-of-way rules, see G.S. § 20-156
MOTOR VEHICLE REGISTRATION
§ 70.15  VEHICLES TO BE REGISTERED.
   Every motor vehicle resident in the town shall be registered and licensed,
and the Town Clerk shall make and keep a permanent record thereof.
(1979 Code, § 7-2001)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99  PENALTY.
   Any violation of this traffic code shall constitute an infraction and shall
be punishable by a penalty of not more than $50. 
(G.S. § 14-4(b))
CHAPTER 71:  TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
Traffic-Control Devices
   
71.001   Signs, markers or devices
   
71.002   Enforcement by signs
   
71.003   Traffic-control signal legend
   
71.004   Flashing signals
   
71.005   Unauthorized signs, signals or markings
   
71.006   Interference with traffic-control devices
   
71.007   Traffic lanes
   
71.008   Quiet zone
   
71.009   School zones
   
71.010   Yield signs
Speed Regulations
   
71.030   Speed limit
   
71.031   Exceptions
Turning Movements
   
71.045   Turning markers
   
71.046   Restricted turn signs
   
71.047   No-turn signs
One-Way Streets and Alleys
   
71.060   One-way streets and alleys; signs
   
71.061   One-way streets and alleys
Special Stops Required
   
71.080   Through streets designated
   
71.081   Authority to erect stop signs
   
71.082   Intersections where stop required
   
71.083   Stop signs
   
71.084   Vehicles to stop
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 71.001  SIGNS, MARKERS OR DEVICES.
   Any person failing or refusing to comply with the directions indicated on
any sign, marker or device for the control or direction of traffic erected or
placed in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter when so placed or
erected shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.  This section shall not be construed
to apply when the driver of a vehicle is otherwise directed by a police officer
or when an exception is granted to the driver of an authorized emergency
vehicle under §
70.04.
(1979 Code, § 7-1021)  (1994 Code, § 71.01)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.002  ENFORCEMENT BY SIGNS.
   No provisions of this chapter for which signs are required shall be enforced
against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the alleged violation,
an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently legible to an
ordinarily observant person.
(1979 Code, § 7-1022)  (1994 Code, § 71.02)
§ 71.003  TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND.
   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals exhibiting the
words, “Go,” “Caution” or “Stop,” or exhibiting different colored lights
successively one at a time, or with arrows, the following colors only shall be
used and the terms and light shall indicate and apply to drivers of vehicles
and pedestrians as follows.
   (A)   Green alone or “Go.”
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed straight through or
turn right or left unless a sign at the place prohibits either turn.  But
vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left, shall yield the
right-of-way to other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the
intersection or an adjacent crosswalk at the time the signal is exhibited.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the roadway within
any marked or unmarked crosswalk.
   (B)   Yellow alone or “Caution” when shown following the green or “Go”
signal.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal is thereby warned that the red
or “Stop” signal will be exhibited immediately thereafter and the vehicular
traffic shall not enter or be crossing the intersection when the red or “Stop”
signal is exhibited.
      (2)   No pedestrian facing the signal shall enter the roadway until the
green or “Go” is shown.
   (C)   Red alone or “Stop.”
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if none, then before
entering the intersection shall remain standing until green or “Go” is shown
alone.  However, if a sign is not erected prohibiting turns on red lights, the
vehicles may turn right on red lights after coming to a complete stop.
      (2)   No pedestrian facing the signal shall enter the roadway unless the
green or “Go” is shown alone unless authorized to do so by a pedestrian “Walk”
signal.
   (D)   Red with green arrow.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal may cautiously enter the
intersection only to make the movement indicated by the arrow but shall yield
the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within a crosswalk and to other
traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      (2)   No pedestrian facing the signal shall enter the roadway until the
green or “Go” is shown.
   (E)   Non-intersection.  In the event an official traffic-control signal is
erected and maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions of
this section shall be applicable except as to those provisions which by their
nature can have no application.  Any stop required shall be made at a sign or
marking on the pavement  indicating where the stop shall be made, but in the
absence of any sign or marking the stop shall be made at the signal.
(1979 Code, § 7-1023)    (1994 Code, § 71.03) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.004  FLASHING SIGNALS.
   Whenever flashing red or yellow signals are used, they shall require
obedience by vehicular traffic as follows.
   (A)   Flashing red (stop signal).  When a red lens is illuminated by rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall come to a complete stop before
entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at a limit line when
marked, and the right to proceed shall be subject to the rules applicable after
making a stop at a stop sign.  In no event shall the vehicle be driven into the
crosswalk unless and until the entry can be made with safety to other persons
and property at the place.
   (B)   Flashing yellow (caution signal).  When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers or operators of vehicles may proceed
through the intersection past the signal only with caution.
(1979 Code, § 7-1024)  (1994 Code, § 71.04)
§ 71.005  UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS, SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   No person shall place, maintain or display upon or in view of any
highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which purports to be
or is in imitation of or resembles an official traffic-control device, sign or
signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic, or which hides
from view or interferes with the effectiveness of any official traffic-control
device, sign or signal.
   (B)   No person shall place or maintain nor shall any public authority
permit upon any highway any traffic sign or signal bearing thereon any
commercial advertising.
(1979 Code, § 7-1025)  (1994 Code, § 71.05) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.006  INTERFERENCE WITH TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   No person shall without lawful authority attempt to or in fact alter,
deface, injure, knock down or remove any official traffic-control device, sign
or signal or any inscription, shield or insignia thereon, or any other part
thereof.
(1979 Code, § 7-1026)  (1994 Code, § 71.06)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.007  TRAFFIC LANES.
   Where traffic lanes have been marked, it shall be unlawful for the operator
of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep the vehicle within the boundaries of
any lane except when lawfully passing another vehicle or preparatory to making
a lawful turning movement.
(1979 Code, § 7-1027)  (1994 Code, § 71.07) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.008  QUIET ZONE.
   Whenever authorized signs are placed indicating a zone of quiet, the person
operating a motor vehicle within the zone shall not sound the horn or any other
warning device, except in an emergency.
(1979 Code, § 7-1028)  (1994 Code, § 71.08) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.009  SCHOOL ZONES.
   Whenever authorized signs are placed designating any street or part thereof,
as a school zone, drivers of motor vehicles using the street shall exercise the
greatest care for the protection of children.
(1979 Code, § 7-1029)  (1994 Code, § 71.09)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.010  YIELD SIGNS.
   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign erected at an intersection
shall, in obedience to the sign, slow down and yield the right-of-way to any
pedestrian crossing the roadway on which he or she is driving and to any
vehicle in movement on the main traveled or through highway or street which is
approaching so as to arrive at the intersection at approximately the same time
as the vehicle entering the main traveled or through street or highway.
(1979 Code, § 7-1030)  (1994 Code, § 71.10)  Penalty, see §
70.99
SPEED REGULATIONS
§ 71.030  SPEED LIMIT.
   Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, it shall be unlawful to
operate a vehicle in excess of 35 miles per hour (mph) inside the town
corporate limits.
(1979 Code, § 7-1041)  (1994 Code, § 71.30)
Statutory reference:
   General 35 mph speed limit within municipal corporate limits, see G.S. § 20-
141
§ 71.031  EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle in excess of the speeds
listed upon the streets or portions of streets of the state highway system
listed in the traffic schedules in
Chapter 74.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle in excess of the speeds
listed upon the streets or portions of streets, not a part of the state highway
system, listed in the traffic schedules in
Chapter 74.
(1979 Code, § 7-1042)  (1994 Code, § 71.31)  Penalty, see §
70.99
TURNING MOVEMENTS
§ 71.045  TURNING MARKERS.
   When authorized markers, buttons or other indicators are placed within an
intersection indicating the course to be traveled by vehicles turning thereat,
no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of the indicators.
(1979 Code, § 7-1051)  (1994 Code, § 71.45)
§ 71.046  RESTRICTED TURN SIGNS.
   The Board of Aldermen shall determine those intersections at which drivers
of vehicles shall not make a right, left or U-turn and shall place proper signs
at these intersections.  The making of the turns may be prohibited between
certain hours of any day and permitted at other hours, in which event the hours
shall be plainly indicated on the signs or they may be removed when the turns
are permitted.
(1979 Code, § 7-1052)  (1994 Code, § 71.46)
§ 71.047  NO-TURN SIGNS.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left or U-
turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of any
sign.
(1979 Code, § 7-1053)  (1994 Code, § 71.47)  Penalty, see §
70.99
ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS
§ 71.060  ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS; SIGNS.
   Whenever any ordinance designates any one-way street or alley there shall be
signs giving notice thereof, and no regulation shall be effective unless the
signs are in place.  Signs indicating the direction of lawful traffic movement
shall be placed at every intersection where movement of traffic in the opposite
direction is prohibited.
(1979 Code, § 7-1061)  (1994 Code, § 71.60)
§ 71.061  ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   Upon those streets and parts of streets and in those alleys designated as
one-way, vehicular traffic shall move only in the indicated direction when
signs indicating the direction of traffic are erected and maintained at every
intersection where movement in the opposite direction is prohibited.
(1979 Code, § 7-1062)  (1994 Code, § 71.61)  Penalty, see §
70.99
SPECIAL STOPS REQUIRED
§ 71.080  THROUGH STREETS DESIGNATED.
   Those streets and parts of streets designated as a through street are
declared to be through streets for the purpose of this subchapter.
(1979 Code, § 7-1071)  (1994 Code, § 71.70)
§ 71.081  AUTHORITY TO ERECT STOP SIGNS.
   Whenever any ordinance designates and describes a through street, there
shall be a stop sign on each and every street intersecting the through street
or intersecting portion thereof described and designated as such by any
ordinance unless traffic at any intersection is controlled at all times by
traffic-control signals.  However, at the intersection of two through streets
or at the intersection of a through street and a heavy traffic street not so
designated, stop signs shall be erected at the approaches of either of the
streets.
(1979 Code, § 7-1072)  (1994 Code, § 71.71)
§ 71.082  INTERSECTIONS WHERE STOP REQUIRED.
   The Board of Aldermen may determine and designate intersections where
particular hazard exists upon other than through streets and may determine
whether vehicles shall stop at one or more entrances to any stop intersection,
and shall erect a stop sign at every place where a stop is required.
(1979 Code, § 7-1073)  (1994 Code, § 71.72)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.083  STOP SIGNS.
   Every sign erected pursuant to this subchapter shall bear the word “Stop” in
letters not less than eight inches in height and the signs shall at nighttime
be rendered luminous by steady or flashing internal illumination, or by a fixed
floodlight projected on the face of the sign, or by efficient reflecting
elements on the face of the sign.  Every stop sign shall be located as near as
practicable at the nearest line of the crosswalk on the side of the
intersection or, if none, at the nearest line of the roadway.
(1979 Code, § 7-1074)  (1994 Code, § 71.73)
§ 71.084  VEHICLES TO STOP.
   (A)    Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic-
control signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop intersection that
is indicated by a stop sign shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the
near side of the intersection, or, in the event there is no crosswalk, shall
stop at a clearly marked stop line, or, if known then, at the point nearest the
intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the
intersecting roadway before entering the intersection.
   (B)   The driver, having stopped in obedience to a stop sign at an
intersection, shall proceed cautiously yielding the right-of-way to all
vehicles not so obliged to stop which are approaching the intersection.
(1979 Code, § 7-1075)  (1994 Code, § 71.74)  Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 72:  PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
72.00   Establishment of no parking areas within town limits
   
72.01   Standing or parking close to curb
   
72.02   Unattended vehicles
   
72.03   Application of provisions
   
72.04   Regulations not exclusive
   
72.05   Parking on certain streets
   
72.06   Time limited
   
72.07   Signs required
Stopping, Standing or Parking
   
72.15   Stopping, standing or parking; where prohibited
   
72.16   Obstructing traffic
   
72.17   Certain purposes prohibited
   
72.18   Stopping, standing or parking near hazardous or congested places
   
72.19   Advertising
   
72.20   Stopping on streets; removal of vehicles
Loading or Unloading
   
72.30   Loading and unloading zones
   
72.31   Freight and goods
   
72.32   Public carriers
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.00  ESTABLISHMENT OF NO PARKING AREAS WITHIN TOWN LIMITS.
   (A)   The Town Administrator shall have the authority to mark off and
designate areas within the town as “No Parking Areas,” and shall be authorized
to erect, or contract to have erected such signs or notices as are necessary to
identify the no parking areas. The Town Administrator shall also be allowed to 
restrict the time of enforcement of the no parking areas, and shall oversee, in
cooperation with the Police Chief, the enforcement of this and all parking
regulations within the town.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use any space in violation of
this section or any policy, procedure, rule or regulation adopted pursuant to
this section or the enforcement of same.
(Ord. 911, passed 6-17-1997)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.01  STANDING OR PARKING CLOSE TO CURB.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle in a roadway other than parallel
with the edge of the roadway headed in the direction of lawful traffic movement
and with the right-hand wheels of the vehicle within 18 inches of the curb or
edge of the roadway except as otherwise provided in this subchapter.
(1979 Code, § 7-1121)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.02  UNATTENDED VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave the engine or motor of any
motor vehicle running while it is standing parked upon the streets.
(1979 Code, § 7-1122)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.03  APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter prohibiting the standing or parking of a
vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times herein specified or as
indicated on official signs, except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or official traffic-control device.
(1979 Code, § 7-1151)
§ 72.04  REGULATIONS NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The provisions of this subchapter imposing a time limit on parking shall not
relieve any person from the duty to observe other and more restrictive
provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping, standing or parking of
vehicles in specified places or at specified times.
(1979 Code, § 7-1152)
§ 72.05  PARKING ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
at any time upon any of the streets described in the parking schedules in
Chapter 75.
(1979 Code, § 7-1153)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.06  TIME LIMITED.
   When signs are erected in each block giving notice thereof, no person shall
park a vehicle for longer than the times specified within the district or upon
any of the streets designated as such.
(1979 Code, § 7-1154)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.07  SIGNS REQUIRED.
   Whenever by this or any other provision, any parking time limit is imposed
or parking is prohibited on designated streets there shall be appropriate signs
giving notice thereof and no regulations be shall effective unless the signs
are erected and in place at the time of any alleged offense.
(1979 Code, § 7-1155)
STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING
§ 72.15  STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING; WHERE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary
to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with law or the
directions of a police officer or traffic-control device, in any of the
following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk;
      (2)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
      (5)   On a crosswalk;
      (6)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      (7)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign
or traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway;
      (8)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
any point on the curb immediately opposite to the ends of a safety zone, unless
signs or markings indicate a different length or within a designated fire lane;
      (9)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
      (10)   Within 30 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and on
the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75 feet
of the entrance (when properly signposted);
      (11)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (12)   On a roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street;
      (13)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or
within a highway tunnel; and
      (14)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any prohibited area or away from a curb any distance as is unlawful.
(1979 Code, § 7-1131)  (Ord. 909, passed 3-18-1997; Ord. passed 3-18-1997) 
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.16  OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   No person shall park any vehicle upon a street, in a manner or under any
conditions as to leave available less than ten feet of the width of the roadway
for free movement of vehicular traffic.
(1979 Code, § 7-1132)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.17  CERTAIN PURPOSES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stand or park a vehicle upon any
street of the town for the principal purposes of:
   (A)   Displaying for sale;
   (B)   Washing, greasing or repairing the vehicle, except repairs made
necessary by a bona fide emergency;
   (C)   Storing by garages, dealers or other persons when the storing is not
incident to the bona fide use and operation of the automobile or other vehicle;
and
   (D)   Storing of any detached trailer or van when the towing unit has been
disconnected or for the purpose of transferring merchandise or freight from one
vehicle to another.
(1979 Code, § 7-1133)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.18  STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING NEAR HAZARDOUS OR CONGESTED PLACES.
   When official signs are erected at hazardous or congested places no person
shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in any designated place.
(1979 Code, § 7-1134)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.19  ADVERTISING.
   No person shall stand or park on any street any vehicle for the primary
purpose of advertising.
(1979 Code, § 7-1135)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.20  STOPPING ON STREETS; REMOVAL OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall park or leave standing any vehicle, whether attended
or unattended, upon the paved or main-traveled portion of any street, alleyway
or bridge within the town unless the vehicle is disabled to such an extent that
it is impossible to avoid stopping or temporarily leaving the vehicle upon the
paved or main-traveled portion of any street, alleyway or bridge with the town.
   (B)   No person shall park or leave standing any vehicle upon the shoulder
of any public street, alleyway or bridge within the town unless the vehicle can
be clearly seen by approaching drivers from a distance of 200 feet in both
directions and does not obstruct the normal movement of traffic.
   (C)   The operator of any truck, trailer or semitrailer which is disabled
upon any portion of any public street, alleyway or bridge within the town shall
display warning signals not less than 200 feet in the front and rear of the
vehicle.  During daylight hours, such warning signals shall consist of red
flags.  During hours of darkness, such warning signals shall consist of red
flares or reflectors of a type approved by the Commissioner of Motor Vehicles. 
Such warning signals shall be displayed as long as the vehicle is disabled.
   (D)   The owner of any vehicle parked or left standing in violation of law
shall be deemed to have appointed any investigating law enforcement officer his
or her agent:
      (1)   For the purpose of removing the vehicle to the shoulder of the
highway or to some other suitable place; and
      (2)   For the purpose of arranging for the transportation and safe
storage of any vehicle which is interfering with the regular flow of traffic or
which otherwise constitutes as hazard, in which case the officer shall be
deemed a legal possessor of the vehicle within the meaning of G.S. § 44A-2(d).
   (E)   When any vehicle is parked or left standing upon the right-of-way of
any public street, alleyway or bridge within the town for a period of 48 hours
or more, the owner shall be deemed to have appointed any investigating law
enforcement officer his or her agent for the purpose of arranging for the
transportation and safe storage  of  such  vehicle  and  such  investigating 
law enforcement officer shall be deemed a legal possessor of the motor vehicle
within the meaning of that term as it appears in G.S. § 44A-2(d).
(Ord. 2-15-89, passed 2-15-1989)
LOADING OR UNLOADING
§ 72.30  LOADING AND UNLOADING ZONES.
   Whenever vehicle loading and unloading zones are designated and described by
this subchapter and when signs are placed, erected or installed, giving notice
thereof, it shall be unlawful for any person to stop, stand or park any vehicle
for any purpose or period of time except in accordance with the requirements of
this subchapter.
(1979 Code, § 7-1141)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.31  FREIGHT AND GOODS.
   Certain streets, or parts thereof, are hereby designated as freight loading
and unloading zones, and  no person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle therein
during the hours of 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. for any purpose other than the
expeditious loading or unloading of freight, equipment or other goods, and then
only for a period not to exceed one hour.
(1979 Code, § 7-1142)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.32  PUBLIC CARRIERS.
   Bus stands, taxicab stands and stands for other passenger common carrier
motor vehicles, shall be designated, by appropriate signs, as public carrier
loading and unloading zones.  No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle
other than a bus in a bus stop, or other than a taxicab in a taxicab stand when
any stop has been officially designated and appropriately signed, except that
the driver of a passenger vehicle may temporarily stop therein for the purpose
of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading passengers when stopping
does not interfere with any bus, or taxicab waiting to enter or about to enter
the zone.
(1979 Code, § 7-1143)  Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 73:  BICYCLES
Section
   
73.01   Effect of regulations
   
73.02   Traffic laws
   
73.03   Traffic-control devices
   
73.04   Riding on bicycles
   
73.05   Roadways and bicycle paths
   
73.06   Speed
   
73.07   Carrying articles
   
73.08   Sidewalks
§ 73.01  EFFECT OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The parent of any child and the guardian of any ward shall not
authorize or knowingly permit any child or ward to violate any of the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   These regulations applicable to bicycles shall apply whenever a
bicycle is operated upon any street or upon any public path set aside for the
exclusive use of bicycles, subject to those exceptions stated herein.
(1979 Code, § 7-1101)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.02  TRAFFIC LAWS.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the
rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle by the laws of this state declaring rules of the road applicable to
vehicles or by this chapter applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except as to
special regulations in this traffic code and except as to those provisions of
laws and ordinances which by their nature can have no application.
(1979 Code, § 7-1102)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.03  TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the instructions of official
traffic-control signals, signs and other control devices applicable to
vehicles, unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   (B)   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left
or U-turn is permitted, no person operating a bicycle shall disobey the
direction of any sign, except where the person dismounts from the bicycle to
make any turn, in which event the person shall then obey the regulations
applicable to pedestrians.
(1979 Code, § 7-1103)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.04  RIDING ON BICYCLES.
   (A)   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than astride a
permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
   (B)   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped.
(1979 Code, § 7-1104)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.05  ROADWAYS AND BICYCLE PATHS.
   (A)   Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride as near to
the right-hand side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when
passing a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
   (B)   Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two
abreast except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles.
   (C)   Whenever a usable path for bicycles has been provided adjacent to a
roadway, bicycle riders shall use the path and shall not use the roadway.
(1979 Code, § 7-1105)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.06  SPEED.
   No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under the conditions then existing.
(1979 Code, § 7-1106)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.07  CARRYING ARTICLES.
   No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle or article
which prevents the rider from keeping at least one hand upon the handlebars.
(1979 Code, § 7-1107)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.08  SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   No person shall ride a bicycle upon a sidewalk within a business
district of the town.
   (B)   The Chief of Police is authorized to erect signs on any roadway
prohibiting the riding of bicycles thereon by any person, and when the signs
are in place, no person shall disobey the signs.
   (C)   Whenever any person is riding a bicycle upon a sidewalk, the person
shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian and shall give an audible signal
before overtaking and passing the pedestrian.
(1979 Code, § 7-1108)  Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 74:  TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Traffic-control signals
   
II.   Speed limits
SCHEDULE I:  TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNALS.
   (A)   Traffic-control signals shall be installed at the following locations:
 
Intersection                           Ord. No. Date
US Highway 17 and NC Highway 130 south -        - -
 
   (B)   Flashing yellow caution signal lights shall be installed at the
following locations:
 
Intersection                     Ord. No. Date
US Highway 17 and Shallotte Ave. -        - -
 
(1979 Code, App. I §§ 101 and 103)
SCHEDULE II:  SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   Twenty-five-mph speed limit on the following state highway system
streets:
 
Street        Location                                      Ord. No. Date
US Highway 17 From Smith Ave. to the Shallotte River Bridge -        - -
 
   (B)   Forty-five-mph speed limit on the following state highway system
streets:
 
Street      Location                                        Ord. No. Date
NC 130      From Business US 17 to a point 1.15 miles west  11-17-92 11-17-1992
            of US 17 Bypass
            From a point approximately 0.3 miles west of
NC 130 West Shallotte River Bridge, approximately 0.5 miles 2-19-86  2-19-1986
            to the western corporate town limits
            From a point 500 feet south of its intersection
SR 1143     with 1173 (Seller Street) approximately 0.55    2-19-86  2-19-1986
            miles to the southern corporate limits
SR 1349     From NC 130 eastward to a point .98 miles       9041     3-19-1996
            eastward to Mulberry Street (SR 1348)
            From a point where it intersects with White
SR 1357     Street to a point 1,000 feet north of Northside 2-19-86  2-19-1986
            Drive (SR 1358)
 
(1979 Code, App. I §§ 106 and 109)  (Ord. 2-19-86, passed 2-19-1986; Ord. 11-
17-92, passed 11-17-1992; Ord. 9041, passed 3-19-1996)
CHAPTER 75:  PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Parking prohibited
SCHEDULE I:  PARKING PROHIBITED.
   There shall be no parking allowed on the following streets or portion of
streets:
 
Street       Location                                  Side Ord. No. Date
             Between the northern edge of the access
             road to Farm Credit (Production Credit
Main Street  Association) which is located between Al  Both 6-17-87  6-17-1987
             Street and Pine Street, north 346 feet to
             the dividing line between Brunswick
             Business Service and Shallotte Lumber Co.
Village Road Between Bluff Drive and the southern edge Both 5-6-87   5-6-1987
             of the Shallotte Middle School property
 
(1979 Code, App. I § 127)  (Ord. 5-6-87, passed 5-6-1987; Ord. 6-17-87, passed
6-17-1987)
TITLE IX:  GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   CIVIL EMERGENCIES
      
93.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
      
94.   911 SERVICES
      
95.   NUISANCES
      
96.   PARADES AND DEMONSTRATIONS
CHAPTER 90:  ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Administration
   
90.03   Exceptions
   
90.04   Abandoned vehicle unlawful; removal authorized
   
90.05   Nuisance vehicle unlawful; removal authorized
   
90.06   Keeping regulated; removal; concealment
   
90.07   Removal of abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicles; pretowing
notice requirements
   
90.08   Exceptions to prior notice requirement
   
90.09   Removal of vehicles; post-towing notice requirements
   
90.10   Right to probable cause hearing before sale or final disposition of
vehicle
   
90.11   Redemption of vehicle during proceedings
   
90.12   Sale and disposition of unclaimed vehicle
   
90.13   Conditions on removal of vehicles from private property
   
90.14   Protection against criminal or civil liability
   
90.15   Unlawful removal of impounded vehicle
   
90.16   No removal of business or personal vehicle
 
   
90.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Zoning ordinance, see UDO,
Ch. 151
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate abandoned and junked vehicles, see G.S. § 160A-303
§ 90.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE.  A vehicle that:
      (1)   Is left upon a public street or highway in violation of a law or
ordinance prohibiting parking;
      (2)   Is left on a public street or highway for longer than seven days;
      (3)   Is left on property owned or operated by the town for longer than
24 hours; or
      (4)   Is left on private property without the consent of owner, occupant
or lessee thereof for longer than two hours.
   AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL.  The supervisory employee of the Police Department or
the Code Enforcement Officer, respectively, designated to authorize the removal
of vehicles under this chapter.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE.  As authorized and defined in G.S. § 160A-303.2, a
vehicle that does not display a current license plate and that:
      (1)   Does not display a current inspection sticker;
      (2)   Is partially dismantled or wrecked; and/or
      (3)   Cannot be self-propelled or moved in the manner in which it
originally was intended to move.
   MOTOR VEHICLE or VEHICLE.  All machines designed or intended to travel over
land or water by self-propulsion or while attached to any self-propelled
vehicle.
   NUISANCE VEHICLE.  A vehicle on public or private property that is
determined and declared to be a health or safety hazard, a public nuisance and
unlawful, including a vehicle found to be any one or more of the following:
      (1)   Can constitute both a public and a private nuisance;
      (2)   Is a source of potential hurt to children and others who find them
an attractive nuisance;
      (3)   Is replete with broken glass, sharp, torn metal edges and points,
gasoline remaining in tanks of a highly explosive and combustible nature and
hurtful acids in batteries, to mention but a few of the more obvious sources of
potential physical hurt found in junked vehicles;
      (4)   Destroys the aesthetic qualities of the town and is generally
unsightly;
      (5)   Tends to depreciate not only the property on which it is located,
but also the property of other persons in the neighborhood and damages the
welfare of the town as a whole;
      (6)   Tends to result in uncontrolled growth of vegetation and other
collection of debris which becomes a haven and breeding ground for insects,
rodents and similar harmful creatures;
      (7)   A point of collection of pools or ponds of water;
      (8)   One which has areas of confinement which cannot be operated from
the inside, such as trunks, hoods and the like;
      (9)   So situated or located that there is a danger of it falling or
turning over;
      (10)   One which is a point of collection of garbage, food waste, animal
waste or other rotten matter of any kind; or
      (11)   Any other vehicle specifically declared a health and safety hazard
and public nuisance by the Town Council.
(Ord. 729, passed 8-2-1994; Ord. passed 4-15-1997)
§ 90.02  ADMINISTRATION.
   The Police Department and Code Enforcement Officer shall be responsible for
the administration and enforcement of this chapter, the removal and disposition
of vehicles determined to be abandoned on the public streets and highways
within the town and on property owned by the town.  The Code Enforcement
Officer shall be responsible for administering the removal and disposition of
abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicles located on private property within
the town.  The town may contract with private tow operators or towing
businesses to remove, store and dispose of abandoned vehicles, nuisance
vehicles and junked motor vehicles in compliance with this chapter and
application state laws.  Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to limit
the legal authority or powers of the officers of the Police Department and Fire
Department in enforcing other laws or in otherwise carrying out their duties.
(Ord. 729, passed 8-2-1994)
§ 90.03  EXCEPTIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall apply to any vehicle:
   (A)   Which is located in a bona fide automobile graveyard or junkyard as
defined in G.S. § 136-143, in accordance with the Junkyard Control Act, G.S. §§
136-141 et seq.;
   (B)   Which is in an enclosed building;
   (C)   Which is on the premises of a business enterprise being operated in a
lawful place and manner if the vehicle is necessary to the operation of the
enterprise; or
   (D)   Which is in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained in a
lawful place and manner by the town.
(Ord. 729, passed 8-2-1994)
§ 90.04  ABANDONED VEHICLE UNLAWFUL; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a vehicle to cause or allow the vehicle to be abandoned.
   (B)   Upon investigation, proper authorizing officials of the town may
determine that a vehicle is an abandoned vehicle and order the vehicle removed.
(Ord. 729, passed 8-2-1994)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05  NUISANCE VEHICLE UNLAWFUL; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the  registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee or occupant of the real
property upon which the vehicle is located, to leave or allow the vehicle to
remain on the property after it has been declared a nuisance vehicle.
   (B)   Upon investigation, the Town Code Enforcement Officer may determine
and declare that a vehicle is a health or safety hazard and a nuisance vehicle,
as defined in §
90.01, and order the vehicle removed.
(Ord. 729, passed 8-2-1994)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06  KEEPING REGULATED; REMOVAL; CONCEALMENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
the possession of a junked motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee or occupant
of the real property upon which a junked motor vehicle is located, to leave or
allow the vehicle to remain on the property after the vehicle has been ordered
removed.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to have more than one junked motor vehicle on the
premises of public or private property.  A single permitted junked motor
vehicle must strictly comply with the location and concealment requirements of
this chapter.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, person entitled to the possession
of a junked motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee or occupant of the real
property upon which a junked motor vehicle is located, to fail to comply with
the locational requirements or concealment requirements of this chapter.
   (D)   Subject to the provisions of division (C) above, upon investigation,
the Town Code Enforcement Officer may order the removal of a junked motor
vehicle after finding in writing that the aesthetic benefits of removing the
vehicle outweigh the burdens imposed on the private property owner.  These
findings shall be based on a balancing of the monetary loss of the apparent
owner against the corresponding gain to the public by promoting or enhancing
community, neighborhood or area appearance.  The following, among other
relevant factors, may be considered:
      (1)   Protection of property values;
      (2)   Promotion of economic development opportunities;
      (3)   Indirect protection of public health and safety;
      (4)   Preservation of the character and integrity of the community; and
      (5)   Promotion of the comfort, happiness and emotional stability of area
residents.
   (E)   The permitted concealment or enclosure of a junked motor vehicle shall
be as follows:
      (1)   (a)   One junked motor vehicle, in its entirety, can be located in
the rear yard as defined by the town’s zoning ordinance if the junked motor
vehicle is entirely concealed from public view from a public street and from
abutting premises by an acceptable covering.
         (b)   Any junked motor vehicle must be kept in a garage or building
structure that provides a complete enclosure so that the junked motor vehicle
cannot be seen from a public street or abutting property.  A garage or building
structure means either a lawful, nonconforming use or a lawful structure
erected pursuant to the lawful issuance of a building permit and which has been
constructed in accordance with all zoning and building code regulations.
      (2)   The Town Code Enforcement Officer has the authority to determine
whether any junked motor vehicle is adequately concealed as required by this
provision.  The covering must remain in good repair and must not be allowed to
deteriorate.  The covering or enclosure must be compatible with these
provisions and the zoning ordinance.
(Ord. 729, passed 8-2-1994)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07  REMOVAL OF ABANDONED, NUISANCE OR JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES; PRETOWING
NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as set forth in §
90.08, an abandoned, nuisance or junked vehicle which is to be removed shall be
towed only after notice to the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of the vehicle.  In the case of a nuisance vehicle or junked motor
vehicle, if the names and mailing addresses of the registered owner or person
entitled to possession of the vehicle, or the owner, lessee or occupant of the
real property upon which the vehicle is located can be ascertained with
reasonable diligence, the notice shall be given by registered or certified mail
or by personal service.  The person who mails the notice shall retain a written
record to show the names and addresses to which mailed and the dated mailed. 
If the names and addresses cannot be ascertained or if the vehicle to be
removed is an abandoned motor vehicle, notice shall be given by affixing on the
windshield or some other conspicuous place on the vehicle a notice indicating
that the vehicle will be removed by the town on a specified date no sooner than
ten working days from the date the notice is affixed.  The notice shall state
that the vehicle will be removed by the town on a specified date, no sooner
than ten working days after the notice is affixed or mailed, unless the vehicle
is moved by the owner or legal possessor prior to that time.
   (B)   With respect to abandoned vehicles on private property, nuisance
vehicles and junked motor vehicles to which notice is required to be given, if
the registered owner or person entitled to possession does not remove the
vehicle but chooses to appeal the determination that the vehicle is abandoned,
a nuisance vehicle or, in the case of a junked motor vehicle, that the
aesthetic benefits of removing the vehicle outweigh the burdens, the appeal
shall be made to the Town Council in writing, heard at the next regularly
scheduled meeting, and further proceedings to remove the vehicle shall be
stayed until the appeal is heard and decided.
(Ord. 729, passed 8-2-1994)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08  EXCEPTIONS TO PRIOR NOTICE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Street obstructions.  The requirement that notice be given prior to
the removal of an abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle may, as
determined by the authorizing official, be omitted in those circumstances where
there is a special need for prompt action to eliminate traffic obstructions or
to otherwise maintain and protect the public safety and welfare.  Such findings
shall, in all cases, be entered by the authorizing official in the appropriate
daily records.  Circumstances justifying the removal of vehicles without prior
notice include vehicles abandoned on the streets.  For vehicles left on the
public streets and highways, the Town Council hereby determines that immediate
removal of the vehicles may be warranted when they are:
      (1)   Obstructing traffic;
      (2)   Parked in violation of an ordinance prohibiting or restricting
parking;
      (3)   Parked in a no stopping or standing zone;
      (4)   Parked in loading zones;
      (5)   Parked in bus zones; or
      (6)   Parked in violation of temporary parking restrictions imposed under
this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Other abandoned or nuisance vehicles.  With respect to abandoned or
nuisance vehicles left on town-owned property other than the streets and
highways, and on private property, the vehicles may be removed without giving
prior notice only in those circumstances where the authorizing official finds a
special need for prompt action to protect and maintain the public health,
safety and welfare.  By way of illustration and not of limitation, such
circumstances include vehicles blocking or obstructing ingress or egress to
businesses and residences, vehicles parked in such a location or manner as to
pose a traffic hazard, and vehicles causing damage to public or private
property.
(Ord. 729, passed 8-2-1994)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.09  REMOVAL OF VEHICLES; POST-TOWING NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle which has been ordered
removed may, as directed by the town, be removed to a storage garage or area by
the tow truck operator or towing business contracting to perform those services
for the town.  Whenever such a vehicle is removed, the authorizing town
official shall immediately notify the last known registered owner of the
vehicle, which notice to include the following:
      (1)   The description of the removed vehicle;
      (2)   The location where the vehicle is stored;
      (3)   The violation with which the owner is charged, if any;
      (4)   The procedure the owner must follow to redeem the vehicle; and
      (5)   The procedure the owner must follow to request a probable cause
hearing on the removal.
   (B)   The town shall attempt to give notice to the vehicle owner by
telephone; however, whether or not the owner is reached by telephone, written
notice, including the information set forth in divisions (A)(1) through (A)(5)
above, shall also be mailed to the registered owner’s last known address,
unless this notice is waived in writing by the vehicle owner or his or her
agent.
   (C)   If the vehicle is registered in this state, notice shall be given
within 24 hours from the removal of the vehicle.  If the vehicle is not
registered in this state, notice shall be given to the registered owner within
72 hours from the removal of the vehicle.
   (D)   Whenever an abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle is removed,
and the vehicle has no valid registration or registration plates, the
authorizing town official shall make reasonable efforts, including checking the
vehicle identification number, to determine the last known registered owner of
the vehicle and to notify him or her of the information set forth in divisions
(A)(1) through (A)(5) above.
(Ord. 729, passed 8-2-1994)
§ 90.10  RIGHT TO PROBABLE CAUSE HEARING BEFORE SALE OR FINAL DISPOSITION OF
VEHICLE.
   After the removal of an abandoned vehicle, nuisance vehicle or junked motor
vehicle, the owner or any other person entitled to possession is entitled to a
hearing for the purpose of determining if probable cause existed for removing
the vehicle.  A request for hearing must be filed in writing with the county
magistrate designated by the Chief District Court Judge to receive such hearing
requests.  The magistrate will set the hearing within 72 hours of receipt of
the request, and the hearing will be conducted in accordance with the
provisions of G.S. § 20-219.11.
(Ord. 729, passed 8-2-1994)
§ 90.11  REDEMPTION OF VEHICLE DURING PROCEEDINGS.
   At any stage in the proceedings, including before the probable cause
hearing, the owner may obtain possession of the removed vehicle by paying the
towing fee, including any storage charges, or by posting a bond for double the
amount of the fees and charges to the tow truck operator or towing business
having custody of the removed vehicle.  Upon regaining possession of a vehicle,
the owner or person entitled to the possession of the vehicle shall not allow
or engage in further violations of this chapter.
(Ord. 729, passed 8-2-1994)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.12  SALE AND DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLE.
   Any abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle which is not claimed by the
owner or other party entitled to possession will be disposed of by the tow
truck operator or towing business having custody of the vehicle.  Disposition
of the vehicle shall be carried out in coordination with the town and in
accordance with G.S. §§ 44A-1 et seq.
(Ord. 729, passed 8-2-1994)
§ 90.13  CONDITIONS ON REMOVAL OF VEHICLES FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   As a general policy, the town will not remove a vehicle from private
property if the owner, occupant or lessee of the property could have the
vehicle removed under applicable state law procedures.  In no case will a
vehicle be removed by the town from private property without a written request
of the owner, occupant or lessee, except in those cases where a vehicle is a
nuisance vehicle or is a junked motor vehicle which has been ordered removed by
the Town Code Enforcement Officer.  The town may require any person requesting
the removal of an abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle from private
property to indemnify the town against any loss, expenses or liability incurred
because of the removal, storage or sale thereof.
(Ord. 729, passed 8-2-1994)
§ 90.14  PROTECTION AGAINST CRIMINAL OR CIVIL LIABILITY.
   No person shall be held to answer in any civil or criminal action to any
owner or other person legally entitled to the possession of any abandoned, lost
or stolen motor vehicle, for disposing of the vehicle as provided in this
chapter.  Any person who removes a vehicle pursuant to this chapter shall not
be held liable for damages for removal of the vehicle to the owner, lienholder
or other person legally entitled to possession.
(Ord. 729, passed 8-2-1994)
§ 90.15  UNLAWFUL REMOVAL OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or attempt to remove from any
storage facility designated by the town any vehicle which has been impounded
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter unless and until all towing and
impoundment fees which are due, or bond in lieu of the fees, have been paid.
(Ord. 729, passed 8-2-1994)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.16  NO REMOVAL OF BUSINESS OR PERSONAL VEHICLE.
   No motor vehicle used on a regular basis for business or personal use shall
be removed pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 729, passed 8-2-1994)
§ 90.99  PENALTY.
   A violation of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine up to the maximum
allowable under state law per violation or imprisonment of up to 30 days, or
both.  A violation of this chapter shall also subject the violator to a civil
penalty of the greater of the maximum allowable under state law per separate
violation, or the town’s cost of inspection, service of notices, removal,
towing and permanently disposing of such vehicles, less any criminal monetary
fine which may have been imposed.  Each junked vehicle stored in violation of
this chapter shall constitute a separate violation.  Each week that the
separate violation shall continue or be carried on shall constitute an
additional separate violation.
(Ord. 729, passed 8-2-1994)
CHAPTER 91:  ANIMALS
Section
Dogs
   
91.01   Keeping of certain dogs a nuisance
   
91.02   Complaint and notice
   
91.03   Abatement
   
91.04   Impoundment upon failure to abate; destruction
   
91.05   Failure to abate a misdemeanor
   
91.06   Dogs running at large prohibited
 
   
91.99   Penalty
DOGS
§ 91.01  KEEPING OF CERTAIN DOGS A NUISANCE.
   (A)   The keeping within the corporate limits of the town of one or more
dogs which, by prolonged and habitual barking, howling or whining cause serious
annoyance to neighboring residents and interfere with the reasonable use and
enjoyment of the premises occupied by the residents, is hereby declared to be a
public nuisance, and shall be abated as provided in this chapter.
   (B)   The running at large of dogs having dangerous or destructive
propensities indicated by the turning over of garbage receptacles; the
destruction of shrubs, flowers, grass and other plant growth; the destruction
of other property; the killing of other animals; the attacking of persons; or
any other similar act or acts is hereby declared to be a public nuisance, and
shall be abated as provided in this chapter.
(1979 Code, § 8-2001)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02  COMPLAINT AND NOTICE.
   Upon written detailed and signed complaint being made to the Police
Department by any resident or residents that any person is maintaining a public
nuisance as described in §
91.01, the Chief of Police shall cause the owner or keeper of the dog or dogs
in question to be notified that a complaint has been received, and shall cause
the situation complained of to be investigated and a report and findings
thereon to be reduced to writing by the investigating officer.
(1979 Code, § 8-2002)
§ 91.03  ABATEMENT.
   If the written findings of the investigating officer indicate that the
complaint is justified, then the Chief of Police shall cause the owner or
keeper of the dog or dogs in question to be so notified in writing, and ordered
to abate the nuisance within 48 hours by destruction or removal of the dog or
dogs, or by penning, fencing or otherwise restraining the dog or dogs from
running at large at any time, as the case may be.  In the event the owner or
keeper of the dog or dogs is unknown and cannot be ascertained, the notice and
order, along with a general description of the dog or dogs, shall be posted for
48 hours at the Town Hall.
(1979 Code, § 8-2003)
§ 91.04  IMPOUNDMENT UPON FAILURE TO ABATE; DESTRUCTION.
   If any person, being the owner or keeper of a dog or dogs hereinabove
described, shall fail or refuse to abate the nuisance upon order of the Chief
of Police within the specified time, the Chief shall cause the dog or dogs in
question to be apprehended and impounded in a suitable place, and the owner or
keeper shall be notified in writing of the impoundment.  If the owner or keeper
shall so request, the dog or dogs shall be released to him or her upon his or
her execution of a written agreement to comply with the abatement order.  If no
such request and execution is made by the owner or keeper within five days
after written notice, the Chief of Police shall cause the dog or dogs to be
destroyed.  In the event of impoundment of a dog or dogs, the owner or keeper
of which was unknown, the Chief shall cause apprehension and impoundment to be
carried out if no one claims the dog within 48 hours after the notice, order
and description were posted, and shall cause a notice of impoundment, along
with a general description of the dog or dogs, to be posted for five days at
the Town Hall; if no request for release of the dog or dogs and execution of
agreement to comply with the order of abatement respecting the dog or dogs is
made within the five-day period, the Chief shall cause the dog or dogs to be
destroyed.
(1979 Code, § 8-2004)
§ 91.05  FAILURE TO ABATE A MISDEMEANOR.
   (A)   If any person, being the owner or keeper of a dog or dogs respecting
which an order of abatement has been issued, shall fail or refuse to abate the
nuisance as ordered, he or she shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable as
set forth in §
91.99.
   (B)   Enforcement of this chapter may be by injunction, restraining order or
order of abatement in a court of competent jurisdiction as provided by G.S. §
160A-175(d) and (e).
(1979 Code, § 8-2005)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06  DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner of a dog to permit the dog to run
at large or to be off the premises of its owner and not on a leash, under the
physical restraint of a competent person.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, a dog shall be deemed to run at
large while roaming or self-hunting off of the property of its owner; provided,
a dog which is hunting for game for which its owner must hold a hunting license
as required by the state shall not be deemed to be running at large nor to be
off the premises of its owner and not under the physical restraint of a
competent person, during the designated hunting season for the game so hunted.
(Ord. passed 12-19-1995)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99  PENALTY.
   Any person, being the owner or keeper of a dog or dogs who shall fail or 
refuse to abate the nuisance as set forth in this chapter, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, punishable upon conviction by a fine not exceeding $50 or
imprisonment not exceeding 30 days.
(1979 Code, § 8-2005)
CHAPTER 92:  CIVIL EMERGENCIES
Section
   
92.01   State of emergency; curfew authorized
§ 92.01  STATE OF EMERGENCY; CURFEW AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   A state of emergency shall be deemed to exist whenever, during times
of great public crisis, disaster, rioting, catastrophe or similar public
emergency, for any reason, municipal public safety authorities are unable to
maintain public order or afford adequate protection for lives or property.
   (B)   In the event of an existing or threatened state of emergency
endangering the lives, safety, health and welfare of the people within the
town, or threatening damage to or destruction of property, the Mayor is hereby
authorized and empowered to issue a public proclamation declaring to all
persons the existence of a state of emergency, and, in order to more
effectively protect the lives and property of people within the town, to place
in effect any or all of the restrictions hereinafter authorized.
   (C)   The Mayor is hereby authorized and empowered to limit by the
proclamation the application of all or any part of the restrictions to any area
specifically designated or described within the corporate limits of the town
and to specific hours of the day or night; and to exempt from all or any part
of the restrictions law enforcement officers, firefighters and other public
employees, doctors, nurses, employees of hospitals and other medical
facilities; on-duty military personnel, whether state or federal; on-duty
employees of public utilities, public transportation companies and newspaper,
magazine, radio broadcasting and television broadcasting corporations operated
for profit; and other classes of persons as may be essential to the
preservation of public order and immediately necessary to serve the safety,
health and welfare needs of the people within the town.
   (D)   The Mayor shall proclaim the end of the state of emergency or all or
any part of the restrictions imposed as soon as circumstances warrant or when
directed to do so by the Board.
   (E)   During the existence of a proclaimed state of emergency, the Mayor may
impose by proclamation any or all of the following restrictions:
      (1)   Prohibit or regulate the possession off one’s own premises of
explosives, firearms, ammunition or dangerous weapons of any kind, and prohibit
the purchase, sale, transfer or other disposition thereof;
      (2)   Prohibit or regulate the buying or selling of beer, wine or
intoxicating beverages of any kind, and their possession or consumption off
one’s own premises;
      (3)   Prohibit or regulate any demonstration, parade, march, vigil or
participation therein from taking place on any of the public ways or upon any
public property;
      (4)   Prohibit or regulate the sale of gasoline, kerosene, naphtha or any
other explosive or inflammable fluids or substances;
      (5)   Prohibit or regulate travel upon any public street, alley or
roadway or upon any other public property, except by those in search of medical
assistance, food or other commodity or service necessary to sustain the well-
being of themselves or their families or other member thereof; and
      (6)   Prohibit or regulate the participation in or carrying on of any
business activity, and prohibit or regulate the keeping open of places of
business, places of entertainment and any other places of public assembly.
   (F)   Any proclamation may be extended, altered or repealed in any
particular during the continued or threatened existence of a state of emergency
by the issuance of a subsequent proclamation.
   (G)   During the existence of a proclaimed state of emergency, it shall be
unlawful for any person to violate any provision of any restriction imposed by
any proclamation authorized by this chapter.
(1979 Code, § 3-3001)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Emergency response plan, see §§
36.45 through
36.48
Statutory reference:
Authority of the Mayor to declare an emergency, see G.S. § 14-288.12
CHAPTER 93:  FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
General Provisions
   
93.001   Mission
   
93.002   Vision
   
93.003   Adoption of Fire Prevention Code by reference
   
93.004   Enforcement
   
93.005   Applicability
   
93.006   Duties and responsibilities
   
93.007   North Carolina General Statutes governing fire protection within the
town
   
93.008   Fire inspection schedule
   
93.009   Fire prevention development
   
93.010   Combustible landscaping materials prohibited
   
93.011   Reporting hazards and violations
   
93.012   Permits for hazardous materials and fire hazard activities
   
93.013   Fire inspections
   
93.014   Projects and plan reviews
   
93.015   Temporary power
   
93.016   Non-compliant occupancies
   
93.017   Collection of fees
   
93.018   Mutual aid agreement
Open Burning
   
93.035   Prohibited burning
   
93.036   Outdoor grills/small open fires
   
93.037   Residential burning
   
93.038   Construction and land-clearing burning without a permit
   
93.039   Construction and land-clearing burning by permit only
 
   
93.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.001  MISSION.
   It is the mission of the Fire Prevention Program to minimize the risk of
fire and other hazardous conditions that affects our citizens, visitors,
businesses and emergency responders. Through prevention, education and
enforcement of the State Fire Code within the town and extra territorial
jurisdiction limits.
(Ord. 10-11, passed 7-6-2010; Ord. 14-17, passed 12-2-2014)
§ 93.002  VISION.
   To establish and maintain successful partnerships within the business
community to reduce risk associated with loss of life and property from fire
and other susceptible hazards.
(Ord. 10-11, passed 7-6-2010)
§ 93.003 ADOPTION OF FIRE PREVENTION CODE BY REFERENCE.
   The North Carolina State Building Code: International Fire Code with North
Carolina Amendments, and associated appendices are hereby adopted by reference
as fully as set forth herein as the Fire Prevention Code for the town.
   (A)   Fire Flow Requirements for Buildings.
   (B)   Fire Hydrant Locations and Distribution.
   (C)   Fire Apparatus Access Roads.
   (D)   Hazard Categories.
   (E)   Hazard Ranking.
   (F)   Cryogenic Fluids - Weight and Volume Equivalents.
   (G)   Hazard Materials Management Plan and Hazardous Materials Inventory
Statement Instructions.
   Appendices (A) through (G) are hereby adopted by reference as fully set
forth as the Fire Prevention Code for the town. The extent the North Carolina
State Building Code: Fire Prevention Code is hereafter amended and the
amendment is inconsistent with the current edition hereby adopted, §
93.003 herein shall be automatically amended in accordance with the State Fire
Code amendments. An official copy of the code shall be kept in the office of
the Fire Code Official.
(Ord. 10-11, passed 7-6-2010; Am. Ord. 11-18, passed 11-1-2011; Ord. 14-17,
passed 12-2-2014)
§ 93.004  ENFORCEMENT.
   The code hereby adopted shall be enforced by the Fire Code Official as
defined by FIRE CODE OFFICIAL within the North Carolina Building Code: Fire
Prevention Code. The code hereby adopted shall be enforced throughout the town
and extra-territorial jurisdiction in accordance with G.S. § 160A-360 and Town
of Shallotte Code of Ordinances pertaining to the extra-territorial
jurisdiction. The Fire Code Official is hereby given all necessary special
police powers for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 10-11, passed 7-6-2010; Ord. 14-17, passed 12-2-2014)
§ 93.005  APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of the town fire prevention ordinance shall apply equally to
both public and private property, and the code shall apply to all structures
and their occupancies, except as otherwise specified by the North Carolina
State Building Code: Fire Prevention Code.
(Ord. 10-11, passed 7-6-2010)
§ 93.006  DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The Fire Code Official shall conform to qualification requirements under
G.S. § 160A-411.1. The duties and responsibilities therein shall be to enforce
within the town and the extra-territorial jurisdiction state and local laws
relating to G.S. § 160A-412 to include:
   (A)   The construction of buildings and other structures enforced by North
Carolina Fire Prevention Code.
   (B)   The installation of fire protection systems of such as fire alarm and
detection, automatic sprinklers, alternative automatic fire extinguishing,
standpipes, portable fire extinguishers, emergency alarms, smoke control, Fire
Department connections, fire pumps, and fire protection based on specific
detailed requirements of use and occupancy.
   (C)   The maintenance of buildings and other structures in safe conditions.
   (D)   Receive applications and supporting data for permits.
   (E)   Issue or deny permits.
   (F)   Make all necessary inspections to ensure code compliance.
   (G)   Identify technical provisions found to be inconsistent with the
inspection.
   (H)   Issue or deny certificates of compliance and certificates of
occupancy.
   (I)   Issue stop work orders or orders to correct violations.
   (J)   Maintain adequate records or permits issued or denied, inspections
made, corrections ordered and certificates issued.
   (K)   Take other actions that may be required to adequately enforce the
code.
   (L)   Other similar matters that may be specified by the Town Council.
(Ord. 10-11, passed 7-6-2011; Ord. 14-17, passed 12-2-2014)
§ 93.007  NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUES GOVERNING FIRE PROTECTION WITHIN THE
TOWN.
   Most of the statutory provisions relating to cities and towns are contained
in G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 19, respectively “Planning and Regulation of
Development.” These statutes and the town ordinances govern the operation of
the inspection department per the building code ordinance.
(Ord. 10-11, passed 7-6-2011; Ord. 14-17, passed 12-2-2014)
§ 93.008  FIRE INSPECTION SCHEDULE.
   (A)   In order to preserve and protect public health and safety, and to
satisfy the requirements of G.S. § 160A-424, with respect to political
subdivisions assuming inspection duties, as set out in G.S. § 160A-411, and to
satisfy the requirements of the State Building Code, the following inspection
schedule shall apply to all buildings within the town except those buildings
within the town except those buildings listed under § 106, “Inspection
Schedules” in the North Carolina State Building Code: Fire Prevention Code 2009
edition. In no case may inspections be conducted less than frequent than
described in the schedule below:
 
                       Hazardous, Institutional, High-rise, Assembly, except
Once every year        those noted below, and Residential except one- and two-
                       family dwelling units of multi-family occupancies.
Once every two years   Industrial and Educational (except public school)
                       Assembly occupancies with an occupant load less than
Once every three years 100, Businesses, Mercantile, Storage, Churches,
                       Synagogues and miscellaneous Group U occupancies
 
   (B)   Frequency rates for inspections of occupancies as mandated by the
North Carolina General Statutes shall supersede this schedule. Nothing in this
schedule is intended to prevent more frequent inspections as needed to preserve
and to protect public health and safety.
(Ord. 10-11, passed 7-6-2011)
§ 93.009  FIRE PREVENTION DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Fire hydrants. The following requirements shall be met for each new
hydrant erected in the town and extra-territorial jurisdiction.
      (1)   All hydrants must have three ports (outlets): one, 4-1/2 inches in
diameter, two, 2-1/2 inches in diameter, all bearing national standard threads
(NST). The Town Fire Code Official locations in accordance with the North
Carolina Fire Code.
      (2)   Hydrant outlets shall be placed 18 inches to 24 inches above ground
at finished grade.
      (3)    All hydrants shall have at lateral gate valve within ten inches of
hydrant for that hydrant only.
      (4)   When running the water line to the hydrant, there shall be no dead
end laterals off main lines and water lines shall be looped.
      (5)   All new hydrants that are installed by independent contractors
shall be reviewed, inspected and approved by the Fire Code Official before the
hydrant is dedicated to the town.
      (6)   All hydrants that are not in service shall be bagged to visibly
identify that the hydrant is “not in service” and shall remain bagged until th
hydrant is dedicated and placed in service.
      (7)   All newly installed fire hydrant locations shall be identified with
a blue reflector that will be permanently installed in the center road of
travel lane closer to the fire hydrant.
      (8)   Water lines serving hydrants shall be no smaller than six inches in
size.
      (9)   Water lines servicing hydrants will not be downsized and then
upsized.
      (10)   All hydrants on town water lines shall be painted in accordance
with the Town of Shallotte Fire Prevention Development Standards Manual.
      (11)   No hydrant shall be fenced in or barricaded in ay manner so as to
impeded access.
      (12)   No hydrant may be used by any person or organization other tan the
town or Fire Department personnel without written permission (permit) from the
Utilities Director.
      (13)   If permission is granted for the use of a fire hydrant, no
appliance, hose, or fitting may be left attached to the hydrant. While using
the hydrant, an individual must be present at the hydrant and be capable of
immediate restoring hydrant to normal operating condition.
      (14)   Any person granted permission (permit) or the use of a fire
hydrant shall produce an “approved” fire hydrant wrench at time of permit
issuance to be verified by the Fire Code Official as to its approved type. Pipe
wrenches shall not be considered of “approved” type.
      (15)   Any fire hydrants required to meet needed fire-flow requirements
shall be installed prior to any building construction on al commercial
projects.
   (B)   Fire protection systems.  The following requirements shall be met for
each new or retrofit of an existing fire protection system erected in the town
and the extra-territorial jurisdiction.
      (1)   Any fire protection system that is subject to regulation by the
Fire Code shall conform to all applicable standards, guidelines and
requirements to include but not limited to the North Carolina Fire Code,
National Fire Protection Association, and specific manufacturers
specifications.
      (2)   Where a fire sprinkler system is required in accordance with
Chapter 9 of the North Carolina Fire Code a fire department connection (FDC)
shall be located within 150 feet of a fire hydrant. In addition, signage and
design for a fire department connection (FDC) shall conform to the technical
specifications within Town of Shallotte Fire Prevention Standards Manual.
      (3)   Where a fire alarm system is required in accordance with Chapter 9
of the North Carolina Fire Code all commercial locations with a fire alarm
system shall have a legend and operating instructions posted a the annunciator
panel.
      (4)   Where a smoke control system is required in accordance with Chapter
9 of the North Carolina Fire Code all commercial locations with a duct detector
(s) shall automatically shutdown via global shutdown to prevent and reduce the
spread of super heated gases and smoke within a commercial building. In
addition to having a manual key operated reset station within access to Fire
Department personnel within a maximum height of six feet from floor service.
Where a fire alarm system is provided all duct detectors shall be monitored by
the fire alarm systems and activate a general fire alarm mode upon smoke
detection system activation.
      (5)   Where a fire sprinkler system is required in accordance with
Chapter 9 of the North Carolina Fire Code a yard post indicator valve (PIV)
shall be required and meet the specifications within the Town of Shallotte Fire
Prevention Development Standards Manual. In addition to a breakaway padlock
installed as a locking mechanism to prevent tampering.
   (C)   Fire Department connections (FDC). The following requirements shall be
met for each new Fire Department connection erected in the town and extra-
territorial jurisdiction:
      (1)   Minimum size pipe shall be four-inch diameter.
      (2)   All Fire Department inlet pumper connections shall have at least
one, 2-1/2-inch female siamese-swivel connection with national standard threads
and protective two and one-half locking Knox plugs with swivel-guard.
      (3)   The Fire Department connections at buildings provided with more
than two standpipe risers shall have one 2-1/2-inch female siamese-swivel
connection with national standard threads, for each additional standpipe riser.
      (4)   Fire Department connection on residential structures with
residential sprinkler systems shall have on single two and one-half-inch
national standard threads swivel connection.
      (5)   All Fire Department connections shall be located not less than 18
inches, nor more than five feet above finished grade.
      (6)   All Fire Department connections shall be provided a clear shape of
ten feet horizontally and vertically in all directions.
      (7)   All Fire Department connections shall be readily visible and not
more tan 50 feet from a street, fire lane or similar area providing access to
Fire Department apparatus. The area between the connection and vehicular access
shall be free of obstructions.
      (8)   There shall be an approved pumper fire hydrant within 150 feet of
the Fire Department connection measured along an approved path of travel for
the fire apparatus.
      (9)   A Fire Department connection (FDC) sign shall be in accordance with
the Town of Shallotte Fire Prevention Development Standards Manual.
   (D)   Fire lanes/emergency vehicle lanes. 
      (1)   Fire lanes shall be designated at all locations within the
authority and jurisdiction of the town in accordance with the North Carolina
Fire Code and as approved by the Fire Code Official.
      (2)   Fire lanes installed shall conform to the requirements of the North
Carolina Fire Code and shall approved by the Fire Code Official prior to
installation.
      (3)   Fire lanes shall be installed in accordance with the specifications
within the Town of Shallotte Fire Prevention Developer Standards Manual.
   (E)   Signs and marking.  Existing fire lanes shall continue in effect as
installed until such time as they are in need of re-stripping due to wear or
re-paving. When re-striped, existing fire lanes shall be installed to current
specifications within Town of Shallotte Fire Prevention Development Standards
Manual.
   (F)   Knox box program.
      (1)   A Knox box(s) shall be required when a commercial occupancy meets
one of the following items below. the intent is for commercial occupancies
within the town and the extra-territorial jurisdiction to provide a means of
immediate access necessary for life-saving or fire-fighting purposes.
         (a)   Where fire protection systems are present to include but not
limited to fire sprinklers, hood systems, fire alarms, fire pumps and duct
detectors.
         (b)   Exception, where a shopping plaza is involved a single Knox box
model 4100 series can be used to serve the plaza in its entirety where units
don’t exceed 24 units when 24 units are exceed a model 4400 series will be
required.
      (2)   Existing commercial buildings shall be required to install a Knox
box at the request of the Fire Code Official when on of the following
situations occur.
         (a)   An addition, remodel, or upfit to the structure where fire
protection systems are required to include but not limited to fire sprinklers,
hood systems, fire alarms, for pumps, and duct detectors.
         (b)   Exception, where a shopping plaza is involved a single Knox box
model 4100 series can be used to serve the plaza in its entirety where units
don’t exceed 24 units, when 24 units are exceed a model 4400 model series will
be required.
      (3)   Knox box order forms are available and issued out by the Fire Code
Official.
      (4)   Additional sets of access keys will be required if building consist
of multiple stories (Example: two stories, two sets; three stories, three sets;
etc.).
      (5)   Master key(s) to the building must be kept updated and the Fire
Code Official shall be notified when locks are changed out and provided with
updated keys to be stored within the Knox box on site for that occupancy type.
   (G)   Electrical power shutdown box program.
      (1)   (a)   A Knox Electrical Power Shutdown box shall be required on all
new commercial construction types listed below. the intent is for commercial
occupancies within the town an the extra-territorial jurisdiction to provide a
means immediate shutdown by emergency responders during an emergency to remove
electrical shock hazards and possible fuel sources related to electricity to
reduce risks and control utilities for fire-fighting purposes.
         (b)   Only applies to the following occupancy types: large assembly,
factory industrial, educational, high-hazard, institutional and residential
group R-1 hotels and motels. these occupancy types indicate an increased life
safety or additional hazard(s) to emergency responders.
      (2)   (a)   Existing commercial buildings listing in division (G)(1)
above shall be required to install an Electrical Power Shutdown box at the
request of the Fire Code Official when one of the following situations occur.
         (b)   When a change in operation, use, upfit, addition that creates
the following occupancy, types: large assembly, factory industrial,
educational, high-hazard, institutional, and residential group R-1 hotels and
motels. These occupancy types indicate an increased life safety or additional
hazard(s) to emergency responders.
   (H)   Data storage box program.
      (1)   A data storage box shall contain current information to assist the
Fire Department and hazardous materials teams responding to emergencies at the
facility including but not limited to, facility maps or plans showing the type,
quantities, container material, and locations of hazardous materials, Tier II
forms, lists of chemicals with CAS numbers, telephone numbers for facility
employees and other person to be contracted in case of such emergencies.
      (2)   All information requested shall be provided in the forms provided
by the Fire Code Official, or in a substantially similar format, and must be
placed in the date storage box. Such information must be updated continuously
to ensure its accuracy.
      (3)   The date storage box itself shall be Knox box model 1100 type. Knox
box order forms are available and issued out by the Fire Code Official.
      (4)   This shall only apply to occupancy types of a factory industrial
classification according to the North Carolina Building Code: Fire Prevention
Code.
      (5)   A data storage box shall be required on all new commercial factory
industrial buildings and contain all required information.
      (6)   A data storage box shall be required on all existing commercial
factory industrial buildings within 12 months following adoption of this
chapter and pending written notification delivered in person as well as
certified mail to inform the operator of the program and the intent related to
hazardous material mitigation following an incident.
   (I)   Fire Prevention Development Specification Manual Program.
      (1)   The Town of Shallotte Fire Prevention Development Standards Manual
utilizes the North Carolina Building Code as the basis for application of
standards within.
      (2)   All references within the Manual include the current North Carolina
Building Codes with North Carolina Building Code Council Amendments as
periodically revised and adopted by the State of North Carolina.
      (3)   These are minimum fire prevention standards only and are not to be
construed as complying with the other regulations of other departments of the
town.
      (4)   The omission of any code requirements not listed within the
development manual does not excuse the requirement.
      (5)   The development manual should be updated and reflect changes when
significant changes occur within the North Carolina State Fire Code.
(Ord. 10-11, passed 7-6-2011; Ord. 14-17, passed 12-2-2014)
§ 93.010  COMBUSTIBLE LANDSCAPING MATERIALS PROHIBITED.
   No pine straw or any other material with a fire rate of spread more than 24
inches per minute shall be placed, kept, or stored within ten feet of
commercial building with combustible exterior construction.
(Ord. 10-11, passed 7-6-2011)
§ 93.011  REPORTING HAZARDS AND VIOLATIONS.
   The Fire Code Official will respond to ay complaint regarding a life safety
hazard, illegal commercial burning, and any other Fire Code violation or fire
ordinance violation in the town or its extra-territorial jurisdiction.
   (A)   How to report a hazard or violation. A hazard or violation may be
reported at any time. They may be reported directly to the Fire Code Official
at 910-253-5383. If it is after normal business hours, you can contact the
Brunswick County Fire Marshal directly via e-mail.
   (B)   Required information for complaints. All complaints will require the
following information to be recorded in order for the complaint to proceed:
      (1)   Name of the person filing the complaint;
      (2)   Address and phone number of person filing the complaint;
      (3)   Location of hazard or violation; and
      (4)   Type of problem, hazard or violation.
   (C)   Records. A written record of all complaints will be maintained in the
Office of the Fire Code Official. A report will be attached to the complaint
stating any violations or hazards found and what actions were taken.
(Ord. 10-11, passed 7-6-2011; Ord. 14-17, passed 12-2-2014)
§ 93.012  PERMITS FOR HAZARDOUS MATERIALS AND FIRE HAZARD ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   The owner or operator of any facility in the town and extra-
territorial jurisdiction engaged in the manufacturing, storage or use of
hazardous materials or engage in operation which produce conditions considered
to present an extra or unusual fire hazard to life or property shall obtain a
permit from the Fire Department prior to the commencement of the activities.
Without limiting the generally of the foregoing, permits shall be required for
the following activities:
      (1)   Storage of hazardous materials in buildings.
      (2)   Above-ground storage of flammable or hazardous material.
      (3)   Below ground storage of flammable or hazardous material.
      (4)   The storage, use or handling of explosive materials.
      (5)   Aerial display of fireworks.
      (6)   Any activities requiring a permit under the Fire Prevention Code.
   (B)   Applications for permits shall be made to the Fire Code Official on
forms provided by the town. Applications for permits shall be accompanied by
such data as may be required by the Fire Code Official.
      (1)   A permit shall be issued by the Fire Code Official upon the payment
of all applicable permit fees as set forth in the fee schedule and compliance
with applicable provisions of the Fire Prevention Code, NFPA 704, the reporting
requirements of the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986 and
the provisions of this chapter. The permit fees shall be in addition to
anyother fees. A permit may be denied if the applicant fails to meet the
requirements of this action. If the permit is denied, the Fire Code Official
shall advise the applicant in writing of the reasons for the denial.
      (2)   Unless otherwise specified in the fee schedule, a permit issued
pursuant to this section shall extend for the 12-month period beginning July 1
and ending June 30. Renewal applications are due not later than July 1 of each
year. However, if a person begins an operation subject to the provisions of
this section after June 1 of any year, the permit shall be issued before the
business is begun. Permits for special activities shall be valid only for the
permitted event or occurrence, and a new permit shall be obtained for each
event or occurrence.
      (3)   Permit(s) will be valid for the same period as specified in the
inspection schedule in Chapter 1, § 106 N.C. Fire Code.
      (4)   Permits are not transferrable to other locations or persons, firms,
or corporations. When an owner or operator is required to obtain more than one
permit, the permits may be consolidated onto one permit form. Such consolidated
permit form shall list all the hazardous materials or operations covered by the
separate permits. When an owner or operator is required to obtain more than one
permit for the activities conducted at any location, the owner or operator
shall pay the fees as set forth in the fee schedule for each permitted
activity.
      (5)   Any person, firm or corporation who fails to obtain a permit as
required by this section shall be required to pay twice the amount of the
standard permit fee prior to the issuance of the permit.
      (6)   Permit fee(s) shall not exceed $500 on operational permit
consolidation(s) per occupancy.
      (7)   Operational permits will apply if one of the following occurs
during a new construction situation. Change of use, change of occupancy or
failing to bring occupancy into compliance within 120 days from initial
inspection for exiting occupancies.
      (8)   Construction permits will apply to all new and existing
occupancies.
      (9)   Foster care and group homes shall be exempt from permit and
inspection fees.
      (10)   Fee schedule (see town annual budget ordinance.)
(Ord. 10-11, passed 7-6-2011; Ord. 14-17, passed 12-2-2014)
§ 93.013  FIRE INSPECTIONS.
   The Fire Code Official is responsible for inspecting businesses and town
properties to insure that business owners, employees and the general public are
safe from fire and safety hazards in accordance with the North Carolina
Building Code: Fire Prevention Code and all associated appendices.
   (A)   On all new and renovated businesses, the inspector shall bill the
owner for the fire prevention inspections as outlined. (See town annual budget
ordinance.)
   (B)   On all existing businesses, including the initial and each subsequent
follow-up inspection, the inspector shall bill the owner for the fire
prevention inspections as outlined. (See town annual budget ordinance.)
   (C)   Non-compliant occupancies that fail to correct identified fire
violations by the third re-inspection shall be billed as follows until the
business is compliant. (See town annual budget ordinance.)
(Ord. 10-11, passed 7-6-2011; Ord. 14-07, passed 6-18-2014; Ord. 14-17, passed
12-2-2014)
§ 93.014  PROJECTS AND PLAN REVIEWS.
   (A)   All projects will be issued a project fee for plan reviews and
construction-related inspections for site plans, utility plans, building plans,
fire protection, and final inspection activities. This inclusive fee shall be
billed as follows: See town annual budget ordinance.
   (B)   All occupancy types listed in Chapter 2 of the North Carolina Building
Code: Fire Prevention Code that involve but are not limited to the following
activities: new construction, change of use, alteration, remodel, repair,
renovation or reconstruction shall be billed as follows: See town annual budget
ordinance.
(Ord. 10-11, passed 7-6-2011; Ord. 14-07, passed 6-18-2014)
§ 93.015  TEMPORARY POWER.
   (A)   See town fee schedule for fore prevention temporary power inspections.
   (B)   Temporary power shall be requested by the project contractor or other
appointed representative. The Fire Code Official will inspect the project for
compliance with temporary power requirements and issue temporary power for 30
days. In the event that a time extension is needed it is the responsibility of
the project contractor to or other appointed representative to request for a
temporary power extension which will be issued for an additional 30 days. In
the event that a temporary power becomes expired the project contractor or
other appointed representative will be contacted by the Fire Code Official
informing them that the temporary power is expired and they need to request an
extension. Failure to request temporary power extension after being notified
will result in power being pulled from Brunswick Electric Membership
Corporation personnel. These fees address temporary power inspections.
(Ord. 10-11, passed 7-6-2011; Ord. 14-17, passed 12-2-2014)
§ 93.016  NON-COMPLIANT OCCUPANCIES.
   Non-compliant occupancies shall be handled in the following manner:
   (A)   Non-compliant sticker affixed to the occupancy entry door(s) after the
third re-inspection visit where an occupant fails to correct identified fire
violations.
   (B)   A summary of abatement letter issued to occupant and owner of the
property in accordance with North Carolina Fire Code identifying all fire
violations to be abated.
   (C)   If conditions are non present to prompt an evacuation in accordance
with § 110.2 of the North Carolina Fire Code an abatement plan of action shall
be established between the owner, occupant and Fire Code Official’s office that
outlines objectives to be met to become in compliance with a time line
established and approved by the Fire Code Official.
(Ord. 10-11, passed 7-6-2011; Ord. 14-17, passed 12-2-2014)
§ 93.017  COLLECTION OF FEES.
   (A)   Fire plane review fees.  Plan review fees shall be collected prior to
issuance of any building or fire permits.
   (B)   Fire inspection fee (new construction). A fire inspection fee shall be
issued at the fine of final fire prevention inspection for any outstanding fire
prevention inspection/activities fees. Before a final certificate or occupancy,
temporary occupant, contractor(s) or subcontractor(s) shall be paid to the town
in full before same is released to Brunswick County Permit Department by the
Fire Code Official.
   (C)   Fire inspection fees (existing buildings). The fee for an inspection
of an existing building shall be assessed and an invoice will be supplied to
the owner, occupant, or designee. Subjects will have 15 days to remit payment.
After 15 days the bill will be placed in a past due status and a second invoice
will be sent to the subject. After a period of 30 days of non-payment a third
notice will be sent to the subject. After a period of 60 days of non-payment,
the account will be subject to a 10% late fee and the account will be placed on
hold and no additional fire permits or privilege licenses will be issued, civil
action will be taken through a debt setoff agency after a period of 180 days.
(Ord. 10-11, passed 7-6-2011; Ord. 14-17, passed 12-2-2014)
§ 93.018  MUTUAL AID AGREEMENT.
   (A)   The Brunswick County Fire Marshal’s Office shall be utilized by the
request of the Town Administrator to enforce the North Carolina Fire Code
within the town and extra-territorial jurisdiction in the event a Shallotte
Fire Code Official is unavailable to carryout a Fire Code enforcement activity.
   (B)   The intent is to provide a standardized, systemic, and a service
continuity approach related to Fire Code enforcement. Where as Brunswick County
Fire Marshal’s Office is able to provide qualified, experienced, and active
Fire Code inspectors related to the Fire Code enforcement industry as regulated
by the North Carolina Code Official’s qualification period.
(Ord. 10-11, passed 7-6-2011; Ord. 14-17, passed 12-2-2014)
OPEN BURNING
§ 93.035  PROHIBITED BURNING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or business to set or cause to be set
any fire within the town or extraterritorial jurisdiction that:
   (A)   Violates any federal, state or local air quality open burning
regulations. Provisions of the NC Administrative Code, Section 1900- Open
Burning must be adhered to and hereby adopted by reference by the Town Board of
Aldermen;
   (B)   Specifically violates any provisions of the North Carolina State
Building Code: Fire Code;
   (C)   At the Fire Code Official’s discretion when atmospheric conditions or
local circumstances make such fires hazardous or whenever the Fire Code
Official determines that an open burning is not in the best interest of the
safety and welfare of the general public as provided in the North Carolina
State Building Code: Fire Code;
   (D)   Endangers the safety of any person or property;
   (E)   Endangers the health of any person at the discretion of the Fire Code
Officials; or
   (F)   Contains any of the following materials:
      (1)   Household solid waste;
      (2)   New or used vehicle tires;
      (3)   Petroleum products;
      (4)   Hazardous waste;
      (5)   Construction or demolition waste;
      (6)   Garbage or municipal solid waste;
      (7)   Any lumber or woods products that are called or sold as treated
lumber or treated wood;
      (8)   Any lumber or wood that has been treated with or contains creosote;
      (9)   Carpet;
      (10)   Electrical wire;
      (11)   Appliances;
      (12)   Animal carcasses; or
      (13)   Any other item thought by federal, state or local government to be
public nuisance or hazard.
(Ord. passed 5-2-2000; Ord. passed 1-6-2009; Ord. 10-11, passed 7-6-2010; Ord.
14-17, passed 12-2-2014)  Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.036  OUTDOOR GRILLS/SMALL OPEN FIRES.
   It shall be unlawful and prohibited for any person or business to set, or
cause to be set, or ignite any charcoal and/or gas grills, or any type of open
fire, on any outside porch, patio or landing above ground level or within ten
feet of combustible materials. A competent person shall constantly attend
grills until the fire is extinguished as set forth in the North Carolina State
Building Code: Fire Code.
(Ord. passed 5-2-2000; Ord. passed 1-6-2009)  Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.037  RESIDENTIAL BURNING.
   Residential burning shall be allowed as follows:
   (A)   A residential open burning permit is not required for one- and two-
family dwellings within the town or extraterritorial jurisdiction involving
open burning within 100 feet of a dwelling or structure.
   (B)   The following should be taken into consideration by the owner or
occupant that is to perform the open burn:
      (1)   Provide courtesy notification to the Fire Department of the
physical address and approximate time period(s) that open burning will be
conducted;
      (2)   Burn only natural vegetative debris, to include but not limited to
leaves, tree branches and yard debris;
      (3)   Limit burning when it is evident that smoke will create a nuisance
to neighboring properties;
      (4)   Constantly attend the fire until it is extinguished;
      (5)   Piles of vegetative debris should be of reasonable size to maintain
control of the area of fire origin; and
      (6)   Fire extinguishing equipment should be available on site to contain
fire to area of origin. Equipment includes but is not limited to a water source
such as a garden hose or bucket and hand tools such as a shovel or rake.
(Ord. passed 5-2-2000; Ord. passed 1-6-2009; Ord. 10-11, passed 7-6-2010)
§ 93.038  CONSTRUCTION AND LAND-CLEARING BURNING WITHOUT A PERMIT.
   No construction and/or land-clearing burning shall be allowed except as
follows:
   (A)   The purpose is to burn materials generated as a result of a natural
disaster. Burning under this section shall require that a state of emergency
has been declared;
   (B)   Burning for the purpose of training firefighting personnel; and
   (C)   The town, for the greater public good, initiates the burning of land-
clearing debris.
(Ord. passed 5-2-2000; Ord. passed 1-6-2009)  Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.039  CONSTRUCTION AND LAND-CLEARING BURNING BY PERMIT ONLY.
   (A)   Permissible open burning with required permit.  While recognizing that
excessive open burning can contribute to air pollution, certain types of open
burning may reasonably be allowed.  The authority to conduct open burning under
the provisions of this section does not exempt or excuse a person from the
consequences, damages or injuries which may result from such conduct, nor does
it excuse or exempt any person from complying with all applicable laws,
ordinances, regulations and orders of other governmental entities having
jurisdiction even though the open burning is conducted in compliance with this
section.  A permit fee schedule will be set periodically by the Town Board of
Aldermen.
   (B)   Types.  The following types of open burning shall be permissible with
a town burning permit to be issued by the Fire Code Official.
      (1)   Fires purposely set to agricultural lands for disease and pest
control and other accepted agricultural or wildlife management practices;
      (2)   Fires purposely set to forest lands for accepted forest management
practices;
      (3)   Fires purposely set in rural areas for rights-of-way maintenance;
and
      (4)   The burning of waste materials, trees, brush and other vegetable
matter in connection with construction projects and the clearing of land
orrights-of-way, provided that the following conditions are reviewed by the
Fire Code Official and/or Fire Chief and are adhered to as follows:
         (a)   Prevailing winds at the time of the burning must be away from
the town or built-up areas within the town or the town’s extraterritorial
jurisdiction, the ambient air of which may be significantly affected by smoke,
fly-ash, or other air contaminants from the burning;
         (b)   The location of the burning shall be at least 1,000 feet from
any dwelling located in a predominantly residential area other than a dwelling
or structure located on the property on which the burning is conducted;
         (c)   The amount of dirt on the material being burned shall be
minimized;
         (d)   Provided that no items listed in §
93.035(F) of this subchapter and no heavy oils, asphaltic materials, items
containing natural or synthetic rubber or any other materials other than plant
growth shall not be burned;
         (e)   Initial burning may generally be commenced only between the
hours of 9:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m., and no combustible material shall be added to
the fire between 3:00 p.m. of the day that the burning commences and 9:00 a.m.
of the following day. It shall be the responsibility of the owner or operator
of the burning operation (permittee) to have adequate control measures to
extinguish the fire as determined by the Fire Code Official and/or Fire Chief;
         (f)   At no point shall the owner or operator of the open burning
operation (permittee) fail to have the fire tended or guarded until it has been
fully extinguished;
         (g)   Owner or operator of the open burning operation shall obtain a
required town burning permit, for a set fee as periodically adopted andamended
by the Board of Aldermen, from the Fire Code Official and/or Fire Chief. At no
time  shall such open burning operation begin without the authorized permission
of the town;
         (h)   Permits or permission granted by the town under this section
shall be subject to continued review and may be withdrawn at any time at the
discretion of the Fire Code Official and/or Fire Chief. At which time, the open
burning shall be extinguished by the operator of the open burning operation
(permittee);
         (i)   A copy of the permit shall be visibly displayed on-site at all
times and a copy of the permit be kept on the possession of the responsible
party tending the burning operation; and
         (j)   Provided that all federal, state and local regulations, all
applicable laws, ordinances, regulations and orders of other governmental
entities having jurisdiction.
(Ord. passed 1-6-2009; Ord. 10-11, passed 7-6-2010; Ord. 14-17, passed 12-2-
2014) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter for
which no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Violations of §§
93.001 through
93.018. This chapter may also be enforced by an appropriate equitable remedy
issuing from a court of competent jurisdiction. In such cases, the General
Court of Justice shall have jurisdiction to issue such orders as may be
appropriate, and it shall not be a defense to the application of the town for
equitable relief that there is an adequate remedy at law.
      (1)   Criminal remedies. Any person who shall violate or fail to comply
with any provisions of this code shall be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor and
shall be fined. Each day that such violation continues shall constitute a
separate and distinct criminal offense. Punishable as hereinbefore provided and
fined $100 per violation type per day until violation(s) have been abated.
      (2)   Civil penalties. In addition to, or in lieu of, criminal penalties
set forth in division (B)(1), life safety civil penalties for non-compliant
conditions or activities found during an initial fire inspection, site visit,
or compliant are as follows:
Penalty Fine
Penalty                                                                           Fine
(a)   Overcrowding. Occupancy of a building in excess of the posted occupant lo$500
as defined in § 1004 of the NC Fire Code.
(b)   Block exit. Any obstruction in the required width of a means of egress. (A
means of egress is the continuous and unobstructed path of vertical and
horizontal egress travel from any point in a building or structure to a public    $500
way, consisting of three separate and distinct parts: the exit access, the exit,
and the exit discharge.)
(c)   Spraying operation not complying with the code. Spraying flammable or
combustible finishes without a properly installed spray booth or approved         $100
spraying area.
(d)   Fire alarm system inspection/maintenance. Failure to have the required
annual maintenance test conducted of the fire alarm system(s), all deficiencies   $100
corrected, and to have required documentation of test(s) available to the fire
code official on site.
(e)   Fire suppression system inspection/maintenance. Failure to have the
required annual maintenance test conducted of all the fire suppression system(s), $100
all deficiencies corrected, and to have required documentation of test(s)
available to the fire code official on site.
(f)   Unauthorized storage. The storage of flammable, combustible or hazardous $100
liquids or materials improperly stored and/or without a permit.
(g)   Emergency lighting inspection/maintenance. Failure to provide documentation
and/or to conduct the required emergency lighting tests set forth in § 604.6 of  $50
the NC Fire Code.
(h)   Fire extinguisher inspection/maintenance. Failure to properly maintain an$50
service required portable fire extinguishers.
(i)   Use of non-approved heating appliances. The use of non-listed heating    $50
appliances and/or use in an unapproved manner or location.
(j)   Other life safety matters not provided for. Other life safety matters not$50
listed above.
Notes:
1.   Each day’s continuing violation shall constitute a separate offense as provided
by G.S. 160A-175(g). Each day such violation(s) continues, however, shall be a
separate and distinct offense, punishable as hereinbefore provided and fined $100 per
day.
2.   Fire alarm, fire sprinkler, hood systems, and other fire suppression systems and
equipment that are no more than 30 days past due owners, operators or tenants have 72
hours of due notice to have a fire protection company correct violation(s) and found
to be in code compliance by the Fire Code Official to avoid having a civil penalty
levied.
3.   Fire alarm, fire sprinkler, hood system, other fire suppression systems and
equipment discovered during a fire inspection or a site visit that in order to abate
the violation will require a construction permit for a pre-existing system owners,
operators or tenants have 96 hours of due notice to have a fire protection company
assess the fire protection situation and submit a construction permit application to
the Fire Code Official’s office within three weeks following the fire protection
assessment period to avoid having a civil penalty levied.
4.   An owner, operator or tenant that is issued a civil penalty may submit a letter
to the Fire Code Official’s office requesting the civil penalty be waived provided
that the condition or activity is corrected and found to be in code compliance by the
Fire Code Official within 72 hours of due notice. A civil penalty up to $200 may be
waived by the Town Administrator. A civil penalty in excess of $201 will require a
Board action.
      (3)   Equitable relief. In addition to the criminal and civil penalties
set out in division (B)(1) and (2) above, any provision of this code may be
enforced by an appropriate equitable remedy, including, but not limited to
injunctive relief or order of abatement, issuing from a court of competent
jurisdiction in accordance with 1-6(b) of this code and provisions of the North
Carolina General Statutes.
      (4)   Summary abatement. Where conditions exist that are deemed hazardous
to life and property, the Fire Code Official is authorized to abate summarily
such hazardous conditions that are in violation of this subchapter.
   (C)   Violations of §§
93.035 through
93.039.
      (1)   The Fire Code Official or someone designated by the Fire Code
Official shall cite any person who habitually violates any provision of §§
93.035 through
93.039 who shall be subject to a civil penalty. The offender shall pay the
civil penalty into the office of the Town Clerk within 72 hours following the
receipt of the civil citation. Each day’s continuing violation shall be a
separate and distinct civil offense and shall be subject to a civil penalty as
follows:
 
                    Commercial Violators
(a) First offense:  $250
(b) Second offense: $500
(c) Third offense:  $750
(d) Fourth offense: $1,000
 
      (2)   If the civil penalty is not paid within 72 hours, in accordance
with G.S. § 160A-175, violations of any provision of §§
93.035 through
93.038 of this chapter shall be a Class 3 misdemeanor as provided in G.S. § 14-
4 punishable upon conviction by a fine not to exceed $500 or by imprisonment
not exceeding 30 days.
      (3)   Sections
93.035 through
93.039 may also be enforced by an appropriate equitable remedy issuing from a
court of competent jurisdiction. In this case, the General Court of Justice
shall have jurisdiction to issue such orders as may be appropriate, and it
shall not be a defense to the application of the town for equitable relief that
there is an adequate remedy at law.
(Ord. passed 11-16-1999; Ord. passed 5-2-2000; Ord. passed 9-4-2007; Ord.
passed 1-6-2009; Ord. 10-11, passed 7-6-2010; Ord. 14-07, passed 6-18-2014;
Ord. 14-17, passed 12-2-2014)
CHAPTER 94:  911 SERVICES
Section
   
94.01   Definitions
   
94.02   Imposition
   
94.03   Charge
   
94.04   Service supplier’s responsibility
   
94.05   Administration
   
94.06   Public hearing
§ 94.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   911 CHARGE.  A contribution to the local government for the 911 service
start-up equipment costs, subscriber notification costs, addressing costs,
billing costs, and nonrecurring and recurring installation, maintenance,
service and network charges of a service supplier providing 911 service
pursuant to G.S. §§ 62A-1 et seq.
   911 SYSTEM or 911 SERVICE.  An emergency telephone system that provides the
user of the public telephone system the ability to reach a public safety
answering point by dialing the digits 911.  The terms 911 SYSTEM or 911
SERVICEalso includes ENHANCED 911 SERVICE which means an emergency telephone
system that provides the user of the public telephone system with 911 service,
and, in addition, directs 911 calls to appropriate public safety answering
points by selective routing based on the geographical location from which the
call originated and provides the capability for automatic number identification
and automatic location identification features.
   EXCHANGE ACCESS FACILITY.  The access from a particular telephone
subscriber’s premises to the telephone system of a service supplier. EXCHANGE
ACCESS FACILITIES include service supplier provided access lines, PBX trunks
and centrex network access registers, all as defined by tariffs of telephone
companies as approved by the State Utilities Commission.  EXCHANGE ACCESS
FACILITIES do not include service supplier owned and operated telephone pay
station lines, or Wide Area Telecommunications Service (WATS), Foreign Exchange
(FX) or incoming only lines.
   PUBLIC SAFETY TELEPHONE ACT.  G.S. §§ 62A-1 et seq.
   SERVICE SUPPLIER.  A person or entity who provides exchange telephone
service to a telephone subscriber.
   TELEPHONE SUBSCRIBER or SUBSCRIBER.  A person or entity to whom exchange
telephone service, either residential or commercial, is provided and in return
for which the same person or entity is billed on a monthly basis.  When the
same person, business or organization has several telephone access lines, each
exchange access facility shall constitute a separate subscription.
(Ord. passed 2-7-1990)
§ 94.02  IMPOSITION.
   Effective August 1, 1990, there is imposed a monthly 911 charge in the
amount specified in §
94.03 upon each exchange access facility subscribed to by telephone subscribers
whose exchange lines are in the area served by or which will be served by the
911 service of the town.
(Ord. passed 2-7-1990)
§ 94.03  CHARGE.
   The monthly 911 charge is $0.50 for each exchange access facility subscribed
to by a telephone subscriber whose exchange access line or lines are located in
the town and which are in the area served by or which will be served by the 911
service of the town.
(Ord. passed 2-7-1990)
§ 94.04  SERVICE SUPPLIER’S RESPONSIBILITY.
   Service suppliers shall be responsible for collecting and remitting to the
county all of the 911 charges as provided in the Public Safety Telephone Act.
(Ord. passed 2-7-1990)
§ 94.05  ADMINISTRATION.
   Administration and collection activities as well as all financial accounting
procedures necessary to enforce and give full effect to the provisions of this
chapter shall be conducted pursuant to and in strict conformity with the
provisions of the Public Safety Telephone Act.
(Ord. passed 2-7-1990)
§ 94.06  PUBLIC HEARING.
   The public hearing mandated by G.S. § 62A-4(b)(2) as a condition precedent
to adoption of this 911 service was conducted by the Town Board of Aldermen on
January 29, 1990.
(Ord. passed 2-7-1990)
CHAPTER 95:  NUISANCES
Section
   
95.01   Weeds and accumulation of refuse
   
95.02   Complaint and investigation
   
95.03   Notice to abate nuisance
   
95.04   Hearing
   
95.05   Removal by town
   
95.06   Cost incurred by owner
   
95.07   Charges become a lien
   
95.08   Procedure is alternative to other authorized procedures
§ 95.01  WEEDS AND ACCUMULATION OF REFUSE.
   The existence of any of the following conditions on any vacant lot or other
parcel of land within the corporate limits is hereby declared to be dangerous
and prejudicial to the public health or safety and to constitute a public
nuisance:
   (A)   The uncontrolled growth of noxious weeds or grass to a height in
excess of 24 inches causing or threatening to cause a hazard detrimental to the
public health or safety;
   (B)   Any accumulation of rubbish, trash or junk or the accumulation of
stagnant water, causing or threatening to cause a fire hazard or causing or
threatening to cause the inhabitation therein of rats, mice, snakes or vermin
of any kind which is or may be dangerous or prejudicial to the public health;
   (C)   Any accumulation of animal or vegetable matter that is offensive by
virtue of odors or vapors or by the inhabitance therein of rats, mice, snakes
or vermin of any kind which is or may be dangerous or prejudicial to the public
health; and
   (D)   Any condition detrimental to the public health which violates the
rules and regulations of the County Health Department.
(1979 Code, § 8-4001)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Abatement of public health nuisances, see G.S. § 160A-193
§ 95.02  COMPLAINT AND INVESTIGATION.
   The Town Clerk, upon notice from any person of the existence of any of the
conditions described in §
95.01, shall cause to be made by the appropriate County Health Department
official, or town official, any investigation necessary to determine whether,
in fact, the conditions exist as to constitute a public nuisance as declared in
§
95.01.
(1979 Code, § 8-4002)
§ 95.03  NOTICE TO ABATE NUISANCE.
   Upon a determination that the conditions constituting a public nuisance
exist, the Town Clerk shall notify, by certified mail, the owner, occupant or
person in possession of the premises in question of the conditions constituting
the public nuisance and shall order the prompt abatement thereof within 15 days
from the receipt of the written notice.
(1979 Code, § 8-4003)
§ 95.04  HEARING.
   Within seven days from receipt of the notice provided for in §
95.03, the owner, occupant or person in possession of the premises may request
a hearing before the Town Clerk and the County Health Department official, or
town official whose investigation and findings resulted in the initial
abatement order.  The Town Clerk shall fix a time for the hearing, and the
initial abatement order shall be temporarily suspended pending the hearing.  At
the hearing, the individual affected by the order shall be given the
opportunity to present evidence to refute the findings which supported the
abatement order.  Upon completion of the hearing, the Town Clerk shall consider
the evidence before him or her and shall either revoke the initial order, issue
a final order which differs from the initial order or reinstate the initial
order as a final abatement order.
(1979 Code, § 8-4004)
§ 95.05  REMOVAL BY TOWN.
   (A)   A nuisance may be removed by the town pursuant to division (B) of this
section upon the occurrence of either of the following conditions:
      (1)   A hearing is requested and held under §
95.04, resulting in either a final order with modifications or the
reinstatement of the initial order as a final order, and the order is not
complied with; or
      (2)   No hearing is requested or held, and the person having been ordered
to abate the public nuisance fails, neglects or refuses to abate or remove the
condition constituting the nuisance within 15 days from receipt of the order.
   (B)   The Town Clerk shall cause the condition to be removed or otherwise
remedied by having employees of the town go upon the premises and remove or
otherwise abate the nuisance under the supervision of an officer or employee
designated by the Town Clerk.  Any person who has been finally ordered to abate
a public nuisance may within the time allowed by this chapter request the town
in writing to remove the condition, the cost of which shall be paid by the
person making the request.
(1979 Code, § 8-4005)
§ 95.06  COST INCURRED BY OWNER.
   The actual cost incurred by the town in removing or otherwise remedying a
public nuisance shall be charged to the owner of the lot or parcel of land, and
it shall be the duty of the Tax Collector to mail a statement of the charges to
the owner or other person in possession of the premises with instructions that
the charges are due and payable within 30 days from the receipt thereof.
(1979 Code, § 8-4006)
§ 95.07  CHARGES BECOME A LIEN.
   In the event charges for the removal or abatement of a public nuisance are
not paid within 30 days after the receipt of a statement of charges as provided
for in §
95.05, the charges shall become a lien upon the land or premises where the
public nuisance existed and shall be collected as unpaid taxes, as provided in
G.S. § 160A-193.
(1979 Code, § 8-4007)
§ 95.08  PROCEDURE IS ALTERNATIVE TO OTHER AUTHORIZED PROCEDURES.
   The procedure set forth in this chapter shall be in addition to any other
remedies that may now or hereafter exist under law for the abatement of public
nuisances and this chapter shall not prevent the town from proceeding in a
criminal action against any person, firm or corporation violating the
provisions of this chapter as provided in G.S. § 14-4.
(1979 Code, § 8-4008)
CHAPTER 96:  PARADES AND DEMONSTRATIONS
Section
   
96.01   Definitions
   
96.02   Permit required
   
96.03   Standards
   
96.04   Requirements and issuance of permits
   
96.05   Certain activities prohibited
   
96.06   Revocation of permit
   
96.07   Interference prohibited
   
96.08   Additional regulations applicable to picketing
   
96.09   Exceptions
   
96.10   Removal of temporary structures and equipment incidental to hawking and
peddling
§ 96.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BLOCK.  The portion of any street lying between its intersections with other
streets.
   GROUP DEMONSTRATION.  Any assembly together or concert of action between or
among two or more persons for the purpose of protesting any matter or of making
known any position or promotion of the persons, or of or on behalf of any
organization or class of persons, or for the purpose of attracting attention to
the assembly.
   PARADE.  Any assemblage of two or more persons participating in or operating
any vehicle in any march, ceremony, show, exhibition or procession of any kind
in or upon the public streets, sidewalks, alleys, parks or other public grounds
or places.
   PERSON.  Any person, firm, corporation, partnership, association or other
organization, whether formal or informal.
   PICKET LINE.  Any two or more persons formed together for the purpose of
making known any position or promotion of the persons, or on behalf of any
organization or class of persons.
(1979 Code, § 6-2031)
§ 96.02  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to organize, conduct or participate in
any parade, picket line or group demonstration in or upon any street, sidewalk,
alley or other public place within the town unless a permit therefor has been
issued by the town in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(1979 Code, § 6-2032)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.03  STANDARDS.
   The Chief of Police shall not issue a permit for the proposed parade if he
or she finds that:
   (A)   The parades, picket lines or group demonstrations are to commence
before 6:00 a.m. or terminate after 5:00 p.m.;
   (B)   The parades or group demonstrations are to be held at the same time
and place as those designated in a permit issued pursuant to a written
application previously received by the Chief of Police or his or her designee;
   (C)   The conduct of the parade will substantially interrupt the safe and
orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
   (D)   The conduct of the parade will require the diversion of so great a
number of police officers of the town to properly police the line of movement
of the parade and of contiguous areas so that adequate police protection cannot
be provided to the remainder of the town;
   (E)   The conduct of the parade will require the diversion of so great a
number of ambulances that adequate ambulance service to portions of the town
not occupied by the parade and contiguous areas will be prevented;
   (F)   The concentration of persons, animals and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will substantially interfere with adequate fire and police
protection of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to the assembly areas;
   (G)   The conduct of the parade is reasonably likely to result in violence
to persons or property causing serious harm to the public;
   (H)   The parade is to be held for the primary purposes of advertising a
product, good or event, and is designed to be held primarily for private
profit; or
   (I)   The conduct of the parade will interfere with the movement of
firefighting equipment to such an extent that adequate fire protection cannot
be provided to the town.
(1979 Code, § 6-2033)
§ 96.04  REQUIREMENTS AND ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.
   The Chief of Police or his or her designee shall issue permits as required
in the preceding section, and in the issuance thereof he or she shall:
   (A)   Require a written application for permit to be filed not less than 24
hours in advance of the parade, picket line or group demonstration which
application shall specify the time and place for the commencement of any picket
line and the time, place, route and duration of any parade or group
demonstration;
   (B)   Require that the application for a permit specify whether or not
minors below the age of 18 years will be permitted to participate; and
   (C)   Require that the application for a permit shall specify and the permit
shall designate the person or persons in charge of the activity.  The person
shall be required to accompany the parade, picket line or group demonstration
and shall carry the permit with him or her at that time.  The permit shall not
be valid in the possession of any other person.
(1979 Code, § 6-2034)
§ 96.05  CERTAIN ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED.
   The following acts or activities, when performed or undertaken in
conjunction with or as a part of, any parade, picket line or group
demonstration, are hereby prohibited and declared unlawful:
   (A)   The carrying on or about the person any firearm, or any weapon or
article, including but not limited to blackjacks, nightsticks or flashlights
which by their use might constitute a deadly weapon; and
   (B)   The taking or keeping of any dog or other vicious animal, whether
leashed or unleashed.
(1979 Code, § 6-2035)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.06  REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police shall revoke any permit granted for a parade, picket
line or group demonstration for any of the following causes:
   (A)   The violation by any participant of §
96.05; and/or
   (B)   The failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the permit.
(1979 Code, § 6-2036)
§ 96.07  INTERFERENCE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall hamper, obstruct, impede or interfere with any parade,
picket line or group demonstration being conducted under authority of a permit
duly issued by the Chief of Police.
(1979 Code, § 6-2037)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.08  ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS APPLICABLE TO PICKETING.
   Picket lines and picketing shall be subject to the following additional
regulations:
   (A)   Picketing may be conducted only on the sidewalks reserved for
pedestrian movement and may not be conducted on the portion of a street used
primarily for vehicular traffic;
   (B)   Not more than ten pickets promoting the same objective shall be
permitted to use either of the two sidewalks within a single block at any one
time;
   (C)   Pickets may carry written or printed placards or signs not exceeding
two feet in width and two feet in length promoting the objective for which the
picketing is done, provided that the words used are not derogatory or
defamatory in nature; and
   (D)   Pickets must march in single file and not abreast and must not march
closer together than 15 feet, except in passing one another.
(1979 Code, § 6-2038)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.09  EXCEPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to:
   (A)   Funeral processions; or
   (B)   Any governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
(1979 Code, § 6-2039)
§ 96.10  REMOVAL OF TEMPORARY STRUCTURES AND EQUIPMENT INCIDENTAL TO HAWKING
AND PEDDLING.
   (A)   With the exception of tents on the premises of a permanent business
within the town, the primary structure for which meets or exceeds the
requirements of the zoning district wherein the business is situated, the tents
being in place as part of the regular course of business of the permanent
business, with the exception of tables and shelters on the premises of a flea
market and with the exception of the sales or sellers of Christmas trees,
Christmas wreaths and Christmas greenery, seasonally sold during the Christmas
season, no temporary structures shall be allowed within the town between the
hours of 8:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.  Peddlers, hawkers and other merchants of
goods, wares and services within the town, with the above exceptions, shall
cause any temporary structures to be removed from public visibility in the town
during these hours.
   (B)   With the exception of equipment and merchandise stored in tents on the
premises of permanent businesses within the town, the primary structure for
which business meets or exceeds the requirements of the zoning district wherein
the business is situated, the tents being in place as part of the regular
course of business of the permanent business, all vehicles, tables and other
equipment incidental to peddling and hawking within the town shall be removed
from public visibility in the town between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
   (C)   For the purposes of this section, PERMANENT BUSINESS shall mean any
business, which has a permanent location in a building within the town, with
the premises of the building being either owned or rented by the business.
(Ord. passed 9-19-1995; Ord. passed 11-21-1995)  Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XI:  BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   AMUSEMENTS AND ENTERTAINMENT
      
111.   CABLE TELEVISION
      
112.   PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND TRANSIENT VENDORS
CHAPTER 110:  AMUSEMENTS AND ENTERTAINMENT
Section
Amusements Generally
   
110.01   Poolroom hours restricted
Video Gaming Machines
   
110.15   Authority
   
110.16   Statement of purpose
   
110.17   Abrogation
   
110.18   Definitions
   
110.19   Application of regulations
   
110.20   Nonconforming video gaming machines
AMUSEMENTS GENERALLY
§ 110.01  POOLROOM HOURS RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, being the owner or operator of a pool
room or billiard hall, to open the same for business between the hours of 1:00
a.m. and 1:00 p.m. on any Sunday.
(Ord. passed 4-2-1980)  Penalty, see §
10.99
VIDEO GAMING MACHINES
§ 110.15  AUTHORITY.
   The provisions of these regulations are adopted by the Board of Aldermen of
the town after review by the Planning Board and after public hearing as
required by statute.  From and after the effective date set forth hereinafter,
these regulations shall apply to every building, lot, tract or parcel of land
within the corporate limits of the town and within its extraterritorial area as
same is controlled by the town’s zoning ordinance.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2000)
§ 110.16  STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is recognized that there are some uses which because of their very nature
are recognized as having serious objectionable operational characteristics,
particularly when several of them are concentrated under certain circumstances,
thereby having a deleterious effect upon adjacent areas.  Special regulation of
these upon adjacent areas is necessary to insure that these adverse effects
will not contribute to the blighting or downgrading of the surrounding
neighborhood.  For the purpose of promoting the health, safety, morals and
general welfare of the citizens of the town this subchapter is adopted by the
Board of Aldermen to regulate video gaming machines.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2000)
§ 110.17  ABROGATION.
   These regulations shall not repeal, impair, abrogate or interfere with any
existing easements, covenants, deed restrictions, setback requirements, rules,
definitions, regulations previously adopted pursuant to law in any established
zoning district in the town.  However, where these regulations impose greater
restrictions, the provisions of these regulations shall govern.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2000)
§ 110.18  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   VIDEO GAMING MACHINE. A video machine which requires deposit of any coin,
token or use of any credit card, debit card or any other method that requires
payment to activate play of any of the games listed in this definition. This
shall include slot machines as defined in G.S. § 14-306(a) and other forms of
electrical, mechanical or computer games such as:
      (1)   A video poker game or any other kind of video playing game;
      (2)   A video bingo game;
      (3)   A video craps game;
      (4)   A video keno game;
      (5)   A video lotto game;
      (6)   Eight liner;
      (7)   Pot of Gold; and
      (8)   Any video game based on or involving the random or chance matching
of different pictures, words, numbers or symbols not dependent on the skill or
dexterity of the player.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2000)
§ 110.19  APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   Video gaming machines shall be regulated as to location in the following
manner in addition to any other requirements of this code:
   (A)   No video gaming machines shall be permitted in any building that is:
      (1)   Located within 1,500 feet in any direction from a building used as
a dwelling;
      (2)   Located within 1,500 feet in any direction from a building in which
a video gaming machine is located;
      (3)   Located within 1,500 feet in any direction from a building used as
a church, synagogue, other houses of worship or cemeteries;
      (4)   Located within 1,500 feet in any direction from a building used as
a school or as a state licensed day care center or nursing home facility;
      (5)   Located within 1,500 feet in any direction from any lot or parcel
on which a public playground, public swimming pool, public park or museum is
located;
      (6)   Located within 1,500 feet of any publicly owned or operated
facility; or
      (7)   Located within 1,500 feet in any direction from a building in which
a sexually oriented business is located.
   (B)   When computing distances, the entire property for the establishment
shall be considered, including any parking lots.
   (C)   No more than one video gaming machine shall be located in the same
building or structure or the same lot.
   (D)   Video gaming machines shall be located only in an industrial zoning
district as a conditional use permit.
   (E)   No signs advertising video gaming are permitted.
   (F)   The minimum requirements of the industrial zoning district shall be
met.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2000)
§ 110.20  NONCONFORMING VIDEO GAMING MACHINES.
   Any video gaming machines lawfully operating as of the effective date of
this subchapter that is in violation of any provision of this subchapter shall
be deemed a nonconforming use. Any use which is determined to be nonconforming
by application of the provisions of this section shall be permitted to continue
for a period not to exceed one year. The nonconforming uses shall not be
increased, enlarged, extended or altered, except that the use may be changed to
a conforming use. If a nonconforming use is discontinued for a period of 180
days or more it may not be reestablished. A video gaming machine operating
lawfully as a conforming use shall not be rendered nonconforming by the
subsequent location of a dwelling, church, house of worship, day care center,
school, playground, public swimming pool or public park.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2000)
CHAPTER 111 :  CABLE TELEVISION
Section
   
111.01   Franchise required
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01  FRANCHISE REQUIRED.
   It is and shall hereafter be required that any individual corporation or
other entity desiring to operate any cable television system for any facilities
therefor within the boundaries of the town, first obtain a franchise to do so
upon the granting thereof by the Board of Aldermen, to it (them) upon
reasonable terms consistent with the rules and regulations of the Federal
Communications Commission.
(Ord. passed 3-5-1980)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99  PENALTY.
   Any person, individual, corporation or other entity violating any provision
of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable upon each
conviction thereof, each day’s operation constituting a separate violation, by
a fine of not more than $50 or imprisonment of not more than 30 days, or both,
as provided by G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. passed 3-5-1980)
CHAPTER 112:  PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND TRANSIENT VENDORS
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Peddling, itinerant merchants, transient vendors and soliciting
prohibited
   
112.03   Exemption for charitable or religious purposes
   
112.04   Craft fairs and flea markets
   
112.05   Other exemptions
   
112.06   Other regulated activities
   
112.07   Effective date
 
   
112.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Zoning ordinance, UDO, see
Ch. 151
§ 112.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ARTICLES OF MERCHANDISE. Anything of value offered for sale to the public by
any person.
   CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION. Any person who has or holds out as having a Section
501(c)(3) tax exempt determination by the Internal Revenue Service and operates
for a charitable purpose, or a person who is or holds himself or herself out to
be established for a charitable or civic purpose; or a person who employs a
charitable or civic appeal as the basis of a solicitation, or employs an appeal
that suggests there is a charitable or civic purpose for the appeal. CHARITABLE
ORGANIZATION includes a chapter, branch, area office or similar affiliate
soliciting contributions within the state for a charitable organization, which
has its principal place of business outside the state.
(G.S. § 131F-2(3))
   ITINERANT MERCHANTS. Any person other than a merchant with an established
retail store in the town who transports an inventory of goods to a building,
vacant lot or other location in a town and who, at that location, displays the
goods for sale at retail.
   PEDDLER.  Any person who transports goods from place to place and sells or
offers for sale articles of merchandise, or who, without traveling from place
to place, sells or offers for sale any article of merchandise from any vehicle
or device; provided, that any person who separates the acts of sale and
delivery for the purpose of evading the provisions of this chapter shall be
deemed a PEDDLER.
   RELIGIOUS INSTITUTION. Any church, ecclesiastical or denominational
organization, or any established physical place for worship in this state at
which nonprofit religious services and activities are regularly conducted, and
any bona fide religious groups that do not maintain specific places of worship.
RELIGIOUS INSTITUTION includes any separate group or corporation that forms an
integral part of a religious institution that is exempt from federal income tax
under the provisions of Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code, and
that is primarily supported by funds solicited inside its own membership or
congregation.
(G.S. § 131F-2(17))
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels from place to place taking or offering to
take orders for the sale of articles of merchandise for future delivery or for
personal services to be performed in the future, whether or not samples are
displayed or money is collected in advance, and any person who uses or occupies
any building or premises for the sole purpose of taking or offering to take
orders for the sale of article of merchandise for future delivery or for
personal services to be performed in the future, whether or not samples are
displayed or money is collected in advance.
(1979 Code, § 6-1011)  (Ord. 02-05, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 112.02  PEDDLING, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, TRANSIENT VENDORS AND SOLICITING
PROHIBITED.
   Pursuant to the authority granted under G.S. §§ 160A-178 and 160A-194, as
amended, the activity of peddling, soliciting and conducting business as an
itinerant merchant or transient vendor within the limits of the town is
prohibited.
(Ord. 02-05, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 112.03  EXEMPTION FOR CHARITABLE OR RELIGIOUS PURPOSES.
   This chapter shall not apply to any activities that may fall within the
above definitions that are engaged in selling goods for the support of any
recognized organized religious or charitable purpose.
(Ord. 02-05, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 112.04  CRAFT FAIRS AND FLEA MARKETS.
   Itinerant merchants may be grouped together or occupy, from time to time,
pavilions and other structures, whether permanent or temporary, in craft fairs
and flea markets, subject to the following rules and regulations.
   (A)   The pavilions or other structures shall be located only in a B2, CB or
HB zoning district of the town. Further, any structure must meet all
requirements of the Uniform State Building Code and the town zoning ordinance
for a commercial structure. Further, parking areas meeting the requirements of
the town zoning ordinance must be provided.
   (B)   All signs advertising, identifying or locating the various itinerant
merchants must be in accordance with sign requirements in the particular zoning
district in which the facility is located.
   (C)   Articles of merchandise offered for sale shall be permitted to remain
on the premises of the flea market or craft fair during the term of the
occupancy thereof by the itinerant merchant.
   (D)   Except as provided in §
112.05, all itinerant merchants must comply with the applicable provisions of
this chapter, including without limitation the permit procedures.
(Ord. 02-05, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 112.05  OTHER EXEMPTIONS.
   The following individuals and activities are exempt from the provisions of
this chapter:
   (A)   Religious organizations, charitable organizations, government agencies
and nonprofit organizations that are tax exempt under the provisions of the
Internal Revenue Code are exempt for activities involving craft fairs, flea
markets and yard sales; provided, that the activities will not be held on more
that four days in any 30-day period. Further, a permit must be obtained at no
cost, and the activity must comply with the provisions of §
112.02;
   (B)   Students that attend a public or private school and who conduct door-
to-door solicitations or donations for school activities;
   (C)   Itinerant merchants offering for sale or selling goods in a craft
fair, flea market or pavilion for which the sponsor shall have obtained the
licenses as provided in state law, town privilege license ordinance and any
other town permits required by this chapter; and
   (D)   Itinerant merchants, transient vendors and peddlers during events that
are formally sponsored, co-sponsored or endorsed by the Board of Aldermen.
Formal endorsement must come at an open meeting by the Board of Aldermen.
(Ord. 02-05, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 112.06  OTHER REGULATED ACTIVITIES.
   Pursuant to the authority granted under G.S. §§ 160A-178 and 160A-194, as
amended, the following actions are prohibited within the municipal limits of
the town.
   (A)   Yard sales or other revenue generating enterprises are prohibited on
any commercial property or on any vacant lots, unless otherwise approved by the
Board of Aldermen within the municipal limits of the town, unless otherwise
exempted by this section.
   (B)   Yard sales at private residences are permitted, provided that the
event is temporary in nature and that the frequency of yard sales does not
exceed more than four weekends in a calendar year. WEEKENDS for the purposes of
this chapter would include Friday, Saturday and Sunday or any combination of
those days.
   (C)   The sale or display for sale of any motor vehicle, boat or other
personal property on any commercial property or vacant lot is prohibited within
the municipal limits of the town by any person or organization unless that
person or organization is the owner of the property where the motor vehicle,
boat or other personal property is being sold.  Displaying for sale such items
on private property shall only be done on a temporary basis.
(Ord. 02-05, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 112.07  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   Effective date of this chapter is July 1, 2002.
(Ord. 02-05, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 112.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of any provisions of this chapter is a Class 3 misdemeanor
as provided in G.S. § 14-4 and is punishable upon conviction by a fine not to
exceed $500 or imprisonment not to exceed 30 days.
   (B)   In addition to constituting a misdemeanor, any person who violates any
provisions of this chapter shall be subject to a civil fine by the Town
Administrator or his or her designee. The offender shall pay the civil penalty
at the Town Hall within 72 hours following the receipt of the citation. Each
separate and distinct offense shall be subject to a civil penalty as follows:
 
                            Individual Violators Business Violators
(1) First offense           $10                  $50
(2) Second offense          $50                  $100
(3) Third offense           $100                 $250
(4) Each successive offense $500                 $500
 
   (C)   This chapter may also be enforced by an appropriate equitable remedy
issuing from a court of competent jurisdiction. In that case, the General Court
of Justice shall have jurisdiction to issue such orders as may be appropriate,
and it shall not be a defense to the application of the town for equitable
relief that there is an adequate remedy at law.
(Ord. 02-05, passed 5-21-2002)
TITLE XIII:  GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130:  GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Profanity and boisterous conduct
   
130.02   Discharge of firearms and other weapons
   
130.03   Drinking in public places
   
130.04   Disturbing public meetings
   
130.05   Injuring property of town
   
130.06   Malt beverage sales restricted
   
130.07   Loitering
   
130.08   Unnecessary noise
   
130.09   Posting of printed matter
   
130.10   Discharge or deposit into drainways
   
130.11   Concealed weapons
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01  PROFANITY AND BOISTEROUS CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use loud, boisterous or profane
language in any public place in a manner as to create a public disturbance.
(1979 Code, § 8-1001)  Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Offenses against the public peace, see G.S. §§ 14-269 et seq.
§ 130.02  DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS AND OTHER WEAPONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fire or discharge any rifle,
gun, pistol, pellet gun, air gun, air pistol or air rifle within the town, on
or off his or her premises, in sport or amusement.
   (B)   Any person who shall knowingly and willfully permit his or her minor
child under 18 years of age to discharge, fire, shoot or operate, within the
corporate limits of the town any air rifle, BB gun or pellet gun, shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor.
(1979 Code, § 8-1002)  Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate and restrict firearms, and pellet guns, see G.S. §§
160A-189, 160A-190
§ 130.03  DRINKING IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   Pursuant to the authority granted to the town in G.S. § 18B-300, no person
shall consume malt beverages or unfortified wine on or within the rights-of-way
of the municipal streets, boulevards, alleys or sidewalks or in municipal
parks, buildings or any other property owned or occupied by the town except
that subject to the rules and regulations of the Buddy Kelly Farmers’ Market, a
vendor may provide a free sample of beer or wine on the premises of the
farmers’ market to individuals over the age of 21. Each sample shall be one
ounce or less and shall be limited to no more than two samples per vendor to
any individual within a 24-hour period.
(1979 Code, § 8-1003)  (Ord. 6-20-90, passed 6-20-1990; Ord. passed 6-3-2014) 
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04  DISTURBING PUBLIC MEETINGS.
   It shall be unlawful to behave in a boisterous or indecent manner or to
create any disturbance at or near any public entertainment or meeting.
(1979 Code, § 8-1004)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05  INJURING PROPERTY OF TOWN.
   It shall be unlawful to injure, damage, deface, trespass upon, break or
injure any property belonging to the town.
(1979 Code, § 8-1005)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.06  MALT BEVERAGE SALES RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale any beer or
malt beverages, as defined by general law, between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and
1:00 p.m. on Sundays as well as between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. on
Mondays.  Violation of this section is punishable as provided in G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. 1-21-87, passed 1-21-1987)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.07  LOITERING.
   (A)   A person commits a violation if he or she loiters or prowls in a
place, at a time, or in a manner not usual for law-abiding individuals under
circumstances that warrant alarm for the safety of persons or property in the
vicinity.  Among the circumstances which may be considered in determining
whether alarm is warranted is the fact that the person takes flight upon
appearance of a police officer, refuses to identify himself or herself, or
manifestly endeavors to conceal himself or herself or any object.  Unless
flight by the person or other circumstances makes it impractical, a police
officer shall, prior to any arrest for an offense under this section, afford
the person an opportunity to dispel any alarm which would otherwise be
warranted, by requesting the person to identify himself or herself and to
explain his or her presence or conduct.  No person shall be convicted of an
offense under this section if the police officer did not comply with the
preceding sentence, or if it appears at trial that the explanation given by the
person was true and, if it had been believed by the police officer at the time,
would have dispelled the alarm.  Any police officer may arrest any person
suspected of being a loiterer or prowler without a warrant if it reasonably
appears that the delay in arresting the suspect caused by obtaining a warrant
would result in the suspect's escape.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, after first being warned by a
police officer, or where a “no loitering” sign or signs have been posted, to
loiter, stand, sit, or lie in or upon any public or quasi-public sidewalk,
street, curb, cross-walk, walkway area, mall or that portion of private
property utilized for public use, so as to hinder or obstruct unreasonably the
free passage of pedestrians or vehicles thereon.  It shall be unlawful for any
person to block, obstruct, or prevent free access to the entrance to any
building open to the public.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, PUBLIC PLACEhas the following
definition unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning:  an area generally visible to public view, including streets,
sidewalks, bridges, alleys, plazas, parks, driveways, parking lots, automobiles
(whether moving or not), and buildings open to the general public, including
those which serve food or drink or provide entertainment, and the doorways and
entrances to buildings or dwellings and the grounds enclosing them.
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.08  UNNECESSARY NOISE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to create or
assist in creating, permit, continue or permit the continuance of any
unreasonably loud, disturbing and unnecessary noise in the town.  Noise of a
character, intensity and duration as to be detrimental to the life or health of
any individual is prohibited.
   (B)   The following acts, among others, are declared to be loud, disturbing
and unnecessary noises in violation of this section, but this enumeration shall
not be deemed to be exclusive, namely:
      (1)   The sounding of any horn or signal device or any device on any
automobile, motorcycle, bus or other vehicle while not in motion, except as a
danger signal if another vehicle is approaching apparently out of control, or
if in motion only as a danger signal after or as brakes are being applied and
deceleration of the vehicle is intended; the creation by means of any such
signal device of any unreasonably loud or harsh sound; and the sounding of the
device for an unnecessary and unreasonable period of time;
      (2)   The use of any gong or siren upon any vehicle, other than police,
fire or other emergency vehicle;
      (3)   The use or operation of any piano, manual or automatic, phonograph,
radio, loudspeaker, or any other instrument or sound amplifying devices so
loudly as to disturb persons in the vicinity thereof, or in such a manner as
renders the same a public nuisance.  However, upon application to the Mayor,
permits may be granted to responsible organizations to produce programs in
music, speeches or general entertainment;
      (4)   The keeping of any animal or bird which by causing frequent or long
continued noise shall disturb the comfort and repose of any person in the
vicinity;
      (5)   The use of any automobile, motorcycle or other vehicle so out of
repair, so loaded or in such manner as to create loud or unnecessary grating,
grinding, rattling or other noise;
      (6)   The blowing of any steam whistle attached to any stationary boiler
except to give notice of the time to begin or stop work or as a warning of
danger;
      (7)   The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any steam engine,
stationary internal combustion engine, motor vehicle except through a muffler
or other device which will effectively prevent loud or explosive noises
therefrom;
      (8)   The use of any mechanical device operated by compressed air unless
the noise created thereby is effectively muffled and reduced;
      (9)   The erection (including excavation), demolition, alteration or
repair of any building in a residential or business district other than between
the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on weekdays, except in the case of urgent
necessity in the interest of public safety and then only with a permit from the
Building Inspector, which permit may be renewed for a period of three days or
less while the emergency continues;
      (10)   The creation of any excessive noise on any street adjacent to any
school, institution of learning or court while the same are in session; or
within 150 feet of any hospital, which unreasonably interferes with the working
of the institution, provided conspicuous signs are displayed in the streets
indicating that the same is a school, court or hospital street;
      (11)   The creation of any excessive noise on Sundays on any street
adjacent to any church, provided conspicuous signs are displayed in the streets
adjacent to churches indicating that the same is a church street;
      (12)   The creation of loud and excessive noise in connection with
loading or unloading any vehicle or the opening and destruction of bales,
boxes, crates and containers;
      (13)   The sounding of any bell or gong attached to any building or
premises which disturbs the quiet or repose of persons in the vicinity thereof;
      (14)   The shouting and crying of peddlers, barkers, hawkers and vendors
which disturbs the quiet and peace of the neighborhood; or anyone shouting
within the corporate limits so as to disturb the peace and quiet of the
neighborhood;
      (15)   The use of any drum, loudspeaker or other instrument or device for
the purpose of attracting attention by creation of noise to any performance,
show or sale or display of merchandise;
      (16)   The use of any mechanical loudspeakers or amplifiers on trucks or
other moving vehicles for advertising purposes or other purposes except where
specific license is received from the Board of Aldermen;
      (17)   The conducting, operating or maintaining of any garage or filling
station in any residential district so as to cause loud or offensive noises to
be emitted therefrom between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.; and
      (18)   The firing or discharging of a gun, squibs, crackers, gunpowder or
other combustible substance in the streets or elsewhere for the purpose of
making noise or disturbance, except by permit from the Board of Aldermen.
(1979 Code, § 8-5001)  Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate noises, see G.S. § 160A-184
§ 130.09  POSTING OF PRINTED MATTER.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to post, nail, stick or otherwise
affix bills, posters, advertisements, notices or any other printed or graphic
matter upon public property in the town.  This section shall not apply to
notices, signs or advertisements required to be posted by law, signs or plates
on residential premises giving the name or address of the occupant, mail boxes
or newspaper tubes, municipal, county, state and erected by public authority,
temporary displays as a part of customary holiday decorations and signs
denoting the location of underground utilities.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to nail,
stick or otherwise affix bills,  posters, advertisements, notices or other
printed or graphic matter upon private property within the town without the
consent of the owner.
   (C)   With the exception of parking tickets or citations issued by a duly
authorized law enforcement officer, it shall be unlawful for any person, firm
or corporation to nail, stick or otherwise affix bills, posters,
advertisements, notices or other graphic matter upon automobiles, trucks or any
other vehicles within the town.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw or deposit upon any
street, sidewalk or upon any private property except with the written
permission of the owner or occupant of the private property, any trash, refuse,
garbage, building material, cans, bottles, broken glass, paper, or any type of
litter.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person while a driver or passenger in a
vehicle to throw or deposit litter upon any street or other public place within
the town or upon private property.
   (F)   Every owner, lessee, tenant, occupant or other person in charge of any
commercial establishment or premises which maintains any paved or unpaved areas
for the use of the public, either for parking or as access areas and incident
to the carrying on of the principal business of any commercial establishment or
premises and which parking pr access areas abut or lie within ten feet of any
public street or other public way, shall keep and maintain the areas clean and
free from trash, litter, rubbish, and any materials liable to be blown,
deposited, or cast upon the street or other public way.
   (G)   Any person who carries or moves building material, scraps, fill dirt,
garbage, refuse, solid wastes, and tree trimmings, shall be required to secure
same within containers of the debris shall be covered while in transit to
insure that it does not blow or fall from the vehicle in which it is being
transported.
   (H)   The duties and responsibilities herein imposed shall be applicable
alike to the owner of a vehicle, the operator hereof, and the person from whose
home or business establishment the litter or other cargo originated.
(1979 Code, § 8-5002)  (Ord. passed 8-2-1994; Am. Ord. 12-14, passed 8-7-2012) 
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.10  DISCHARGE OR DEPOSIT INTO DRAINWAYS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      COVERED or CLOSED CHANNELS.  Any ditch or system of pipe or tile intended
to control the flow of wastewater, sewerage or oil and which is constructed and
maintained in such a manner so as not to permit the escape or leakage of the
wastewater, sewerage or oil or the noxious odors arising there from.
      DITCHES, STREAMS, and BRANCHES.  All open or covered channels, whether
natural or humanmade, which control or are intended to control the flow of
water.
      OIL.  All types of lubricating oil; shall also include kerosene and
gasoline.
      WASTEWATER.  Any water that has been used for residential or commercial
use and any water which contains elements or materials not found in the water
in its raw state.
   (B)   There is hereby created the position of Sanitary Inspector for the
town and he or she is hereby vested with all the powers and charged with all
the duties imposed upon him or her by state law.
   (C)   No person shall deposit, cause to be deposited or permit the deposit
of wastewateror  sewerage upon the surface of the ground or in any storm
sewers, ditches, streams, branches or rivers within the town.  However,
wastewater, sewerage and oil may be deposited in covered or closed channels
which empty into a sanitary disposal system as required by state law.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any person to
allow or permit house offal, dead animals, refuse, decayed flesh, other decayed
matters or any other thing which may tend to affect injuriously the health of
any citizen to remain on his or her property or property occupied by him or
her.
   (E)   The Sanitary Inspector shall notify any person who is in violation of
the provisions of this section and shall direct the person to remedy or remove
the same.  If the violation is not remedied within ten days after notice
thereof, the Sanitary Inspector shall remove, remedy or abate the same and the
expense of the action shall be paid by the person in default, and, if not paid,
shall be a lien upon the land or premises where the violation occurred and
shall be collected as unpaid taxes.
(1979 Code, § 8-5003)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.11  CONCEALED WEAPONS.
   (A)   It is unlawful to carry a concealed handgun for which a permit has
been issued pursuant to G.S. § 14-415.11 on or in any property or building
owned or occupied by the town.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to those persons exempted under G.S. §
14-269(b).
(Ord. passed 12-19-1995)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provisions of this chapter for which another
penalty is not already herein provided, shall be subject to the penalty
provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any violation of §
130.07 shall constitute a misdemeanor punishable, upon conviction, by a fine
not exceeding $50 or by imprisonment not exceeding 30 days, as provided by G.S.
§ 14-4.
   (C)   Each violation of §
130.09 shall be punishable by a maximum fine of $50, and each bill, poster,
advertisement, notice or graphic matter affixed shall constitute a separate
offense. 
   (D)   A violation of §
130.11 shall constitute a violation of G.S. § 14-269. 
(Ord. passed 8-2-1994; Ord. passed 12-19-1995)
TITLE XV:  LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING CODES
      
151.   UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
CHAPTER 150:  BUILDING CODES
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Scope
   
150.02   Building Code adopted
   
150.03   Plumbing Code adopted
   
150.04   Heating Code adopted
   
150.05   Electrical Code adopted
   
150.06   Residential Building Code
   
150.07   Amendments to codes
   
150.08   Compliance with codes
   
150.09   Copies of codes filed with Clerk
Inspection Department
   
150.20   Organization of Department
   
150.21   General duties
   
150.22   Conflicts of interest
   
150.23   Reports and records
   
150.24   Inspection procedure
   
150.25   Oversights
   
150.26   Powers of inspection officials
Enforcement
   
150.40   Permits required
   
150.41   Application for permit
   
150.42   Plans and specifications
   
150.43   Limitations on issuance of permits
   
150.44   Issuance of permit
   
150.45   Revocation of permits
   
150.46   Time limitations on permits
   
150.47   Changes in work
   
150.48   Permit fees
Abandoned Structures
   
150.60   Finding; intent
   
150.61   Duties of Building Inspector
   
150.62   Powers of Building Inspector
   
150.63   Standards for enforcement
   
150.64   Procedure for enforcement
   
150.65   Service of complaints and orders
   
150.66   In rem action by Inspector; placarding
   
150.67   Lien on premises
   
150.68   Alternative remedies
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01  SCOPE.
   The provisions of this chapter and of the regulatory codes herein adopted
shall apply to the following:
   (A)   The location, design, materials, equipment, construction,
reconstruction, alteration, repair, maintenance, moving, demolition, removal,
use and occupancy of every building or structure or any appurtenances connected
or attached to the building or structure;
   (B)   The installation, erection, alteration, repair, use and maintenance of
plumbing systems consisting of house sewers, building drains, waste and vent
systems, hot and cold water supply systems, and all fixtures and appurtenances
thereof;
   (C)   The installation, erection, alteration, repair, use and maintenance of
mechanical systems consisting of heating, ventilating, air conditioning and
refrigeration systems, fuel burning equipment and appurtenances thereof; and
   (D)   The installation, erection, alteration, repair, use and maintenance of
electrical systems and appurtenances thereof.
(1979 Code, § 9-1001)
§ 150.02  BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   The most current edition of the North Carolina State Building Code (Volume
I, General Construction), as adopted by the North Carolina Building Code
Council and as amended, is hereby adopted by reference as fully as though set
forth herein.
(1979 Code, § 9-1002)
§ 150.03  PLUMBING CODE ADOPTED.
   The most current edition of the North Carolina Plumbing Code (North Carolina
State Building Code, Volume II, Plumbing) as adopted by the North Carolina
Building Code Council and as amended, is hereby adopted by reference as fully
as though set forth herein.
(1979 Code, § 9-1003)
§ 150.04  HEATING CODE ADOPTED.
   The most current edition of the North Carolina Heating Code (North Carolina
State Building Code, Volume III, Heating) as adopted by the North Carolina
Building Code Council and as amended, is hereby adopted by reference as fully
as though set forth herein.
(1979 Code, § 9-1004)
§ 150.05  ELECTRICAL CODE ADOPTED.
   The most current edition of the North Carolina Electrical Code (North
Carolina State Building Code, Volume IV, Electrical), as adopted by the North
Carolina Building Code Council and as amended, is hereby adopted by reference
as fully as though set forth herein.
(1979 Code, § 9-1005)
§ 150.06  RESIDENTIAL BUILDING CODE.
   The most current edition of the North Carolina Uniform Residential Building
Code, as adopted by the North Carolina Building Code Council and as amended, is
hereby adopted by reference as fully as though set forth herein.
(1979 Code, § 9-1006)
§ 150.07  AMENDMENTS TO CODES.
   Amendments to the regulatory codes adopted by reference herein, which are
from time to time adopted and published by the agencies or organizations
referred to herein, shall be effective in the town at the time the amendments
are filed with the Town Clerk or Building Inspector as provided in §
150.09.
(1979 Code, § 9-1007)
§ 150.08  COMPLIANCE WITH CODES.
   (A)   All buildings or structures which are hereafter constructed,
reconstructed, erected, altered, extended, enlarged, repaired, demolished or
moved shall conform to the requirements, minimum standards and other provisions
of either the North Carolina State Building Code, General Construction, Volume
I or the North Carolina Uniform Residential Building Code, whichever is
applicable, or of both if both are applicable.
   (B)   Every building or structure intended for human habitation, occupancy
or use shall have plumbing, plumbing systems or plumbing fixtures installed,
constructed, altered, extended, repaired or reconstructed in accordance with
the minimum standards, requirements and other provisions of the North Carolina
Plumbing Code (North Carolina State Building Code, Volume II, Plumbing).
   (C)   All mechanical systems consisting of heating, ventilating, air
conditioning and refrigeration systems, fuel burning equipment and
appurtenances shall be installed, erected, altered, repaired, used and
maintained in accordance with the minimum standards, requirements and other
provisions of the North Carolina Heating Code (North Carolina State Building
Code, Volume III, Heating).
   (D)   All electrical wiring, installations and appurtenances shall be
erected, altered, repaired, used and maintained in accordance with the minimum
standards, requirements and other provisions of the North Carolina Electrical
Code (North Carolina State Building Code, Volume IV, Electrical).
(1979 Code, § 9-1008)
§ 150.09  COPIES OF CODES FILED WITH CLERK.
   An official copy of each regulatory code adopted herein, and official copies
of all amendments thereto, shall be kept on file in the office of the Town
Clerk or Building Inspector.  The copies shall be the official copies of the
codes and the amendments.
(1979 Code, § 9-1009)
INSPECTION DEPARTMENT
§ 150.20  ORGANIZATION OF DEPARTMENT.
   The Inspection Department of the town shall consist of a building inspector,
and may also include a plumbing inspector, a heating-air conditioning
inspector, an electrical inspector and any other inspectors or deputy or
assistant inspectors as may be authorized by the Board of Aldermen.  The Board
may in its discretion designate a department head.
(1979 Code, § 9-1021)
§ 150.21  GENERAL DUTIES.
   It shall be the duty of the Inspection Department to enforce all of the
provisions of this chapter and of the regulatory codes adopted herein, and to
make all inspections necessary to determine whether or not the provisions of
this chapter and the codes are being met.
(1979 Code, § 9-1022)
§ 150.22  CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   No officer or employee of the Inspection Department shall be financially
interested in the furnishing of labor, material or appliances for the
construction, alteration or maintenance of a building or any part thereof, or
in the making of plans or specifications therefor, unless he or she is the
owner of the building.  No officer or employee of the Inspection Department
shall engage in any work which is inconsistent with his or her duties or with
the interests of the town.
(1979 Code, § 9-1023)
§ 150.23  REPORTS AND RECORDS.
   The Inspection Department shall keep complete, permanent and accurate
records in convenient form of all applications received, permits issued,
inspections and re-inspections made and all other work and activities of the
Inspection Department.  Periodic reports shall be submitted to the Board and to
other agencies, as required.
(1979 Code, § 9-1024)
§ 150.24  INSPECTION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Inspections.  The Inspection Department shall inspect all buildings
and structures and work therein for which a permit of any kind has been issued
as often as necessary in order to determine whether the work complies with the
appropriate codes.  When deemed necessary by the appropriate inspector,
materials and assemblies may be inspected at the point of manufacture or
fabrication, or inspections may be made by approved and recognized inspection
organizations; provided, no approval shall be based upon reports of such
organizations unless the same are in writing and certified by a responsible
officer of the organization.  All holders of permits, or their agents, shall
notify the Inspection Department and the appropriate inspector at each of the
following stages of construction, so that approval may be given before work is
continued:
      (1)   Foundation inspection.  To be made after trenches are excavated and
the necessary reinforcement and forms are in place, and before concrete is
placed.  Drilled footings, piles and similar types of foundations shall be
inspected as installed;
      (2)   Framing inspection.  To be made after all structural framing is in
place and all roughing-in of plumbing, electrical and heating has been
installed, after all fire blocking, chimneys, bracing and vents are installed,
but before any of the structure is enclosed or covered.  Poured-in-place
concrete structural elements shall be inspected before each pour of any
structural member;
      (3)   Fireproofing inspection.  To be made after all areas required to be
protected by fireproofing are lathed, but before the plastering or other
fireproofing is applied; and
      (4)   Final inspection.  To be made after building or structure has all
doors hung, fixtures set and is ready for occupancy, but before the building is
occupied.
   (B)   Calls for inspection.
      (1)   Request for inspections may be made to the office of the Inspection
Department or to the appropriate inspector.  The Inspection Department shall
make inspections as soon as practicable after request is made therefor,
provided the work is ready for inspection at the time the request is made.
      (2)   Re-inspections may be made at the convenience of the inspector.  No
work shall be inspected until it is in proper and completed condition ready for
inspection.  All work which has been concealed before the inspection and
approval shall be uncovered at the request of the inspector and placed in
condition for proper inspection.  Approval or rejection of the work shall be
furnished by the appropriate inspector in the form of a notice posted on the
building or given to the permit holder or his or her agent.  Failure to call
for inspections or proceeding without approval at each stage of construction
shall be deemed a violation of this chapter.
   (C)   Street or alley lines.  Where the applicant for a permit proposes to
erect any building or structure on the line of any street, alley or other
public place, he or she shall secure a survey of the line of the street, alley
or other public place, adjacent to the property upon which the building or
structure is to be erected before proceeding with construction of the building
or structure.  It shall be the duty of the Building Inspector to see that the
building does not encroach upon the street, alley or other public place.
   (D)   Certificate of occupancy.  No new building or part thereof shall be
occupied, and no addition or enlargement of any existing building shall be
occupied, and no existing building after being altered or moved shall be
occupied, and no change of occupancy shall be made in any existing building or
part thereof, until the Inspection Department has issued a certificate of
occupancy therefor.  A temporary certificate of occupancy may be issued for a
portion or portions of a building which may safely be occupied prior to final
completion and occupancy of the entire building.  Application for a certificate
of occupancy may be made by the owner or his or her agent after all final
inspections have been made for new buildings, or, in the case of existing
buildings, after supplying the information and data necessary to determine
compliance with this chapter, the appropriate regulatory codes and the zoning
provisions of the Unified Development Ordinance (Chapter 151) for the occupancy
intended.  The Inspection Department shall issue a certificate of occupancy
when, after examination and inspection, it is found that the building in all
respects conforms to the provisions of this chapter, the regulatory codes, and
the zoning provisions of the Unified Development Ordinance (Chapter 151) for
the occupancy intended.
(1979 Code, § 9-1025)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.25  OVERSIGHTS.
   No oversight or dereliction of duty on the part of any inspector or other
official or employee of the Inspection Department shall be deemed to legalize
the violation of any provision of this chapter or any provision of any
regulatory code herein adopted.
(1979 Code, § 9-1026)
§ 150.26  POWERS OF INSPECTION OFFICIALS.
   (A)   Authority.  Inspectors are hereby authorized, empowered and directed
to enforce all the provisions of this chapter and the regulatory codes herein
adopted.
   (B)   Right of entry.  With an appropriate warrant or permission from the
owner or occupant, inspectors shall have the right to enter on any premises
within the jurisdiction of the regulatory codes herein adopted at reasonable
hours for the purpose of inspection or enforcement of the requirements of this
chapter and the applicable regulatory codes.
   (C)   Stop orders.  Whenever any building or structure or part thereof is
being demolished, constructed, reconstructed, altered or repaired in a
hazardous manner, or in violation of any provision of this chapter or any other
city ordinance, or in violation of any provision of any regulatory code herein
adopted, or in violation of the terms of the permit or permits issued therefor,
or in such manner as to endanger life or property, the appropriate inspector
may order the work to be immediately stopped.  The order shall be in writing to
the owner of the property or to his or her agent, or to the person doing the
work, and shall state the reasons therefor and the conditions under which the
work may be resumed.
(1979 Code, § 9-1027)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 150.40  PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Building permit.
      (1)   No person shall commence or proceed with the construction,
alteration, removal or demolition of any building or other structure, or any
part thereof, without a written permit therefor from the Building Inspector. 
However, no building permit shall be required for work, the total cost of which
does not exceed $751 and which does not involve any change of the structural
parts or the stairways, elevators, fire escapes or other means of egress of the
building or the structure in question.  County Board of Health approval of a
septic tank is required where the sewage system cannot be connected to the town
sewer system.
      (2)   In all cases of removal or demolition of a building or structure, a
good and sufficient bond may be required to be posted by the property owner or
by his or her contractor at the time of application for a permit, to ensure
complete removal or demolition, including all rubble and debris.  Failure on
the part of the property owner or his or her contractor to completely demolish,
remove and clear the premises, after 30 days’ notice by the Building Inspector,
shall be cause for forfeiture of the bond.
   (B)   Plumbing permit.  No person shall commence or proceed with the
installation, extension or general repair of any plumbing system without a
written permit therefor from the plumbing inspector.  However, no permit shall
be required for minor repairs or replacements on the house side of a trap to an
installed system of plumbing if the repairs or replacements do not disrupt the
original water supply or the waste or ventilating systems.
   (C)   Heating-air conditioning permit.  No person shall commence or proceed
with the installation, extension, alteration or general repair of any heating
or cooling equipment system without a written permit from the heating-air
conditioning inspector.  However, no permit shall be required for minor
repairs, minor burner services or filter replacements of warm air furnaces or
cooling systems.
   (D)   Electrical permit.  No person shall commence or proceed with the
installation, extension, alteration or general repair of any electrical wiring,
devices, appliances or equipment without a written permit therefor from the
electrical inspector.  However, no permit shall be required for minor repair
work such as the replacement of lamps or the connection of portable devices to
suitable receptacles which have been permanently installed.  No permit shall be
required for the installation, alteration or repair of the electrical wiring,
devices, appliances and equipment installed by or for an electrical public
utility corporation for the use of the corporation in the generation,
transmission, distribution or metering of electrical energy.
(1979 Code, § 9-1041)  (Ord. 10-19-83, passed 10-19-1983)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.41  APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Written application shall be made for all permits required by this
chapter, and shall be made on forms provided by the Inspection Department. 
   (B)   This application shall be made by the owner of the building or
structure affected or by his or her authorized agent or representative and, in
addition to such other information as may be required by the appropriate
inspector to enable him or her to determine whether the permit applied for
should be issued, shall show the following:
      (1)   Name, residence and business address of owner;
      (2)   Name, residence and business of authorized representative or agent,
if any; and
      (3)   Name and address of the contractor, if any, together with evidence
that he or she has obtained a certificate from the appropriate state licensing
board for such contractors, if a certificate is required for the work involved
in the permit for which application is made.
(1979 Code, § 9-1042)
§ 150.42  PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   Detailed plans and specifications shall accompany each application for a
permit when the estimated total cost of the building or structure is in excess
of $45,000 and for any other building or structure where plans and
specifications are deemed necessary by the appropriate inspector in order for
him or her to determine whether the proposed work complies with the appropriate
regulatory codes.  Plans shall be drawn to scale with sufficient clarity to
indicate the nature and extent of the work proposed, and the plans and
specifications together shall contain information sufficient to indicate that
the work proposed will conform to the provisions of this chapter, and the
appropriate regulatory codes.  Where plans and specifications are required, a
copy of the same shall be kept at the work until all authorized operations have
been completed and approved by the appropriate inspector.
(1979 Code, § 9-1043)
§ 150.43  LIMITATIONS ON ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.
   (A)   No building permit shall be issued for any building or structure, the
estimated total cost of which is more than $30,000, unless the work is to be
performed by a licensed general contractor.
   (B)   No building permit shall be issued for any building or structure,
other than a one- or two-family dwelling, the estimated total cost of which is
more than $45,000, unless the plans bear the state seal of a registered
architect or a registered engineer.
   (C)   Where any provisions of the state statutes or of any ordinance
requires that work be done by a licensed specialty contractor of any kind, no
permit for the work shall be issued unless it is to be performed by the
licensed specialty contractor.
   (D)   Where detailed plans and specifications are required by this chapter,
no building permit shall be issued unless the plans and specifications have
been provided.
(1979 Code, § 9-1044)
§ 150.44  ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   When proper application for a permit has been made, and the appropriate
inspector is satisfied that the application and the proposed work comply with
the provisions of this chapter and the appropriate regulatory codes, he or she
shall issue the permit, upon the payment of the proper fee or fees as
hereinafter provided.
(1979 Code, § 9-1045)
§ 150.45  REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   The appropriate inspector may revoke and require the return of any permit by
notifying the permit holder in writing, stating the reason for the revocation. 
Permits shall be revoked for any material departure from the approved
application, plans or specifications; for refusal or failure to comply with
proper orders of the inspector; for refusal or failure to comply with
requirements of this chapter and the appropriate regulatory codes; or for false
statements or misrepresentations made in securing the permit.
(1979 Code, § 9-1046)
§ 150.46  TIME LIMITATIONS ON PERMITS.
   All permits issued under this chapter shall expire by limitation six months
after the date of issuance if the work authorized by the permit has not been
commenced.  If after commencement, the work is discontinued for a period of 12
months, the permit therefor shall immediately expire.  No work authorized by
any permit which has expired shall thereafter be performed until a new permit
has been secured.
(1979 Code, § 9-1047)
§ 150.47  CHANGES IN WORK.
   After a permit has been issued, changes or deviations from the terms of the
application and permit, or changes or deviations from the plans or
specifications involving any work under the jurisdiction of this chapter or of
any regulatory code adopted herein, shall not be made until specific written
approval of the changes or deviations has been obtained from the appropriate
inspector.
(1979 Code, § 9-1048)
§ 150.48  PERMIT FEES.
   Fees for permits shall be based upon the total estimated cost of the
proposed work, including all subcontracts if any, but in no case shall the
total estimated cost be less than the market value of similar completed work in
the city as determined by the appropriate inspector or inspectors.  Permit fees
shall be as established by the Board of Aldermen and filed in the office of the
Building Inspector.
(1979 Code, § 9-1049)
ABANDONED STRUCTURES
§ 150.60  FINDING; INTENT.
   It is hereby found that there exist within the town abandoned structures
which the Board of Aldermen finds to be hazardous to the health, safety and
welfare of the residents of the town due to the attraction of insects or
rodents, conditions creating a fire hazard, dangerous conditions constituting a
threat to children, or frequent use by vagrants as living quarters in the
absence of sanitary facilities.  Therefore, pursuant to the authority granted
by G.S. § 160A-441, it is the intent of this subchapter to provide for the
repair, closing or demolition of any abandoned structures in accordance with
the same provisions and procedures as are set forth by law for the repair,
closing or demolition of dwellings unfit for human habitation.
(1979 Code, § 9-1061)  (Ord. passed 1-19-1977)
§ 150.61  DUTIES OF BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   The Building Inspector is hereby designated as the town officer to enforce
the provisions of this subchapter.  It shall be the duty of the Building
Inspector:
   (A)   To locate abandoned structures within the town and determine which
structures are in violation of this subchapter;
   (B)   To take such action pursuant to this subchapter as may be necessary to
provide for the repair, closing or demolition of the structures;
   (C)   To keep an accurate record of all enforcement proceedings begun
pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter; and
   (D)   To perform such other duties as may be prescribed herein or assigned
to him or her by the Board of Aldermen.
(1979 Code, § 9-1062)  (Ord. passed 1-19-1977)
§ 150.62  POWERS OF BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   The Building Inspector is authorized to exercise such powers as may be
necessary to carry out the intent and the provisions of this subchapter,
including the following powers in addition to others herein granted:
   (A)   To investigate the condition of buildings within the town in order to
determine which structures are abandoned and in violation of this subchapter;
   (B)   To enter upon premises for the purpose of making inspections;
   (C)   To administer oaths and affirmations, examine witnesses and receive
evidence; and
   (D)   To designate any other officers, agents and employees of the town as
he or she deems necessary to carry out the provisions of this subchapter.
(1979 Code, § 9-1063)  (Ord. passed 1-19-1977)
§ 150.63  STANDARDS FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Every abandoned structure within the town shall be deemed in violation
of this subchapter whenever the structure constitutes a hazard to the health,
safety or welfare of the town citizens as a result of:
      (1)   The attraction of insects or rodents;
      (2)   Conditions creating a fire hazard;
      (3)   Dangerous conditions constituting a threat to children; or
      (4)   Frequent use by vagrants as living quarters in the absence of
sanitary facilities.
   (B)   In making the preliminary determination of whether or not an abandoned
structure is in violation of this subchapter, the Building Inspector may, by
way of illustration and not limitation, consider the presence or absence of the
following conditions:
      (1)   Holes or cracks in the structure’s floors, walls, ceilings or roof
which might attract or admit rodents and insects, or become breeding places for
rodents and insects;
      (2)   The collection of garbage or rubbish in or near the structure which
might attract rodents and insects, or become breeding places for rodents and
insects;
      (3)   Violations of the State Building Code, the State Electrical Code or
the Fire Prevention Code which constitute a fire hazard in the structure;
      (4)   The collection of garbage, rubbish or combustible material which
constitute a fire hazard in the structure;
      (5)   The use of the structure or nearby grounds or facilities by
children as a play area;
      (6)   Violations of the State Building Code which might result in danger
to children using the structure or nearby grounds or facilities as a play area;
and
      (7)   Repeated use of the structure by transients and vagrants, in the
absence of sanitary facilities, for living, sleeping, cooking or eating.
(1979 Code, § 9-1064)  (Ord. passed 1-19-1977)
§ 150.64  PROCEDURE FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Preliminary investigation; notice, hearing.  Whenever a petition is
filed with the inspector by at least five residents of the town charging that
any structure exists in violation of this subchapter, or whenever it appears to
the inspector, upon inspection, that any structure exists in violation hereof,
he or she shall, if his or her preliminary investigation discloses a basis for
such charges, issue and cause to be served upon the owner of and parties in
interest in the structure, a complaint stating the charges and containing a
notice that a heading will be held before the inspector at a place therein
fixed, not less than ten nor more than 30 days after the serving of the
complaint.  The owner or any party in interest shall have the right to file an
answer to the complaint and to appear in person, or otherwise, and give
testimony at the place and time fixed in the complaint.  Notice of the hearing
shall also be given to at least one of the persons signing a petition relating
to the structure.  Any person desiring to do so may attend the hearing and give
evidence relevant to the matter being heard.  The rules of evidence prevailing
in courts of law or equity shall not be controlling in hearings before the
inspector.
   (B)   Procedure after hearing.  After the notice and hearing, the inspector
shall state in writing his or her determination whether the structure violates
this subchapter.  If the inspector determines that the dwelling is in violation
he or she shall state in writing his or her findings of fact to support that
determination, and shall issue and cause to be served upon the owner thereof an
order directing and requiring the owner to either repair, alter and improve the
structure or else remove or demolish the same within a specified period of time
not to exceed 90 days.
   (C)   Failure to comply with order.
      (1)   In personam remedy.  If the owner of any structure shall fail to
comply with an order of the inspector within the time specified therein, the
inspector may submit to the Board of Aldermen at its next regular meeting a
resolution directing the Town Attorney to petition the superior court for an
order directing the owner to comply with the order of the inspector, as
authorized by G.S. § 160A-446(g).
      (2)   In rem remedy.  After failure of an owner of a structure to comply
with an order of the inspector within the time specified therein, if injunctive
relief has not been sought or has not been granted as provided in division (C)
(1) above, the inspector shall submit to the Board of Aldermen an ordinance
ordering the inspector to cause the structure to be removed or demolished, as
provided in the original order of the inspector, and pending the removal or
demolition, to placard the dwelling as provided by G.S. § 160A-443.
   (D)   Petition to superior court by owner.  Any person aggrieved by an order
issued by the inspector shall have the right, within 30 days after issuance of
the order to petition the superior court for a temporary injunction restraining
the inspector pending a final disposition of the cause, as provided by G.S. §
160A-446(f).
(1979 Code, § 9-1065)  (Ord. passed 1-19-1977)
§ 150.65  SERVICE OF COMPLAINTS AND ORDERS.
   Complaints or orders issued by the inspector shall be served upon persons
either personally or by registered or certified mail, but if the whereabouts of
the persons are unknown and the same cannot be ascertained by the inspector in
the exercise of reasonable diligence, the inspector shall make an affidavit to
that effect, and the serving of the complaint or order upon the person may be
made by publication once at least ten days prior to the hearing in a newspaper
having general circulation in the town.  Where service is made by publication,
a notice of the pending proceedings shall be posted in a conspicuous place on
the premises affected by the complaint or order.
(1979 Code, § 9-1066)  (Ord. passed 1-19-1977)
§ 150.66  IN REM ACTION BY INSPECTOR; PLACARDING.
   After failure of an owner of a structure to comply with an order of the
inspector issued pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter, and upon
adoption by the Board of Aldermen of an ordinance authorizing and directing him
or her to do so, as provided by G.S. § 160A-443(5) and §
150.64(C), the inspector shall proceed to cause the structure to be removed or
demolished, as directed by the ordinance of the Board of Aldermen and shall
cause to be posted on the main entrance of the structure a placard prohibiting
the use or occupation of the structure.  Use or occupation of a building so
posted shall constitute a misdemeanor.  Each such ordinance shall be recorded
in the office of the Register of Deeds of Brunswick County, and shall be
indexed in the name of the property owner in the grantor index, as provided by
G.S. § 160A-443(5).
(1979 Code, § 9-1067)  (Ord. passed 1-19-1977)
§ 150.67  LIEN ON PREMISES.
   As provided by G.S. § 160A-443(6), the amount of the cost of any removal or
demolition caused to be made or done by the inspector pursuant to this
subchapter shall be a lien against the real property upon which the cost was
incurred.  The lien shall be filed, have the same priority, and be enforced and
the costs collected as provided by G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 10.
(1979 Code, § 9-1068)  (Ord. passed 1-19-1977)
§ 150.68  ALTERNATIVE REMEDIES.
   Neither this subchapter nor any of its provisions shall be construed to
impair or limit in any way the power of the town to define and declare
nuisances and to cause their abatement by summary action or otherwise, or to
enforce this subchapter by criminal process, and the enforcement of any remedy
provided herein shall not prevent the enforcement of any other remedy or
remedies provided herein or in other ordinances or laws.
(1979 Code, § 9-1069)  (Ord. passed 1-19-1977)
CHAPTER 151:  UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
Section
   
151.01   Adoption by reference
§ 151.01  ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The Unified Development Ordinance for the town, as amended, is hereby
adopted by reference as if set out in full herein.
(Ord. passed 7-6-2004)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
TABLE I:  FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Granting a franchise to Atlantic Telephone Membership
–      5-7-1980    Corporation to construct, operate and maintain a community
                     antenna television system within the corporate limits of
                     the town
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to North Carolina General Statutes
References to 1979 Code
References to 1994 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTES
G.S. Cite Code Section
G.S. Cite         Code Section
1-593             10.05
                  52.067;
                  52.999;
                  53.99;
14-4              95.08;
                  111.99;
                  112.99;
                  130.06;
                  130.99
14-4(a)           10.99
14-4(b)           70.99
14-234            37.05
14-269            130.99
14-269 et seq.    130.01
14-269(b)         130.01
14-288.12         92.01
14-306(a)         110.18
14-415.11         130.11
18B-300           130.03
Ch. 20            70.01
20-141            71.030
20-156            70.04
20-219.11         90.10
44A-1 et seq.     90.12
44A-2(d)          72.20
62A-1 et seq.     94.01
62A-4(b)(2)       94.06
131F-2(3)         112.01
131F-2(17)        112.01
Ch. 132           37.02
133-32            37.05
136-141 et seq.   90.03
136-143           90.03
                  36.15;
143-128           36.20;
                  36.21
143-128.12(b)     32.18
143-129           53.03;
                  Ch. 54
143-131           53.03;
                  Ch. 54
159-7 et seq.     31.18
159-25            31.18;
                  33.15
159-28            33.01
Ch. 160A, Art. 10 150.67
Ch. 160A, Art. 19 93.007
160A-11           10.18
160A-64           30.08
160A-69           30.03
160A-70           30.04
160A-72           31.15
160A-74           30.20
160A-75           30.20;
                  37.05
160A-78           10.23
160A-79           10.22
160A-80           30.05
160A-146          30.01
160A-164          30.05
160A-173          31.16
                  10.99;
160A-175          52.035;
                  53.21;
                  93.999
160A-175(c)       53.21
160A-175(d)       91.05
160A-175(e)       91.05
160A-175(g)       93.999
160A-178          112.02;
                  112.06
160A-184          130.08
160A-189          130.02
160A-190          130.02
160A-193          95.01;
                  95.07
160A-194          112.02;
                  112.06
160A-216          53.03
160A-265 et seq.  36.02
160A-266(c)       36.01
160A-281 et seq.  34.01
160A-300          70.01
160A-303          Ch. 90
160A-303.2        90.01
160S-360          32.16,
                  93.004
160A-381 et seq.  32.22
160A-383          32.21
160A-411          93.006;
                  93.008
160A-412          93.006
160A-424          93.008
160A-441          150.60
160A-443          150.64
160A-443(5)       150.66
160A-443(6)       150.67
160A-446(f)       150.64
160A-446(g)       150.64
160A-500 et seq.  32.24
164-7             10.14
                  
 
REFERENCES TO 1979 CODE
1979 Code 2011 Code
1979 Code    2011 Code
1-1002       10.05
1-1003       10.20
1-1006       10.99
1-1007       10.07
1-1008       10.17
1-1009       10.19
1-1041       10.21
1-1043       10.22
1-1044       10.23
2-1001       30.01
2-1002       30.02
2-1003       30.03
2-1004       30.04
2-1005       30.05
2-1006       30.06
2-1007       30.07
2-1008       30.08
2-1021       30.20
2-1022       30.21
2-1023       30.22
2-1024       30.23
2-1025       30.24
2-2001       31.15
2-2002       31.16
2-2003       31.17
2-2004       31.18
2-2011       31.01
2-2012       31.02
2-2013       31.03
2-3001       32.01
2-4001       33.01
2-4002       33.02
2-4003       33.03
2-4041       33.15
3-1001       34.01
3-1002       34.02
3-1003       34.03
3-1004       34.04
3-1006       34.05
3-1007       34.06
3-1008       34.07
3-2001       35.01
3-2002       35.02
3-2003       35.03
3-2004       35.04
3-2005       35.05
3-2006       35.06
3-2007       35.07
3-3001       92.01
4-2001       50.01
4-2002       50.02
4-2003       50.03
4-2004       50.04
4-2005       50.05
4-2006       50.06
4-2007       50.07
4-2008       50.08
4-2009       50.09
4-2010       50.10
5-1001       51.01
5-1002       51.02
5-1003       51.03
5-1004       51.04
5-1005       51.05
5-1006       51.06
5-1007       51.07
5-1008       51.08
5-1009       51.09
5-1010       51.10
5-1011       51.11
5-1012       51.12
5-1013       51.13
5-1014       51.14
5-1015       51.15
5-1016       51.16
5-1017       51.17
5-1018       51.18
5-1019       51.19
5-1020       51.20
5-1021       51.21;
             52.080
5-1022       51.22
6-1011       112.01
6-2031       96.01
6-2032       96.02
6-2033       96.03
6-2034       96.04
6-2035       96.05
6-2036       96.06
6-2037       96.07
6-2038       96.08
6-2039       96.09
7-1001       70.01
7-1011       70.02
7-1012       70.03
7-1013       70.04
7-1021       71.001
7-1022       71.002
7-1023       71.003
7-1024       71.004
7-1025       71.005
7-1026       71.006
7-1027       71.007
7-1028       71.008
7-1029       71.009
7-1030       71.010
7-1041       71.030
7-1042       71.031
7-1051       71.045
7-1052       71.046
7-1053       71.047
7-1061       71.060
7-1062       71.061
7-1071       71.080
7-1072       71.081
7-1073       71.082
7-1074       71.083
7-1075       71.084
7-1101       73.01
7-1102       73.02
7-1103       73.03
7-1104       73.04
7-1105       73.05
7-1106       73.06
7-1107       73.07
7-1108       73.08
7-1121       72.01
7-1122       72.02
7-1131       72.15
7-1132       72.16
7-1133       72.17
7-1134       72.18
7-1135       72.19
7-1141       72.30
7-1142       72.31
7-1143       72.32
7-1151       72.03
7-1152       72.04
7-1153       72.05
7-1154       72.06
7-1155       72.07
7-2001       70.15
8-1001       130.01
8-1002       130.02
8-1003       130.03
8-1004       130.04
8-1005       130.05
8-2001       91.01
8-2002       91.02
8-2003       91.03
8-2004       91.04
8-2005       91.05;
             91.99
8-4001       95.01
8-4002       95.02
8-4003       95.03
8-4004       95.04
8-4005       95.05
8-4006       95.06
8-4007       95.07
8-4008       95.08
8-5001       130.08
8-5002       130.09
8-5003       130.10
9-1001       150.01
9-1002       150.02
9-1003       150.03
9-1004       150.04
9-1005       150.05
9-1006       150.06
9-1007       150.07
9-1008       150.08
9-1009       150.09
9-1021       150.20
9-1022       150.21
9-1023       150.22
9-1024       150.23
9-1025       150.24
9-1026       150.25
9-1027       150.26
9-1041       150.40
9-1042       150.41
9-1043       150.42
9-1044       150.43
9-1045       150.44
9-1046       150.45
9-1047       150.46
9-1048       150.47
9-1049       150.48
9-1061       150.60
9-1062       150.61
9-1063       150.62
9-1064       150.63
9-1065       150.64
9-1066       150.65
9-1067       150.66
9-1068       150.67
9-1069       150.68
App. I § 10173.08
App. I § 10373.08
App. I § 10673.08
App. I § 10973.08
App. I § 12773.08
 
REFERENCES TO 1994 CODE
1994 Code 2011 Code
1994 Code 2011 Code
34.06     34.05
34.07     34.06
37.08     34.07
52.01     52.001
52.02     52.002
52.03     52.003
52.04     52.004
52.05     52.005
52.06     52.006
52.07     52.007
52.08     52.008
52.09     52.009
52.10     52.010
52.11     52.011
52.12     52.012
52.13     52.013
52.14     52.014
52.15     52.015
52.16     52.016
52.17     52.017
52.18     52.018
52.19     52.019
52.20     52.020
52.30     52.030
52.31     52.031
52.32     52.032
52.33     52.033
52.34     52.034
52.35     52.035
52.36     52.036
52.37     52.037
52.50     52.050
52.51     52.051
52.52     52.052
52.53     52.053
52.54     52.054
52.55     52.055
52.70     52.081
52.71     52.083
52.72     52.084
52.73     52.085
52.75     52.086
52.76     52.087
71.01     71.001
71.02     71.002
71.03     71.003
71.04     71.004
71.05     71.005
71.06     71.006
71.07     71.007
71.08     71.008
71.09     71.009
71.10     71.010
71.30     71.030
71.31     71.031
71.45     71.045
71.46     71.046
71.47     71.047
71.60     71.060
71.61     71.061
71.70     71.080
71.71     71.081
71.72     71.082
71.73     71.083
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. Date Passed Code Section
-    11-17-1982  35.01
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed    Description
-        - -            11.01—
                        11.04
-        - -            33.03
-        - -            Ch. 74,  Sch. I,
                        Sch. II
-        4-1-1964       51.02;
                        51.22
-        1-19-1977      150.60—
                        150.68
-        3-5-1980       111.01;
                        111.99
-        4-2-1980       110.01
-        5-7-1980       TSO I
-        1-20-1982      35.01—
                        35.08
                        52.001—
                        52.008;
                        52.010—
                        52.020;
                        52.030—
-        2-3-1982       52.037;
                        52.050—
                        52.055;
                        52.081;
                        52.083—
                        52.086;
                        52.999
10-19-83 10-19-1983     150.40
2-19-86  2-19-1986      Ch. 74, Sch. II
-        5-21-1986      50.09
                        50.01;
                        50.05;
-        11-5-1986      50.08;
                        50.09;
                        50.11
1-21-87  1-21-1987      130.06
5-6-87   5-6-1987       Ch. 75, Sch. I
6-17-87  6-17-1987      Ch. 75, Sch. I
-        1-6-1988       36.01—
                        36.03
2-15-89  2-15-1989      72.20
-        2-7-1990       94.01—
                        94.06
-        5-2-1990       36.15—
                        36.22
6-20-90  6-20-1990      130.03
-        7-18-1990      36.35
                        53.01—
-        8-15-1990      53.08;
                        53.99
-        5-1-1991       53.04
-        7-7-1992       53.07
11-17-92 11-17-1992     Ch. 74, Sch. II
-        12-15-1992     50.12
-        4-6-1993       33.04
-        2-1-1994       53.01
-        2-15-1994      51.21;
                        52.080
-        3-15-1994      36.35
-        4-5-1994       51.21
-        4-5-1994       52.080
-        8-2-1994       130.09;
                        130.99
                        90.01—
729      8-2-1994       90.16;
                        90.99
-        9-19-1995      96.10
-        11-21-1995     96.10
-        12-19-1995     91.06
-        12-19-1995     130.11;
                        130.99
9041     3-19-1996      Ch. 74,  Sch. II
907      9-17-1996      36.45—
                        36.48
-        3-4-1997       51.22
-        3-18-1997      72.15
909      3-18-1997      72.15
-        4-15-1997      90.01
911      6-17-1997      72.00
-        1-6-1998       52.050
-        eff. 9-19-2000 53.09
-        10-17-2000     110.15—
                        110.20
                        112.01—
02-05    5-21-2002      112.06;
                        112.99
                        32.15—
-        7-6-2004       32.28,
                        151.01
05-02    3-1-2005       30.20
                        32.16,
05-10    11-4-2005      32.17,
                        32.18
                        31.15;
                        31.17—
                        31.19;
                        32.01;
                        34.04;
05-13    12-7-2005      34.05;
                        34.07;
                        35.02;
                        35.03;
                        35.09;
                        51.03
7-15     3- -2007       32.18
07-22    5- -2007       32.17
07-39    9- -2007       32.19,
                        32.21
                        51.01—
                        51.22;
                        52.001—
                        52.020;
                        52.030—
                        52.037;
                        52.050—
                        52.055;
                        52.080—
07-38    11-6-2007      52.087;
                        52.999;
                        53.01—
                        53.08;
                        53.20;
                        53.21;
                        53.99;
                        Ch. 54, Appx 1,
                        2,
                        3,
                        4
10-04    4-6-2010       30.20
                        35.10;
                        35.11;
                        93.001—
10-11    7-6-2010       93.018;
                        93.035—
                        93.039;
                        93.999
                        52.065—
10-14    9-7-2010       52.067;
                        52.999
10-17    11-3-2010      37.01—
                        37.09
10-17    1-11-2011      32.17
                        32.16,
11-06    3-1-2011       32.17,
                        32.18
11-18    11-1-2011      93.003
12-14    8-7-2012       130.09
-        6-3-2014       130.03
                        93.013,
14-07    6-18-2014      93.014,
                        93.999
                        32.01;
                        35.03;
                        36.45;
                        36.48;
                        93.001;
                        93.003;
                        93.004;
                        93.006;
14-17    12-2-2014      93.007;
                        93.009;
                        93.011—
                        93.013;
                        93.015—
                        93.018;
                        93.035;
                        93.039;
                        93.999
                       
 
