TOWN OF SHARPSBURG, NORTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-5 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. O-2024-05, passed 11-6-2024
State legislation current through 2024 A.L.S. Pamphlet #35
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
Published by:
TOWN OFFICIALS
OF
SHARPSBURG, NORTH CAROLINA
MAYOR AND COMMISSIONERS
MAYOR         Vacant
MAYOR PRO TEM David Pride
COMMISSIONER  Beverly Davis
COMMISSIONER  Wilbur Etheridge
COMMISSIONER  Michael Hughes
COMMISSIONER  Linda Virgil
CITY OFFICIALS
TOWN CLERK    Tracy Sullivan
 
TOWN CHARTER
Section
   
SECTION 1. Corporate name
   
SECTION 2. Boundaries
   
SECTION 3. Streets
   
SECTION 4. Corporate powers
   
SECTION 5. Ordinances
   
SECTION 6. Street powers
   
SECTION 7. Sidewalks
   
SECTION 8. Nuisances
   
SECTION 9. Fires
   
SECTION 10. Markets
   
SECTION 11. Health
   
SECTION 12. Form of government
   
SECTION 13.
   
SECTION 14. Elective officers
   
SECTION 15. (Deleted)
   
SECTION 16.
   
SECTION 17. (Deleted)
   
SECTION 18. (Deleted)
   
SECTION 19.
   
SECTION 20.
SECTION 1. CORPORATE NAME.
   That all the inhabitants of the Town of Sharpsburg in the counties of Nash,
Edgecombe and Wilson, North Carolina, as the boundaries and limits of said town
are herein established or may be hereafter established, shall continue to be
body politic, incorporated under and to be known by the name and style of the
“Town of Sharpsburg” with such powers, rights, and duties as are herein
provided.
SECTION 2. BOUNDARIES.
   That the boundaries of the said town of Sharpsburg shall be and the same are
hereby fixed and determined as follows: Beginning at the one hundred and
nineteenth milestone on the Wilmington and Weldon Railroad, county of Wilson;
thence twenty- nine degrees west one hundred and sixty-nine poles to a stake;
thence south twenty-nine degrees west three hundred and twenty poles to a
stake; thence south seventy-one degrees east two hundred poles to a stake;
thence north twenty-nine degrees east three hundred and twenty feet to a stake;
thence north seventy-one degrees west one hundred poles to the railroad and
intersecting line north seventy-one degrees west to the beginning.
SECTION 3. STREETS.
   That the streets of the town of Sharpsburg be and they are hereby fixed and
determined as they were heretofore laid off, described and accepted by the
board of commissioners of said town.
SECTION 4. CORPORATE POWERS.
   The town of Sharpsburg, made a body politic and corporate by this Act, shall
have perpetual succession, may use a common seal, may sue and be sued, may
contract and be contracted with, plea and be impleaded in all courts and
places, and in all matters whatever: may take, hold, and purchase lands as may
be needed for the corporate purposes of said town, and may sell any real estate
and personal property owned by it perform and render all public services, when
deemed expedient; may condemn property for public uses, and may hold, manage
and control the same, such condemnation proceedings to be governed and
controlled by the board of commissioners; and shall be subject to all the
duties and obligations now pertaining to or incumbent upon said town as a
corporation, not in conflict with the provisions of this act; and shall enjoy
all the rights, immunities, powers, privileges, and franchises now possessed by
said town and herein granted and conferred, or granted and conferred by the
general law. When any land or right of way shall be required for the purpose of
opening new streets or for widening those already opened, or for other public
use allowed by this charter, and for want of agreement as to the compensation
therefor, and the same cannot be purchased from the owner or owners, the same
may be taken by a valuation to be made by three freeholders of the town, one to
be chosen by the property owners and one to be chosen by the board of
commissioners, and if these two cannot agree, they to choose a third person;
and in making said valuation said freeholders, after being duly sworn by the
mayor or justice of the peace or clerk of a court of record or other person
authorized to administer oaths shall take into consideration the loss or damage
which may accrue to the owner in consequence of the land or right of way being
surrendered, also any benefits or advantages such owner may receive from the
opening or widening of such street or other improvements, and ascertain the sum
which shall be paid to the owner of said property, and report the same, under
their hands and seals, to the board of commissioners, which report, on being
confirmed by the board of commissioners and spread upon their minutes, shall
have the effect of a judgment against said board of commissioners and shall
pass title to the board of commissioners in their corporate capacities of the
lands so taken, and the land may at once be condemned and used by the town for
the purpose intended: Provided, if any person whose land is thus taken or the
board of commissioners be dissatisfied with the valuation that is made, then in
that case either party may have an appeal to the next Superior Court of the
county in which said land is situate: Provided further, however, that such
appeal shall not hinder or delay the board of commissioners from opening or
widening such street or creating such other improvements.
SECTION 5. ORDINANCES.
   The town of Sharpsburg shall have power to enact, and to enforce all
ordinances necessary to protect health, life, add property, and to prevent and
summarily abate and remove nuisances, and to preserve and enforce the good
government, order and security of the town and its inhabitants; to protect the
health, lives, and property of all the inhabitants of the said town, and to
enact and enforce any and all ordinances upon the subject: Provided, that no
ordinance shall be enacted inconsistent with the provisions of this act: and
Provided further, that the specification of particular powers herein granted,
it being intended by this act to grant and bestow upon the inhabitants of
Sharpsburg the full power of self- government, and it shall have and exercise
all powers of municipal government not prohibited to it by this charter or by
some general law of the State of North Carolina or by the provisions of the
Constitution of the State of North Carolina. All ordinances of the town, when
printed and published and bearing on the title page thereof the words “Ordained
and published by the board of commissioners of the town of Sharpsburg,” or
other words of like import, shall be prima facie evidence of their authenticity
and shall be admitted and received in evidence in all courts and places without
further proof.
SECTION 6. STREET POWERS.
   The town of Sharpsburg shall have power to lay out, establish, open, alter,
widen, lower, extend, grade, narrow, cleanse, care for, sell, pave, supervise,
maintain, improve, embellish, and ornament the streets, alleys, highways,
sidewalks, squares, parks, public grounds and places, and to vacate and close
the same; put drains and sewers therein; provide for and regulate the lighting
thereof; regulate, control, license, prevent, prohibit and suppress the opening
thereof, the digging therein, the interference therewith, and the lacing
thereof of pipes, poles, wires, fixtures and appliances of every kind, whether
above or beneath the surface thereof; to regulate and control the use thereof
by any and all persons, animals, or vehicles, in whatever way or for whatever
purpose; to prevent, abate, and remove encroachments, obstructions, pollutions,
or litter therein; to open new streets and highways when necessary, and
generally to make and enforce any and all regulations in respect thereof in the
judgment of the board of commissioners requisite, proper, or expedient to
promote and insure the health, safety, and convenience of the inhabitants of
said town.
SECTION 7. SIDEWALKS.
   The town of Sharpsburg may by appropriate penal ordinance compel the
construction and laying of sidewalks by property owners in front of or abutting
on their land or property, and may prescribe the character of such sidewalk and
the manner in which it shall be laid. Should any person or corporation owning
land in the town of Sharpsburg fail or refuse to construct sidewalks in front
of or abutting on their property, in accordance with the ordinances passed by
the town of Sharpsburg, in addition to the penalty provided therein, the town
of Sharpsburg shall have the right to have said sidewalks constructed in
accordance with such ordinances, at the expense of the abutting property owner,
and may recover a personal judgment in any court having jurisdiction of the
amount for the cost and expense in constructing said sidewalks; Provided, the
town shall first establish the proper grade and place the curbstone at the
expense of the town.
SECTION 8. NUISANCES.
   The town shall also have the power to condemn as nuisances all buildings,
cisterns, wells, and other erections in the town which on inspection shall be
found unhealthy, unsanitary, or dangerous to persons or property, and cause the
same to be abated or removed, at the expense of the owner, unless the owner
thereof, at his or her expense, upon notice and with the sanction of the board
of commissioners, shall reconstruct the same in such manner as shall be
prescribed by the ordinances and regulations adopted by the town; and as to all
buildings, cisterns, wells, and other erections and private improvements to be
constructed in the future, they shall have the power and right and it shall be
their duty to have the same constructed so as not to interfere with the health
of persons or safety of person or property within the town.
SECTION 9. FIRES.
   The town of Sharpsburg shall have power to provide means for the protection
against and the extinguishment of conflagrations, and for the regulation,
maintenance, and support of a fire department; and for the purpose of guarding
against the calamity of fires, may prescribe fire limits and may limit or
prohibit the erection, building, placing, or repairing of wooden buildings
within such limits of said town as may by ordinance be designated and
prescribed as fire limits, and may also within said limits prohibit the moving
or putting up of wooden buildings from without said limits, and may also
prohibit the removal of any wooden buildings from one place to another within
said limits, and may direct and prescribe that all buildings within the limits
so designated in the ordinance as fire limits shall be made or constructed of
fireproof material, the kind, character, extent, and quality of which may by
ordinance be prescribed and fixed; also may prohibit the repairing of wooden
buildings in fire limits, when the same shall have been damaged to within fifty
per cent of the value thereof, and may prescribe the manner of finding such
damages, and may also declare all dilapidated buildings to be nuisances, and
require same to be repaired, removed, or abated in such manner as the board of
commissioners may prescribe and may declare all wooden buildings within the
town which they may deem dangerous to contiguous buildings or which may cause
or promote fire, to be nuisances, and cause the same to be removed in such
manner as may be required, at the expense of the owner, and may further
prescribe limits within which only fireproof roofing may be used, and may
impose a penalty for violations of such rules and regulations.
SECTION 10. MARKETS.
   Said town shall have the power to establish, lease, buy, erect, maintain,
own, regulate, and operate markets and market places, abbatoirs, and to build,
own and maintain buildings therefor, and to rent and lease the same.
SECTION 11.
   The town of Sharpsburg shall have the power to regulate burial grounds,
crematories, and cemetaries, and to prohibit burial within the town limits if
deemed advisable or if found necessary to protect the public health, and to
condemn and close burial grounds and cemetaries in the thickly settled portions
of the town, and when demanded by the public interest or public health, to
remove or cause to be removed, bodies interred in such condemned or closed
cemetaries and burial grounds, and shall cause them to be interred in a
suitable place to be provided by the town, at its expense; and, whenever
advisable, the town may condemn the land proposed to be used for the
reinterring of bodies in the same manner as in condemnation of street, and to
be used for such other purposes as may best subserve the interest of the town.
   (b)   The town of Sharpsburg shall also have the power by ordinance to
authorize the destroying of clothing, bedding, furniture, and buildings
infected with the germs of any infectious or contagious or dangerous disease,
when the public health requires the destruction of the same, and may also in
the same manner authorize the destruction and removal of buildings or other
objects, after the same has been declared a nuisance and to be dangerous to the
health or lives of the citizens of said town.
   (c)   to make regulations to prevent the introduction of contagious diseases
into the town, to make quarantine laws for that purpose, and to enforce them
within the town and within one mile thereof.
   (d)   to require the owners of private drains, sinks, or privies to fill up,
cleanse, drain, alter, relay repair, fix and improve the same as they may be
ordered by resolution or ordinance of the board of commissioners, and to impose
penalties upon persons failing to do the same. If there be no person in the
town upon whom such an order can be served, the town then can have such work
done, and cost of same shall be a lien on the property and taxed up against it
and collected in such manner as the board of commissioners may determine.
   (e)   to prevent any person from bringing, depositing, or having within the
town limits the carcass of any dead animal or other unwholesome substance or
matter or filth of any kind, and to require prompt removal of the same, and
impose all necessary penalties for the enforcement of such powers.
   (f)   to regulate, license, or prohibit butchers and prevent their
slaughtering animals within the town limits, and to revoke their license for
malconduct in trade; and to regulate, license, and restrain the sale of fresh
meats, fruits, and vegetables, and the slaughter of animals; and to license and
regulate or prohibit slaughter-houses within the town limits.
   (g)   the town of Sharpsburg shall have the right to have inspected the
premises of all persons, at any hour during the daytime, in the interest of
public health, and for the purpose of making said inspection the officers or
agents of the town duly authorized to do so shall have the right to enter upon
the premises of any person at any hour during the daytime to make said
inspection. Whenever notice is given by any officer or employee of the town
inspecting any premises that said premises need cleaning, the owner or tenant
of such premises shall cause the night-soil or other refuse matter thereon to
be removed, or the same shall be removed at the instance of the proper
authorities of the town and the cost thereof shall be paid by the owner or
tenant, and failure to do so shall subject said owner or tenant to the
penalties to be prescribed by ordinance, and said persons shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
SECTION 12. FORM OF GOVERNMENT
12.1  Form of Government.
The Town of Sharpsburg shall operate under the mayor-council form of government
in accordance with North Carolina General Statute 160A Article 7 Part 3.
12.2 The board of commissioners shall appoint, suspend, and remove the heads of
all town departments, and all other town employees; provided, the board of
commissioners may delegate to any administrative official or department head
the power to appoint, suspend, and remove town employees assigned to his
department. The head of each department shall see that all laws of the State,
the town charter, and the ordinances, resolutions, and regulations of the Board
of Commissioners concerning his department are faithfully executed within the
town. Otherwise, the administration of the town shall be performed as provided
by law or direction of the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord., passed 7-9-2012; Am. Ord., passed 8-2-2016)
SECTION 13.
   The board of commissioners of the town of Sharpsburg shall have the power to
make ordinances, rules and regulations for the better government of the town,
not inconsistent with Ch. 160A of North Carolina, as they may deem necessary or
expedient, and may enforce them by imposing penalties on such as violate them,
and may compel the performance of the duties imposed upon them by suitable
penalties.
SECTION 14. ELECTIVE OFFICERS.
   All powers conferred on the town of Sharpsburg shall, unless otherwise
provided in this charter, be exercised by the mayor and five commissioners,
each of whom shall be elected by the qualified voters of the town at large, and
shall devote as much time to the service of the town as shall be necessary for
the prompt and efficient administration of the business affairs of said town.
The mayor shall be ex officio chairman of the board of commissioners, and shall
have the right to vote only in case of a tie in the board; and the mayor and
the members of said board of commissioners shall hold office for four years
from and after the date of their election or until their successors have been
duly elected and qualified.
   (b)   The mayor and other members of the board of commissioners elected
under this act, and their successors in office, shall be held and deemed in law
and fact the successors of the present mayor and board of commissioners of the
town of Sharpsburg, and upon the qualification of the mayor and other members
of the board of commissioners, all the powers, rights, and duties of the
present mayor and board of commissioners of the said town shall cease; and from
and after the passage of this act the said board of commissioners shall have
and exercise all the rights, powers, and duties of the mayor and board of
commissioners of cities and towns as may be conferred by the laws and
Constitution of this State, and shall have and exercise all the rights, powers,
and duties conferred upon them or either of them by the terms of this act.
   [(c) through (g) deleted.]
   (h)   In case of the death, absence, resignation, or permanent disability of
the mayor, or whenever a vacancy in the office of mayor shall occur for any
reason, the mayor pro tem. shall act as mayor until the vacancy is duly filled
as hereinafter provided for, and shall possess all the rights and powers of the
mayor and perform all the duties imposed upon the mayor. In case of vacancy in
the office of mayor, the board of commissioners at their next regular meeting
or as soon thereafter as convenient shall elect some person qualified to hold
the position to fill the vacancy existing in said office. The mayor so elected
shall hold office until the next regular election thereafter.
   [(i) deleted]
   (j)   The Board of Commissioners shall be vested with the power and
authority to make and enforce such rules and regulations as they may deem fit
and proper for and concerning the organization, management, and operation of
all the departments of the town and whatsoever agencies may be created for the
administration of its affairs. At the first regular meeting in December of each
calendar year, the Mayor shall appoint a commissioner to oversee the operations
of each of department of the town subject to the provisions of the Town Code of
Ordinances and any other policies adopted by the Board of Commissioners
regarding management of town operations. All salaries and wages to be paid to
the employees of the town, except as otherwise provided herein, shall be fixed
and paid by the Board of Commissioners.
   (k)   The board of commissioners shall be vested with the power and charged
with the duty of adopting all laws and ordinances not inconsistent with the
Constitution and laws of this State, touching every object, matter, and subject
within the purvies of the local government instituted by this act.
   (l)   The board of commissioners shall meet at least once in every month in
regular meeting, at such times as shall be fixed by said board of
commissioners, at the Town Hall, to consider and take under advisement and act
upon such business as may come before them. A majority of the actual membership
of the board of commissioners plus the mayor, excluding vacant seats, shall
constitute a quorum. A member who has withdrawn from a meeting without being
excused by majority vote of the remaining members present shall be counted as
present for purposes of determining whether or not a quorum is present. No
ordinance shall be passed or become effective without receiving the votes of at
least three members of said board of commissioners. Special meetings may be
called by the mayor, mayor pro tem, or any two members of the board of
commissioners at any time to consider only such matters as shall be mentioned
in the call for said meeting, and written notice thereof shall be given to each
member of said board of commissioners. All sessions of said board of
commissioners, whether regular or called, shall be open to the public; provided
that the public may be excluded when the said board of commissioners is in
closed session, per G.S. Ch. 143.
   (m)   The board of commissioners, at its first meeting in June of each year,
or as soon thereafter as practicable, shall levy the annual tax for such year,
but special taxes or assessments allowed by this charter may be levied,
assessed, and collected at such times as the board of commissioners in each
case may prescribe. The board of commissioners shall have full power to provide
by ordinance for the prompt collection of taxes assessed, levied, and imposed
under this charter, and are hereby authorized, and to that end may and shall
have full power and authority to sell or cause to be sold all kinds of property
real and personal, and may and shall make such rules and regulations, and
ordain and pass such ordinances as are deemed necessary to the levying,
imposing, assessing, and collecting of any taxes provided for in this charter.
Unless otherwise provided by this act, and by ordinances passed hereunder, all
the property in such town liable to taxation shall be assessed in accordance
with the provisions of the general law of the State in so far as applicable.
   (n)   The board of commissioners shall have the management and control of
the finances of the town, except as otherwise herein provided. They shall have
power to appropriate money and provide for the payment of debts and expenses of
the town; to provide by ordinance special funds for special purposes provided
under the provisions of the charter, and to make the same disbursable only for
said purposes, and to impose proper penalties for enforcing the same; to
provide by ordinance for the payment of any existing and outstanding
indebtedness, and for the payment of any bonds that may from time to time be
issued. The board of commissioners shall also have the power to fund or refund
by ordinance the whole or any part of the existing debts of the town, or any
future debt, by acquiring and cancelling the evidence thereof, and to issue
other bonds in lieu thereof, either registered or coupon, bearing interest at a
rate not greater than the rate on the original indebtedness, and to this end
may apply the sinking fund belonging to any series of bonds so refunded, and
may pay and retire any bond by using the sinking fund thereof.
   (o)   At the regular municipal election to be held in 2009, the two
candidates for Commissioner who receive the highest number of votes shall be
elected for four-year terms, while the three candidates for Commissioner who
receive the next highest number of votes shall be elected for two-year terms.
At the regular municipal election to be held in 2011, and every four years
thereafter, three members of the Board of Commissioners shall be elected to
serve for four-year terms. At the municipal election to be held in 2013, and
every four years thereafter, two members of the Board of Commissioners shall be
elected to four-year terms.
   (p)   At the regular municipal election to be held in 2009, the Mayor shall
be elected to a four-year term and beginning with the regular municipal
election to be held in 2013, and every four years thereafter, the Mayor shall
be elected to a four-year term.
   (q)   For the election to be held in October 1987, and each election held
thereafter, candidates for Mayor and Town Commissioner shall file written
notice of candidacy as prescribed by NCGS and Nash, Edgecombe and Wilson County
Boards of Elections.
(Am. Ord. passed 9-2-2008; Am. Ord., passed 7-9-2012; Am. Res. 2014-2, passed
4-1-2014)
SECTION 15. (DELETED)
SECTION 16.
   The board of commissioners shall have power and it is hereby authorized to
levy annually, for general purposes and for the purpose of paying the expenses
of the town government, and ad valorem tax on all real and personal property
within the corporate limits of said town, as defined in section two of this
act, and all personal property owned by the residents of said town, including
money on hand, solvent credits, and upon all franchises granted by the town to
individuals or corporations and upon all other subjects taxed by the General
Assembly, such tax not to exceed one dollar on every one hundred dollars
appraised valuation of said property: Provided, however, that public property
used for public purposes, actual places for religious worship, places of burial
not held for private or corporate profit, all buildings used exclusively and
owned by persons or corporations or associations of persons, for school
purposes (and the necessary furniture of all school), and institutions of
purely public charity, are hereby declared to be exempt from taxation.
   (b)   In addition to the subjects listed for taxation, the board of
commissioners may levy such other taxes as may be authorized by the NCGS.
SECTION 17. (DELETED)
SECTION 18. (DELETED)
SECTION 19.
   That all laws and clauses of laws in conflict with the provisions of this
act are repealed.
SECTION 20.
   That this act shall be in force from and after its ratification (ie., March
11, 1913).
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time; computing time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinances
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalties; enforcement of ordinances; continuing violations
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the Town of Sharpsburg shall be
designated as the Code of Sharpsburg, North Carolina, and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein or by law or implication required, the same
rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and usual
sense.
      (2)   However, technical words and phrases having a peculiar and
appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical
import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS. The governing body of the Town of Sharpsburg,
North Carolina.
      CHARTER. The Charter of the Town of Sharpsburg, North Carolina.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code, as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      COUNTY. The County of Edgecombe, the County of Nash or the County of
Wilson, or all of them, as the case may be.
      GOVERNOR. The Governor of North Carolina.
      JOINT AUTHORITY. All words giving a joint authority to three or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving authority to a majority of
persons or officers.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of the municipality unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
      OWNER. Applied to any property, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the whole
or a part of the property.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as applied to
any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Every species of property, except real property.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property.
      REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of North Carolina.
      STREET. Any public way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard,
parkway, dedicated alley, lane, viaduct, bridge and the approaches thereto
within the town and shall mean the entire width of the right-of-way between
abutting property lines.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      TENANT or OCCUPANT. When applied to a building or land, shall include any
person who occupies the whole or a part of the building or land, whether alone
or with others.
      TOWN. The Town of Sharpsburg, North Carolina.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of the town shall be by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code, as now or later amended, or its application
to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever, in one section, reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the town exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
such error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this town for the transaction of all
municipal business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME; COMPUTING TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof unless otherwise
expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from
their passage unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceeding, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall, in any way, be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal or,
in any way, affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering
system hereof and printed for inclusion herein. When subsequent ordinances
repeal any chapter, section, division or any portion thereof, the repealed
portions may be excluded from this code by omission from reprinted pages. The
subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed or omitted, in the case of
repeal, shall be prima facie evidence that the subsequent ordinances numbered
or omitted are readopted as a new code by the town.
   (B)   Amendments to any of the provisions of the code shall be made by
amending the provisions by specific reference to the section number of this
code in language substantially similar to the following: “Section
               of the Code of Ordinances, Town of Sharpsburg, North Carolina,
is hereby amended as follows....” The new provisions shall then be set out in
full as desired.
   (C)   If a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to be added,
language substantially similar to the following shall be used: “The Code of
Ordinances, Town of Sharpsburg, North Carolina, is hereby amended by adding a
section, to be numbered               , which section shall read as
follows....” The new section shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (D)   All sections, subchapters, chapters or provisions desired to be
repealed must be specifically repealed by section, subchapter or chapter
number, as the case may be.
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10,
passed 5-13-1960; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Am. Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text
of the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example: (G.S. §
160A-11) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1985)
      (2)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
         § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection
or copying all public records unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            Inspection of public records, see G.S. §§ 139-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the town published in 1988 and subsequently amended, the 1988
code section number shall be indicated in the history by “(1988 Code, §
      ).”
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTIES; ENFORCEMENT OF ORDINANCES; CONTINUING VIOLATIONS.
    (A)   Whenever in this code any act is prohibited or is made or declared to
be unlawful or an offense and where no specific penalty is provided therefore,
the violation of such provision shall be punishable a fine not exceeding $500.
Each day that the violation of this code or of any ordinance shall continue
shall constitute a separate offense. Such penalties are to be recovered by the
town in a civil action in the nature of debt if the offender does not pay the
penalty within a prescribed period of time after he or she has been cited for
violation of the ordinance.
   (B)   The criminal penalty provisions set forth in G.S. § 14-4 shall not
apply or be available for enforcement by the town except where specifically
stated within this code.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the above penalties, the town may enforce its lawful
ordinances by appropriate equitable remedy issuing from a court of competent
jurisdiction, including but not limited to injunction and/or abatement or by
any remedy authorized by G.S. §§ 160A-175 and 160A-389.
(Meeting Minutes of 2-5-2002; Am. Ord. O-20120501-01, passed 5-1-2012; Am. Ord.
passed 4-5-2016)
Statutory reference:
   Enforcement of ordinances, see G.S. § 160A-175
   For similar provisions under state law, see G.S. § 14-4
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
      
31.   TOWN OFFICIALS
      
32.   DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
      
33.   POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENTS
      
34.   ELECTIONS
      
35.   EMPLOYMENT POLICIES
      
36.   PUBLIC RECORDS
      
37.   FINANCE
CHAPTER 30: BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Oath
   
30.02   Vacancies
   
30.03   Appointment of committees
Meetings
   
30.15   Regular meetings
   
30.16   Special meetings
   
30.17   Organizational meeting
   
30.18   Meetings open to public
   
30.19   Mayor to preside
   
30.20   Quorum
   
30.21   Mayor to vote if tie
   
30.22   Order of business
   
30.23   Rules of procedure
   
30.24   Minutes
Cross-reference:
   Charter provisions concerning the Board of Commissioners, see
Charter Section 14
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 OATH.
   The Mayor and each member of every Board of Commissioners shall take the
oath prescribed by the State Constitution, state law and the Town Charter, as
the case may be.
(1988 Code, § 30.01)
Statutory reference:
   Oath of office, see G.S. § 160A-61
§ 30.02 VACANCIES.
   (A)   A vacancy that occurs in an elective office of the town shall be
filled by appointment of the town. If the term of the office expires
immediately following the next regular town election or if the next regular
town election will be held within 90 days after the vacancy occurs, the person
appointed to fill the vacancy shall serve the remainder of the unexpired term.
Otherwise, a successor shall be elected at the next regularly scheduled town
election that is held more than 90 days after the vacancy occurs, and the
person appointed to fill the vacancy shall serve only until the elected
successor takes office. The elected successor shall then serve the remainder of
the unexpired term. If the number of vacancies of the Board is such that a
quorum of the Board cannot be obtained, the Mayor shall appoint enough members
to make up a quorum and the Board shall then proceed to fill the remaining
vacancies.
   (B)   If the number of vacancies on the Board is such that a quorum of the
Board cannot be obtained and the Office of Mayor is vacant, the Governor may
fill the vacancies upon the request of any remaining member of the Board upon
the petition of any five registered voters of the town.
(G.S. § 160A-63) (1988 Code, § 30.02)
§ 30.03 APPOINTMENT OF COMMITTEES.
   The Mayor and the Board of Commissioners may create those committees on the
Board for special purposes as they deem appropriate.
(1988 Code, § 30.03)
MEETINGS
§ 30.15 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   The regular meeting of the Board of Commissioners shall be held on the first
Tuesday of each month at 7:30 p.m. at the fire district meeting room unless
otherwise designated by the Mayor or the Board of Commissioners.
(1988 Code, § 30.15) (Res. passed 12-15-1981)
Cross-reference:
   Regular meetings, see
Charter Section 14
Statutory reference:
   Regular meetings, see G.S. § 160A-71
§ 30.16 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   (1)   The Mayor, the Mayor Pro Tempore or any two members of the Board
of Commissioners may, at any time, call a special meeting by signing a written
notice stating the time and place of the meeting and the subjects to be
considered.
      (2)   The notice shall be delivered to the Mayor and each member of the
Board or left at his or her usual dwelling place at least six hours before the
meeting.
      (3)   Only those items of business specified in the notice may be
transacted at a special meeting unless all members are present or have signed a
written waiver of notice.
      (4)   In addition, a person or persons calling a special meeting of the
Board of Commissioners shall comply with the notice requirements of G.S. Ch.
143.
   (B)   Special meetings may be held at any time when the Mayor and all
members of the Board of Commissioners are present and consent thereto or when
those not present have signed a written waiver of notice.
   (C)   During any regular meeting or any duly called special meeting, the
Board of Commissioners may call or schedule a special meeting; provided that,
the motion or resolution calling or scheduling any special meeting shall
specify the time, place and purpose or purposes of the meeting and shall be
adopted during an open session.
   (D)   Any regular or duly called special meeting may be recessed to
reconvene at a time and place certain, or may be adjourned to reconvene at a
time and place certain, by the council.
   (E)   The council may adopt its own rules of procedure, not inconsistent
with the charter, general law, or generally accepted principles of
parliamentary procedure.
(G.S. § 160A-71) (1988 Code, § 30.16)
§ 30.17 ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING.
   The newly elected Mayor and Board of Commissioners shall hold a meeting for
organizational purposes at the first regular meeting in December following the
election.
(1988 Code, § 30.17)
Statutory reference:
   Organizational meeting, see G.S. § 160A-68
§ 30.18 MEETINGS OPEN TO PUBLIC.
   All meetings of the Board of Commissioners, whether regular, special or
adjourned, shall be open to the public. The Board may hold executive sessions
pursuant to the state’s General Statutes.
(1988 Code, § 30.18)
§ 30.19 MAYOR TO PRESIDE.
   The Mayor shall preside over all meetings of the Board of Commissioners and,
in his or her absence, the Mayor Pro Tempore shall preside.
(1988 Code, § 30.19)
Cross-reference:
   Mayor, see §
31.15
   Mayor Pro Tempore, see §
31.16
Statutory reference:
   Mayor to preside over Board, see G.S. § 160A-69
§ 30.20 QUORUM.
   (A)   A majority of the members of the Board of Commissioners, plus the
Mayor, excluding vacant seats, shall constitute a quorum.
   (B)   No official business of the town shall be transacted unless a quorum
is present.
(1988 Code, § 30.20)
§ 30.21 MAYOR TO VOTE IF TIE.
   The Mayor shall not vote on any question before the Board of Commissioners,
except in the case of a tie vote deadlocking the decision of the Board.
(1988 Code, § 30.21)
§ 30.22 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   The following order shall be observed in the transaction of business at
meetings of the Board of Commissioners:
   (A)   Meeting called to order;
   (B)   Prayer;
   (C)   Roll call;
   (D)   Approval of minutes of last meeting;
   (E)   Petitions from the public;
   (F)   Unfinished business;
   (G)   New business; and
   (H)   Committee reports.
(1988 Code, § 30.22)
§ 30.23 RULES OF PROCEDURE.
   Except where otherwise provided by this code, law or ordinance, the
procedure of the Board of Commissioners shall be governed by Robert’s Rules of
Order.
(1988 Code, § 30.23)
§ 30.24 MINUTES.
   The Town Clerk shall keep a complete and accurate account of all the
proceedings of the Board of Commissioners and all ordinances shall be filed in
a book especially provided for that purpose by the Board of Commissioners, and
every petition submitted to it, which is not set out in full in the minutes,
shall be filed in an exhibit book and, by proper reference, shall be made a
part of the minutes. The minutes of each meeting shall be read at the
subsequent meeting and, upon being approved by the Board of Commissioners,
shall be signed by the Town Clerk.
(1988 Code, § 30.24)
CHAPTER 31: TOWN OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Bond
   
31.02   Board of Commissioners to prescribe powers and duties
Town Officials
   
31.15   Mayor
   
31.16   Mayor Pro Tempore
   
31.17   Town Administrator
   
31.18   Town Clerk
   
31.19   Finance Officer
   
31.20   Budget Officer
   
31.21   Town Attorney
   
31.22   Town Tax Collector
   
31.23   Fire Chief
   
31.24   Police Chief
   
31.25   Town Superintendent
   
31.26   Building Inspector
   
31.27   Plumbing Inspector
   
31.28   Director of Recreation
   
31.29   Other officers and employees
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 BOND.
   The Town Clerk, Finance Officer, Tax Collector and other officers or
employees required by the Board of Commissioners shall, before entering upon
their duties, post bond in amounts specified by the Board of Commissioners. All
bond premiums shall be paid from town funds. However, when two offices are
combined, such as Town Clerk and Finance Officer, only one bond shall be
required.
(1988 Code, § 31.01)
§ 31.02 BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS TO PRESCRIBE POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Board of Commissioners shall have the power to require from time to time
further and other duties of all officers and employees of the town beyond those
prescribed therefor and to define and prescribe powers and duties of all
officers elected or appointed to any office provided for by the Town Charter.
(Ord. passed 8-2-2016)
TOWN OFFICIALS
§ 31.15 MAYOR.
    (A)   It shall be the duty of the Mayor to cause all ordinances of the town
to be enforced and to attend and preside over all meetings of the Board of
Commissioners.
   (B)   The Mayor shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the town unless that
function is delegated by the Board of Commissioners.
   (C)   Any vacancy in Mayor shall be filled as provided in G.S. §160A-63.
(1988 Code, § 31.15) (Am. Ord., passed 7-9-2012; Am. Ord. passed 8-2-2016)
Cross-reference:
   Charter provisions as to Mayor, see
Charter Section 14
Statutory reference:
   Compensation, see G.S. § 160A-64
   Powers and duties, see G.S. §§ 160A-67 and 160A-69
§ 31.16 MAYOR PRO TEMPORE.
   (A)   At the organizational meeting, the Board of Commissioners shall elect,
from among its members, a Mayor Pro Tempore to serve at the pleasure of the
Board.
   (B)   A member of the Board of Commissioners serving as Mayor Pro Tempore
shall be entitled to vote on all matters and shall be considered a Board member
for all purposes, including the determination of whether a quorum is present.
   (C)   During the absence of the Mayor, the Board may confer upon the Mayor
Pro Tempore any of the powers and duties of the Mayor.
   (D)   If the Mayor should become physically or mentally incapable of
performing the duties of his or her office, the Board of Commissioners may, by
unanimous vote, declare that he or she is incapacitated and confer any of his
or her powers and duties on the Mayor Pro Tempore.
   (E)   Upon the Mayor’s declaration that he or she is no longer incapacitated
and with the concurrence of a majority of the Board of Commissioners, the Mayor
shall resume the exercise of his or her powers and duties.
   (F)   In the event both the Mayor and the Mayor Pro Tempore are absent from
a meeting, the Board of Commissioners may elect, from its members, a temporary
chairperson to preside in such absence.
(G.S. § 160A-70) (1988 Code, § 31.16)
§ 31.17 TOWN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Town Administrator shall be the Chief Administrative Officer of the town
and shall be responsible to the Mayor and the Board of Commissioners for
administering all municipal affairs placed in his/her charge by either the
Mayor or Board of Commissioners.
   (A)   With approval of the Board of Commissioners, the Mayor may hire a Town
Administrator.
   (B)   Except as modified by the terms and provisions of a written contract
of employment, should one be entered into, the Town Administrator shall be
deemed an employee at will.
   (C)   The position of Town Administrator is an “Executive, Administrative
and Professional” position as defined in Part 541 of CFR, Chapter 29, otherwise
known as the “Fair Labor Standards Act of 1983 as amended in 1985” and such,
the Town Administrator is not entitled to compensation for work hours over and
beyond the weekly hours defined in the wage and hour law.
   (D)   The Town Administrator, subject to administering all municipal affairs
placed in his/her charge by the Mayor and/or Board of Commissioners, shall have
the following duties and authorities:
      (1)   Recommend appointment or removal to the Board of Commissioners of
all town officers and employees not elected by the people, and whose
appointment or removal is not otherwise provided for by law, except the Town
Attorney, in accordance with such general personnel rules, regulations,
policies, and ordinances as the Board may adopt;
      (2)   Direct and supervise the administration of all departments,
offices, and agencies of the town, subject to the general direction and control
of the Mayor and Board of Commissioners, except as otherwise provided by law.
It shall be the responsibility of the Town Administrator to keep the department
heads generally informed of the workings and activities of the Board;
      (3)   Attend all meetings of the Board of Commissioners, Planning Board,
Board of Adjustment, and any other town committees and recommend any measures
that he/she deems expedient;
      (4)   See that all laws of the Town of Sharpsburg including the charter,
ordinances, resolutions, and regulations of the Board of Commissioners are
faithfully executed within the Town of Sharpsburg;
      (5)   Prepare in work sessions with the Board of Commissioners and the
Finance Officer/Town Clerk the annual budget and the capital program not later
than May 31 of each year. He/she shall then submit the annual budget and
capital program in open session not later than the first regular June meeting
of the Board of Commissioners;
      (6)   Submit annually to the Board of Commissioners and make available to
the public a complete report on the finances and administrative activities of
the Town of Sharpsburg as of the end of the fiscal year;
      (7)   Make any other reports that the Board of Commissioners may require
concerning the operations of the town departments, offices, and agencies
subject to the Town Administrator's supervision, directions, or management;
      (8)   Have the authority to expend funds without prior approval of the
Board of Commissioners according to the terms and conditions of the annual
budget ordinance and other financial policies adopted by the Board of
Commissioners of the town. He/she shall report to the Board of Commissioners
not later than the next regularly scheduled meeting each and every expenditure
made without prior approval of the Board of Commissioners; and
      (9)   Perform any other duties that may be required or authorized by the
Board of Commissioners off the Town of Sharpsburg.
   (E)   When the position of Town Administrator is vacant, the Board of
Commissioners may designate a qualified person to exercise the authorities and
perform the duties of Town Administrator until the vacancy is filled or until
the Board of Commissioners removes the Interim Administrator.
(Ord. passed 4-6-2004; Am. Ord., passed 7-9-2012; Am. Res. 2014-2, passed 4-1-
2014; Am. Ord. passed 8-2-2016)
§ 31.18 TOWN CLERK.
   (A)   The Town Clerk shall be appointed by the Board of Commissioners at
each election year.
   (B)   The Town Clerk shall have the following duties:
      (1)   Give notice of and attend all meetings of the Board of
Commissioners and record all of their proceedings in a book to be kept by the
Town Clerk for that purpose;
      (2)   Keep the code of ordinances, in which shall be transcribed all
ordinances which are enacted by the Board of Commissioners; and
      (3)   Perform those duties as the Board of Commissioners may from time to
time require.
(1988 Code, § 31.17) (Am. Ord. passed 4-6-2004)
Cross-reference:
   Town Clerk to supervise inspection of public records, see §
36.04
Statutory reference:
   Town Clerk, see G.S. § 160A-171
§ 31.19 FINANCE OFFICER.
   (A)   The Finance Officer shall be appointed by the Board of Commissioners
at each election year.
   (B)   The duties of the Finance Officer may be imposed on the Town Clerk or
any other officer or employee permitted by law by the Board of Commissioners.
The Finance Officer shall perform the following duties:
      (1)   Attend all meetings of the Board of Commissioners;
      (2)   Perform those duties required of the Office of Finance Officer by
state law; and
      (3)   Perform those duties as the Board of Commissioners may from time to
time require.
(1988 Code, § 31.18) (Am. Ord. passed 4-6-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Duties, see G.S. § 159-25
   Finance Officer, see G.S. § 159-24
§ 31.20 BUDGET OFFICER.
   (A)   The town shall appoint a Budget Officer to serve at the will of the
Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   The duties of Budget Officer may be imposed on any town officer or
employee, including the Mayor or a Town Commissioner.
(G.S. § 159-9) (1988 Code, § 31.19) (Am. Ord. passed 4-6-2004)
§ 31.21 TOWN ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners shall appoint a Town Attorney to serve at
its pleasure and to be its legal advisor.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Town Attorney to:
      (1)   Prosecute for and defend suits against the town;
      (2)   Upon request of the Mayor or Board of Commissioners, advise the
Mayor, Board of Commissioners or any other officer of the town in regard to
matters connected with the town’s business;
      (3)   Attend meetings of the Board of Commissioners when requested to do
so by them;
      (4)   Draw such deeds, contracts, bonds, notes and other legal papers as
may be required for the proper conduct of the town’s business;
      (5)   Draft all ordinances;
      (6)   Approve all ordinances as to form before their introduction; and
      (7)   Perform such other duties as may be assigned to him or her by state
law or by the Board of Commissioners acting pursuant to state law.
(1988 Code, § 31.20) (Am. Ord. passed 4-6-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Town Attorney, see G.S. § 160A-173
§ 31.22 TOWN TAX COLLECTOR.
   (A)   Appointment and term.
      (1)   The Board of Commissioners shall appoint a Tax Collector to serve
for a term to be determined by the Board and until his or her successor has
been appointed and qualified. The Board of Commissioners may remove the Tax
Collector from office during his or her term for good cause after giving him or
her notice, in writing, and an opportunity to appear and be heard at a public
session of the Board.
      (2)   No hearing shall be required, however, if the Tax Collector is
removed for failing to meet the prerequisites prescribed by G.S. § 105-352(b)
for delivery of the tax receipts.
      (3)   Unless otherwise provided by G.S. § 105-373, whenever any vacancy
occurs in this office, the Board of Commissioners shall appoint a qualified
person to serve as Tax Collector for the period of the unexpired term.
   (B)   Qualifications. The Board of Commissioners shall appoint as Tax
Collector a person of high character and integrity whose experience in business
and collection work is satisfactory to the Board of Commissioners.
   (C)   Bond. No Tax Collector shall be allowed to begin his or her duties
until he or she has furnished bond conditioned upon his or her honesty and
faithful performance in an amount as the Board of Commissioners may prescribe.
A Tax Collector shall not be permitted to collect any taxes not covered by his
or her bond, nor shall a Tax Collector be permitted to continue collecting
taxes after his or her bond has expired without renewal.
   (D)   Compensation. The compensation and expense allowances of the Tax
Collector shall be fixed by the Board of Commissioners.
   (E)   Alternative to separate office of Tax Collector. Pursuant to Article
VI, Sec. 9 of the North Carolina Constitution, the Office of Tax Collector is
hereby declared to be an office that may be held concurrently with any
appointive or elective office other than those hereinafter designated, and the
Board of Commissioners may appoint as Tax Collector any appointive or elective
officer who meets the personal and bonding requirements established by this
section. However, a member of the Board of Commissioners may not be appointed
Tax Collector, nor may the duties of the office be conferred upon him or her. A
person appointed or elected as the Treasurer or Chief Accounting Officer of the
town may not be appointed Tax Collector, nor may the duties of the Office of
Tax Collector be conferred upon him or her, except with the written permission
of the state.
   (F)   Oath. Every Tax Collector shall take and subscribe the oath set out in
G.S. § 105-349(g) and file it with the Town Clerk.
   (G)   General duties of the Tax Collector. The Tax Collector shall perform
those duties set forth in G.S. § 105-350.
(1988 Code, § 31.21) (Am. Ord. passed 4-6-2004)
§ 31.23 FIRE CHIEF.
   For provisions concerning the Fire Chief, see §
33.16.
(1988 Code, § 31.22) (Am. Ord. passed 4-6-2004)
§ 31.24 POLICE CHIEF.
   For provisions concerning the Police Chief, see §
33.03.
(1988 Code, § 31.23) (Am. Ord. passed 4-6-2004)
§ 31.25 TOWN SUPERINTENDENT.
   The Town Superintendent shall be responsible for the repair and maintenance
of the utilities of the town and may also serve as Building Inspector and in
other capacities as directed by the Board of Commissioners.
(1988 Code, § 31.24) (Am. Ord. passed 4-6-2004)
Cross-reference:
   Town Superintendent to supervise water and sewer systems, see §§
51.111 and
53.51
§ 31.26 BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   For provisions concerning the Building Inspector, see §§
150.50 through
150.54 and 151.30.
(1988 Code, § 31.25) (Am. Ord. passed 4-6-2004)
§ 31.27 PLUMBING INSPECTOR.
   For provisions concerning the Plumbing Inspector, see §§
51.009(B),
53.06 and
150.50 through
150.54.
(1988 Code, § 31.26) (Am. Ord. passed 4-6-2004)
§ 31.28 DIRECTOR OF RECREATION.
   For provisions concerning the Director of Recreation, see §
32.53.
(1988 Code, § 31.27) (Am. Ord. passed 4-6-2004)
§ 31.29 OTHER OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   Such other officers and employees as are deemed necessary shall be appointed
by the Board of Commissioners. All officers and employees shall serve at the
pleasure of the Board of Commissioners and receive that compensation as from
time to time may be prescribed by the Board.
(1988 Code, § 31.28) (Am. Ord. passed 4-6-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Compensation, see G.S. § 160A-162
CHAPTER 32: DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
Building Inspection Department
   
32.01   Establishment; duties
Fire Department
   
32.10   Establishment; duties
Housing Appeals Board
   
32.20   Establishment; duties
Planning Board/Zoning Board of Adjustment
   
32.30   General
   
32.31   Rights, privileges and duties
   
32.32   Board vacancies and compensation
   
32.33   Organization
   
32.34   Minutes; written orders
   
32.35   Conduct of meetings
   
32.36   Hearing procedures for quasi-judicial decisions
   
32.37   Voting on quasi-judicial decisions
   
32.38   Appeals of quasi-judicial decisions
Police Department
   
32.40   Establishment; duties
Recreation Commission
   
32.50   Establishment
   
32.51   Members, terms and vacancies
   
32.52   Officers, rules and meetings
   
32.53   Director of Recreation
   
32.54   Gifts or donations
   
32.55   Entering into contract or binding obligation
   
32.56   Disbursement of funds
   
32.57   Reports
   
32.58   Powers and duties
BUILDING INSPECTION DEPARTMENT
§ 32.01 ESTABLISHMENT; DUTIES.
   For provisions concerning the Building Inspection Department, see §§
150.50 through
150.54.
(1988 Code, § 32.01)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.10 ESTABLISHMENT; DUTIES.
   For provisions concerning the Fire Department, see §§
33.15 through
33.18.
(1988 Code, § 32.10)
HOUSING APPEALS BOARD
§ 32.20 ESTABLISHMENT; DUTIES.
   For provisions concerning the Housing Appeals Board, see § 151.31.
(1988 Code, § 32.20)
PLANNING BOARD/ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
§ 32.30 GENERAL.
   (A)   All members of the Board of Adjustment and the Planning Board
(hereafter called the Board) shall adopt rules and bylaws in accordance with
the provisions of this subchapter and of G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 19.
   (B)   Meetings of the Board shall be held at the call of the Chairperson and
at such other times as the Board may determine. The Chairperson, or in his or
her absence, the Vice-Chairperson, may administer oaths and compel the
attendance of witnesses by subpoena. All meetings of the Board shall be open to
the public.
(Ord. passed 2-5-2008)
§ 32.31 RIGHTS, PRIVILEGES AND DUTIES.
   The Board shall have equal rights, privileges and duties in all matters. The
alternate member, while attending any regular or special meeting of the Board
and serving in the absence of any regular member, shall have and may exercise
all such rights, privileges and duties of a regular member.
(Ord. passed 2-5-2008)
§ 32.32 BOARD VACANCIES AND COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Vacancies occurring for other than expiration of term shall be filled
as they occur for the remainder of the un-expired term and such vacancy shall
be filled by the Town Board.
   (B)   Members shall serve without pay but may be reimbursed with prior
approval of the Town Board for any expenses incurred while representing the
Board.
(Ord. passed 2-5-2008)
§ 32.33 ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   The Board shall adopt rules governing its organization and for all
proceedings before it.
   (B)   At the first meeting, or the first meeting after the membership of the
Board has been changed through the expiration of one or more terms, the Board
shall elect a Chairperson and a Vice-Chairperson from within its membership.
The Chairperson or the Vice-chairperson in the Chairperson’s absence shall
preside at all meetings. The Chairperson of the Board or the Vice-chairperson
is authorized in his or her official capacity to administer oaths to witnesses
in any matter coming before the Board.
   (C)   The Board shall appoint a secretary and such other officers as may be
authorized by the Town Board. The secretary may be an employee of the town upon
approval of the Mayor of Sharpsburg.
(Ord. passed 2-5-2008)
§ 32.34 MINUTES; WRITTEN ORDERS.
   (A)   The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings in a book maintained
for the purpose showing the vote of each member upon each question, and if
absent or failing to vote, an indication of such fact. Final disposition of all
cases considered by the Board shall be by written order with the findings of
facts stated, and the reasons therefore, all of which shall be a matter of
public record.
   (B)   Unless otherwise specified, any order or decision of the Board shall
expire and become void if a building permit and/or certificate of occupancy/
compliance for such use is not obtained within six months from the date of the
order or decision.
(Ord. passed 2-5-2008)
§ 32.35 CONDUCT OF MEETINGS.
   (A)   All evidence and testimony shall be presented publicly, and the Board
may consider all relevant facts within the personal knowledge of any member of
the Board, but such facts should be stated publicly in the hearing.
   (B)   All meetings of the Board shall be held at a regular time and place,
and at such other times and places as the Board may determine. All meetings of
the Board shall be open to the public. Due notice shall be given to all parties
of interest and public hearings shall be advertised when required under the
provisions of this subchapter. Any interested party may appear in person, by
agent or by attorney, offer evidence and testimony and cross-examine witnesses.
(Ord. passed 2-5-2008)
§ 32.36 HEARING PROCEDURES FOR QUASI-JUDICIAL DECISIONS.
   Applications for conditional use permits, administrative appeals, and
variances require that the Board hold a public hearing on the application.
   (A)   Notice of the public hearing shall be given once a week for two
successive calendar weeks in a newspaper having general circulation in the
town. The notice shall be published the first time not less than ten days or
more than 25 days before such public hearing.
   (B)   The Board shall give due notice to the applicant of any meetings at
which the application will be considered.
   (C)   In the case of a conditional use permit application, the Board shall
be given 45 days to review the application, before the hearing. The hearing
shall not be held until a Board recommendation has been received or 60 days
have elapsed.
   (D)   Quasi-judicial nature of hearing. All hearings by the Board for
administrative appeals, conditional uses and variances shall be conducted as
quasi-judicial hearings in accordance with the general law and court decisions
of the state. More specifically, any interested party must be given the
opportunity to present evidence or testimony, to cross-examine witnesses, to
inspect documents, and to offer evidence or testimony in explanation or
rebuttal. Findings shall be based on substantial evidence or testimony which is
competent, relevant, and material. Findings as to the existence or nonexistence
of crucial facts shall be based on sworn evidence or testimony unless the party
or parties before the Board stipulate the facts or waive this requirement.
(Ord. passed 2-5-2008)
§ 32.37 VOTING ON QUASI-JUDICIAL DECISIONS.
   (A)   The concurring vote of four-fifths of the members of the Board is
necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision, or determination of any
administrative official charged with the enforcement of this subchapter, or to
decide in favor of the applicant any matter upon which it is required to pass
under this subchapter or to grant a variance from the provisions of this
subchapter. That is, the concurring vote of six of the seven members of the
Board is necessary to take the actions indicated in this division (A).
Vacancies and recusals are not included when determining the supermajority.
   (B)   The concurring vote of a simple majority of the members of the Board
is necessary to grant a conditional use permit. Vacancies and recusals are not
included when computing the majority.
   (C)   The Chairperson, or the Vice-Chairperson in his or her absence, shall
vote in all matters coming before the Board.
   (D)   Any Board member is prohibited from voting in matters where the
outcome being considered is reasonably likely to have a direct, substantial,
and readily-identifiable financial interest. In such cases, where a Board
member fails to recuse him or herself, a majority vote of the remaining members
may be taken to disqualify that member from voting on the issue.
   (E)   No member shall be excused from voting except upon matters involving
the consideration of his or her own personal or financial interests which
preclude impartial consideration of the issue in question. A failure to vote by
any member who is eligible shall be recorded as an affirmative vote.
   (F)   Alternates may serve on individual matters based on a member’s
temporary disqualification or recusal.
   (G)   Every decision of the Board shall be filed in the office of the Zoning
Administrator and a written copy thereof shall be delivered to the appellant by
personal service or registered mail.
(Ord. passed 2-5-2008)
§ 32.38 APPEALS OF QUASI-JUDICIAL DECISIONS.
   Because all decisions by the Board for administrative appeals, conditional
use permits and variances are quasi-judicial decisions they are subject to
review in Superior Court by proceeding in the nature of certiorari. Any appeal
to the Superior Court shall be made within 30 days after the decision of the
Board is filed in the Office of the Zoning Administrator, or after a written
copy thereof is delivered to the appellant by personal service or registered
mail or certified mail, return receipt requested, whichever is later.
(Ord. passed 2-5-2008)
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.40 ESTABLISHMENT; DUTIES.
   For provisions concerning the Police Department, see §§
33.01 through
33.05.
(1988 Code, § 32.40)
RECREATION COMMISSION
§ 32.50 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby created a commission to be known as the Recreation
Commission of the town, in accordance with G.S. § 160A-354.
(1988 Code, § 32.50)
§ 32.51 MEMBERS, TERMS AND VACANCIES.
   (A)   The Recreation Commission shall consist of five members to be
appointed by the Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners shall appoint two members for a term of one
year, two members for a term of two years and one member for a term of three
years. Upon the expiration of their original terms of office, each succeeding
term shall be for three years and until their successors qualify for office.
   (C)   (1)   Vacancies in the Recreation Commission shall be filled for the
unexpired term by the Board of Commissioners.
      (2)   The members of the Recreation Commission shall serve without
compensation.
(1988 Code, § 32.51)
§ 32.52 OFFICERS, RULES AND MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Recreation Commission shall appoint from its membership a
Chairperson and other officers as it may deem necessary for the orderly
procedure of its business.
   (B)   It may adopt by-laws, rules and regulations governing its procedure
not inconsistent with the provisions of state law.
   (C)   The Recreation Commission shall, from time to time, make rules and
regulations governing the operation and conduct of the recreational facilities
operated by the Recreation Commission.
   (D)   The Recreation Commission shall hold regular meetings at the places
and times as it may designate.
(1988 Code, § 32.52)
Statutory reference:
   Parks and recreation, see G.S. §§ 160A-350 et seq.
§ 32.53 DIRECTOR OF RECREATION.
   (A)   The Recreation Commission shall have power to appoint and designate a
Director of Recreation who possesses the necessary foundation training and who
demonstrates, by actual work, his or her ability to organize and direct a
community recreation system.
   (B)   Other trained persons as may be necessary in the maintenance of and
operation of the recreation facilities and system may be employed.
(1988 Code, § 32.53)
§ 32.54 GIFTS OR DONATIONS.
   (A)   The Recreation Commission may accept any grant, gift, bequest or
donation of any personal property offered or made for recreational purposes,
and, with the approval of the Board of Commissioners, may accept any grant,
gift or devise of real estate.
   (B)   Any gift, bequest, money or other personal property, grant, devise or
real estate shall be held, used and finally disposed of in accordance with the
terms or conditions under which the grant, gift or devise is made and accepted.
(1988 Code, § 32.54)
§ 32.55 ENTERING INTO CONTRACT OR BINDING OBLIGATION.
   The Recreation Commission shall have no authority to enter into any contract
or incur any obligation binding upon the town other than current obligations or
contracts to be fully executed within the then current fiscal year and all
within the budget appropriations made by the Board of Commissioners of the
town.
(1988 Code, § 32.55)
§ 32.56 DISBURSEMENT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   Funds appropriated by the Board of Commissioners and budgeted to the
Recreation Commission shall be disbursed by the town’s Finance Officer upon
vouchers issued by the Recreation Commission and within the budget
appropriations made.
   (B)   Funds received by the Recreation Commission from sources other than
budget appropriations shall be deposited by the town to the credit and for the
use of the Commission and disbursed as budget funds are disbursed.
   (C)   However, funds received by gift, bequest or otherwise shall be
disbursed in accordance with the terms of the gift or bequest.
(1988 Code, § 32.56)
§ 32.57 REPORTS.
   (A)   The Recreation Commission shall make full and complete reports to the
Board of Commissioners at the times as may be requested and at other times as
to the Board of Commissioners may seem proper.
   (B)   The fiscal year of the Recreation Commission shall conform to that of
the town.
(1988 Code, § 32.57)
§ 32.58 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   The Recreation Commission shall provide, maintain, operate and
supervise the public parks and playgrounds, athletic fields, recreation centers
and other recreational facilities owned or controlled by the town, or leased or
loaned to the Recreation Commission by the owners thereof.
      (2)   The Recreation Commission shall have complete supervision of the
facilities and activities provided and conducted on, or in connection with, the
parks, playgrounds, athletic fields and recreation centers provided and shall
have the power to conduct any form of recreational or cultural activity.
   (B)   The powers as are now provided by state law or by ordinances of the
town relating to the development and operation of recreation systems, parks and
playgrounds are hereby vested in the Recreation Commission to be exercised by
it subject to all restrictions contained in the powers and ordinances.
(1988 Code, § 32.58)
Statutory reference:
   Parks and recreation, see G.S. §§ 160A-350 et seq.
CHAPTER 33: POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENTS
Section
Police Department
   
33.01   Organization
   
33.02   Board of Commissioners to supervise; disciplinary action
   
33.03   Chief of Police
   
33.04   Police officers; powers
   
33.05   Uniforms
Fire Department
   
33.15   Organization
   
33.16   Fire Chief; duties
   
33.17   Rules and regulations
   
33.18   Contract for fire services
Auxiliary Police Officers
   
33.30   Authorization
   
33.31   Auxiliary police force established
   
33.32   Compensation
   
33.33   Benefits
   
33.34   Civil liability
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 33.01 ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   The police force shall consist of the Chief of Police and as many
police officers as the Board of Commissioners shall from time to time determine
and employ as many special police officers as the Mayor or Police Commissioner
and Police Chief may deem necessary to appoint for special purposes.
   (B)   Police officers need not be residents of the town.
(1988 Code, § 33.01)
Statutory reference:
   State law requirements, see G.S. § 17C-10
§ 33.02 BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS TO SUPERVISE; DISCIPLINARY ACTION.
   The Board of Commissioners shall have general supervision over the Police
Department. The Chief of Police may suspend any officer of the Police
Department until the next regular or special meeting of the Board of
Commissioners, at which time final determination shall be made with respect to
the employment status of any suspended police officer.
(1988 Code, § 33.02)
§ 33.03 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   The Chief of Police, subject to the direction of the Board of Commissioners,
shall have charge of the police force. The Chief of Police shall assign those
duties to the police officers as he or she thinks best for the good order of
the town and he or she shall be responsible in seeing that the police officers
faithfully perform their duties.
(1988 Code, § 33.03)
§ 33.04 POLICE OFFICERS; POWERS.
   (A)   All police officers shall have, within the corporate limits of the
town and within one mile of the corporate limits, all of the powers invested in
law enforcement officers by ordinance, statute or common law.
   (B)   In addition thereto, police officers may pursue for a distance of not
more than three miles outside the corporate limits of the town for the purpose
of making an arrest, those offenders who have committed an offense within the
corporate limits of the town which would authorize a police officer to arrest
the offender without a warrant as provided by law.
   (C)   The members of the Police Department shall have authority to make
arrests without a warrant in all cases provided by law.
(1988 Code, § 33.04)
Statutory reference:
   Duties, see G.S. § 160A-285
   Extraterritorial jurisdiction, see G.S. § 160A-286
   Warrantless arrests, see G.S. § 15A-401(b)
§ 33.05 UNIFORMS.
   All police officers shall wear uniforms as shall be provided by the town,
shall keep all uniforms in a neat and clean condition and shall surrender all
uniforms and equipment which were furnished by the town.
(1988 Code, § 33.05)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 33.15 ORGANIZATION.
   The town may operate its own fire department, and if so, the Department
shall consist of the Chief and a sufficient number of firefighters, either
voluntary, part-time or full-time, to maintain and operate the Fire Department.
(1988 Code, § 33.15)
Statutory reference:
   Appointments, see G.S. § 160A-291
§ 33.16 FIRE CHIEF; DUTIES.
   (A)   If the town operates a fire department, the Board of Commissioners
shall appoint the Fire Chief.
   (B)   The duties of the town’s Fire Chief shall be to preserve and care for
fire apparatus, have charge of fighting and extinguishing fires, train Fire
Department personnel, seek out and have corrected all places and conditions
dangerous to the safety of the town and its citizens from fire and make annual
reports to the Board of Commissioners concerning these duties.
(1988 Code, § 33.16)
Statutory reference:
   Duties of Fire Chief, see G.S. § 160A-292
§ 33.17 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Fire Department may from time to time adopt its own rules and
regulations governing the Fire Department subject to the approval of the Board
of Commissioners.
   (B)   In the absence of the adoption of the rules, the Department shall be
governed by applicable provisions of the North Carolina Fire Protection Code.
(1988 Code, § 33.17)
§ 33.18 CONTRACT FOR FIRE SERVICES.
   The town may provide fire service by contracting with an incorporated non-
profit volunteer or community fire department under the terms and conditions as
may be approved by the Board of Commissioners and may appropriate the funds as
the Board may deem appropriate.
(1988 Code, § 33.18)
AUXILIARY POLICE OFFICERS
§ 33.30 AUTHORIZATION.
   The Board of Commissioners may provide for the organization, recruitment,
training, equipping and appointing of auxiliary police officers for the town.
(1988 Code, § 33.30)
§ 33.31 AUXILIARY POLICE FORCE ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The Auxiliary Police Force may be established in the town pursuant to
G.S. § 160A-282.
   (B)   While undergoing official training and performing duties on behalf of
the town pursuant to orders or instructions of the Chief of Police, auxiliary
police officers shall be entitled to all powers, privileges and immunities
afforded by law to regularly employed police officers, including benefits under
the State Workers’ Compensation Act.
(1988 Code, § 33.31) (Ord. passed 8-6-1975)
§ 33.32 COMPENSATION.
   Auxiliary police officers shall receive such compensation for their services
as shall be fixed by the Board of Commissioners. Auxiliary police officers
shall not be entitled to any benefits or compensation other than those provided
by or pursuant to this subchapter. This section shall not, in any manner,
affect the rights of any person to benefits provided by the state or by Act of
Congress for civilian defense workers or auxiliary police officers.
(1988 Code, § 33.32)
§ 33.33 BENEFITS.
   Duly appointed auxiliary police officers shall, while training and while
performing duties on behalf of the town incidental to their appointment, be
entitled to workers’ compensation benefits to the same extent as regular town
employees.
(1988 Code, § 33.33)
§ 33.34 CIVIL LIABILITY.
   The town shall be entitled to the same immunities with respect to the action
of auxiliary police officers in the performance of their duties or training or
otherwise to which it is entitled with respect to the actions of regular town
police officers in the performance of their duties.
(1988 Code, § 33.34)
CHAPTER 34: ELECTIONS
Section
   
34.01   Absentee voting
§ 34.01 ABSENTEE VOTING.
   Absentee voting shall be allowed in the regular town elections and run-off
elections in accordance with the provisions of G.S. Ch. 163.
(1988 Code, § 34.01)
Statutory reference:
   Absentee voting, see G.S. § 163-302
CHAPTER 35: EMPLOYMENT POLICIES
Section
   
35.01   (Reserved)
   
35.02   (Reserved)
   
35.03   (Reserved)
   
35.04   Use of town owned vehicles
   
35.05   Restrictions on the employment of immediate family members
§ 35.01 (RESERVED).
§ 35.02 (RESERVED).
§ 35.03 (RESERVED).
§ 35.04 USE OF TOWN OWNED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Personal use of town owned vehicles, equipment, or supplies by any
employee, individual or official is specifically forbidden.
   (B)   Vehicles owned by the town, including specialized vehicles and
apparatus, are provided by the town for the use of town employees in connection
with town business and services. When any such vehicle is not being used in the
town’s business or services, it is to be kept at the town’s business premises
or the town public works lot and building.
   (C)   No town owned vehicle (other than Police Department vehicles) shall be
used by any town employee for commuting to and from work.
   (D)   No town owned vehicle shall be used by any town employee for personal
business or personal errands either during working hours or non-working hours.
   (E)   When town employees are on call to return to work after regular hours
or on weekends, the employee shall drive their personal vehicle from home to
the town lot and pick up the town owned vehicle, respond to the site of the
call, complete their work and return the town vehicle to the town lot and
return home in their personal vehicle.
   (F)   When town employees are recalled from home after regular hours or on
weekends, the town will reimburse employee in an amount equal to the amount
allowed for tax deduction purposes by the IRS at the time such travel occurs.
   (G)   A town employee may use their personal vehicle for traveling on
official town business such as seminars, training sessions, certification
classes, schools and other town related business. Such travel in a personal
vehicle shall be pre-approved by the Town Manager at least two weeks in advance
of the proposed travel. When approved, the town employee will be reimbursed for
travel in an amount equal to the amount allowed for tax deduction purposes by
the IRS at the time such travel occurs.
   (H)   If the town maintains a general use vehicle (not a specialized service
vehicle or police car) for use of town employees on town business, the Town
Manager may make such vehicle available to a town employee for out of town
travel on town business such as seminars, training sessions, certifications
classes, schools, and other town related business. A log should be kept of the
dates of use of such vehicle, the name of the employee using such vehicle, a
brief description of the purpose of the use of such vehicle, and the total
mileage traveled in the vehicle by such employee during such use.
   (I)   Use of Police Department vehicles for commuting to and from home to
work or on call status shall at all times be controlled by separate ordinances
and/or policies contained in Chapter 33 of Title III Administration Ordinances.
(Ord. passed 5-8-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 35.05 RESTRICTIONS ON THE EMPLOYMENT OF IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBERS.
   Employment by the Town of Sharpsburg of more than one member of the same
family is governed by this administrative section.
   (A)   Definition of immediate family member. IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBER is
defined as:
      (1)   Spouse;
      (2)   Mother;
      (3)   Father;
      (4)   Mother-in-law;
      (5)   Father-in-law;
      (6)   Child or stepchild;
      (7)   Brother or stepbrother;
      (8)   Sister or stepsister;
      (9)   Daughter-in-law or son-in-law;
      (10)   Grandparents;
      (11)   Grandchildren;
      (12)   Any persons, not related by blood or marriage, living in the same
household as a family unit; or
      (13)   Legally appointed guardian.
   (B)   Restriction on employment of immediate family members. No immediate
family member shall be employed, assigned to or placed in a position of
employment with the Town of Sharpsburg:
      (1)   If the employee will be under the supervision, direct or indirect,
of an immediate family member as defined in division (A) of this section: or
      (2)   If the employee’s job performance evaluation or work performance
review is subject to determination by an immediate family member as defined in
division (A) of this section.
(Ord. passed 5-8-2008)
CHAPTER 36: PUBLIC RECORDS
Section
   
36.01   Statement of policy
   
36.02   Requests for inspection of public records
   
36.03   Place and hours of inspection
   
36.04   Town Clerk to supervise inspection of public records
   
36.05   Use of records by town officials or employees
   
36.06   Copies
   
36.07   Exemptions
§ 36.01 STATEMENT OF POLICY.
   (A)   (1)   The town administration is committed to the principle and policy
of openness in the operation of the town’s business. It is the town’s belief
that the public has a right to be aware of what its government is doing. The
right to inspect its public records partly ensures that right.
      (2)   The town administration is likewise committed to the most efficient
operation of its governmental offices as is possible within the limitations of
its staff and space.
   (B)   (1)   The safety of the public records must be ensured and undue
interference with official duties should be avoided.
      (2)   Request for inspections must be reasonable and cost must sometimes
be borne by the person inspecting the records.
      (3)   In an effort to protect that right and at the same time to ensure
the orderly operation of its town office, inspections of public records shall
be subject to the guidelines contained in this chapter.
   (C)   Citizen interest and input is appreciated and encouraged. By the same
token, cooperation from citizens with the Board of Commissioners and town
employees in order to ensure the most efficient operation of the town offices
is likewise appreciated and encouraged.
(1988 Code, § 36.01) (Ord. passed 3-31-1983)
§ 36.02 REQUESTS FOR INSPECTION OF PUBLIC RECORDS.
   (A)   When possible, citizens are requested to submit to the Town Clerk any
request for specific records that they have in mind to inspect in order that he
or she may have ample time to make them available without having to interfere
with the normal operations of the town office.
   (B)   Citizens are requested to submit, in writing, to the members of the
Board of Commissioners any request for records that they have in order that
they may process the same at the time most convenient to the town office.
   (C)   Customers or citizens coming to the town office shall be served on a
first come, first served basis.
(1988 Code, § 36.02) (Ord. passed 3-31-1983)
§ 36.03 PLACE AND HOURS OF INSPECTION.
   (A)   Any examination of the public records of the town must be done within
the town offices.
   (B)   Insofar as possible, adequate space will be provided for persons
desiring to inspect the public records.
   (C)   The public records may be reviewed and examined at any time during
normal business hours of the Town Hall, from 8:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m., subject to
the guidelines of this chapter.
(1988 Code, § 36.03) (Ord. passed 3-31-1983)
§ 36.04 TOWN CLERK TO SUPERVISE INSPECTION OF PUBLIC RECORDS.
   (A)   Any examination of the public records of the town must be done under
the supervision of the Town Clerk, who has the legal responsibility for the
safekeeping as custodian of the records.
   (B)   If there is reason to fear defacement or other damage to the records
or if the Town Clerk is not in a position to supervise the inspection at that
moment, he or she may delay the inspections until the dangers are removed or
supervision is possible.
   (C)   Access to records may be limited by the Town Clerk to prevent undue
interference with the normal working conditions until the possibility of
interference is removed.
   (D)   An individual inspection shall be limited to one hour per day if the
Town Clerk has other duties to perform and is unable to supervise the
inspection.
(1988 Code, § 36.04) (Ord. passed 3-31-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Custodian of public records, see G.S. § 132-2
   Destruction of records, see G.S. § 132-3
   Inspection and examination of records, see G.S. § 132-6
§ 36.05 USE OF RECORDS BY TOWN OFFICIALS OR EMPLOYEES.
   If the public records are needed by town officials or employees in the
course of their employment, they shall have a priority in utilizing those
records.
(1988 Code, § 36.05) (Ord. passed 3-31-1983)
§ 36.06 COPIES.
   (A)   Copies of public records may be made by the Town Clerk for the party
requesting, at a cost to be determined by the Town Board.
   (B)   If the volume of copies requested exceeds ten and the Town Clerk is
unable to make the copies at that time, he or she shall have them made
available for the requesting party within two business days after the request.
(1988 Code, § 36.06) (Ord. passed 3-31-1983)
§ 36.07 EXEMPTIONS.
   The right of inspection is subject to exemptions provided by state law.
(1988 Code, § 36.07) (Ord. passed 3-31-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Confidential communications by legal counsel to town, see G.S. § 132-1.1
   Employee personnel records, see G.S. § 160A-168
   Public records defined, see G.S. § 132-1
CHAPTER 37: FINANCE
Section
   
37.01   Disbursement of town funds
   
37.02   Purchasing
   
37.03   Bad check policy
   
37.04   Uninsured Claims and Judgments Trust Fund
Statutory reference:
   Local government finance, see G.S. Ch. 159
§ 37.01 DISBURSEMENT OF TOWN FUNDS.
   (A)   (1)   No money shall be disbursed from the town’s treasury, except on
order of the Board of Commissioners in session and then only after the item for
which the disbursement is made has been provided for in the annual budget.
      (2)   The Commissioner in charge of a respective department shall approve
the disbursement; provided, however, that, the approval by the Department
Commissioner may be given at or prior to the regular Board meeting at which the
bills are considered for payment or a special meeting called for the purpose of
considering the payment of the bills.
      (3)   The Board in session with a quorum present may approve the
expenditure of funds if a Department Commissioner is absent, conditioned upon
the Commissioner’s subsequent approval.
(Ord. O-2-5-91, passed 2-5-1991)
   (B)   All checks or drafts shall be signed by the Town Clerk and
countersigned by the Mayor or by another official designated by the Board of
Commissioners.
(1988 Code, § 37.01)
§ 37.02 PURCHASING.
   (A)   Before any order is given for items to be paid by the town or any
purchase made by any town employee, a purchase order must be obtained from the
Town Clerk, Finance Officer, Town Superintendent or Mayor, as the case may be.
   (B)   Any town employee purchasing goods without a purchase order from the
Town Clerk, Finance Officer, Town Superintendent or Mayor, as the case may be,
shall be held responsible for the cost of same.
(1988 Code, § 37.02)
§ 37.03 BAD CHECK POLICY.
   Any individual who gives the town a bad check shall be charged the maximum
amount allowed by state law for the bad check.
(1988 Code, § 37.03) (Ord. passed 6-1-1982) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 37.04 UNINSURED CLAIMS AND JUDGMENTS TRUST FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established an Uninsured Claims and Judgments Trust
Fund for the purpose of providing a funded reserve to pay uninsured claims and
judgments sought or entered against the town and town officers and employees.
   (B)   All claims, judgments and expenses related thereto shall be paid from
this fund only in accordance with procedures and uniform standards established
by the town’s Board of Commissioners.
   (C)   This fund is established as a trust and agency fund in accordance with
G.S. § 159-13(a)(3), and may receive contributions from other funds of the town
pursuant to appropriations set by the town’s Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. passed - -)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   ELECTRICAL SERVICE
      
51.   SEWERS
      
52.   UTILITIES
      
53.   WATER
      
54.   MOSQUITO CONTROL
CHAPTER 50: ELECTRICAL SERVICE
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Regulation of electric service
   
50.02   Tampering with meter; unauthorized use of electric current
   
50.03   Application for service; meter deposit; connection fee
   
50.04   Billing; discontinuance of service
Rates and Charges
   
50.15   Rates for monthly service
   
50.16   Deposits
Extensions
   
50.30   Compliance with building and subdivision regulations required
   
50.31   Extensions outside town limits
 
   
50.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 REGULATION OF ELECTRIC SERVICE.
    A)   All matters pertaining to the use, rental, charge supply and
regulation of electric lights and power shall be under the direction of the
Board of Commissioners or their authorized representatives.
   (B)   (1)   Only the Board of Commissioners, or their designated agent or
employee, is authorized to turn on the electric current.
      (2)   By making application for the purchase and use of current, every
applicant thereby grants permission for the town, the Board of Commissioners or
their agents or employees to come upon the premises where the electric current
is used for the purpose of turning on and turning off the current and for the
purpose of inspecting all equipment and devices by which the electric current
is supplied and used.
(1988 Code, § 50.01) (Am. Res. 2014-2, passed 4-1-2014; Am. Ord. passed 8-2-
2016)
§ 50.02 TAMPERING WITH METER; UNAUTHORIZED USE OF ELECTRIC CURRENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to break a seal,
remove a meter or turn on the electric current for any purpose without having
first made application with the Town Clerk, made the required deposit and made
all periodic payments for the electric services supplied.
(1988 Code, § 50.02) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.03 APPLICATION FOR SERVICE; METER DEPOSIT; CONNECTION FEE.
   (A)   Each person, firm or corporation desiring electric service from the
town shall first make an application with the Town Clerk.
   (B)   The person, firm or corporation shall deposit with the Town Clerk a
sum of money as a meter deposit, the amount of which shall be as set forth in §
50.16 and kept on file in the office of the Town Clerk.
   (C)   The deposit shall be refunded to the consumer on termination of
services and when all bills are paid in full.
   (D)   In addition to the meter deposit, all electric consumers will be
charged a nonrefundable connection fee as set forth in the Town Schedule of
Rates and Fees, a copy of which is located in the office of the Town Clerk and
is incorporated herein by reference, upon commencement of service.
(1988 Code, § 50.03)
§ 50.04 BILLING; DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
    For utility billing and collections procedure, see
Chapter 52.
(Ord. passed 5-8-2008)
Statutory reference:
   Delinquent accounts, see G.S. § 160A-314(b)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 50.15 RATES FOR MONTHLY SERVICE.
   (A)   Electric service shall be assessed at monthly rates established by the
Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   A schedule of the monthly rates for electric service shall be kept on
file in the office of the Town Clerk.
(G.S. § 160A-314) (1988 Code, § 50.15)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to fix and enforce rates, see G.S. § 160A-314
§ 50.16 DEPOSITS.
   (A)   Deposit levels for electric service shall be in amounts as may be
determined by the Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   A schedule of the amounts, customer classifications and types of
service shall be kept on file in the office of the Town Clerk.
(1988 Code, § 50.16)
EXTENSIONS
§ 50.30 COMPLIANCE WITH BUILDING AND SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS REQUIRED.
   No request for electrical lines or service shall be granted with respect to
any subdivision or structure including, but not limited to dwellings,
commercial buildings or mobile homes proposed to be served by the town’s
distribution system until the subdivision or structure has been reviewed and
approved in accordance with the town building codes and subdivision
regulations.
(1988 Code, § 50.30) (Ord. passed 9-2-1980) Penalty, see §
50.99
Cross-reference:
   Building Code, see
Chapter 150
   Subdivision Regulations, see
Chapter 152
§ 50.31 EXTENSIONS OUTSIDE TOWN LIMITS.
   Extensions of electrical service from the town to persons, firms or
corporations outside the town shall be governed by the provisions of this
chapter, except in those cases where extensions are made pursuant to a written
agreement between the town and any county or counties within which the town or
any portion of it is located or any industrial development commission or
authority or any business development authority of the county or counties. In
such case or cases, the terms and conditions of that agreement shall govern.
(1988 Code, § 50.31) (Ord. passed 9-2-1980)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to furnish electric service outside corporate limits, see G.S. §
160A-312
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter for which
another penalty has not been provided shall be fined not more than $500 or by
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 30 days, or both. Each day that any
violation of this code or of any ordinance shall continue shall constitute a
separate offense.
(1988 Code, § 50.99)
CHAPTER 51: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
51.001   Definitions
   
51.002   Tampering with or obstructing sewer lines prohibited
   
51.003   When connection to sewerage system required
   
51.004   Fees to be paid prior to connection
   
51.005   Application for service
   
51.006   Connections to be conveniently located with respect to town lines and
mains
   
51.007   Additional taps
   
51.008   Connection arrangements required for building permit
   
51.009   Installation of service line
   
51.010   Sewer piping to be installed, maintained in accordance with town
regulations
Extensions of Service
   
51.030   Extensions within town
   
51.031   Extensions outside town limits; agreement required
   
51.032   Compliance with subdivision and building regulations required
   
51.033   Agreements between town and county
   
51.034   Extensions to become property of town
Private Systems
   
51.045   Privies prohibited when town sewer available
   
51.046   Septic tanks; when permitted; specifications
Discharge Regulations
   
51.055   Prohibited discharges
   
51.056   Storm water and surface drainage; process and cooling waters
   
51.057   Fats, oils and greases control
   
51.058   Preliminary handling or pretreatment facilities to be provided
   
51.059   Maintenance of preliminary handling facilities
   
51.060   Notice to be given of interruption in operations or process change
   
51.061   Control, inspection structures and devices
   
51.062   Standard Methods for Analysis of Water, Sewage and Industrial Wastes
   
51.063   Determination of character and concentration of wastes
   
51.064   Measurement and flow
   
51.065   Violation of discharge regulations
Industrial Wastewater Discharge Permits
   
51.080   Permit required; application
   
51.081   Discharge standards for permit issuance
   
51.082   Surcharge for non-complying discharge
   
51.083   Permit suspension or termination
Rates and Charges
   
51.095   Sewer service rates and charges
   
51.096   Connection fees
Administration and Enforcement
   
51.110   Regulation of sewer system
   
51.111   Supervising officer
   
51.112   Inspections
   
51.113   Town to have access to premises at reasonable hours
   
51.114   Work on system to comply with town regulations
   
51.115   Billing procedure; delinquent payments
   
51.116   Discontinuance of service by town
   
51.117   Consumer request for discontinuance; refund of deposit
   
51.118   Refusal of service
   
51.119   Notice of interruption of service
   
51.120   Liability
   
51.121   Rules, regulations governing service; modification
 
   
51.999   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority to operate sewer system, see G.S §§ 160A-311 and 160A-312
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS. The Board of Commissioners of the Town of
Sharpsburg.
   BOD or BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter as measured by standard laboratory
methods, as set out herein, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   COD or CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The quantity of equivalent oxygen utilized in
the chemical oxidation of organic matter as measured by standard laboratory
methods, as set out herein, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   COLOR. The true color due to substances in solution which cause any
variation in the hue of the receiving stream.
   DEM. The Division of Environmental Management of the State Department of
Natural Resources and Community Development.
   DOMESTIC SEWAGE. Water-carried waste from bathrooms, toilet rooms, kitchens
and home laundries.
   EXCESSIVE RADIATION DOSE. A dose of radiation in excess of the maximum
permissible dose.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the preparation, cooking and dispensing of food
that has been shredded to a degree that all particles will be carried freely
under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public sewers, with no
particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The water-carried wastes from institutional, commercial
and industrial processes and operations other than from domestic sewage.
   IOD or IMMEDIATE OXYGEN DEMAND. The quantity of oxygen utilized by an
industrial waste in excess of that normally attributable to sewage as measured
by using standard laboratory methods, as set out herein, expressed in
milligrams per liter.
   MAXIMUM PERMISSIBLE DOSE. A dose of radiation to any part of the body,
internal or external, or both, that in the light of present knowledge, is not
expected to cause appreciable bodily injury to a person at any time during his
or her lifetime.
   MAYOR. The Mayor of the Town of Sharpsburg.
   PERMITTEE. Any person receiving a permit for the discharge of industrial
waste pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, company, association, corporation or other
entity or combination of entities.
   pH. The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion
concentration and indicates the degree of acidity or alkalinity of a substance.
A pH value of 7.0 is neutral, above 7.0 is alkaline and below 7.0 is acid.
   RECEIVING STREAM. The Tar River.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage or industrial wastes and is
owned, operated or maintained by the town or which is connected to a sanitary
sewer which is owned, operated or maintained by the town.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A sewer which carries storm or surface waters
and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   TOWN. The Town of Sharpsburg, North Carolina.
   TOWN CLERK. The Town Clerk of the Town of Sharpsburg.
   TOWN MANAGER. The Town Manager of the Town of Sharpsburg.
   WASTE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating and disposing of sewage, owned or operated by the Town of Sharpsburg.
(1988 Code, § 51.001) (Ord. passed 12-7-1976; Am. Ord. passed 5-1-1979)
§ 51.002 TAMPERING WITH OR OBSTRUCTING SEWER LINES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall tamper with or harm, in any manner whatsoever, any
sewer line, main or any appurtenance thereto.
   (B)   No person shall throw or deposit any material or substance in any
sewer line that will in any manner obstruct the sewer line.
(1988 Code, § 51.002) (Ord. passed 12-7-1976; Am. Ord. passed 5-1-1979)
Penalty, see §
51.999
Cross-reference:
   Liability for damage to town property, see §
51.120
§ 51.003 WHEN CONNECTION TO SEWERAGE SYSTEM REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   All owners of improved property which is or may be located upon
or within a reasonable distance of the sewerage system of the town, where the
sewerage system is in operation, shall connect with the sewerage system all
water closets, bathtubs, lavatories, sinks, drains, shower baths and other
connections upon their respective properties or premises so that the contents
may be made to empty into the sewer or sewer system, under supervision of the
Town Superintendent or authorized agent.
      (2)   As to the owners of all improved property existing on the date on
which the sewer collection system in the town is first completed, this
connection may be delayed up to 180 days from the date of notice given to the
owners that the sewer collection system is completed.
   (B)   Notice shall be given by mail with the statement for water charges or
by delivery by the Town Superintendent or authorized agent.
(1988 Code, § 51.003) (Ord. passed 12-7-1976; Am. Ord. passed 5-1-1979)
Penalty, see §
51.999
Statutory reference:
   Town authorized to require connections, see G.S. § 160A-317
§ 51.004 FEES TO BE PAID PRIOR TO CONNECTION.
   (A)   Before any new connection is made to any sewer line of the town and
before any sewer line is extended, the property owner shall pay to the town the
fees established by the Board of Commissioners from time to time.
   (B)   A schedule of those connection fees is set forth in §
51.096 and shall be kept on file in the office of the Town Clerk.
(1988 Code, § 51.004) (Ord. passed 12-7-1976; Am. Ord. passed 5-1-1979)
Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.005 APPLICATION FOR SERVICE.
   (A)   Service shall be supplied to those consumers requesting sewer service
upon application made at the Town Hall with the Town Clerk and upon deposit as
shall be required by the Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   (1)   Every application for sewer service shall list, on forms
provided by the town, the property owners, the consumer, the street on which
the lot is located, the number of the building or a description of the lot
location, the number of all types of fixtures planned in the building, both now
and in the future, the street to the furthermost point of the building as
planned and the name of the licensed plumber who will do the work.
      (2)   The application shall be signed by the licensed plumber.
      (3)   This application shall be filed not less than three days before the
proposed connection is desired.
   (C)   The town may reject any application for service where the applicant is
delinquent in payment of any sewer bills incurred for service previously
supplied at any location.
   (D)   If, in the opinion of the Board of Commissioners, the sewer connection
applied for will be of such size or character as to put too great a demand on
any part of the system and disrupt the town’s ordinary sewer service, they
shall disapprove the application until adequate means are provided to eliminate
the unsatisfactory condition.
   (E)   (1)   If, at any time, changes are made by a consumer in his or her
service requirements to create an unsatisfactory condition in the town’s sewer
service, the Board of Commissioners shall require the consumer to adopt
remedial measures to eliminate the unsatisfactory condition.
      (2)   The town shall, in no way, be responsible for any cost or
inconvenience caused by a change in service requirements after an application
has been approved or by an installation before the application has been
approved.
(1988 Code, § 51.005) (Ord. passed 12-7-1976; Am. Ord. passed 5-1-1979)
§ 51.006 CONNECTIONS TO BE CONVENIENTLY LOCATED WITH RESPECT TO TOWN LINES AND
MAINS.
   Piping for sewer on a consumer’s premises must be so arranged that the
connections are conveniently located with respect to the town’s lines or mains.
(1988 Code, § 51.006) (Ord. passed 12-7-1976; Am. Ord. passed 5-1-1979)
Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.007 ADDITIONAL TAPS.
   If the consumer’s piping on the consumer’s premises is so arranged that the
town is called upon to provide additional taps, each place of connection will
be considered as a separate and individual account.
(1988 Code, § 51.007) (Ord. passed 12-7-1976; Am. Ord. passed 5-1-1979)
§ 51.008 CONNECTION ARRANGEMENTS REQUIRED FOR BUILDING PERMIT.
   All builders and contractors shall make arrangements about the sewer
connections and the fees before they are granted a building permit.
(1988 Code, § 51.008) (Ord. passed 12-7-1976; Am. Ord. passed 5-1-1979)
Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.009 INSTALLATION OF SERVICE LINE.
   (A)   The town shall run a service line for sewer from its collection line
to the property line where the collection line runs immediately adjacent and
parallel to the property to be served and for which a tappage or connection fee
for each size tap will be charged, together with any line charges or other
charges as may be required by this chapter. This shall be done only after the
application has been filed and all fees and charges paid. The installation of
the service line shall be performed by licensed plumbers only at the expense of
the owner or occupant.
   (B)   It shall be the responsibility of the Plumbing Inspector to examine
and inspect the installation of the service line between the street right-of-
way and the building. This examination shall be made during the installation
and prior to covering the ditch to ascertain that proper materials have been
used and proper construction practices followed.
(1988 Code, § 51.009) (Ord. passed 12-7-1976; Am. Ord. passed 5-1-1979)
§ 51.010 SEWER PIPING TO BE INSTALLED, MAINTAINED IN ACCORDANCE WITH TOWN
REGULATIONS.
   The consumer’s sewer piping and apparatus shall be installed and maintained
by the consumer, at his or her expense, in a safe and efficient manner and in
accordance with the town’s ordinances, rules and regulations and in full
compliance with all governmental regulations applicable thereto and with proper
dual property line clean-out.
(1988 Code, § 51.010) (Ord. passed 12-7-1976; Am. Ord. passed 5-1-1979)
Penalty, see §
51.999
EXTENSIONS OF SERVICE
§ 51.030 EXTENSIONS WITHIN TOWN.
   (A)   The town may construct extensions of its sewer lines to points within
the town limits upon the payment of the fees and charges for the extension of
sewer lines and connections as required by this chapter.
(1988 Code, § 51.030) (Ord. passed 12-7-1976; Am. Ord. passed 5-1-1979)
   (B)   (1)   Single-family dwellings must have a separate sewer tap, minimum
of a four-inch tap per lot.
      (2)   Sewer taps for mobile home parks may allow two mobile homes per tap
when installed by developer not smaller than four-inches.
      (3)   (a)   One four-inch sewer tap may be allowed to serve a duplex
apartment.
         (b)   Two or more four-inch sewer taps to serve a triplex apartment
building.
      (4)   Subdivision and mobile home park sewer taps may be wavered to
developer when installing such.
(Ord. O-7-5-94, passed - -)
§ 51.031 EXTENSIONS OUTSIDE TOWN LIMITS; AGREEMENT REQUIRED.
   (A)   The town shall not construct extensions of its sewer lines outside the
town limits without the approval of the Board of Commissioners and unless the
party or parties requesting the extension pays the entire cost of installation
of the extended collection system, including all connection fees, line
extension costs, engineering fees, attorneys’ fees, privilege fees and other
charges required by the Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   All extensions shall be evidenced by a written agreement between the
town and the party or parties requesting the extension, which agreement shall
be approved by the Board of Commissioners prior to any sewer line extension.
(1988 Code, § 51.031) (Ord. passed 12-7-1976; Am. Ord. passed 5-1-1979)
   (C)   (1)   Single-family dwellings must have a separate tap, minimum of a
four-inch tap per lot.
      (2)   Sewer taps for mobile home parks may allow two mobile homes per tap
when installed by developer not smaller than four-inches.
      (3)   (a)   One four-inch sewer tap may be allowed to serve a duplex
apartment.
         (b)   Two or more four-inch sewer taps to serve a triplex apartment
building.
   (D)   Subdivision and mobile home park sewer taps may be wavered to
developer when installing such.
(Ord. O-7-5-94, passed - -)
§ 51.032 COMPLIANCE WITH SUBDIVISION AND BUILDING REGULATIONS REQUIRED.
   No request for sewer line extensions or service shall be granted with
respect to any subdivision or structure including, but not limited to
dwellings, commercial buildings or mobile homes proposed to be served by the
town’s collection system until the subdivision or structure has been reviewed
and approved in accordance with the subdivision regulations and building codes
of the town.
(1988 Code, § 51.032) (Ord. passed 12-7-1976; Am. Ord. passed 5-1-1979)
Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.033 AGREEMENTS BETWEEN TOWN AND COUNTY.
   (A)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not be applicable to
extensions to the sewer system that are made pursuant to a written agreement
between the town and any county or counties within which the town or any
portion of it is located or any industrial development commission or authority
or business development authority of the county or counties.
   (B)   In such case or cases, the terms and conditions of that agreement
shall govern.
(1988 Code, § 51.033) (Ord. passed 12-7-1976; Am. Ord. passed 5-1-1979; Am.
Ord. passed - -)
§ 51.034 EXTENSIONS TO BECOME PROPERTY OF TOWN.
   Whenever any sewer lines are added to or attached to the sewer collection
system of the town, the sewer lines and all apparatus connected thereto shall
become the property of the town at the time of connection.
(1988 Code, § 51.034) (Ord. passed 12-7-1976; Am. Ord. passed 5-1-1979)
PRIVATE SYSTEMS
§ 51.045 PRIVIES PROHIBITED WHEN TOWN SEWER AVAILABLE.
   No privy of any kind shall be permitted in the town where a town sewer is
reasonably accessible. When privies are permitted, they shall be constructed in
accordance with the regulations of the State Board of Health. Privies altered
or reconstructed shall also conform to these regulations.
(1988 Code, § 51.045) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.046 SEPTIC TANKS; WHEN PERMITTED; SPECIFICATIONS.
   Septic tanks may be installed where sewer is not reasonably accessible,
provided the septic tank is constructed in accordance with the specifications
of the State Board of Health and a permit therefor is issued by the County
Health Department.
(1988 Code, § 51.046) Penalty, see §
51.999
DISCHARGE REGULATIONS
§ 51.055 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   No person shall discharge or deposit any of the following waste materials
into any sanitary sewer:
   (A)   Any clothing, rags, textile remnants or waste, cloth or scraps, except
fibers of scrap that will pass through a one-fourth inch mesh screen or its
equivalent in screening ability;
   (B)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F;
   (C)   Any water or waste which may contain more than 100 milligrams per
liter of fat, oil or grease;
   (D)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel, oil, motor oil or other
flammable or explosive liquid, solid or gas;
   (E)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded;
   (F)   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, paunch manure or any other solid or viscous
substance capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other
interference with the proper operation of the sewage works;
   (G)   Any waters or wastes in which the suspended solids exceed 250
milligrams per liter, except as provided in §
51.082;
   (H)   Any water or wastes in which the BOD exceeds 300 milligrams per liter,
except that the five-day BOD as actually measured shall not represent less than
70% of the first stage (carbonaceous) BOD and except as provided in §
51.082;
   (I)   Any waters or wastes in which the COD exceeds 600 milligrams per
liter, except as provided in §
51.082;
   (J)   Any waters or wastes in which the IOD exceeds 5.0 milligrams per
liter, except as provided in §
51.082;
   (K)   Any waters or wastes having a stabilized pH lower than 5.5 or higher
than 9.0 or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or
hazard to structures, equipment and personnel of the sewage works, except as
provided in §
51.082;
   (L)   Any waters or wastes containing measurable amounts of chromium, zinc,
nickel, copper or other heavy metals which are in an ionic or chemically active
state;
   (M)   Any waters or wastes containing cyanide or other poisonous substances;
   (N)   Any waste containing toxic, poisonous or other substances in
sufficient quantities to interfere with the biological processes used in the
waste treatment plant or that will pass through the waste treatment plant and
harm persons, livestock or aquatic life utilizing the receiving stream;
   (O)   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a
public nuisance;
   (P)   Any solid radioactive materials or radioactive materials in solution
which can be removed by chemical means and disposed of in solid form;
   (Q)   Any radioactive materials in soluble ion form in sufficient quantities
to create a hazard to sewage works, personnel or the biological life in the
waste treatment plant or receiving stream;
   (R)   Any materials which form excessive amounts of scum that may interfere
with the operation of the waste treatment plant or cause undue additional labor
in connection with its operation;
   (S)   Any waters or wastes containing suspended solids of a character and
quality that unusual attention or expense is required to handle these materials
at the waste treatment plant;
   (T)   Any waters or wastes containing dyes or other color of a character and
in a quantity as to prevent removal by biological processes and which require
special chemical treatment; and/or
   (U)   Any waters or wastes which in concentration of any given constituent
or in quantity of flow exceed more than one and one-half times the average 24-
hour concentrations or flows during normal operation.
(1988 Code, § 51.055) (Ord. passed 12-7-1976; Am. Ord. passed 5-1-1979)
Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.056 STORM WATER AND SURFACE DRAINAGE; PROCESS AND COOLING WATERS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged into any sanitary
sewer any storm water, surface water, ground water, roof runoff or subsurface
drainage.
   (B)   Where prohibited by action by the Board of Commissioners in specific
instances or for specific users, no cooling water or unpolluted industrial or
commercial process water shall be discharged into any sanitary sewer.
(1988 Code, § 51.056) (Ord. passed 12-7-1976; Am. Ord. passed 5-1-1979)
Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.057 FATS, OILS AND GREASES CONTROL.
   (A)   Scope and purpose. To aid in the prevention of sanitary sewer
blockages and obstructions from contributions and accumulation of fats, oils,
and greases into said sewer system from industrial or commercial
establishments, particularly food preparation and serving facilities.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      (1)   COOKING ESTABLISHMENTS. Those establishments engaged in activities
of preparing, serving, or otherwise making available for consumption foodstuffs
and that use one or more of the following preparation activities: cooking by
frying (all methods), baking (all methods), grilling, sauteing, rotisserie
cooking, broiling (all methods), boiling, blanching, roasting, toasting, or
poaching. Also included are infrared heating, searing, barbecuing, and any
other food preparation activity that produces a hot, non-drinkable food product
in or on a receptacle that requires washing. Such establishments include, but
are not limited to, restaurants, cafeterias, extended care facilities, school
cafeterias (public and private), and daycare facilities where meals for more
than six children are prepared, served or otherwise made available for human
consumption.
      (2)   FATS, OILS, AND GREASES. Organic polar compounds derived from
animal and/or plant sources that contain multiple carbon chain triglyceride
molecules. These substances are detectable and measurable using analytical test
procedures established in 40 C.F.R. 136, as may be amended from time to time.
All are sometimes referred to herein as GREASE or GREASES.
      3)   GREASE TRAP or INTERCEPTOR. An approved device for separating and
retaining waterborne greases and grease complexes prior to the wastewater
exiting the trap and entering the sanitary sewer collection and treatment
system. These devices also serve to collect settable solids, generated by and
from food preparation activities, prior to the water exiting the trap and
entering the sanitary sewer collection and treatment system. GREASE TRAPS and
INTERCEPTORS are sometimes referred to herein as GREASE INTERCEPTORS.
      (4)   MINIMUM DESIGN CAPABILITY. The design features of a grease
interceptor and its ability or volume required to effectively intercept and
retain greases from grease-laden wastewaters discharged to the public sanitary
sewer.
      (5)   NON-COOKING ESTABLISHMENTS. Those establishments primarily engaged
in the preparation of precooked foodstuffs that do not include any form of
cooking. These include cold dairy and frozen foodstuffs preparation and serving
establishments.
      (6)   USER. Any person, including those located outside the
jurisdictional limits of the town, who contributes, causes or permits the
contribution or discharge of wastewater into the publicly owned treatment works
(POTW), including persons who contribute such wastewater from mobile sources,
such as those who discharge hauled wastewater.
   (C)   Grease interceptor maintenance, record keeping, and grease removal.
Grease interceptors shall be installed by users as required by the Public Works
Director or his or her designee. Grease interceptors shall be installed at the
user’s expense, when such user operates a cooking establishment. Grease
interceptors may also be required in non-cooking or cold dairy and frozen
foodstuffs establishments and other industrial or commercial establishments
when they are deemed necessary by the Director of Public Works/Waste Water
Superintendents for the proper handling of liquid wastes containing grease. No
user shall allow wastewater discharge concentration from subject grease
interceptor to exceed 325 milligrams per liter, as identified by method EPA
Method 1664 or 275 milligrams per liter, as identified by EPA method 413. All
grease interceptors shall be of a type, design, and capacity approved by the
Public Works Director/Waste Water Superintendents or his or her designee and
shall be readily and easily accessible for user cleaning and town inspection.
All such grease interceptors shall be serviced and emptied of accumulated waste
content as required in order to maintain minimum design capability or effective
volume of the grease interceptor, but not less often than every 30 days. Users
who are required to pass water through a grease interceptor shall:
      (1)   Provide for a minimum hydraulic retention time of 24 minutes at
actual peak flow or 12 minutes at the calculated theoretical peak flow rate as
predicted by the Uniform Plumbing Code fixture criteria, between the influent
and effluent baffles with 20% of the total volume of the grease interceptor
being allowed for sludge to settle and accumulate, identified hereafter as a
“sludge pocket”;
      (2)   Remove any accumulated grease cap and sludge pocket as required,
but at intervals of not longer than 30 days at the user’s expense. Grease
interceptors shall be kept free of inorganic solid materials such as grit,
rocks, gravel, sand, eating utensils, cigarettes, shells, towels, rags, and the
like, which could settle into this pocket and thereby reduce the effective
volume of the grease interceptor;
      (3)   Accept the following conditions: if any skimmed or pumped wastes or
other materials removed from grease interceptor are treated in any fashion
onsite and reintroduced back into the grease interceptor as an activity of and
after the onsite treatment, the user shall be responsible for the attainment of
established grease numerical limit consistent with and contained in division
(C)(1) of this section on all discharges of wastewater from the grease
interceptor into the Town of Sharpsburg sanitary sewer collection and treatment
system;
      (4)   The user is required to ensure that all waste material removed from
grease traps and interceptors are disposed of in a manner that complies with
all federal, state and local statutes, rules regulations, policies and
ordinances;
      (5)   The user shall maintain a written record of trap maintenance. All
such records will be available for inspection by the town at all times;
      (6)   Operate the grease interceptor in a manner so as to maintain the
device such that attainment of the grease limit is consistently achieved.
“Consistent” shall mean any wastewater sample taken from the grease interceptor
shall be subject to terms of numerical limit attainment described in division
(C)(1) of this section. If an establishment desires, because of documented
space constraints, an alternate to an out-of-building grease interceptor, the
request for an alternative location shall contain the following information:
         (a)   Location of town sewer main and easement in relation to
available exterior space outside building; or
         (b)   Existing plumbing at or in a site that uses common plumbing for
all services at that site;
      (7)   Understand and agree that: the use of biological additives as a
grease degradation agent is conditionally permissible, upon prior written
approval by the Director. Any establishment using this method of grease
abatement shall maintain the trap or interceptor in such a manner that
attainment of the grease wastewater discharge limit, as measured from the
trap’s outlet, is consistently achieved;
      (8)   Understand and agree that: the use of automatic grease removal
systems is conditionally permissible, upon prior written approval by the
Director of Public Works/Wastewater Superintendent, of the Town of Sharpsburg.
Any establishment using this equipment shall operate the system in such a
manner that attainment of the grease wastewater discharge limit, as measured
from the unit’s outlet, is consistently achieved;
      (9)   Understand and agree that: the Director of Public Works/Wastewater
Superintendent reserves the right to make determinations of grease interceptor
adequacy and need, based on review of all relevant information regarding grease
interceptor performance, facility site and building plan review and to require
repairs to, or modification or replacement of such traps;
      (10)   Upon the prior written approval of the Public Work Director, non-
cooking establishments may be exempted from the requirements of this section
after an inspection of the subject premises and submission of adequate
supporting documentation, as deemed necessary in the sole and absolute
discretion of the Public Works Director. At a minimum, such supporting,
documentation shall include: blue prints at the subject premises, and a full
and detailed list of all potential sources of grease at the subject premises;
      (11)   Grease traps and interceptors may also be required in other
facilities, as deemed necessary by the Town’s Public Works Director. Impact and
(ii) such overflow, spill, leak or other event may be attributed in part or in
whole to a particular user, then the town will seek enforcement action under
the Sewer Use Ordinance, and/or the Pretreatment Enforcement Plan. For purposes
of this section and overflow, spill, leak or other event shall be deemed to
have an environmental impact when (i) such overflow or other event in voices
and amount of wastewater equal to or in excess of 1,000 gallons, or (ii) any
amount of wastewater reaches any body of surface water;
      (12)   No non-grease laden sources are allowed to be connected sewer
lines intended for grease interceptor service;
      (13)   Users shall supply (i) an adequate sampling point down stream of
grease trap or interceptor, prior to mixing with other sanitary flows, and (ii)
an accessible entry into each chamber of the grease trap or interceptor. The
minimum requirement for the sampling point shall be a four-inch vertical clean
out;
      (14)   Access manholes, with a minimum diameter of 24 inches, shall be
provided over each chamber and sanitary tee. The access manholes shall extend
at least to finished grade and be designed and maintained to prevent water
inflow or infiltration. The manholes shall also have readily removable covers
to facilitate inspection, grease removal, and wastewater sampling activities.
All manhole construction shall conform to the Town of Sharpsburg’s
specifications; and
      (15)   Users shall empty and service grease traps and interceptors to
comply with the perform aces criteria in division (C)(1) of this section as
often as necessary, but in any event no longer than every 30 days. Under the
counter types of grease traps and interceptors shall be cleaned at least daily,
and shall comply with the performance criteria in division (C) of this section.
There shall be no reintroduction of wastewater back into the grease trap or
interceptor unless and until reintroduction of wastewater back into the grease
trap or interceptor unless and until the wastewater has been proven to contain
325 mg/l or less of grease. Under no circumstances shall the sludge or scum
layer be reintroduced or discharged into the town’s wastewater collection
system or POTW.
   (D)   Enforcement.
      (1)   No later than six months after inspection by the Public Works
Department, all users shall install grease traps or interceptors designed to
limit the introduction, contribution and discharge of greases into the town’s
wastewater collection system, or POTW. Grease traps and interceptors with
appropriate sampling or inspection points shall be installed at the user’s
expense whenever any user operates a commercial establishment, industrial
establishment, or a cooking establishment, or when required by the Director of
Public Works. Grease traps and interceptors must have a minimum capacity of
1,000 gallons or more as required to effect a grease concentration maximum of
325 mg/1.
      (2)   Except as provided herein, for a period of six months following
inspection, although installation of grease interceptors will be required to be
installed, no enforcement actions will be taken under this section for failure
to achieve limits on grease discharges from grease interceptors.
      (3)   If an obstruction of a town sewer main(s) occurs that causes a
sewer overflow to the extent that an impact on the environment is realized and
that said overflow or failure of the sanitary sewer collection system to convey
sewage can be attributed in part or in whole to an accumulation of grease in
the town’s sewer main(s), the Town of Sharpsburg will take appropriate
enforcement actions, as stipulated in the town’s ordinance, against the
generator or contributor of such grease.
(1988 Code, § 51.057) (Ord. passed 12-7-1976; Am. Ord. passed 5-1-1979; Am.
Ord. passed 3-4-2008) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.058 PRELIMINARY HANDLING OF PRETREATMENT FACILITIES TO BE PROVIDED.
   (A)   Any preliminary handling, pretreatment or other facility necessary to
conform the quality, quantity or rate of discharge of industrial waste or
waters to the standards or provisions of this chapter or the applicable
discharge permit shall be provided at the sole expense of the permittee.
   (B)   Final plans and specifications for these facilities shall be submitted
to DEM and the town as required by the permit.
(1988 Code, § 51.058) (Ord. passed 12-7-1976; Am. Ord. passed 5-1-1979)
Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.059 MAINTENANCE OF PRELIMINARY HANDLING FACILITIES.
   Where preliminary handling or holding facilities are provided for any
purpose, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective
operation by the owner at his or her expense.
(1988 Code, § 51.059) (Ord. passed 12-7-1976; Am. Ord. passed 5-1-1979)
Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.060 NOTICE TO BE GIVEN OF INTERRUPTION IN OPERATIONS OR PROCESS CHANGE.
   Notice shall be given the town when normal operations of the permittee will
be interrupted for 24 hours or longer and wastes will not be available for
discharge or when a change of process is contemplated which will alter demands
on the treatment facilities at which the waste is treated.
(1988 Code, § 51.060) (Ord. passed 12-7-1976; Am. Ord. passed 5-1-1979)
Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.061 CONTROL, INSPECTION STRUCTURES AND DEVICES.
   (A)   Any person discharging more than an average of 50,000 gallons per day
of industrial wastes into the sanitary sewers may be required to construct and
maintain a suitable control or inspection structure either downstream from any
treatment, storage or other approved works or, if pretreatment works are not
required, at the point where the wastes enter the sanitary sewer. This
structure shall be located so as to be readily accessible and shall be
constructed in a manner as may be approved by the town so as to facilitate such
inspection or measuring as may be necessary for proper sampling or control of
the waste discharged.
   (B)   All control or inspection structures shall be located on easements
dedicated to the town with approved access provided by permittee.
   (C)   Where permit conditions require approved sampling, control and
monitoring devices shall be installed in this structure at permittee’s expense.
These devices shall be maintained and operated by the town.
(1988 Code, § 51.061) (Ord. passed 12-7-1976; Am. Ord. passed 5-1-1979)
Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.062 STANDARD METHODS FOR ANALYSIS OF WATER, SEWAGE AND INDUSTRIAL WASTES.
   All tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters and wastes to which
reference is made in this chapter shall be made in accordance with the
procedure given in the latest edition of Standards Methods for the Analysis of
Water, Sewage and Industrial Wastes published by the American Public Health
Association. These tests and analyses shall be determined at the control
manhole provided for §
51.061, or at the point of discharge of any waters or wastes at the site of
their origin on the premises of any person discharging wastes into the sanitary
sewers.
(1988 Code, § 51.062) (Ord. passed 12-7-1976; Am. Ord. passed 5-1-1979)
§ 51.063 DETERMINATION OF CHARACTER AND CONCENTRATION OF WASTES.
   (A)   (1)   The industrial waste of each permittee shall be subject to
periodic inspection as provided in the permit.
      (2)   A determination of the character and concentration of the wastes
shall be made quarterly or more often as may be deemed necessary by the town.
These inspections and tests shall also be made immediately after any process
change which may affect the quantity or quality of the wastes discharged.
   (B)   Samples shall be collected in a manner as to be representative of the
actual quality of the waste. Laboratory methods used in the examination of this
waste shall be those set forth in Standard Methods, a copy of which is on file
with the Town Manager for inspection by any interested parties.
(1988 Code, § 51.063) (Ord. passed 12-7-1976; Am. Ord. passed 5-1-1979)
§ 51.064 MEASUREMENT AND FLOW.
   (A)   The volume of flow used in determining the total discharge of
industrial wastes shall be based upon:
      (1)   Metered water consumption as shown in the records of metered
readings maintained by the town; or
      (2)   At the permittee’s option, other flow measuring devices which
measure the actual volume of wastewater discharged to the sewer. However, these
other devices shall be accessibly and safely located and the measuring system
shall be installed in accordance with plans approved by the town.
      (3)   The metering system shall be provided by and shall be maintained
continuously in satisfactory operation by the permittee at his or her expense.
   (B)   Where any person discharging wastes to the sanitary sewers procures
all or any part of his or her water supply from sources other than the town,
the person discharging the waste shall provide and maintain at his or her
expense a flow measuring device of a type approved by the town for the purposes
of determining the proper volume of waste discharged to the sewers.
(1988 Code, § 51.064) (Ord. passed 12-7-1976; Am. Ord. passed 5-1-1979)
§ 51.065 VIOLATION OF DISCHARGE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Any failure by any person to meet and comply at all times with
the provisions of §§
51.055 through
51.064 or any applicable permit issued pursuant to §§
51.080 through
51.082, or any misrepresentation or failure to fully disclose all relevant
facts in any application for permit shall constitute a violation of this
chapter and the Town Manager is, if he or she determines that the violation
constitutes an immediate danger to the operation or maintenance of the sanitary
sewer system or water treatment plant, or if he or she determines that the
violation cannot be cured within what he or she deems to be a reasonable time,
authorized immediately upon written notification mailed or delivered to the
person to terminate or suspend that person’s right to further discharge into
the sanitary sewer system pending implementation of steps necessary to achieve
compliance.
      (2)   In the event the Town Manager determines that the violation does
not constitute an immediate danger to the operation or maintenance of the
sanitary sewer system or waste treatment plant and that the non-conformance can
be cured within a reasonable time, he or she shall inform the affected person
or permittee by written notice of the violation and provide what he or she, in
the exercise of his or her judgment, deems to be a reasonable period of time to
achieve compliance.
      (3)   If compliance is not achieved within the time specified by the Town
Manager, he or she is authorized to assert any or all remedies afforded herein
for non-compliance.
   (B)   Discharges into the town’s sewer system following termination,
suspension or expiration of any person’s rights by the Town Manager as provided
herein are unlawful and in the event of unlawful discharge, the Town Manager is
authorized to:
      (1)   Discontinue water service by the town to that person’s facility;
      (2)   Disconnect that person’s connection to the town’s sewer system; or
      (3)   Take other remedies as may be available at law or equity to prevent
the unlawful discharge and otherwise enforce this chapter and the provisions of
any applicable permit.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
liable to the town for any expense, loss or damage occasioned the town by
reason of the violation.
   (D)   (1)   The foregoing remedies are cumulative and not exclusive and the
exercise of one or more shall not preclude the exercise of any other remedy at
a subsequent time.
      (2)   In addition, the failure to exercise any remedy or other indulgence
or extension of time of whatever nature or duration granted by the town in the
event of violation shall in no event constitute a waiver or the right to
exercise any or all of the remedies and any or all of the remedies may be
exercised at any time.
(1988 Code, § 51.065) (Ord. passed 12-7-1976; Am. Ord. passed 5-1-1979)
INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITS
§ 51.080 PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION.
   (A)   No person shall, after the completion of the town sewer collection
system, discharge any industrial waste into any sanitary sewer without having
first applied to the town for a permit for the discharge.
   (B)   (1)   If the application is approved by the Board of Commissioners or
its designee, the application shall be promptly forwarded to the town so long
as the town operates the waste treatment plant.
      (2)   The Town Manager or his or her designee shall process the
application and shall issue a permit for discharge of industrial waste into the
sanitary sewers of the town as may be permitted under this chapter and the
existing rules and regulations of governmental agencies having jurisdiction
over the sanitary sewer system of the town, the sanitary sewer system of the
town and the waste treatment plant.
   (C)   No person shall, after the completion of the town sewer collection
system, discharge any industrial waste into any sanitary sewer, except pursuant
to a permit theretofore issued in response to an application.
   (D)   Persons receiving discharge permits shall comply with all provisions
thereof. No person receiving a permit to discharge industrial waste into a
sanitary sewer shall make discharges, except in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter and the permit.
   (E)   The forms of application and permit for discharge of industrial wastes
into sanitary sewers to be utilized pursuant to this subchapter may be obtained
at the office of the Town Clerk.
   (F)   The Town Manager, or his or her designee, is authorized to perform all
acts contemplated by this subchapter on behalf of the town, except the initial
approval of the application by the Board of Commissioners.
(1988 Code, § 51.080) (Ord. passed 12-7-1976; Am. Ord. passed 5-1-1979)
Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.081 DISCHARGE STANDARDS FOR PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   Permits shall be issued for discharge of industrial wastes meeting the
following standards:
   (A)   A BOD no greater than 300 milligrams per liter, except that the five-
day BOD as actually measured shall not represent less than 70% of the first
stage (carbonaceous) BOD;
   (B)   A COD no greater than 600 milligrams per liter;
   (C)   Suspended solids no more than 250 milligrams per liter; and
   (D)   Otherwise complying with the provisions of this chapter and the
discharge permit.
(1988 Code, § 51.081) (Ord. passed 12-7-1976; Am. Ord. passed 5-1-1979)
§ 51.082 SURCHARGE FOR NON-COMPLYING DISCHARGE.
   (A)   The Town Manager may, if he or she first determines that the discharge
will not be detrimental to the operation of the sanitary sewer system, issue
discharge permits for the discharge of industrial waste not meeting all the
minimum standards set forth in §
51.081.
   (B)   However, a monthly surcharge shall be levied on the discharge of
noncomplying wastes discharged by the permittee. The monthly surcharge shall be
based on the excess pounds of BOD, COD or suspended solids, whichever is
greater, contained in the permittee’s sewage flow when the excess is calculated
using actual water flow as hereinbefore specified and the difference between
actual BOD, COD or suspended solids concentration and the permissible limits
set forth in §
51.081. This surcharge shall be invoked as herein provided in addition to the
existing sewer service charge. The sewer surcharge shall be established by the
Board of Commissioners and shall reflect the total cost of treating the excess
pounds of industrial waste, including necessary costs of administration of this
chapter.
(1988 Code, § 51.082) (Ord. passed 12-7-1976; Am. Ord. passed 5-1-1979)
§ 51.083 PERMIT SUSPENSION OR TERMINATION.
   In addition to other authorized grounds for permit suspension or
termination, permits issued pursuant to this subchapter may be terminated or
suspended at such time as the subchapter determines that further discharge will
be detrimental for any reason to the continued operation of the sanitary sewer
system or wastewater treatment plant.
(1988 Code, § 51.083) (Ord. passed 12-7-1976; Am. Ord. passed 5-1-1979)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 51.095 SEWER SERVICE RATES AND CHARGES.
   The monthly rates and charges for sewer service shall be assessed as the
Board of Commissioners may establish from time to time. A schedule of these
rates and charges shall be kept on file in the office of the Town Clerk.
(1988 Code, § 51.090) (Ord. passed 12-7-1976; Am. Ord. passed 5-1-1979)
Cross-reference:
   Surcharge for noncomplying industrial waste discharge, see §
51.081
Statutory reference:
   Authority to fix and enforce rates, see G.S. § 160A-314
§ 51.096 CONNECTION FEES.
   (A)   During construction of the town sewer collection system and within 180
days after the date of completion thereof, the connection fees shall be as
follows:
      (1)   As to property within the town limits on September 1, 1978, and
upon which improvements (a completed building or dwelling) existed on the date
of the completion of the town sewer collection system, there shall be no
connection fee.
      (2)   As to unimproved property within the town limits on September 1,
1978, (vacant lot), the connection fee shall be the actual cost of the
connection, including materials and labor, for installation of the sewer line
and tap, but no tap fee shall be charged.
      (3)   As to property within the town limits on September 1, 1978, but
upon which improvements (a building or dwelling) were completed during 180 days
after the date of the completion of the town sewer collection system, the
connection fee shall be the same as for property connected after the expiration
of 180 days after completion of the town sewer collection system, as provided
in division (B).
      (4)   As to property annexed to the town after September 1, 1978, the
connection fee shall be the same as for property connected after the expiration
of 180 days after completion of the town sewer collection system, as provided
in division (B).
   (B)   (1)   Residential sewers.
 
Tap Fee
Size of Tap  Fee
Four inches  As set forth in the Town Schedule of Rates and Fees, a copy of
Six inches   which is located in the office of the Town Clerk and is
Eight inches incorporated herein by reference
 
 
Impact Fee
Size of Tap  Fee
Four inches  As set forth in the Town Schedule of Rates and Fees, a copy of
Six inches   which is located in the office of the Town Clerk and is
Eight inches incorporated herein by reference
 
      (2)   Commercial and business customers.
 
Tap Fee
Size of Tap  Fee
Four inches  As set forth in the Town Schedule of Rates and Fees, a copy of
Six inches   which is located in the office of the Town Clerk and is
Eight inches incorporated herein by reference
 
 
Impact Fee
Size of Tap  Impact Fee
Four inches  As set forth in the Town Schedule of Rates and Fees, a copy of
Six inches   which is located in the office of the Town Clerk and is
Eight inches incorporated herein by reference
 
      (3)   In addition, the actual costs of the installation of any extension
of the sewer line, including labor and materials, in order to make the
connection to the town’s sewer system shall be charged.
      (4)   If road has to be cut to install water or sewer line or both, a fee
as set forth in the Town Schedule of Rates and Fees, a copy of which is located
in the office of the Town Clerk and is incorporated herein by reference, will
be paid by the property owner.
(1988 Code, § 51.091) (Ord. passed 12-7-1976; Am. Ord. passed 5-1-1979; Am.
Ord. passed 5-4-2004; Am. Ord. passed 6-7-2005)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 51.110 REGULATION OF SEWER SYSTEM.
    The sewer system of the town shall be under the control of and the duty of
prescribing and enforcing a full compliance with the public sewer and water
system shall be vested in the Board of Commissioners or their authorized agent.
(1988 Code, § 51.110) (Ord. passed 12-7-1976; Am. Ord. passed 5-1-1979; Am.
Res. 2014-2, passed 4-1-2014; Am. Ord. passed 8-2-2016)
§ 51.111 SUPERVISING OFFICER.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners may select the Town Superintendent or some
other competent person to supervise under their general control the entire
water system of the town.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners may from time to time prescribe the duties
and Responsibilities of this supervising officer.
(Ord. passed 8-2-2016)
§ 51.112 INSPECTIONS.
   The town, through its authorized agents, shall be permitted to enter upon
all properties for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling and testing in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and any
permit issued pursuant to §
51.081.
(1988 Code, § 51.112) (Ord. passed 12-7-1976; Am. Ord. passed 5-1-1979)
§ 51.113 TOWN TO HAVE ACCESS TO PREMISES AT REASONABLE HOURS.
   Duly authorized agents of the town shall have access at all reasonable hours
and upon reasonable notice to the premises of the consumer for the purpose of
installing or removing town property, inspecting piping, reading or testing
meters or for any other purpose in connection with the town’s sewer service and
facilities.
(1988 Code, § 51.113) (Ord. passed 12-7-1976; Am. Ord. passed 5-1-1979)
§ 51.114 WORK ON SYSTEM TO COMPLY WITH TOWN REGULATIONS.
   All work on the sewer system and all connections or disconnections thereto
shall be performed by the authorized employees of the town or their
representatives or plumbers approved by the town. All work shall be performed
in accordance with the state’s and town’s Plumbing Codes and those amendments
thereto as the Board of Commissioners may from time to time adopt.
(1988 Code, § 51.114) (Ord. passed 12-7-1976; Am. Ord. passed 5-1-1979)
Penalty, see §
51.999
Cross-reference:
   Adoption of Town Plumbing Code, see §
150.03
§ 51.115 BILLING PROCEDURE; DELINQUENT PAYMENTS.
   For utility billing and collections procedure, see
Chapter 52.
(Ord. passed 5-8-2008)
Cross-reference:
   Adjustment to prior billings, see §
52.01
Statutory reference:
   Enforcement of delinquent accounts, see G.S. § 160A-314
§ 51.116 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE BY TOWN.
   The town reserves the right to discontinue its service without notice for
the following reasons:
   (A)   To prevent fraud or abuse;
   (B)   Consumer’s willful disregard of the town’s rules or ordinances
pertaining to sewer service;
   (C)   Emergency repair;
   (D)   Legal processes;
   (E)   Direction of public authorities;
   (F)   Strike, riot, fire, flood, accident or any unavoidable cause; and/or
   (G)   Non-payment of a bill.
(1988 Code, § 51.116) (Ord. passed 12-7-1976; Am. Ord. passed 5-1-1979)
§ 51.117 CONSUMER REQUEST FOR DISCONTINUANCE; REFUND OF DEPOSIT.
   (A)   Any consumer who wishes sewer service to be discontinued must give
notice at the Town Hall and pay all sewer bills to date, at which time his or
her deposit will be refunded.
   (B)   When services are discontinued and all bills paid, the deposit will be
refunded.
(1988 Code, § 51.117) (Ord. passed 12-7-1976; Am. Ord. passed 5-1-1979)
§ 51.118 REFUSAL OF SERVICE.
   The town may, in addition to prosecution by law, permanently refuse service
to any consumer who tampers with a meter or other measuring device. The town
reserves the right to refuse service unless the consumer’s line or piping is
installed in a manner as to prevent cross connections or backflow or unless the
consumer’s lines or piping are installed in accord with this chapter or other
rules and regulations of the town or unless the consumer’s lines are
disconnected from any septic tank or other means of private sewage disposal.
(1988 Code, § 51.118) (Ord. passed 12-7-76; Am. Ord. passed 5-1-1979)
§ 51.119 NOTICE OF INTERRUPTION OF SERVICE.
   Under normal conditions, the consumer will be notified of any anticipated
interruption of sewer service.
(1988 Code, § 51.119) (Ord. passed 12-7-1976; Am. Ord. passed 5-1-1979)
§ 51.120 LIABILITY.
   (A)   The town shall not be liable for damage of any kind resulting from
water, sewer or the use of water or sewer, on consumer’s premises.
   (B)   The town shall not be responsible for damage done by or resulting from
any defect in the piping, fixtures or appliances on consumer’s premises.
   (C)   The town shall not be responsible for the negligence of third persons
or forces beyond the control of the town resulting in interruption of service.
   (D)   In the event that any loss or damage to the property of the town or
any accident or injury to persons or property is caused by or results from the
negligence or act of the consumer, his or her agents or employees, the cost of
the necessary repairs or replacements shall be paid by the consumer to the
town. Any liability otherwise resulting shall be assumed by the consumer. The
amount of the loss or damage or the cost of repairs shall be added to the
consumer’s bills and if not paid, service may be discontinued by the town.
(1988 Code, § 51.120) (Ord. passed 12-7-1976; Am. Ord. passed 5-1-1979)
§ 51.121 RULES, REGULATIONS GOVERNING SERVICE; MODIFICATION.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners shall have the right to establish and
modify rules and regulations applicable to its sewer service, which rules and
regulations shall be enforced by the proper officers of the town and complied
with by all consumers. The rules and regulations may be in addition to the
ordinances.
   (B)   A copy of the rules and regulations so adopted shall be on file in the
office of the Town Clerk for examination by consumers.
   (C)   No promise, agreement or representation of any employee of the town
shall be binding upon the town, except as it shall have been agreed upon in
writing, signed and accepted by the proper officers of the town. No
modification of rates or any of the rules and regulations shall be made by any
agent of the town.
(1988 Code, § 51.121) (Ord. passed 12-7-1976; Am. Ord. passed 5-1-1979)
§ 51.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no other
penalty is provided shall be fined in an amount not exceeding $500 for each
violation.
   (B)   Any person who shall continue any violation of §§
51.055 through
51.061 or §
51.080 beyond the limits provided in §
51.065 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined in an amount not exceeding $500 for each violation. Each day in which any
violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (C)   (1)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provisions of §
51.057 shall be subject to a civil penalty of $5,000 per day plus costs
outlined in divisions (C)(2) and (3) of this section, as set forth in the Fats,
Oil and Grease (FOG) Enforcement Matrix.
         (a)   A citation for the civil penalty shall be issued by the
Sharpsburg Police Department.
         (b)   Each citation for a civil penalty must be paid within a
specified number of days after issuance.
         (c)   Each and every day that the violation continues in violation of
any provision of the fats, oil and grease control ordinance, codified in §
51.057, shall be a separate and distinct offense.
      (2)   In addition to the enforcement matrix the violator shall be
responsible for the reimbursement to the Town of Sharpsburg of all expenses
that the town incurs due to the violation. These expenses include but are not
limited to equipment cost, material cost, labor cost, for site remediation and
cost recovery of a sanitary sewer overflow.
      (3)   The violator of shall also be responsible for all costs associated
with a public or private penalty against the town due to any fats, oils, and
grease ordinance violation.
(1988 Code, § 51.999) (Ord. passed 12-7-1976; Am. Ord. passed 5-1-1979; Am.
Ord. passed 3-5-2008)
CHAPTER 52: UTILITIES
Section
   
52.01   Adjustments to prior billings
   
52.02   Rate table file listing adopted by reference
§ 52.01 ADJUSTMENTS TO PRIOR BILLINGS.
   If, through an erroneous billing practice, a customer has been billed to his
or her detriment, the town will adjust the bill for a period of six months or
for the duration of the erroneous condition, whichever is shorter. If through
an erroneous billing practice a customer has benefitted by receiving a smaller
bill, the town reserves the right to go back six months or the duration of the
practice, whichever is shorter. In the event of fraud, no time limitation will
be valid.
(1988 Code, § 52.01) (Ord. passed 4-6-1982)
§ 52.02 RATE TABLE FILE LISTING ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The town’s rate table file listing is hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. passed 10-24-2002)
CHAPTER 53: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
53.01   Tampering with or unauthorized use of water lines prohibited
   
53.02   Application for service
   
53.03   Connections to be conveniently located with respect to town lines and
mains
   
53.04   Additional taps on service line
   
53.05   Separate taps required
   
53.06   Installation of service line; examination by Plumbing Inspector
   
53.07   Piping to be installed, maintained in accordance with town regulations
   
53.08   Stop and waste cock to be installed
   
53.09   Connection arrangements required for building permit
   
53.10   Maintenance of pipes and fixtures
   
53.11   Resale of water prohibited
   
53.12   Use of fire hydrants
   
53.13   Mandatory water use restrictions
   
53.14   Water wells
Extensions
   
53.25   Extensions within corporate limits
   
53.26   Extensions outside corporate limits
   
53.27   Compliance with subdivision and building regulations required
   
53.28   Agreements between town and county
Rates and Charges
   
53.40   Water service rates and charges
   
53.41   Connection fees and meter deposits
Administration and Enforcement
   
53.50   Board of Commissioners to regulate
   
53.51   Supervising officer
   
53.52   Town to have access to premises at reasonable hours
   
53.53   Work on system to comply with town regulations
   
53.54   Billing procedure; delinquent payments
   
53.55   Discontinuance of service by town
   
53.56   Consumer request for discontinuance; refund of deposit
   
53.57   Town’s right to refuse service
   
53.58   Notice of interruption of service
   
53.59   Liability
   
53.60   Rules and regulations governing service; modification
Cross-connection Control
   
53.75   Adoption by reference
 
   
53.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority to operate water system, see G.S. §§ 160A-311 and 160A-312
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.01 TAMPERING WITH OR UNAUTHORIZED USE OF WATER LINES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall tamper with or harm, in any manner whatsoever, any
water line, main or any appurtenance thereto.
   (B)   No owner, agent or tenant of any premises shall turn on any town water
or use or permit the use of any town water through any of the town facilities
where service has been cut off or discontinued or otherwise use the town water
facilities without first obtaining authorization from the Superintendent of the
Water Department.
(1988 Code, § 53.01) (Ord. 1979-2, passed - -) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.02 APPLICATION FOR SERVICE.
   (A)   Service will be supplied to those consumers requesting water service
upon application made at the Town Hall with the Town Clerk and upon deposit as
shall be required by the Board of Commissioners. Every application for water
service shall list, on forms provided by the town, the property owner, the
consumer, the street on which the lot is located, the number of the building or
a description of the lot location, the number of all types of fixtures planned
in the building now and in the future, the street to the furthermost point of
the building as planned, and the name of the licensed plumber who will do the
work. The application shall be signed by the licensed plumber. This application
shall be filed no less than three days before the proposed connection is
desired. The town may reject any application for service where the applicant is
delinquent in payment of any water bills incurred for service previously
supplied at any location.
   (B)   (1)   If, in the opinion of the Board of Commissioners, the water
connection applied for will be of such size or character as to put too great a
demand on any part of the system and disrupt the town’s ordinary water service,
they shall disapprove the application until adequate means are provided to
eliminate the unsatisfactory condition.
      (2)   If, at any time, changes are made by a consumer in his or her
service requirements to create an unsatisfactory condition in the town’s water
service, the Board of Commissioners shall require the consumer to adopt
remedial measures to eliminate the unsatisfactory condition.
      (3)   The town shall, in no way, be responsible for any cost or
inconvenience caused by a change in service requirements after an application
has been approved or by an installation before the application has been
approved.
(1988 Code, § 53.02) (Ord. 1979-2, passed - -)
§ 53.03 CONNECTIONS TO BE CONVENIENTLY LOCATED WITH RESPECT TO TOWN LINES AND
MAINS.
   Piping for water on consumer’s premises must be so arranged that the
connections are conveniently located with respect to the town’s lines or mains.
(1988 Code, § 53.03) (Ord. 1979-2, passed - -) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.04 ADDITIONAL TAPS ON SERVICE LINE.
   If the consumer’s piping on consumer’s premises is so arranged that the town
is called upon to provide additional taps, each place of connection will be
considered as a separate and individual account.
(1988 Code, § 53.04) (Ord. 1979-2, passed - -)
§ 53.05 SEPARATE TAPS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Except as otherwise herein provided, in the introduction of water from
the town water system to any house or lot, there shall be a separate tap or
connection with the water pipe of the town and a separate pipe for each house
or lot and no service pipe shall be used for supplying more than one house.
   (B)   In the introduction of water from the town water system to any
apartment building, there shall be a separate tap or connection with the water
pipe of the town and a separate pipe for each apartment unit and no service
pipe shall be used for supplying more than one apartment unit.
   (C)   The requirements herein are applicable only to apartment buildings
constructed after January 8, 1980.
(1988 Code, § 53.05) (Ord. 1979-2, passed - -) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.06 INSTALLATION OF SERVICE LINE; EXAMINATION BY PLUMBING INSPECTOR.
   (A) (1)   The town shall run a service line for water from its water main to
the property line where the water main runs immediately adjacent and parallel
to the property to be served and for which a tappage or connection fee for each
size tap will be charged, together with any line charges or other charges as
may be required by this chapter.
      (2)   This shall be done only after the application has been filed and
all fees and charges paid.
      (3)   The town shall not be responsible for stoppages which occur in the
water tap from the water main in the street to the building.
      (4)   The stoppage repair shall be performed by licensed plumbers only at
the expense of the owner or occupant.
   (B)   It shall be the responsibility of the Plumbing Inspector to examine
and inspect the installation of the service line between the street right-of-
way and the building. This examination shall be made during the installation
and prior to covering the ditch to ascertain that proper materials have been
used and proper construction practices followed.
(1988 Code, § 53.06) (Ord. 1979-2, passed - -)
§ 53.07 PIPING TO BE INSTALLED, MAINTAINED IN ACCORDANCE WITH TOWN REGULATIONS.
   The consumer’s piping and apparatus shall be installed and maintained by the
consumer at the consumer’s expense in a safe and efficient manner and in
accordance with the town’s ordinances and rules and regulations and in full
compliance with all governmental regulations applicable thereto.
(1988 Code, § 53.06) (Ord. 1979-2, passed - -) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.08 STOP AND WASTE COCK TO BE INSTALLED.
   There shall be installed on each line at a convenient place a stop and waste
cock for the control of the water service by the property owner, his or her
agent or tenant.
(1988 Code, § 53.07) (Ord. 1979-2, passed - -) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.09 CONNECTION ARRANGEMENTS REQUIRED FOR BUILDING PERMIT.
   All builders and contractors shall make arrangements about the water
connections and the fees before they are granted a building permit.
(1988 Code, § 53.09) (Ord. 1979-2, passed - -) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.10 MAINTENANCE OF PIPES AND FIXTURES.
   (A)   The pipe and connections in the street will be cared for by the Water
Department without expense to the consumer or owner of the property.
   (B)   All fixtures within the premises must be kept in repair by the
property owner or consumer.
(1988 Code, § 53.10) (Ord. 1979-2, passed - -) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.11 RESALE OF WATER PROHIBITED.
   No water user will be allowed to supply or sell water, either before or
after using, to any other person or families.
(1988 Code, § 53.11) (Ord. 1979-2, passed - -) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.12 USE OF FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   The fire hydrants are for the use of the Fire and Street Departments
and are not to be used by any person for any purpose without permission from
the Superintendent of the Water Department.
   (B)   In the event any hydrant is damaged, notice must be sent at once to
the office of the Water Department.
(1988 Code, § 53.12) (Ord. 1979-2, passed - -) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.13 MANDATORY WATER USE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Upon the declaration of a water shortage warning, it shall be unlawful
to use water supplied by the town from the public water system for the
following purposes.
      (1)   Watering lawns, grasses, shrubbery, trees, flowers and vegetable
gardens, except when the watering is done on either a Saturday or Sunday
between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 9:00 p.m., and the watering is done only by
handheld hose or container or drip irrigation system.
      (2)   Persons regularly engaged in the sale of plants shall be permitted
to use water to maintain the plants.
   (B)   In addition, the Town Manager:
      (1)   Shall have the authority to equitably adjust the foregoing
restrictions by establishing zones or districts in which watering may be done
on specified days; and, further, depending on the water level in the Rocky
Mount reservoir; and
      (2)   May authorize the operation of irrigation systems and other water
uses restricted or prohibited by this chapter, on specified days in specified
zones or districts as he or she determines is consistent with water
conservation and the then current level of the reservoir.
(Ord. passed 9-3-2002) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.14 WATER WELLS.
   (A)   Property that is served by a water well when it is annexed may
continue the water well supply until there is a failure of the water well for
which repair requires a plumbing permit from the Town or until ordered by the
County Health Department to discontinue the use of the water well.
   (B)   Upon failure of a water well the owner will be required to connect to
the public water system if it is reasonably available as determined by the
town.
   (C)   In the event that a sanitary sewer line is installed within 25 feet of
a water well (centerline of the sewer line to center of the well), the water
well shall be capped and the property shall be required to connect to the
town's water line. All connection fees shall be waived.
   (D)   Customers making application to connect to town sewer that are
currently using a well for domestic water supply will be required to connect to
public water if public water is reasonably available. If water service is not
available and the town chooses not to extend water service to the property, the
customer will be required to install a well meter in accordance with §
51.064(B) to provide for billing of sewer service.
   (E)   At such time as a property that has been supplied by a water well
connects to the town's water system, the water well supply shall be completely
disconnected from the residential plumbing system. Under no circumstances shall
a water well be connected to the town's distribution system either directly or
indirectly. Such a connection is an illegal cross-connection and creates an
uncontrolled public health hazard.
   (F)   Water wells will not be allowed to provide water supply to any
property inside the Town of Sharpsburg water service area, except as follows:
      (1)   When the town cannot or will not extend service: if water service
is desired, the owner shall first submit a petition. If the petition is not
accepted by the town and the Board of Commissioners does not order the
improvements installed, the town may allow a water well to serve the property.
In such cases, the property owner must obtain written authorization from the
county for the water well and submit it to the town prior to release of the
building permit.
      (2)   When a property owner desires a water well for irrigation purposes
only, the town must ensure that there is no cross-connection with the town
water supply.
(Ord. passed 11-6-2014)
EXTENSIONS
§ 53.25 EXTENSIONS WITHIN CORPORATE LIMITS.
   Extensions to the water system of the town shall be subject to the following
terms and conditions.
   (A)   All requests for water main extensions to the water system of the town
shall be in writing and shall be submitted to the Town Clerk. The town shall
issue to the applicant of an approved request for water main extension a permit
which shall be in writing and signed by the requesting applicant. The permit
shall include and be subject to the applicable terms and conditions of this
water main extension policy of the town.
   (B)   (1)   The actual costs of water main extensions to the town’s water
system shall be borne by the applicant requesting the water main and by the
town on a participating basis determined as follows: The applicant requesting
water main extensions shall bear the actual cost of all materials and labor
included in the construction of the water main extensions.
      (2)   Before any construction of water main extensions is undertaken, the
applicant requesting water extensions shall deposit in cash or by bond or
letter of credit with the town a sum of money equal to 100% of the estimated
cost of the water extensions, including labor and materials. The town shall not
be liable for any interest to the applicant on funds so deposited.
      (3)   (a)   The town shall refund to the applicant requesting water main
extensions any proceeds collected from water connections to the extensions.
         (b)   The total of these refunds shall not exceed the amount so paid
or deposited by the applicant.
         (c)   A water connection charge shall be that charge which is
established by ordinance from time to time by the Board of Commissioners.
         (d)   At the end of five years from the date that construction of the
water main extensions is completed, the town will cease refunding to the
applicant fees or charges collected for connections to the water main
extensions and any remainder of the funds so deposited under the provisions of
division (B)(2) above shall unconditionally become the funds and property of
the town.
      (4)   Fire hydrants and other facilities installed for general public use
shall be paid for by the town.
   (C)   The town shall determine the size and depth of water mains required
and desirable in each locality and on each street where an extension is
requested. Construction of the water main extensions shall be in accordance
with the specifications and requirements of the town.
(1988 Code, § 53.25)
      (1)   All water main extensions to be looped, when feasible; where not
feasible, blow-off valves must be installed.
      (2)   Single-family dwellings must have a separate water tap with a
minimum three-fourths-inch water supply line per lot.
      (3)   Mobile home park lots must have a minimum of three-fourths separate
water taps.
      (4)   Water service line must not be smaller than three-fourths inch per
apartment.
      (5)   Triplex apartment building is to be served by a separate three-
fourths-inch water tap per apartment.
      (6)   Subdivision and mobile home park tap fees may be wavered to
developer when installing such.
(Ord. O-7-5-94, passed - -)
   (D)   When construction of water main extensions is completed, water main
extensions shall unconditionally become the property of the town.
(1988 Code, § 53.25)
§ 53.26 EXTENSIONS OUTSIDE CORPORATE LIMITS.
   Extensions to the water system of the town outside the corporate limits of
the town shall be subject to the following terms and conditions.
   (A)   (1)   All requests for water main extensions outside the corporate
limits of the town shall be in writing and shall be submitted to the Town Clerk
for consideration by the Board of Commissioners.
      (2)   The Town Clerk shall issue to the applicant of an approved request
for water extensions outside the corporate limits of the town, a permit which
shall be in writing and signed by the requesting applicant.
      (3)   This permit shall include and be subject to the applicable terms
and conditions and this water main extension policy of the town.
   (B)   An applicant requesting water main extensions outside the corporate
limits shall, at his or her expense, furnish the town with plans, maps or
surveys of the area to which extensions are requested as extensions and by him
or her conveyed to the town.
   (C)   Any rights-of-way or easements that may be required by the town shall
be obtained by the applicant requesting the water extension and by him or her
conveyed to the town.
   (D)   No extension to the water system of the town shall be made outside the
town corporate limits in a street unless it has been opened, graded and meets
the requirements of the town.
   (E)   The town shall determine the size and depth of water mains required
and desirable in each locality and on each street where an extension is
requested.
   (F)   Construction of any water main extensions outside the corporate limits
of the town shall be in accordance with the town’s specifications and subject
to the town’s supervision and inspection.
(1988 Code, § 53.26)
      (1)   All water main extensions to be looped, when feasible; where not
feasible, blow-off valves must be installed.
      (2)   Single-family dwellings must have a separate water tap with a
minimum three-fourths-inch water supply line per lot.
      (3)   Mobile home park lots must have a minimum of three-fourths separate
water taps.
      (4)   Water service line not smaller than three-fourths inch per
apartment.
      (5)   Triplex apartment building to be served by a separate three-
fourths-inch water tap per apartment.
      (6)   Subdivision and mobile home park tap fees may be wavered to
developer when installing such.
(Ord. O-7-5-94, passed - -)
   (G)   The actual cost of water main extensions outside the corporate limits
of the town shall be borne by the applicant as follows.
      (1)   The applicant requesting water main extensions outside the
corporate limits of the town shall bear the entire costs of constructing the
water extension.
      (2)   The town shall refund to the applicant an amount equal to 50% of
the town’s water connection charges from connections to the extensions for a
period not to exceed five years. The total of these refunds shall not exceed
50% of the amount so deposited by the applicant.
      (3)   In the event the area in which the water main extensions are
provided is incorporated within the town’s limits before the five-year period
has elapsed from the date extensions were constructed, the provisions of §
53.25(B)(3) shall apply.
   (H)   Upon completion of the construction of water extensions to the water
system of the town, extensions shall unconditionally become the property of the
town.
(1988 Code, § 53.26)
§ 53.27 COMPLIANCE WITH SUBDIVISION AND BUILDING REGULATIONS REQUIRED.
   No request for water main extensions or service shall be granted with
respect to any subdivision or any structure including, but not limited to
dwellings, commercial buildings or mobile homes proposed to be served by the
town’s distribution system until the subdivision or structure has been reviewed
and approved in accordance with the subdivision regulations and building codes
of the town.
(1988 Code, § 53.27) (Am. Ord. passed 9-2-1980)
§ 53.28 AGREEMENTS BETWEEN TOWN AND COUNTY.
   (A)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not be applicable to
extensions to the water system that are made pursuant to a written agreement
between the town and any county or counties within which the town or any
portion of it is located or any industrial development commission or authority
or business development authority of the county or counties.
   (B)   In such case or cases, the terms and conditions of that agreement
shall govern.
(1988 Code, § 53.28) (Am. Ord. passed - - )
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 53.40 WATER SERVICE RATES AND CHARGES.
   The rates and charges for water service shall be assessed as the Board of
Commissioners may establish from time to time. A schedule of these rates and
charges shall be kept on file in the office of the Town Clerk.
(1988 Code, § 53.40) (Ord. 1979-2, passed - -)
§ 53.41 CONNECTION FEES AND METER DEPOSITS.
   (A)   Before any new connection is made to any water line of the town, and
before any water line is extended, the property owner shall pay to the town the
fees established by the Board of Commissioners from time to time. The fees and
charges for extending the town’s water system of service beyond the corporate
limits of the town shall be charged and paid in accordance with the provisions
of §
53.26(G) and divisions (1) through (3) thereof.
   (B)   (1)   Fees for water service taps.
 
Size of Tap   Fee
3/4 inch line As set forth in the Town Schedule of Rates and Fees, a copy of
1 inch line   which is located in the office of the Town Clerk and is
2 inch line   incorporated herein by reference
 
      (2)   In addition to the foregoing fees and charges, the applicant shall
also pay the following fee:
 
Charges for Setting Water Meter
Residential service water meter As set forth in the Town Schedule of Rates and
Sprinkler system water meter    Fees, a copy of which is located in the office
                                of the Town Clerk and is incorporated herein by
Commercial or business          reference
 
   (C)   A schedule of the fees and charges in divisions (A) and (B) of this
section, as adopted by the Board of Commissioners from time to time, shall be
kept on file in the office of the Town Clerk and made available to all
individuals or entities requesting water taps, the installation of water meters
or the extension of water service lines beyond the municipal corporate limits.
(1988 Code, § 53.41) (Ord. 1979-2, passed - -; Am. Ord. passed 5-4-2004)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 53.50 BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS TO REGULATE.
   The water system of the town shall be under the control of and the duty of
prescribing and enforcing a full compliance with all the rules and regulations
governing all connections with the public sewer and water system shall be
vested in the Board of Commissioners or its authorized agent.
(Ord. passed 8-2-2016)
§ 53.51 SUPERVISING OFFICER.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners may select the Town Superintendent or some
other competent person to supervise under their general control the entire
water system of the town.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners may from time to time prescribe the duties
and responsibilities of this supervising officer.
(Ord. passed 8-2-2016)
§ 53.52 TOWN TO HAVE ACCESS TO PREMISES AT REASONABLE HOURS.
   Duly authorized agents of the town shall have access at all reasonable hours
and upon reasonable notice to the premises of the consumer for the purpose of
installing or removing town property, inspecting piping, reading or testing
meters or for any other purpose in connection with the town’s service and
facilities.
(1988 Code, § 53.52) (Ord. 1979-2, passed - -)
§ 53.53 WORK ON SYSTEM TO COMPLY WITH TOWN REGULATIONS.
   All work on the water system and all connections or disconnections thereto
shall be performed by the authorized employees of the town or their
representatives or plumbers approved by the town. All work shall be performed
in accordance with the state’s and the town’s Plumbing Codes and the amendments
thereto as the Board of Commissioners may from time to time adopt.
(1988 Code, § 53.53) (Ord. 1979-2, passed - -) Penalty, see §
53.99
Cross-reference:
   Adoption of Town Plumbing Code, see §
150.03
§ 53.54 BILLING PROCEDURE; DELINQUENT PAYMENTS.
   For utility billing and collections procedure, see
Chapter 52.
(Ord. passed 5-8-2008)
Cross-reference:
   Adjustments to prior billings, see §
52.01
§ 53.55 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE BY TOWN.
   The town reserves the right to discontinue its services without notice for
the following reasons:
   (A)   To prevent fraud or abuse;
   (B)   Consumer’s willful disregard of the town’s rules or ordinances
pertaining to water service;
   (C)   Emergency repair;
   (D)   Legal processes;
   (E)   Direction of public authorities; or
   (F)   Strike, riot, fire, flood, accident or any unavoidable cause.
(1988 Code, § 53.55) (Ord. 1979-2, passed - -)
§ 53.56 CONSUMER REQUEST FOR DISCONTINUANCE; REFUND OF DEPOSIT.
   (A)   Any consumer who wishes service to be discontinued must give notice at
the Town Hall and pay all water bills to date, at which time his or her deposit
will be refunded.
   (B)   When services are discontinued and all bills paid, the deposit will be
refunded.
(1988 Code, § 53.56) (Ord. 1979-2, passed - -)
§ 53.57 TOWN’S RIGHT TO REFUSE SERVICE.
   (A)   The town reserves the right to refuse service unless the consumer’s
line or piping is installed in accord with this chapter or other rules and
regulations of the town.
   (B)   The town may, in addition to prosecution by law, permanently refuse
service to any consumer who tampers with a meter or other measuring device.
(1988 Code, § 53.57) (Ord. 1979-2, passed - -)
§ 53.58 NOTICE OF INTERRUPTION OF SERVICE.
   Under normal conditions, the consumer will be notified of any anticipated
interruption of service.
(1988 Code, § 53.58) (Ord. 1979-2, passed - -)
§ 53.59 LIABILITY.
   (A)   The town shall not be liable for damage of any kind resulting from
water or the use of water on consumer’s premises.
   (B)   The town shall not be responsible for damage done by or resulting from
any defect in the piping, fixtures or appliances on consumer’s premises.
   (C)   The town shall not be responsible for the negligence of third persons
or forces beyond the control of the town resulting in interruption of water
service.
   (D)   In the event that any loss or damage to the property of the town or
accident or injury to persons or property is caused by or results from the
negligence or act of the consumer, his or her agents or employees, the cost of
the necessary repairs or replacements shall be paid by the consumer to the town
and any liability otherwise resulting shall be assumed by the consumer. The
amount of the loss or damage or the cost of repairs shall be added to the
consumer’s bills and if not paid, service may be discontinued by the town.
(1988 Code, § 53.59) (Ord. 1979-2, passed - -)
§ 53.60 RULES AND REGULATIONS GOVERNING SERVICE; MODIFICATION.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners shall have the right to establish and
modify rules and regulations applicable to its water service, which rules and
regulations shall be enforced by the proper officers of the town and complied
with by all consumers.
   (B)   The rules and regulations may be in addition to the ordinances.
   (C)   A copy of the rules and regulations so adopted shall be on file in the
office of the Town Clerk for examination by consumers.
   (D)   No promise, agreement or representation of any employee of the town
shall be binding upon the town, except as it shall have been agreed upon in
writing, signed and accepted by the proper officers of the town. No
modification of rates or any of the rules and regulations shall be made by any
agent of the town.
(1988 Code, § 53.60) (Ord. 1979-2, passed - -)
CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
§ 53.75 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   In accordance with G.S. § 162A-9.1, the Town of Sharpsburg Cross-connection
Control Ordinance is hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this code
as if set forth in full.
(Ord. passed 4-1-2008)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of §
53.13 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punished
as follows:
      (1)   Residential violations.
         (a)   First violation - warning;
         (b)   Second violation - $100 fine;
         (c)   Third violation - $250 fine;
         (d)   Fourth violation - termination of service until the time as the
violator establishes to the reasonable satisfaction of the Town Manager that
the customer has taken appropriate steps to prevent further violation of this
chapter; and
         (e)   Fifth violation - termination of service until the end of the
water shortage warning.
      (2)   Non-residential violations.
         (a)   First violation - warning notice;
         (b)   Second violation - $250 fine;
         (c)   Third violation - $500 fine;
         (d)   Fourth violation - termination of service until such time as the
violator establishes to the reasonable satisfaction of the Town Manager that
the customer has taken appropriate steps to prevent any further violations of §
53.13; and
         (e)   Fifth violation - termination of service until the end of the
water shortage notice.
(Ord. passed 9-3-2002)
CHAPTER 54: MOSQUITO CONTROL
Section
   
54.01   Definition
   
54.02   Presumption of violation
   
54.03   Enforcement
   
54.04   Breeding places prohibited; exception
   
54.05   Town Superintendent’s right of entry
   
54.06   Methods of treatment
Cross-reference:
   Sanitation, Health and Public Nuisances, see
Chapter 97
§ 54.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COLLECTION OF WATER. Those contained in ditches, pools, ponds (natural or
artificial), excavations, holes, depressions, open cesspools, privy vaults,
foundations, cisterns, tanks, shallow sells, barrels, troughs (except horse
troughs in frequent use), urns, cans, boxes, bottles, tubs, buckets, defective
house roof gutters, tanks of flush closets or other similar containers.
(Ord. O-4-6-93, passed - -)
§ 54.02 PRESUMPTION OF VIOLATION.
   The natural presence of mosquito larvae in standing or running water shall
be evidence that mosquitoes are there and failure to prevent breeding within
three days after notice by the Town Superintendent or his or her duly appointed
representative shall be deemed a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. O-4-6-93, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 54.03 ENFORCEMENT.
   Should the person responsible for the condition giving rise to the breeding
of mosquitoes fail or refuse to take necessary measures to prevent the same,
within three days after due notice has been given to him or her, the town is
hereby authorized to do so and all necessary cost incurred by it for this
purpose shall be a charge against the property owner or other person offending,
as the case may be.
(Ord. O-4-6-93, passed - -)
§ 54.04 BREEDING PLACES PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   It shall be unlawful to have, keep, maintain, cause or permit within the
town any collection of standing or flowing water in which mosquitoes breed or
are likely to breed, unless the collection of water is treated so as to
effectually prevent breeding.
(Ord. O-4-6-93, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 54.05 TOWN SUPERINTENDENT’S RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   For the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this chapter, the Town
Superintendent or his or her duly authorized agent may, at all reasonable
times, enter in upon any premises within his or her jurisdiction.
(Ord. O-4-6-93, passed - -)
§ 54.06 METHODS OF TREATMENT.
   The method of treatment of any collection of water directed toward the
prevention of breeding of mosquitoes, shall be approved by the Town
Superintendent and may be one or more of the following:
   (A)   Screening with wire netting of at least 16 meshes to the inch each way
or with any other material which will effectually prevent the ingress or egress
of mosquitoes;
   (B)   Complete emptying every seven days of unscreened containers, together
with their thorough drying or cleaning;
   (C)   Using an approved larvicide applied under the direction of the Town
Superintendent;
   (D)   Covering completely the surface of the water with an approved oil or
paraffin oil once every seven days;
   (E)   Cleaning and keeping sufficiently free of vegetable growth and other
obstructions and stocking with mosquito-destroying fish;
   (F)   Proper disposal by the removal or destruction of tin cans, tin boxes,
broken or empty bottles and similar articles likely to hold water; and/or
   (G)   Effective drainage of all impounded water in ditches, pools, ponds,
excavation, holes, depressions and marshes.
(Ord. O-4-6-93, passed - -)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
74.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Obedience to traffic code required
   
70.03   Application of regulations to public employees
   
70.04   Exemptions for authorized emergency vehicles
   
70.05   Application to persons propelling pushcarts or riding bicycles or
animals
   
70.06   Obedience to police required
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.15   Designation
   
70.16   Obedience required
   
70.17   Traffic-control legend
   
70.18   No turn signs and turning markers
   
70.19   No parking zone and safety zone markers
 
   
70.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority as to traffic control, see G.S. § 160A-300
   Powers of local authority, see G.S. § 20-169
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMBULANCE. Vehicles equipped for transporting wounded, injured or sick
persons.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Vehicles of the Fire Department, police
vehicles and ambulances, as defined above, designated or authorized by the
Chief of Police.
   BLOCK. The length of that portion of any street which is located between two
adjacent street intersections.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to East Main Street, U.S.
Highway 301, and the north side of Mill Branch Road from U.S. Highway 301 to
Taylor Drive and Lucas Street when 50% or more of frontage thereon for a
distance of 300 feet or more is occupied by buildings which are in use for
business purposes.
   CROSSWALK. The portion of a roadway which lies between the prolongations of
the lateral sidewalk or boundary lines over an intersection. Any portion of a
roadway distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings
on the surface.
   DRIVER or OPERATOR. The operator of a vehicle. OPERATOR shall mean any
person in actual physical control of a vehicle which is in motion or which has
the engine running. The terms DRIVER and OPERATOR are synonymous.
   HIGHWAY or STREET. The entire width between property or right-of-way lines
of every way or place of whatever nature, when any part thereof is open to the
use of the public as a matter of right for the purposes of vehicular traffic.
The terms HIGHWAY and STREET are synonymous.
   HOUSE TRAILER. Any trailer or semi-trailer, as defined below, designed and
equipped to provide living and sleeping facilities and drawn by a motor
vehicle.
   INTERSECTION. The area embraced within the prolongation of the lateral curb
lines or, if none, then the lateral edge of the roadway lines of two or more
highways which join one another at any angle, whether or not one such highway
crosses the other. Where a highway includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart,
then every crossing of each roadway of such a divided highway by an
intersecting highway shall be regarded as a separate intersection. In the event
that such an intersecting highway also includes two roadways 30 feet or more
apart, then every crossing of two roadways of such highways shall be regarded
as a separate intersection.
   MOPED. Vehicles having two or three wheels and operable pedals and equipped
with a motor which does not exceed 50 cubic centimeters piston displacement and
cannot propel the vehicle at a speed greater than 20 mph on a level surface.
   MOTOR VEHICLE.
      (1)   Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle designed to
run upon the highways which is pulled by a self-propelled vehicle.
      (2)   This shall not include mopeds, as defined above.
   MOTORCYCLES. Vehicles having a saddle for the use of the rider and designed
to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the ground, including
motor scooters and motor-driven bicycles, but excluding tractors and utility
vehicles equipped with an additional form of device designed to transport
property, three-wheeled vehicles while being used by law-enforcement agencies
and mopeds, as defined above.
   OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD. Whenever certain hours are named in this title, they
shall mean standard time or daylight saving time as may be in current use in
the town.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, markings and devices
not inconsistent with this title, placed or erected by authority of the Board
of Commissioners or an official having jurisdiction for the purpose of
regulating, warning or guiding traffic.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC SIGNALS. Any device, whether manually or automatically
operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and to proceed.
   OPERATOR. See DRIVER.
   OWNER. A person holding the legal title to a vehicle. However, in the event
a vehicle is the subject of a chattel mortgage or an agreement for the
conditional sale or lease thereof or other like agreement, with the right of
purchase upon performance of the conditions stated in the agreement and with
the immediate right of possession vested in the mortgagor, conditional vendee
or lessee, the mortgagor, conditional vendee or lessee shall be deemed the
OWNER for the purpose of this title. For the purposes of this title, the lessee
of a vehicle owned by the government of the United States shall be considered
the OWNER of that vehicle.
   PARK. The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, other than
temporarily for the purpose of loading or unloading.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   PERSON. Every individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
governmental agency or combination thereof of whatever form or character.
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer of the Police Department or any officer
authorized to direct traffic or to make arrests for violations of traffic
regulations.
   PRIVATE ROAD or DRIVEWAY. Every road or driveway not open to the use of the
public as a matter of right for the purpose of vehicular traffic.
   PUBLIC CONVEYANCE. Any vehicle which is engaged in the business of
transporting persons for fare.
   RAILROAD. A carrier, other than streetcars, of persons or property, with
cars operated on stationary rails.
   RAILROAD TRAIN. A steam engine, electric or other locomotor, with or without
cars coupled thereto, operated upon rails, not including streetcars.
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to a highway not comprising a
business district, when the frontage on the highway, for a distance of 300 feet
or more is mainly occupied by residential dwellings, but also by dwellings or
buildings which are in use for business purposes.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway, not
inconsistent with regulations and conditions imposed by this code, other town
ordinances or state law.
   ROAD TRACTORS. Vehicles designed and used for drawing other vehicles upon
the highway and not so constructed as to carry any part of the load, either
independently or as a part of the weight of the vehicle so drawn.
   ROADWAY.
      (1)   The portion of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the shoulder.
      (2)   In the event a highway includes two or more separate roadways, the
term ROADWAY, as used herein, shall refer to any such roadway separately, but
not to all such roadways collectively.
   SAFETY ZONE. Traffic island or other space officially set aside within a
highway for the exclusive use of pedestrians and which is so plainly marked or
indicated by proper signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set apart
as a safety zone.
   SEMI-TRAILERS. Vehicles without motive power designed for carrying property
or persons and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so constructed that part
of their weight or their load rests upon or is carried by the pulling vehicle.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curb lines or the lateral
lines of a roadway and the adjacent property lines, exclusively intended for
use of pedestrians.
   SIGNS. See TRAFFIC SIGNS.
   STANDING. Any stopping of a vehicle, whether occupied or not.
   STOP. When required, complete cessation of movement.
   STOP or STOPPING. When prohibited, any stopping of a vehicle, except when
conflict with other traffic is imminent or when otherwise directed by a police
officer.
   STREET. See HIGHWAY.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars and
other conveyances, either singly or together, while using any street for
purposes of travel.
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
      (1)   Authorized signs or markers which are assumed to be permanently or
temporarily placed or erected or installed at certain places and which purport
to give notice of direction or to convey a prohibition or warning.
      (2)   The presence of the signs, though not compulsory, is generally
dictated by necessity or common sense, with a view to furtherance of public
safety.
   TRAILERS. Vehicles without motive power designed for carrying property or
persons wholly on their own structure and to be drawn by a motor vehicle,
including pole trailers or a pair of wheels used primarily to balance a load
rather than for purposes of transportation.
   TRUCK TRACTORS. Vehicles designed and used primarily for drawing other
vehicles and not so constructed as to carry any load independent of the vehicle
so drawn.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, excepting devices moved by human power
or used exclusively upon fixed rails or tracks; provided, that for the purposes
of this title bicycles shall be deemed VEHICLES and every rider of a bicycle
upon a highway shall be subject to the provisions of this title applicable to
the driver of a vehicle, except those which by their nature can have no
application. This term shall not include an electric personal assistive
mobility device as defined in G.S. § 4.01(7)(a).
(1988 Code, § 70.01)
Statutory reference:
   Definitions under state law, see G.S. § 20-4.01
§ 70.02 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CODE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to
perform any act required by this traffic code.
(1988 Code, § 70.02) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS TO PUBLIC EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The provisions of this traffic code shall apply to the driver of any
vehicle owned by or used in the service of, the United States government, the
state, county or town and it shall be unlawful for any such driver to violate
any of the provisions of this traffic code, except as otherwise permitted
herein or by state law.
   (B)   While actually engaged in maintenance or construction work on the
highways, but not while traveling to or from such work, drivers of vehicles
owned or operated by the state or the town are exempt from all provisions of
this title, except as set forth in G.S. § 20-168(b).
(1988 Code, § 70.03) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04 EXEMPTIONS FOR AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   The provisions of this traffic code regulating the operation,
parking and standing of vehicles shall also apply to authorized emergency
vehicles, as defined in §
70.01.
      (2)   However, unless otherwise directed by a police officer, a driver,
when operating such vehicle in any emergency, may:
         (a)   Park or stand, notwithstanding the provisions of this traffic
code;
         (b)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
stopping;
         (c)   Exceed the posted speed limits by up to ten miles per hour, so
long as he or she does not endanger life or property; and
         (d)   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning
in specified directions, so long as he or she does not endanger life or
property.
   (B)   The foregoing exemptions shall not, however, protect the driver of any
vehicle from the consequences of his or her reckless disregard for the safety
of others.
(1988 Code, § 70.04)
§ 70.05 APPLICATION TO PERSONS PROPELLING PUSHCARTS OR RIDING BICYCLES OR
ANIMALS.
   Every person propelling any pushcart or riding a bicycle or an animal upon a
roadway and every person driving any animal-drawn vehicle, shall be subject to
the provisions of this traffic code which are applicable to the driver of any
vehicle, except those provisions of this traffic code which, by their very
nature, can have no application.
(1988 Code, § 70.05)
§ 70.06 OBEDIENCE TO POLICE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful
order or direction by a police officer.
   (B)   In the event of a fire or other emergency or when necessary to
expedite traffic or safeguard pedestrians, police officers may direct traffic
as conditions may require, notwithstanding the provisions of this traffic code.
(1988 Code, § 70.06) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Failure to obey officers, see G.S. § 20-114.1
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.15 DESIGNATION.
   (A)   The Mayor, Town Superintendent or other authorized agent of the Board
of Commissioners shall have the power to designate, lay off and indicate, with
the approval of the Board of Commissioners, by appropriate signs and markings:
parking spaces and zones, no parking zones, limited parking zones, reserved
parking zones, zones in which vehicles shall be parked at an angle to the curb,
loading zones, school zones, hospital zones, quiet zones, traffic zones other
than the above, speed limits, truck routes, through streets, stop signs and
intersections, yield right-of-way intersections, one-way streets and taxicab
stands. He or she shall also have the power to designate and indicate, with the
approval of the Board of Commissioners, intersections at which traffic shall be
controlled by traffic signals, intersections at which left turns, right turns
or U turns only are allowed and must be made and intersections at which
markers, buttons or other indications shall be placed to indicate the course to
be traveled by vehicles traversing or turning at these intersections.
   (B)   Whenever any designation is made in accord with this section, the
Mayor, Town Superintendent or other authorized personnel or agent shall erect
and install those signs, markings, lines, signals and other traffic-control
devices as may be necessary to clearly indicate such designation to put drivers
of vehicles on notice of the restrictions, limitation or prohibition resulting
from the designation.
   (C)   All designations made in accordance with this section shall be clearly
shown and indicated on the official traffic-control and regulation of parking
signs, markings and other devices map, on file in the office of the Town Clerk.
(1988 Code, § 70.15)
§ 70.16 OBEDIENCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the directions of any official
traffic-control device applicable thereto and placed in accordance with the
traffic ordinances of this town, unless otherwise directed by a police officer,
subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle
in §
70.04.
   (B)   No provision of this traffic code for which signs are required shall
be enforced against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the
alleged violation, an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently
legible to an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular section does
not state that signs are required, the section shall be effective without signs
being placed to give notice thereof.
(1988 Code, § 70.16) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to erect traffic-control devices, compel obedience, see G.S. §§
20-158 and 20-169
§ 70.17 TRAFFIC-CONTROL LEGEND.
   (A)   Traffic-control signals. Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic-
control signals exhibiting the words Go, Caution or Stop or exhibiting
differently colored lights, successively, one at a time, the following colors
only shall be used and the terms and lights shall indicate as follows.
      (1)   Green alone or go.
         (a)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed straight through
or turn right or left unless a sign at such place prohibits either turn. But
vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles and to
pedestrians lawfully within the intersection at the time the signal is
exhibited.
         (b)   Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the roadway
within any marked or unmarked crosswalk.
      (2)   Yellow alone or caution, when shown following the green or go
signal. Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at the intersection, but if the stop cannot be made in
safety, a vehicle may be driven cautiously through the intersection.
Pedestrians facing this signal are hereby advised that there is insufficient
time to cross a roadway and any pedestrian then starting to cross shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles.
      (3)   Red alone or stop.
         (a)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering
the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at such other point as may be
indicated by a clearly visible line and shall remain standing until green or go
is shown alone.
         (b)   No pedestrian facing this signal shall enter the roadway unless
he or she can do so safely and without interfering with any vehicular traffic.
      (4)   Red with green arrow.
         (a)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal may cautiously enter the
intersection, only to continue the movement in the direction indicated by the
arrow, but shall not interfere with other traffic.
         (b)   No pedestrian facing the signal shall enter the roadway unless
he or she can do so safely and without interfering with any vehicular traffic.
   (B)   Flashing signals. Whenever flashing red or yellow signals are used,
they shall require obedience by vehicular traffic as follows.
      (1)   Flashing red (stop signal). When a red lens is illuminated by rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at a limit line when marked and the
right to proceed shall be subject to the rules applicable after making a stop
at a stop sign.
      (2)   Flashing yellow (caution signal). When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past the signal only with caution.
(1988 Code, § 70.17) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.18 NO TURN SIGNS AND TURNING MARKERS.
   Whenever authorized signs are placed, erected or installed indicating that
no right or left or U turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey
the directions of any such sign and when authorized markers, buttons or other
indications are placed within an intersection indicating the course to be
traveled by vehicles traversing or turning thereat, no driver of a vehicle
shall disobey the directions of the indications.
(1988 Code, § 70.18) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Turning at intersections, see G.S. § 20-153
§ 70.19 NO PARKING ZONE AND SAFETY ZONE MARKERS.
   Whenever authorized signs or markings are placed, erected or installed
indicating no-parking zones or safety zones, no driver of a vehicle shall
disobey the regulations in connection therewith.
(1988 Code, § 70.19) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   The violation of any provision of this code or any provision of any
restriction imposed by any proclamation authorized by this code regulating the
operation or parking of vehicles, shall constitute an infraction punishable by
a penalty of not more than $50.
(G.S. § 14-4(b)) (1988 Code, § 70.99)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Driving on roadways laned for traffic
   
71.02   Speed limits
   
71.03   Traffic signal intersections
   
71.04   Stop intersections
   
71.05   Yield intersections
   
71.06   No through truck traffic
Train Regulations
   
71.20   Speed to be reasonable
   
71.21   Trains blocking public crossing
Parades and Demonstrations
   
71.35   Definitions
   
71.36   Permit required; unlawful participation
   
71.37   Application for permit
   
71.38   Issuance of permit
   
71.39   Alternate permit
   
71.40   Processing time and notice
   
71.41   Revocation of permit
   
71.42   Interference prohibited
   
71.43   Signs
   
71.44   Parking restrictions
   
71.45   Violation of state law
   
71.46   Sidewalk obstructions
   
71.47   Exemptions
   
71.48   Enforcement
Golf Carts
   
71.60   Authority for subchapter
   
71.61   Definitions
   
71.62   Liability disclaimer
   
71.63   Rules and regulations
   
71.64   Inspection and fees
 
   
71.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Speed limits, see
Chapter 73, Schedule V
Statutory reference:
   General speed limit within municipal corporate limits as set by the state is
35 mph, see G.S. § 20-141(b)(1)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01 DRIVING ON ROADWAYS LANED FOR TRAFFIC.
   All vehicles operated on any roadway which has been clearly marked with
lanes for traffic shall be driven as nearly as practical entirely within a
single lane and shall not be moved from the lane until the driver has first
ascertained that the movement can be made with safety.
(1988 Code, § 71.01) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Driving on right side of road, see G.S. § 20-146
§ 71.02 SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   Except in those cases in which speed limits differing from those
provided by state law have been adopted by ordinance and made effective by the
adoption of a concurring ordinance by the state’s Board of Transportation,
where required by state law, and by the erection within the town of signs
giving notice of the authorized speed limits, the speed limits established by
G.S. § 20-141 shall apply within the town.
   (B)   A schedule of all authorized variations from the limits, together with
copies of ordinances of the Board of Commissioners and of the state’s Board of
Transportation where required by state law, authorizing the variations shall be
maintained on file in the office of the Town Clerk.
(1988 Code, § 71.02)
§ 71.03 TRAFFIC SIGNAL INTERSECTIONS.
   Those intersections described in
Chapter 73, Schedule I, are hereby declared to be traffic signal intersections
and the traffic shall be controlled at these intersections by the traffic-
control signals erected there in accord with the legend set forth in §
70.17. All traffic shall obey the signal being emitted with respect to the
street upon which traffic is operating.
(1988 Code, § 71.03) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.04 STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Those intersections described in
Chapter 73, Schedule II, are hereby declared to be stop intersections when
entered from the through streets first named. When stop signs are placed,
erected or installed at these intersections, every driver of a vehicle shall
stop in obedience to the signs before entering the intersection and shall not
proceed into or across the through street until he or she has first determined
that no conflict will be involved.
(1988 Code, § 71.04)
   (B)   When stop signs are placed, erected or installed at intersections
declared to be four-way stop intersections, every driver of a vehicle shall
stop in obedience to the signs before entering the intersection from either
street of the intersection and shall not proceed or cross until he or she has
first determined that no conflict will be involved.
(Ord. passed 8-2-1988)
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.05 YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
   Whenever main-traveled through streets described in
Chapter 73, Schedule III, are designated by erecting, at the entrance thereto
from the intersecting street described in that schedule, signs notifying
drivers of vehicles to yield the right-of-way to drivers of vehicles
approaching the intersection on the main-traveled or through street, it shall
be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to enter or cross that main-traveled
or through street, unless he or she shall first slow down and yield the right-
of-way to any vehicle in movement on the main-traveled or through street which
is approaching so as to arrive at the intersection at approximately the same
time as the vehicle entering the main-traveled or through street. No failure to
so yield the right-of-way shall be considered negligence or contributory
negligence per se in any action at law for injury to person or property, but
the facts relating to the failure to yield the right-of-way may be considered
with the other facts in the case in determining whether either party in the
action was guilty of negligence or contributory negligence.
(1988 Code, § 71.05) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.06 NO THROUGH TRUCK TRAFFIC.
   Whenever those streets described in
Chapter 73, Schedule IV, have installed a traffic-control device clearly
stating or indicating through trucks are not permitted on a street or any
portion thereof, no person may drive any truck having ten wheels or more on any
such street or portion thereof unless the truck’s destination or point of
origin is on that street.
(1988 Code, § 71.06) (Ord. passed l-5-1982) Penalty, see §
70.99
TRAIN REGULATIONS
§ 71.20 SPEED TO BE REASONABLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to operate any
locomotive, engine or train or railroad car within the corporate limits of the
town at any speed in excess of that which is reasonable and prudent.
(1988 Code, § 71.20) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Town authorized to regulate speed of trains, see G.S. § 160A-195
§ 71.21 TRAINS BLOCKING PUBLIC CROSSING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to allow a railroad
train, locomotive or any railroad vehicle to stand upon a public crossing or
any part thereof, for more than ten minutes at any time.
(1988 Code, § 71.21) Penalty, see §
70.99
PARADES AND DEMONSTRATIONS
§ 71.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BLOCK. The portion of any street lying between its intersections with other
streets.
   DEMONSTRATION. Any assembly together or concert of action between more than
four persons for the purpose of protesting any matter, making known any
position or promoting certain persons or organizations or attracting attention
to such assembly.
   PARADE. Any parade, march, ceremony, show, exhibition or procession of any
kind in or upon the public streets, sidewalks, alleys, parks or other public
places, involving more than four persons or more than three vehicles.
(1988 Code, § 71.35) (Ord. passed 7-5-1988)
§ 71.36 PERMIT REQUIRED; UNLAWFUL PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to organize, conduct or
participate in any parade or demonstration in or upon any street, sidewalk,
alley or other public place within the town unless a permit has been issued by
the town in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct or participate in any
parade or demonstration for any purpose or in any manner other than those set
out in the application and permit.
(1988 Code, § 71.36) (Ord. passed 7-5-1988)
§ 71.37 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   A written application on a form supplied by the town shall be made to
the Chief of Police by persons desiring to have a parade or demonstration. The
applications shall be submitted at least 72 hours in advance. However, where
good cause is shown or, in the judgment of the Chief, the activity would
involve significant political or religious features and therefore be entitled
to enhanced deference or protection under the state and federal constitutions,
the Chief of Police shall consider applications filed after the deadline.
Employees of the Police Department shall immediately indicate the time of
receipt on the face of the application.
   (B)   The application shall be signed by the applicant and shall include the
following:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the applicant;
      (2)   If the parade or demonstration is proposed to be conducted for, on
behalf of or by an organization, the name, address and telephone number of the
headquarters of the organization and of the authorized and responsible head of
the organization;
      (3)   The name, address and telephone number of the person to be present
and responsible for the conduct of the parade or demonstration;
      (4)   The date when the parade or demonstration will be conducted;
      (5)   The location by streets of any assembly areas for the parade or
demonstration;
      (6)   The time when units of the parade or demonstration will begin to
assemble at any such assembly area or areas; and
      (7)   The times when the parade or demonstration will begin and
terminate;
      (8)   The route to be traveled, the starting point and the termination
point or the location if stationary;
      (9)   A statement as to whether the parade or demonstration will occupy
all or only a portion of the width of the streets, sidewalks, parks, alleys or
other public places proposed to be traversed or occupied;
      (10)   The approximate number of persons, animals and vehicles expected
to participate and the type of animals and a description of the vehicles; and
      (11)   Whether minors are likely to participate.
(1988 Code, § 71.37) (Ord. passed 7-5-1988)
§ 71.38 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The application is expressly included as part of any permit granted. A
permit shall be issued on a form supplied by the town, to the person who signed
the application. The person shall be required to accompany the parade or
demonstration and the permit shall be invalid unless in his or her possession.
The permit shall be deemed issued under the terms and for the purposes stated
in the application only, unless otherwise noted. The permit shall set the
duration, speed of travel and space between persons or vehicles in the parade
or demonstration, may prescribe the portions of areas of streets, alleys,
sidewalks or other public places to be used and may impose other reasonable
requirements necessary for the control and free movement of pedestrian or
vehicular traffic and to protect the safety and property rights of participants
and the general public.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall issue a permit unless he or she makes
written findings based upon specified facts that:
      (1)   The activity cannot be conducted without unreasonable interference
with normal pedestrian or vehicular traffic in the area;
      (2)   The activity cannot be held without unreasonably interfering with
provision of normal police and fire protection to the public;
      (3)   The activity is being held for an unlawful purpose or would violate
a federal, state or local law or ordinance; or
      (4)   The event will require the closing of or unreasonably restrict the
flow of vehicular traffic along a highway under the control of the State of
North Carolina, in which case permission should be sought by the applicant from
appropriate state officials.
(1988 Code, § 71.38) (Ord. passed 7-5-1988)
§ 71.39 ALTERNATE PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police, in denying an application as submitted, may grant a
permit for a date, time, place or over a route different from that named by the
applicant or subject to stated requirements and conditions. An applicant
desiring to accept an alternate permit shall, within 24 hours after notice of
the action of the Chief of Police, file a written notice of acceptance with the
Chief of Police, on a form supplied by the town.
(1988 Code, § 71.39) (Ord. passed 7-5-1988)
§ 71.40 PROCESSING TIME AND NOTICE.
   (A)   Applications shall be processed and decisions made as expeditiously as
possible and at least within 48 hours. If the application was submitted more
than seven days in advance of the event, the permit, alternate permit or
written notice of denial shall be mailed to the applicant.
   (B)   Otherwise, the Police Department shall exercise reasonable diligence
in attempting to notify the applicant of the action taken as soon as possible
by telephone or other means.
   (C)   Any person aggrieved by action taken on a permit application may file
a written notice of appeal, first with the Town Manager and then with the
governing body.
   (D)   The Town Manager shall act on the appeal as expeditiously as possible,
in good faith. The governing body shall hear an appeal at the first meeting at
which the law allows the matter to be considered).
(1988 Code, § 71.40) (Ord. passed 7-5-1988)
§ 71.41 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police may revoke any permit granted for a parade or
demonstration for the following causes:
   (A)   The substantial violation of this subchapter or the terms and
conditions of a permit; or
   (B)   Violation of other laws by those participating in the parade or
demonstration.
(1988 Code, § 71.41) (Ord. passed 7-5-1988)
§ 71.42 INTERFERENCE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall hamper, obstruct, impede or interfere with any parade or
demonstration being conducted under authority of a lawfully issued permit. No
driver of any vehicle shall drive between the vehicles or persons comprising a
parade or demonstration when such vehicles or persons are in motion and
identifiable as a parade or demonstration under this subchapter.
(1988 Code, § 71.42) (Ord. passed 7-5-1988) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.43 SIGNS.
   Signs or posters carried by participants shall be made of cardboard no
thicker than one-fourth inch. Supports for the signs or posters shall be made
of a non-metallic material no wider than three and one-half inches nor thicker
than one inch. The diameter of round supports may not exceed two inches.
(1988 Code, § 71.43) (Ord. passed 7-5-1988) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.44 PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The Chief of Police, when reasonably necessary, may prohibit or
restrict the parking of vehicles along a street or highway constituting a part
of the route of a parade or demonstration. The Chief of Police shall cause
signs to be posted to such effect and it shall be unlawful for any person to
park or leave unattended any vehicle in violation thereof.
   (B)   No person shall be liable for parking on a street if such signs are
posted less than 24 hours in advance.
(1988 Code, § 71.44) (Ord. passed 7-5-1988)
§ 71.45 VIOLATION OF STATE LAW.
   The prohibition contained in G.S. § 14-277.2 against possession of dangerous
weapons and other provisions of law shall be strictly enforced.
(1988 Code, § 71.45) (Ord. passed 7-5-1988)
§ 71.46 SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTIONS.
   Police officers observing unreasonable obstructions of sidewalks as a result
of a parade or demonstration, such that pedestrians are unreasonably hindered
or forced to step into the street, shall take reasonable steps to make the
sidewalk available for pedestrian travel.
(1988 Code, § 71.46) (Ord. passed 7-5-1988)
§ 71.47 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to:
   (A)   Funeral processions;
   (B)   Students going to or from school classes or participating in
educational or recreational activity where the activity is under the
supervision and direction of the proper school authorities;
   (C)   Any governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions;
   (D)   Picketing or other orderly processions on the sidewalks, involving
fewer than ten persons and conducted entirely within one block, that do not
violate any other municipal or state law; and
   (E)   A parade that is conducted under the sponsorship of the town.
(1988 Code, § 71.47) (Ord. passed 7-5-1988)
§ 71.48 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Violation of any provision of §§
71.35 through
71.47 shall be a criminal misdemeanor, punishable upon conviction by a fine of
not more than $50 or imprisonment for not more than six months, as provided in
G.S. § 14-4.
   (B)   In addition to or in lieu of criminal remedies, violation of §§
71.35 through
71.47 shall subject the offender to levy of a civil penalty in the amount of
$25. Civil penalties remaining unpaid after seven days may be collected by
means of a civil action in the nature of debt.
   (C)   This subchapter may also be enforced by an appropriate equitable
remedy issuing from a court of competent jurisdiction.
(1988 Code, § 71.48) (Ord. passed 7-5-1988)
GOLF CARTS
§ 71.60 AUTHORITY FOR SUBCHAPTER.
   These provisions are adopted to address the interest of public safety under
the provisions of G.S. § 160A-300.6 which gives the town authority to:
   (A)   Notwithstanding the provisions of G.S. § 20-50 and G.S. § 20-54,
regulate the operation of golf carts, as defined in G.S. § 20- 4.01(12a), on
any public street, road, or highway where the speed limit is 35 miles per hour
or less within its municipal limits or on any property owned or leased by the
city.
   (B)   Require by ordinance the registration of golf carts, charge a fee for
the registration, specify who is authorized to operate golf carts, and specify
the required equipment, load limits, and the hours and methods of operation of
golf carts.
(Ord. O-2018-01, passed 3-6-2018)
§ 71.61 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this subchapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning.
   GOLF CART. An electric or gas golf cart.
   OPERATE. To drive, or be in physical control of a golf cart that is moving
or has its engine on.
(Ord. O-2018-01, passed 3-6-2018)
§ 71.62 LIABILITY DISCLAIMER.
   This subchapter is adopted to address the interest of public safety. Golf
carts are not designed or manufactured to be used on the public streets, and
the town in no way advocates or endorses their operation on public streets or
roads. The town, by regulating such operation is merely trying to address
obvious safety issues, and adoption of this subchapter is not to be relied upon
as a determination that operation on public streets is safe or advisable if
done in accordance with this subchapter. All persons who operate or ride upon
golf carts on public streets or roads do so at their own risk and peril, and
must be observant of, and attentive to the safety of themselves and others,
including their passengers, other motorists, bicyclists, and pedestrians. The
town has no liability under any theory of liability and the town assumes no
liability, for permitting golf carts to be operated on the public streets and
roads under the special legislation granted by the state's legislature. Any
person who operates a golf cart is responsible for procuring liability
insurance sufficient to cover the risk involved in using a golf cart on the
public streets and roads.
(Ord. O-2018-01, passed 3-6-2018)
§ 71.63 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   Carts that are not equipped and registered as required by the State Motor
Vehicle Law may only be operated within the town in accordance with the
following rules and regulations. Operation of carts in violation of these rules
and regulations shall be subject to the penalty provisions of this section or
in egregious cases, may constitute reckless driving as defined in the North
Carolina General Statutes.
   (A)   Drivers of carts shall stay to the far right of the traveled portion
of the road and yield the right-of-way to overtaking motor vehicles and
pedestrian traffic.
   (B)   Carts operating between the time of one-half hour before sunset and
one-half hour after sunrise shall be equipped with and have in use headlights
and reflectors located on the rear of the cart.
   (C)   Golf carts may be operated only between the hours of 6:00 a.m. to 10:
00 p.m.
   (D)   Carts shall be equipped with at least one operational mirror allowing
the operator to see behind the cart.
   (E)   Golf carts must be operated in accordance with all applicable state
and local laws and ordinances, including all laws, regulations and ordinances
pertaining to the possession and use of alcoholic beverages.
   (F)   Golf carts must have the basic equipment supplied by the manufacturer,
including a vehicle identification number. Such equipment must include all
safety devices as installed by said manufacturer, including lights and
reflectors if the vehicle is to be operated at any time before sunrise or after
sunset as set forth in division (C) of this section.
   (G)   No one is allowed to stand on a golf cart while it is in operation.
   (H)   The driver must be at least 16 years old and have a valid driver's
license.
   (I)   Only the number of people the golf cart is designed to seat may ride
on a golf cart, specifically, passengers shall not be carried on the part of a
golf cart designed to carry golf bags.
   (J)   The Chief of Police, or his or her designee, may prohibit the
operation of golf carts on any street or road if the Chief determines that the
prohibition is necessary in the interest of safety.
   (K)   Golf carts shall not be operated on or across any public or private
properties without the permission of the property owner.
   (L)   Golf carts may only be operated on streets within the town's corporate
limits upon which the speed limit is no higher than 35 miles per hour. Golf
carts shall not be operated on Highway 301, Mill Branch Road, East Main Street,
or Sharpe Road. However, golf carts may cross streets with speed limits in
excess of 35 miles per hour.
(Ord. O-2018-01, passed 3-6-2018)
§ 71.64 INSPECTION AND FEES.
   The inspection by the Chief of Police, or his or her designee, will cover
the following safety requirements and every cart operating on the town streets
must have the following equipment.
   (A)   Permits/stickers issued to the owners of the golf carts by the Town
Clerk.
   (B)   In order to obtain a permit/sticker, each owner must fill out an
application, present proof of ownership, proof of liability insurance and sign
a disclaimer of liability, releasing the town, its employees and affiliates
from all liability that may arise as a result of operating a cart inside the
town. This disclaimer must be on file with the owner’s application and must be
renewed each year.
   (C)   All carts must meet the requirements or minimum standards of safety
equipment as set forth in division (A).
   (D)   Permits/stickers will be issued annually, and are valid from July 1 to
June 30 of each year. Permits/stickers must be attached to the front driver's
side of the cart. The following fees will apply.
      (1)   Inspection by the Police Department: $20 annually.
      (2)   Re-inspection by the Police Department if a cart fails the initial
inspection: $15.
   (E)   Lost or stolen permit/stickers are the responsibility of the owner. A
police report must be filed in the event of a lost or stolen permit/sticker.
The Chief of Police will have the discretion in determining whether a permit/
sticker may be re-issued or not. If the Chief of Police determines that a
permit/sticker should be re-issued a $10 re- issuing fee will apply.
   (F)   Any person who operates a cart in the town and fails to obtain and
properly display their permit/sticker will be in violation of this subchapter.
   (G)   Cart owners must complete a registration form that will be maintained
by the Police Department.
   (H)   The Police Chief retains the right to refuse to issue and/or revoke
any permit/sticker from any cart at any time for any reason that he/she feels
is appropriate to ensure the safety and well- being of the citizens of the
town.
(Ord. O-2018-01, passed 3-6-2018)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of §§
71.60 through
71.64 shall be punished with a fine of $50 for each violation provided,
however, that operating a golf cart under the influence of an impairing
substance (i.e., alcohol or drugs) on a public road or highway is not a
violation of §§
71.60 through
71.64, but a violation of state law, and is punishable as provided therein.
(Ord. O-2018-01, passed 3-6-2018)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
General Provisions
   
72.01   Left side to curb prohibited in business district
Stopping, Standing or Parking Prohibited in Certain Places
   
72.10   Stopping in streets
   
72.11   Obstructing traffic
   
72.12   Stopping, standing or parking prohibited in certain places
   
72.13   Parking prohibited at all times on certain streets
   
72.14   Parking for certain purposes prohibited
   
72.15   Parking of certain trucks restricted
   
72.16   Parking of trailers on sidewalk prohibited
   
72.17   Loading and servicing of vehicles
Cross-reference:
   Parking of gasoline tank trucks, see §
92.21
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town to regulate parking, see G.S. § 160A-301
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.01 LEFT SIDE TO CURB PROHIBITED IN BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   No vehicle shall stop with its left side to the curb in the business
district, except that on one-way streets vehicles shall stop headed in the
direction of traffic. The business district shall be defined as the territory
contiguous to East Main Street, U.S. Highway 301, and the north side of Mill
Branch Road from U.S. Highway 301 to Taylor Drive and Lucas Street.
(1988 Code, § 72.01) Penalty, see §
70.99
STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN PLACES
§ 72.10 STOPPING IN STREETS.
   No vehicle shall stop in any street, except for the purpose of parking as
prescribed in this traffic code, unless the stop is made necessary by the
approach of fire apparatus, by the approach of a funeral or other procession
which is given the right-of-way, by the stopping of a public conveyance, by the
lowering of railway gates, by the giving of traffic signals, by the passing of
some other vehicle or a pedestrian or by some emergency. In any case covered by
these exceptions, vehicles shall stop so as not to obstruct any footway,
pedestrian aisle, safety zone, crossing or street intersection if such can be
avoided.
(1988 Code, § 72.10) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.11 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   No vehicle shall so stand on any street as to interrupt or interfere with,
the passage of public conveyances or other vehicles.
(1988 Code, § 72.11) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.12 STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN PLACES.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police
officer or traffic-control device in any of the following places:
   (A)   On the sidewalk;
   (B)   On a crosswalk;
   (C)   Within 30 feet of any flashing beacon, stop sign or traffic-control
signal located at the side of a street or roadway;
   (D)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction, when such
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
   (E)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure or within any underpass
structure;
   (F)   Within 15 feet in either direction of the entrance to a hotel,
theater, hospital, sanatorium or any public building; and/or
   (G)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped, standing or parked at the
edge or curb of a street.
(1988 Code, § 72.12) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Prohibited parking, see G.S. § 20-162
§ 72.13 PARKING PROHIBITED AT ALL TIMES ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   When signs are placed, erected or installed, giving notice thereof or the
curbing has been painted yellow in lieu of such signs, no person shall park a
vehicle at any time upon any of the streets described in
Chapter 74, Schedule I.
(1988 Code, § 72.13) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.14 PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall stand or park a vehicle upon any street for the
following principal purposes:
      (1)   Displaying it for sale;
      (2)   Greasing or repairing the vehicle, except repairs necessitated by
an emergency;
      (3)   Storage thereof by garages, dealers or other persons when the
storage is not incident to the bona fide use and operation of the automobile or
other vehicles; and/or
      (4)   Storage of any detached trailer or van, when the towing unit has
been disconnected or for the purpose of transferring merchandise or freight,
from one vehicle to another.
   (B)   No person shall stand or park on any street any vehicle for the
primary purpose of advertising.
(1988 Code, § 72.14) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.15 PARKING OF CERTAIN TRUCKS RESTRICTED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to park any truck, trailer or truck and trailer
combination having a length in excess of 25 feet on any town street or within
the right-of-way of any town street. Provided, however, this section shall not
apply to trucks, trailers or truck and trailer units parked on a town street or
within the right-of-way of a town street for the purpose of delivering
transported items or commodities to an address within the corporate limits of
the town or for the purpose of picking up items or articles for transportation
from an address within the corporate limits of the town.
   (B)   (1)   It is further provided that no truck, trailer or truck and
trailer unit having a length in excess of 25 feet shall be parked on any
residentially zoned property or other property located within 300 feet of
residentially zoned property for longer than two hours.
      (2)   Provided, however, that the following described trailers and/or
other means of conveyance and transporting used for the personal pleasure use
of the owner shall be exempt from the provisions of this division (B)
regardless of their length: trailers for transporting and/or storing any type
or description of boat for the recreational use of the owner; any trailer used
for the transportation and/or storage of any personal water craft such as jet
skies, wave riders, and the like, or used for the transportation and/or storage
of any recreational means of land travel, including three wheelers, four
wheelers and other similar type pleasure vehicles; any camper trailer or travel
trailer used for the personal recreational purposes of the owner; any motorized
home or motorized travel home for the personal use of the owner; and any other
type of trailer or other means of conveyance, whether motorized or not,
designed for and used for the personal recreational purposes of the owner or
for transporting or storing any type of conveyance of any vehicle, watercraft
or other means of travel or transportation used by the owner for recreational
purposes.
   (C)   The owner or possessor of any trailers for transporting and/or storing
any type or description of boat for the recreational use of the owner; any
trailer used for the transportation and/or storage of any personal water craft
such as jet skies, wave riders, and the like, or used for the transportation
and/or storage of any recreational means of land travel, including three
wheelers, four wheelers and other similar type pleasure and recreational
vehicles; any camper trailer or travel trailer used for the personal
recreational purposes of the owner; any motorized home or motorized travel home
for the personal use of the owner; and any other type of trailer or other means
of conveyance, whether motorized or not, designed for and used for the personal
recreational purposes of the owner or for transporting or storing any type of
conveyance of any vehicle, watercraft or other means of travel or
transportation used by the owner for recreational purposes may park and/or
store any of the hereinbefore described means of conveyance, regardless of
length, on residentially zoned property or residentially used property owned by
or occupied by him or her. No such vehicle, however, shall be parked or stored
on a town street or within the right-of-way of a town street.
(Ord. passed 5-4-2004) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.16 PARKING OF TRAILERS ON SIDEWALK PROHIBITED.
   No person shall park any trailer or similar vehicle on the sidewalks of the
town.
(1988 Code, § 72.16) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.17 LOADING AND SERVICING OF VEHICLES.
   No vehicle shall be loaded or serviced on any portion of the street, roadway
or sidewalk right-of-way. If servicing is to be performed from both sides of a
pump island, then pump islands shall be placed a minimum of 12 feet away from
the right-of-way line.
(1988 Code, § 72.17) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 73: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Traffic signal intersections
   
II.   Stop intersections
   
III.   Yield right-of-way intersections
   
IV.   No through trucks
   
V.   Speed limits
   
VI.   Fire lane
SCHEDULE I. TRAFFIC SIGNAL INTERSECTIONS.
   The following are designated as traffic signal intersections.
 
Intersection
Highway 301 and East Mill Branch Road
Highway 301 and West Mill Branch Road
 
(1988 Code, Ch. 73, Sch. I) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   The following are designated as stop intersections, as more fully described
in §
71.04.
Through Street Intersecting Street Ord. Passed
Through Street         Intersecting Street       Ord. Passed
B. Street              Brickyard Road            - -
Barnes Street          Brickyard Road            - -
Barnhill Avenue        Farmer Street             3-1-1988
Barnhill Avenue        Fox Ridge                 3-1-1988
East Main Street       Landura                   3-1-1988
East Main Street       Northeast Railroad Street - -
East Main Street       West Railroad Street      - -
East Main Street       East Railroad Street      - -
East Main Street       Brickyard Road            - -
East Railroad Street   Barnes Street             - -
East Railroad Street   Lucas Street              - -
East Railroad Street   Armstrong Street          - -
Farmer Street          Dawes Street              - -
Farmer Street          West Railroad Street      - -
Highway 301            Sharpe Road               - -
Highway 301            Moore Street              - -
Highway 301            East Farmer Street        - -
Highway 301            West Farmer Street        - -
Highway 301            East Sharpe Street        - -
Highway 301            East Main Street          - -
Highway 301            West Main Street          - -
Highway 301            School Street             - -
Highway 301            West Sharpe Street        - -
Mill Branch Road       Pittman Street            - -
Mill Branch Road       Laura Street              - -
Mill Branch Road       Taylor Drive              - -
Mill Branch Road       Barnhill Avenue           - -
Mill Branch Road       Robbins Avenue            - -
Mill Branch Road       Batts Avenue              - -
Mill Branch Road       Rural Paved Road #1734    - -
Moore Street           West Railroad Street      - -
Queen Street           Lucas Street              - -
Rural Paved Road #1146 Northeast Railroad Street - -
Sandy Nob Lane         Sandy Hill Court          3-1-1988
Sharpe Road            Batchelor Drive           - -
Sharpe Street          Pitman Street             - -
West Main Street       Barnhill Street           - -
West Main Street       Pittman Street            - -
 
(1988 Code, Ch. 73, Sch. II)
Traveling On At
Traveling On             At
-                        Sandy Hill Court
Anna Dr.                 Jessica Way
B. Street                M.L. King Jr. Circle
Barnes Street            M.L. King Jr. Circle
Barnes Street            S.E. Railroad Street
Barnhill Ave.            Mill Branch Rd.
Barnhill Ave.            West Main Street (BOTH)
Barnhill Ave             Mill Branch Rd.
Batts Ave.               West Main St.
Batts Ave.               W. John J. Sharpe St.
Creekside Dr.            Holly Dr.
Creekside Dr.            Oak Forest Dr.
Dale Drive               Hilldale Dr.
Davis Store Rd.          Mill Branch Rd.
Dawes Drive              S.E. Railroad Street
Dawes Dr.                Queen ST.
Fox Ridge Apts.          Barnhill Ave.
Gold St.                 Barnhill Ave.
Gold St.                 Pittman St.
Greenleaf Street         Sharpe Rd.
Hilldale Dr.             Dale Dr.
Hilldale Dr.             S. Hathaway Blvd.
Hilltop Dr.              Hilldale Dr.
Holly Dr.                Davis Store Rd.
Jessica Way              Kasey Circle
Joyner Ave.              Langley Dr.
Joyner Ave.              Taylor Dr.
Judge St.                Holly Dr.
Judge St.                Mill Branch Rd.
Kasey Circle             M.L. King Jr. Circle
Kasey Circle             Kasey Circle
Katie Drive              County Line Road
Katie Drive              Katie Drive
Kentucky Court.          Speight Dr.
Kentucky Ave.            Speight Dr.
Kentucky Ave.            West Main St.
Laurie Dr.               Mill Branch Rd.
Lincoln Street           S.E. Railroad Street
Lincoln Street           M.L. King Jr. Circle
Mary Lane                Katie Drive
M.L. King Jr. Circle     M.L. King Jr. Circle
M.L. King Jr. Circle     S.E. Railroad Street
Moore Street             S. Hathaway Blvd.
Murray Dr.               W. John J. Sharpe Street
Murray Dr.               W. Farmer Street
Oak Forest Dr.           Speight Dr.
Pine Grove Apts.         East Main St.
Pittman St.              W. John J. Sharpe St.
Pittman St.              W. Farmer St.
Pittman St.              Mill Branch Rd. (BOTH)
Pittman St.              West Main St.
Poplar Ridge Court       Sandy Knob Lane
Post Office              S. Hathaway Blvd.
Queen Street             M.L. King Jr. Circle
Robbins Ave.             Taylor Drive
Robbins Ave.             West Main St. (BOTH)
Robbins Ave.             Mill Branch Rd. (BOTH)
Robbins Avenue           Exchange Lane
Ruffin Place             Judge St.
S. E. Railroad Street    East Main (BOTH)
S.W. Railroad Street     West Main Street
S.W. Railroad Street     Moore Street (BOTH)
Sandy Knob Ln.           Mill Branch Rd.
Sandy Hill Court         Sandy Knob Lane
Scott Court              Kentucky Court.
Sharpe Rd.               S. Hathaway Blvd.
Speight Dr.              Holly Dr. (BOTH)
Speight Dr.              Robbins Ave.
Taylor Dr.               Mill Branch Rd.
Tracey Court             Weavers Circle
Vick Street              Dawes Drive
Vick Street              M.L. King Jr. Circle
W. John J. Sharpe Street S.W. Railroad Street
W. Farmer Street         S. Barnhill Ave.
W. John J. Sharpe Street Exchange Lane
W. John J. Sharpe Street S. Hathaway Blvd. (BOTH)
W. Farmer Street         S. Hathaway Blvd. (BOTH)
W. Farmer Street         S.W. Railroad Street
W. Moore Street          Hathaway Blvd.
Weavers Circle           East Main St.
Weavers Circle           Tracey Court
West Main Street         Hathaway Blvd. (BOTH)
Woodard Street           Batchelor Road
NOTE TO TABLE:
Stop signs are located on the streets listed under traveling on. (BOTH)
indicates that stop signs are posted in both directions on the first road
listed.
 
(Meeting Minutes of 3-5-2002) (Am. Ord. passed 4-6-2004; Am. Ord. passed 6-21-
2005)
Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE III. YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY INTERSECTIONS.
   The following are designated as yield right-of-way intersections, as more
fully described in §
71.05.
Through or Main-Traveled Street Intersecting Street
Through or Main-Traveled Street Intersecting Street
Barnhill Street                 Sharpe Street
Barnhill Street                 Gold Street
Barnhill Street                 West Farmer Street
East Railroad Street            Moore Street
East Railroad Street            Lincoln Street
East Railroad Street            Dawes Street
Farmer Street                   Pittman Street
Holly Drive                     Speight Drive
John J. Sharpe Street           Pittman Street
Lincoln Street                  Brickyard Road
Mill Branch Road                East Main Street
Queen Street                    Dawes Street
Sharpe Street                   Dawes Street
Sharpe Street                   West Railroad Street
Speight Drive                   Kentucky Avenue
Speight Drive                   Robbins Avenue
Taylor Drive                    Joyner Avenue
Taylor Drive                    Batts Avenue
Vick Street                     Dawes Street
Vick Street                     Lucas Street
West Main Street                Kentucky Avenue
West Main Street                Robbins Avenue
West Main Street                Batts Avenue
 
(1988 Code, Ch. 73, Sch. III) (Am. Ord. O-2024- 05, passed 11-6-2024) Penalty,
see §
70.99
SCHEDULE IV. NO THROUGH TRUCKS.
   The following streets or parts thereof, as more fully described in §
71.06, are designated as no through truck traffic.
 
Street           Ord. Passed
Farmer Street    1-5-1982
Gold Street      1-5-1982
Pittman Street   1-5-1982
West Main Street 1-5-1982
 
(1988 Code, Ch. 73, Sch. IV) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE V. SPEED LIMITS.
 
Street or Location                                                             Speed
                                                                               Limit
All streets that do not have a different speed limit established herein or     25
different speed limits established and/or approved by the state’s Department mph
of Transportation
Any street designated as a business section, except Church Street (US Highway  20
301)                                                                           mph
Church Street (US Highway 301)                                                 45
                                                                               mph
Taylor Street                                                                  25
                                                                               mph
 
(1988 Code, Ch. 73, Sch. V) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE VI. FIRE LANE.
   The following is designated as a fire lane and a lane for similar rescue,
safety and other public vehicles and this intersection shall not be blocked at
any time by a standing train, locomotive or other similar obstruction.
 
Location                                          Ord. Number Ord. Passed
The railroad crossing at the intersection of Main O-7-5-94    7-5-1994
Street and East Main Street
 
Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 74: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Prohibited parking
SCHEDULE I. PROHIBITED PARKING.
   No person shall park a vehicle in the following locations at any time, as
more fully explained in §
72.13.
 
Street        Side          Location     1988 Code      Ord. No. Ord. Passed
                                         Section
                            From the
                            north
                            boundary to                          12-7-1976; 2-
Highway 301   East and west the south    Ch. 74, Sch. I -        6-1977
                            boundary of
                            the town
                            limit
                            In front of
Mill Branch   North         the post     Ch. 74, Sch. I -        12-7-1976; 12-
Road                        office                               6-1977
                            property
                            Between Mill
Pittman       East          Branch Road  Ch. 74, Sch. I -        12-7-1976; 12-
Street                      and Main                             6-1977
                            Street
Dale Drive    Both          -            -              O-6-6-89 6-6-1989
Hilltop Drive Both          -            -              O 5-1-90 5-1-1990
 
Penalty, see §
70.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ABANDONED, JUNKED AND NUISANCE VEHICLES
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
93.   GARBAGE
      
94.   NOISE
      
95.   [RESERVED]
      
96.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
97.   PUBLIC NUISANCES
      
98.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
CHAPTER 90: ABANDONED, JUNKED AND NUISANCE VEHICLES
Section
   
90.01   Administration
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   Abandoned vehicle unlawful; removal authorized
   
90.04   Nuisance vehicle unlawful; removal authorized
   
90.05   Junked motor vehicle regulated; removal authorized
   
90.06   Removal of abandoned, nuisance, or junked motor vehicles; pre-towing
notice requirements
   
90.07   Exceptions to prior notice requirement
   
90.08   Removal of vehicles; post-towing notice requirements
   
90.09   Right to probable cause hearing before sale or final disposition of
vehicle
   
90.10   Redemption of vehicle during proceedings
   
90.11   Sale and disposition of unclaimed vehicle
   
90.12   Conditions on removal of vehicles from private property
   
90.13   Protection against criminal or civil liability
   
90.14   Exceptions
   
90.15   Unlawful removal of impounded vehicle
   
90.16   Alternative remedies
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The Police Department and the Code Administrator of the town shall be
responsible for the administration and enforcement of this chapter.
   (B)   The Police Department shall be responsible for administering the
removal and disposition of vehicles determined to be “abandoned” on the public
streets and highways within the town, and on property owned by the town.
   (C)   The Code Administrator shall be responsible for administering the
removal and disposal of “abandoned,” “nuisance” and “junked” motor vehicles
located on private property.
   (D)   The town may, on an annual basis, contract with private tow truck
operators or towing businesses to remove, store, and dispose of abandoned
vehicles, nuisance vehicles, and junked motor vehicles in compliance with this
chapter and applicable state laws. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed
to limit the legal authority or powers of officers of the Police Department and
Fire Department in enforcing other laws or in otherwise carrying out their
duties.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1993; Am. Ord. O-20120501-02, passed 5-1-2012)
Statutory reference:
   Town authority for regulation of abandonment of junked motor vehicles, see
G.S. § 160A-303.2
   Town authority for removal and disposal of junked and abandoned motor
vehicles, see G.S. § 160A-303
§ 90.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. As authorized and defined in G.S. § 160A-303, an
ABANDONED VEHICLE is one that:
      (1)   Is left upon a public street or highway in violation of a law or
ordinance prohibiting parking; or
      (2)   Is left upon a public street or highway for longer than seven days;
or
      (3)   Is left upon property owned or operated by the town for longer than
24 hours; or
      (4)   Is left upon private property without the consent of the owner,
occupant, or lessee thereof for longer than two hours.
   AUTHORIZED OFFICIAL. The supervisory employee of the Police Department or
the Town Code Administrator, respectively, designated to order the removal of
vehicles under the provisions of this chapter.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE. As authorized and defined in G.S. § 160A-303.2, the
term JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE means a vehicle that does not display a current
license plate lawfully upon that vehicle and that:
      (1)   Is partially dismantled or wrecked; or
      (2)   Cannot be self-propelled or move in the manner in which it
originally was intended to move; or
      (3)   Is more than five years old and appears to be worth less than $500.
   MOTOR VEHICLE  or VEHICLE. All machines designed or intended to travel over
land or water by self-propulsion or while attached to any self-propelled
vehicle.
   NUISANCE VEHICLE. A vehicle on public or private property that is determined
and declared to be a health or safety hazard, a public nuisance, and unlawful,
including a vehicle found to be:
      (1)   A breeding ground or harbor for mosquitoes, other insects, rats or
other pests; or
      (2)   A point of heavy growth of weeds or other noxious vegetation which
exceeds eight inches in height; or
      (3)   In a condition allowing the collection of pools or ponds of water;
or
      (4)   A concentration of quantities of gasoline, oil, or other flammable
or explosive materials as evidenced by odor; or
      (5)   An area of confinement which cannot be operated from the inside,
such as, but not limited to, trunks or hoods; or
      (6)   So situated or located that there is a danger of it falling or
turning over; or
      (7)   A collection of garbage, food waste, animal waste, or any other
rotten or putrescent matter of any kind; or
      (8)   One which has sharp parts thereof which are jagged or contain sharp
edges of metal or glass; or
      (9)   Any other vehicle specifically declared a health and safety hazard
and a public nuisance by the Town Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1993; Am. Ord. O-20120501-02, passed 5-1-2012)
§ 90.03 ABANDONED VEHICLE UNLAWFUL; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a vehicle to cause or allow such vehicle to be abandoned as the
term is defined herein.
   (B)   Upon investigation, the authorized officials of the town may determine
that a vehicle is an abandoned vehicle and order the vehicle removed.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1993; Am. Ord. O-20120501-02, passed 5-1-2012) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.04 NUISANCE VEHICLE UNLAWFUL; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee, or occupant of the
real property upon which the vehicle is located to leave or allow the vehicle
to remain on the property after it has been declared a nuisance vehicle.
   (B)   Upon investigation, the Town Code Administrator may determine that a
vehicle is a health or safety hazard and a nuisance vehicle as defined above,
and order the vehicle removed.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1993; Am. Ord. O-20120501-02, passed 5-1-2012) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.05 JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE REGULATED; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
the possession of a junked motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee, or occupant
of the real property upon which a junked motor vehicle is located to leave or
allow the vehicle to remain on the property after the vehicle has been ordered
removed.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to have more than one junked motor vehicle, as
defined herein, on the premises of private property. A single, permitted junked
motor vehicle must strictly comply with the location and concealment
requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, person entitled to the possession
of a junked motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee, or occupant of the real
property upon which a junked motor vehicle is located to fail to comply with
the location requirements or the concealment requirements of this chapter.
   (D)   Subject to the provisions of division (E) below, the Town Code
Administrator may order the removal of a junked motor vehicle found in
violation of this chapter to a storage garage or area. No such vehicle shall be
removed from private property without the written request of the owner, lessee,
or occupant of the premises unless the Code Administrator finds in writing that
the aesthetic benefits of removing the vehicle outweigh the burdens imposed on
the private property owner. Such finding shall be based on a balancing of the
monetary loss of the apparent owner against the corresponding gain to the
public by promoting or enhancing community, neighborhood, or area appearance.
The following, among other relevant factors, may be considered:
      (1)   Protection of properly values;
      (2)   Promotion of tourism and other economic development opportunities;
      (3)   Indirect protection of public health and safety;
      (4)   Preservation of the character and integrity of the community; and
      (5)   Promotion of the comfort, happiness and emotional stability of the
area residents.
   (E)   Permitted concealment or enclosure of junked motor vehicles.
      (1)   One junked motor vehicle, in its entirety, may be located in the
rear yard, as defined in the town zoning ordinance, provided the junked motor
vehicle is entirely concealed from public view from a public street and/or
abutting premises by an acceptable covering for not more than 60 calendar days.
Junked motor vehicles kept on the premises more than 60 calendar days shall be
kept inside a completely enclosed building. The Town Code Administrator has the
authority to determine whether any junked motor vehicle is adequately concealed
as required by this provision. The covering must remain in good repair and must
not be allowed to deteriorate.
      (2)   Any one or more junked motor vehicles kept for a period exceeding
60 calendar days shall be kept within a completely enclosed building, as
defined in the town zoning ordinance.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1993; Am. Ord. 20120501-02, passed 5-1-2012) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.06 REMOVAL OF ABANDONED, NUISANCE, OR JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES; PRE-TOWING
NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as set forth in §
90.07 below, an abandoned, nuisance, or junked motor vehicle which is to be
removed shall be towed only after notice to the registered owner or person
entitled to possession of the vehicle. In the case of a nuisance vehicle or a
junked motor vehicle, if the names and addresses of the registered owner or
person entitled to the possession of the vehicle, or the owner, lessee, or
occupant of the real property upon which the vehicle is located can be
ascertained in the exercise of reasonable diligence, the notice shall be given
by first class mail. The person who mails the notice(s) shall retain a written
record to show the name(s) and address(es) to whom and to which mailed, and the
date mailed. If such names and addresses cannot be ascertained or if the
vehicle to be removed is an abandoned motor vehicle, notice shall be given by
affixing on the windshield or some other conspicuous place on the vehicle a
notice indicating that the vehicle will be removed by the town on a specified
date (no sooner than seven days after the notice is affixed). The notice shall
state that the vehicle will be removed by the town on a specified date, no
sooner than seven days after the notice is mailed or affixed, unless the
vehicle is moved by the owner or legal possessor prior to that time.
   (B)   With respect to abandoned vehicles on private property, nuisance
vehicles and junked vehicles to which notice is required to be given, if the
registered owner or person entitled to possession does not remove the vehicle
but chooses to appeal the determination that the vehicle is abandoned, a
nuisance vehicle or in the case of a junked motor vehicle that the aesthetic
benefits of removing the vehicle outweigh the burdens, such appeal shall be
made to the Board of Adjustment in writing, heard at the next regularly
scheduled meeting of the Board of Adjustment, and further proceedings to remove
the vehicle shall be stayed until the appeal is heard and decided.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1993; Am. Ord. 20120501-02, passed 5-1-2012) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.07 EXCEPTIONS TO PRIOR NOTICE REQUIREMENT.
   The requirement that notice be given prior to the removal of an abandoned,
nuisance, or junked motor vehicle may, as determined by the authorized
official, be omitted in those circumstances where there is a special need for
prompt action to eliminate traffic obstructions or to otherwise maintain and
protect the police and public welfare. Such findings shall, in all cases, be
entered by the authorized official in the appropriate daily records.
Circumstances justifying the removal of vehicles without prior notice include:
   (A)   Vehicles abandoned on the streets. For vehicles left on the public
streets and highways, the Town Board of Commissioners hereby determines that
the immediate removal of such vehicles may be warranted when they are:
      (1)   Obstructing traffic;
      (2)   Parked in violation of an ordinance prohibiting or restricting
parking;
      (3)   Parked in a no-stopping or standing zone;
      (4)   Parked in loading zones;
      (5)   Parked in bus zones; or
      (6)   Parked in violation of temporary parking restrictions.
   (B)   Other abandoned or nuisance vehicles. With respect to abandoned or
nuisance vehicles left on town-owned property other than the streets or
highways, and on private property, such vehicles may be removed without giving
prior notice only in those circumstances where the authorized official finds a
special need for prompt action to protect and maintain the public health,
safety, and welfare. By way of illustration and not of limitation, such
circumstances include vehicles blocking or obstructing ingress or egress to
businesses and residences, vehicles parked in such location or manner as to
pose a traffic hazard, and vehicles causing damage to public or private
property.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1993; Am. Ord. 20120501-02, passed 5-1-2012)
§ 90.08 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES; POST-TOWING NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any abandoned, nuisance, or junked motor vehicle which has been
ordered removed may, as directed by the town, be removed to a storage garage or
area by a tow truck operator or towing business contracted to perform such
services for the town. Whenever such a vehicle is removed, the authorized town
official shall immediately notify the last known registered owner of the
vehicle with such notice to include the following;
      (1)   The description of the removed vehicle;
      (2)   The location where the vehicle is stored;
      (3)   The violation with which the owner is charged, if any;
      (4)   The procedure the owner must follow to redeem the vehicle; and
      (5)   The procedure the owner must follow to request a probable cause
hearing on the removal.
   (B)   The town shall attempt to give notice to the vehicle owner by
telephone; however, whether or not the owner is reached by telephone, written
notice, indicating the information set forth in division (A)(1) through (5)
above, shall also be mailed to the registered owner’s last known address,
unless this notice is waived in writing by the vehicle owner or his or her
agent.
   (C)   If the vehicle is registered in North Carolina, notice shall be given
within 24 hours. If the vehicle is not registered in the state, notice shall be
given to the registered owner within 72 hours from the removal of the vehicle.
   (D)   Whenever an abandoned, nuisance, or junked motor vehicle is removed,
and such vehicle has no valid registration or registration plates, the
authorized town official shall make reasonable efforts, including checking the
vehicle identification number to determine the last known registered owner of
the vehicle and to notify him or her of the information set forth in division
(A)(1) through (5) above.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1993; Am. Ord. 20120501-02, passed 5-1-2012)
§ 90.09 RIGHT TO PROBABLE CAUSE HEARING BEFORE SALE OR FINAL DISPOSITION OF
VEHICLE.
   After the removal of an abandoned vehicle, nuisance vehicle, or junked motor
vehicle, the owner or any person entitled to possession is entitled to a
hearing for the purpose of determining if probable cause existed for removing
the vehicle. A request for hearing must be filed in writing with the county
magistrate designated by the chief district court judge to receive such hearing
requests. The magistrate will set the hearing within 72 hours of receipt of the
request, and the hearing will be conducted in accordance with the provisions of
G.S. § 20-219.11, as amended.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1993; Am. Ord. 20120501-02, passed 5-1-2012)
§ 90.10 REDEMPTION OF VEHICLE DURING PROCEEDINGS.
   At any stage in the proceedings, including before the probable cause
hearing, the owner may obtain possession of the removed vehicle by paying the
towing fees, including any storage charges, or by posting a bond for double the
amount of such fees and charges to the tow truck operator or towing business
having custody of the removed vehicle. Upon regaining possession of a vehicle,
the owner or person entitled to the possession of the vehicle shall not allow
or engage in further violations of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1003; Am. Ord. 20120501-02, passed 5-1-2012)
§ 90.11 SALE AND DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLE.
   Any abandoned, nuisance, or junked motor vehicle which is not claimed by the
owner or other party entitled to possession will be disposed of by the tow
truck operator or towing business having custody of the vehicle. Disposition of
such a vehicle shall be carried out in coordination with the town and in
accordance with Article 1 of Chapter 44A of the North Carolina General
Statutes.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1993; Am. Ord. 20120501-02, passed 5-1-2012)
§ 90.12 CONDITIONS ON REMOVAL OF VEHICLES FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   As a general policy, the town will not remove a vehicle from private
property if the owner, occupant or lessee of such property could have the
vehicle removed under applicable state law procedures. In no case will a
vehicle be removed by the town from private property without a written request
of the owner, occupant or lessee, except in those cases where the vehicle is a
nuisance vehicle or is a junked motor vehicle which has been ordered removed by
the Town Code Administrator. The town may require any person requesting the
removal of an abandoned, nuisance, or junked motor vehicle from private
properly to indemnify the town against any loss, expense or liability incurred
because of the removal, storage, or sale thereof.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1993; Am. Ord. 20120501-02, passed 5-1-2012)
§ 90.13 PROTECTION AGAINST CRIMINAL OR CIVIL LIABILITY.
   No person shall be held to answer in any civil or criminal action to any
owner or other person legally entitled to the possession of an abandoned,
nuisance, or junked motor vehicle, for disposing of such vehicle as provided in
this chapter.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1993; Am. Ord. 20120501-02, passed 5-1-2012)
§ 90.14 EXCEPTIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall apply to any vehicle which is:
   (A)   Located in a bona fide “automobile graveyard” or “junkyard” as defined
in G.S. § 136-143, in accordance with the “Junkyard Control Act,” G.S. §§ 136-
141 et seq.;
   (B)   In an enclosed building;
   (C)   On the premises of a business enterprise being operated in a lawful
place and manner; or
   (D)   In an appropriate storage place or depository maintained in a lawful
place and manner by the town.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1993; Am. Ord. 20120501-02, passed 5-1-2012)
§ 90.15 UNLAWFUL REMOVAL OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or attempt to remove from any
storage facility designated by the town, any vehicle which has been impounded
pursuant to the provision of this chapter unless and until all towing and
impoundment fees which are due, or bond in lieu of such fees, have been paid.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1993; Am. Ord. 20120501-02, passed 5-1-2012)
§ 90.16 ALTERNATIVE REMEDIES.
   Nothing in this chapter, nor any of its provisions, shall be construed to
impair or limit in any way the power of the town to define and declare
nuisances and to cause their removal or abatement by summary proceedings or
otherwise, nor shall enforcement of one remedy provided herein prevent the
enforcement of any other remedy or remedies provided herein or in other
ordinances or laws. In addition to the remedies provided for herein, any
violation of the terms of this chapter shall subject the violator to the
penalties and remedies, as set forth in Chapter 10, §
10.99, General Penalties; Enforcement of Ordinances; Continuing Violations, of
the Code of Ordinances of the Town of Sharpsburg.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1993; Am. Ord. 20120501-02, passed 5-1-2012)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Livestock, fowl and animal pens prohibited in town
   
91.02   Domestic fowl
   
91.03   Special events, animals prohibited
Dogs
   
91.10   Running at large prohibited
   
91.11   Dogs creating noisy disturbance
   
91.12   Impoundment; reclaiming impounded dog
   
91.13   Regulation of the number of dogs which may be kept on certain premises
   
91.14   Sanitation
   
91.15   Nuisance/reckless owner
Animal Control Provisions Enforceable in Areas of Town Located Within Nash
County
   
91.25   Definitions
   
91.26   Agency authority and responsibility
   
91.27   Cruelty to animals
   
91.28   Confinement, muzzling and control of vicious or dangerous domestic
animals
   
91.29   Animals creating nuisance prohibited
   
91.30   Noisy animals
   
91.31   Luring, molesting or teasing an animal
   
91.32   Dog and cat identification tag
   
91.33   Compliance with state rabies laws
   
91.34   Vaccination of dogs, cats and other pets
   
91.35   Vaccination tag and certificate
   
91.36   Notice to County Health Director when person bitten; confinement of
animal
   
91.37   Destruction or confinement of animal bitten by a known or suspected
rabid animal
   
91.38   Area-wide emergency quarantine
   
91.39   Post mortem diagnosis
   
91.40   Unlawful killing or releasing of certain animals
   
91.41   Failure to surrender animal for confinement or destruction
   
91.42   Impoundment
   
91.43   Notice to owner or keeper
   
91.44   Redemption by owner or keeper generally
   
91.45   Destruction or adoption of unredeemed animal generally
   
91.46   Procedure with respect to redemption or adoption of unvaccinated dog or
cat
   
91.47   Immediate placement for adoption or destruction of owner-surrendered
animals
   
91.48   Destruction of wounded, diseased or unweaned animals
   
91.49   Destruction of animals which cannot be seized by reasonable means
   
91.50   Keeping stray animals; requirements, failure to surrender
   
91.51   Non-domestic animals prohibited
   
91.52   Collecting dogs and cats for resale; permit required
   
91.53   Interference with enforcement
Animal Control Provisions Enforceable in Areas of Town Located Within Wilson
and Edgecombe Counties
   
91.65   Contracts with Wilson and Edgecombe Counties
Statutory reference:
   Regulation of domestic animals, see G.S. § 160A-187
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 LIVESTOCK, FOWL AND ANIMAL PENS PROHIBITED IN TOWN.
   (A)   This section shall be applicable to those areas within the town not
otherwise regulated under the provisions of §§
91.25 through
91.53 or
91.65.
   (B)   No person shall be permitted to keep or maintain any hog pen or other
type of enclosure or keep any hogs, cows, horses, sheep, goats, mules, ponies,
or similar type animals within the corporate limits of the town.
(1988 Code, § 91.01) (Am. Ord. passed 2-5-1985; Am. Ord. passed 8-2-2016)
§ 91.02 DOMESTIC FOWL.
   No fowl shall be kept in the city limits that do not meet the spacing
requirements as defined in §
91.01 accordance with this section.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to keep, house or possess more than ten chickens
and one rooster on a property currently occupied as a single-family dwelling or
located adjacent to a property occupied by a single-family dwelling or other
residential structure.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or keeper of any domestic fowl to
allow the animal to run at large within the city. All domestic fowl shall be
located in an enclosure that meets the requirements of division (D) below.
   (C)   All domestic fowl enclosures must be fully enclosed and fowl kept in
it at all times. All enclosures must be well ventilated and constructed of
materials conducive to regular cleaning and sanitation. The floor and walls of
the fowl house must be kept in a clean, sanitary, and healthful condition, with
all dropping and organic waste material removed and disposed of in a proper
manner. The enclosure shall have a minimum of ten square feet of area for each
fowl. All fowl enclosures must be located in the rear yard and be located at
least 15 feet from all adjoining property lines. The enclosure shall be kept
clean, sanitary and free from accumulations of excrement and objectionable odor
at all times.
   (D)   A violation of any provision of this section is hereby declared to be
dangerous and prejudicial to the public health or safety and to constitute a
public nuisance. The nuisance shall be abated as set forth in §
10.99.
(Ord. passed 8-2-2016)
§ 91.03 SPECIAL EVENTS, ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or having possession,
charge, custody or control of any animal, whether or not under restraint, to
allow the animal to enter the boundaries of the Christmas Parade or any other
festival or event to which this section applies. The boundaries and the
interior of the Christmas Parade and any other festival or event shall consist
of any area that is part of the Christmas Parade and any other festival or
event and shall include any public street, sidewalk or other publicly owned
area.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person having an animal, regardless of
how restrained, within the boundaries of any parade, festival or event
specified to fail to obey the command of a law enforcement officer to remove
such animal from the parade, festival or event.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to those animals that are part of an
authorized exhibit. Law enforcement officers shall have the authority to
specify the conditions under which such animals are kept for the protection for
the public and for the well-being of the animals. This section shall not apply
to any dog accompanying a visually or hearing impaired person or to a law
enforcement K-9 under the control of a law enforcement officer on duty.
   (D)   Any law enforcement officer may issue a citation for a violation of
this section in the amount of $50. This section shall not preclude in any way a
law enforcement officer from exercising any authority, or carrying out any
duties of a law enforcement officer. Enforcement of an unpaid citation shall be
by issuance of a criminal summons or by the filing of civil complaint to
collect the unpaid debt owed to the town.
(Ord. O-2019-10, passed 9-3-2019)
DOGS
§ 91.10 RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   This section shall be applicable to those areas within the town not
otherwise regulated under the provisions of §§
91.25 through
91.53 or
91.65.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      RUNNING AT LARGE. The presence of any dog on any property, whether public
or private, not owned by, rented by or in charge of that dog’s owner or keeper,
unless the dog is held by a leash by the dog’s owner or keeper, adequate to
hold the dog in control or unless the dog is confined in a conveyance of the
dog’s owner or keeper.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow or permit any dog owned
or kept by that person to run at large within the town.
(1988 Code, § 91.10)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prohibit dogs running at large, see G.S. § 160A-186
§ 91.11 DOGS CREATING NOISY DISTURBANCE.
   This section shall be applicable to those areas within the town not
otherwise regulated under the provisions of §§
91.25 through
91.53 or
91.65. It shall be unlawful for any person to own or keep a dog or dogs that
habitually or repeatedly bark in a manner or to an extent that it disturbs the
peace and is a public nuisance.
(1988 Code, § 91.11) (Am. Ord. passed 2-5-1985)
§ 91.12 IMPOUNDMENT; RECLAIMING IMPOUNDED DOG.
   (A)   This section shall be applicable to those areas within the town not
otherwise regulated under the provisions of §§
91.25 through
91.53 or
91.65.
   (B)   (1)   Any dog found running at large in violation of §
91.10 shall be impounded by the Police Department for a period of three days.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct or interfere with
the impounding of any dog under the provisions of this section or for any
person to release or attempt to release any dog which has been impounded
pursuant thereto.
   (C)   (1)   A charge as set forth in the Town Schedule of Rates and Fees, a
copy of which is located in the office of the Town Clerk and is incorporated
herein by reference, shall be made for the impoundment of any dog pursuant to
the provisions of this section and an additional charge as set forth in the
Town Schedule of Rates and fees shall be charged per day for the feeding and
care of the dog.
      (2)   The owner or keeper of any dog impounded under the provisions of
this section shall have the right to redeem the dog within a period of three
days from the impoundment thereof, upon the payment of all fees charged against
the dog.
      (3)   If the dog is not redeemed at the end of the three-day period, the
dog may be either sold or humanely put to death.
(1988 Code, § 91.12) (Am. Ord. passed 2-5-1985)
§ 91.13 REGULATION OF THE NUMBER OF DOGS WHICH MAY BE KEPT ON CERTAIN PREMISES.
   (A)   No more than three dogs more than five months of age shall be owned,
possessed, kept, harbored, or maintained at any premises located on a single-
family, residential lot of 30,000 square feet or less.
   (B)   No more than two dogs more than five months of age shall be owned,
possessed, kept, harbored, or maintained at any premises located in a multi-
family residential development.
   (C)   In any area in which the applicable zoning regulations are more
restrictive as to the keeping of dogs than the requirements of this section,
the zoning regulations shall control.
   (D)   This section shall not be construed to limit the right of any landlord
to impose more restrictive limits on the number of pets which may be possessed
at any leased premises.
   (E)   All dogs which have been listed with the Nash, Edgecombe, or Wilson
County Tax Administrator for an annual county privilege license for the
calendar year by the date this revised chapter becomes effective shall be
exempt from this section.
(Res. 2014-3, passed 4-1-2014)
§ 91.14 SANITATION.
   No keeper of any animal shall cause or allow such animal to soil, defile or
defecate on any public property or upon any street, sidewalk, public way, play
area or common grounds owned jointly by the members of a homeowners’ or
condominium association, or upon private property without permission of the
occupant of the property, unless such keeper immediately removes and disposes
of all feces deposited by such animal by the following methods:
   (A)   Collection of the feces by appropriate implement and placement in a
paper or plastic bag or other appropriate container; and
   (B)   Removal of such bag or container and disposition thereafter in a
manner as otherwise permitted by law.
(Res. 2014-3, passed 4-1-2014)
§ 91.15 NUISANCE/RECKLESS OWNER.
   (A)   A NUISANCE/RECKLESS OWNER is an owner who has received more than one
unresolved violation under this chapter within one year, who has not complied
with the requirements for ownership of a dangerous or potentially dangerous or
nuisance dog as required in §
91.28 or
91.29 or like provisions of the Wilson County or Edgecombe County animal
control ordinances, whichever is applicable, or has been cited for a violation
of §
91.27, or like provision of the Wilson County or Edgecombe County animal
control ordinances.
   (B)   A person cited as a nuisance/reckless owner shall be ordered to
surrender all of his or her dogs/cats to Animal Control and shall refrain from
owning, keeping or harboring these dogs/cats or any dogs/cats for a period of
three years.
(Res. 2014-3, passed 4-1-2014)
ANIMAL CONTROL PROVISIONS ENFORCEABLE IN AREAS OF TOWN LOCATED WITHIN NASH
COUNTY
§ 91.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Every living creature, domestic or non-domestic, but does not
include humans.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any premises designated by the Nash County Health Director
for the purpose of impounding and caring for all animals.
   AT LARGE. Any animal shall be deemed to be at large when it is off the
property of its owner or keeper and not under physical restraint.
   EXPOSED TO RABIES. An animal shall be deemed to have been exposed to rabies
if it has been bitten by or been in the presence of, any animal known or
suspected to have been infected with rabies.
   IMPOUNDMENT. Any animal in custody of a person or animal shelter duly
authorized by the Nash County Health Director.
   KEEPER. A person having custody of an animal or who keeps or harbors an
animal or who knowingly permits an animal to remain on or about any premises
occupied or controlled by the person.
   NUISANCE. An animal or group of animals shall be considered a nuisance if
it:
      (1)   Damages, soils or defiles private or public property;
      (2)   Interferes with, molests or attacks persons or other animals;
      (3)   Is repeatedly at large;
      (4)   Causes unsanitary, dangerous or offensive conditions including
fouling of the air by odors;
      (5)   Chases, snaps at, harasses or impedes pedestrians, bicyclists or
vehicles;
      (6)   By virtue of number or type is offensive or dangerous to the public
health, safety or welfare;
      (7)   Is diseased or dangerous to the public health; and/or
      (8)   Creates any other undesirable action.
   OWNER. A person having the right of property in an animal.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, partnership organization or institution
commonly recognized by law as a unit.
   RESTRAINT. Any animal shall be considered under restraint if it is within
the real property limits of its owner or secured by a leash or lead or
confined.
   STRAY. Any domestic animal not under restraint and found off the property of
its owner or keeper.
   SUSPECTED OF HAVING RABIES. An animal which is unvaccinated against rabies
or has bitten a person.
   VETERINARY HOSPITAL. Any establishment maintained and operated by a licensed
veterinarian for surgery, diagnosis and treatment of diseases and injuries of
animals.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL. An animal that constitutes a physical threat to humans or
other domestic animals.
(1988 Code, § 91.25) (Ord. passed 11-4-1986)
§ 91.26 AGENCY AUTHORITY AND RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Authority is hereby granted to the Nash County Board of Health to
establish and maintain an animal control program, to employ animal control
officers and other employees as shall be determined necessary by the Board of
Health and to appoint and compensate animal control officers and other
employees in accordance with policies of the Board of Health.
   (B)   The employees of the animal control program shall:
      (1)   Have the responsibility along with law enforcement agencies to
enforce all laws of North Carolina and all ordinances of Nash County pertaining
to animals and shall cooperate with all law enforcement officers within Nash
County in fulfilling this duty;
      (2)   Enforce and carry out all laws of North Carolina and all ordinances
of Nash County pertaining to rabies control;
      (3)   Be responsible for the investigation of all reported animal bites,
for the quarantine of any dog or cat involved and suspected of having rabies
for a period of not less than ten days and for reporting to the Nash County
Health Director as soon as practicable the occurrence of any animal bite and
the condition of any quarantined animal;
      (4)   Be responsible for the operation of the animal shelter;
      (5)   Be responsible for the seizure and impoundment, where deemed
necessary, of any dog or other animal in Nash County involved in a violation of
this subchapter or any other county ordinance or state law;
      (6)   Investigate cruelty or abuse with regard to animals;
      (7)   Make canvasses of the county, including the homes in the county, as
necessary for the purpose of ascertaining compliance with this subchapter or
state statute;
      (8)   Keep or cause to be kept, accurate and detailed records of:
         (a)   Seizure, impoundment and disposition of all animals coming into
custody of the animal control program;
         (b)   Bite cases, violations and complaints and investigation of same;
         (c)   All monies belonging to the Health Department or county which
were derived from fees, penalties, sales of animals or other sources; and/or
         (d)   Any other matters deemed necessary by the Health Director and
County Manager.
      (9)   Be empowered to issue notices of violation of this subchapter in
the form as the Health Director may prescribe.
(1988 Code, § 91.26) (Ord. passed 11-4-1986)
§ 91.27 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to molest, torture, torment,
deprive of necessary sustenance, cruelly beat, needlessly mutilate or kill,
wound, injure, poison, abandon or subject to conditions detrimental to its
health or general welfare any animal or to cause or procure such action.
      (2)   The words torture and torment shall be held to include every act,
omission or neglect whereby unjustifiable physical pain, suffering or death is
caused or permitted; but the terms shall not be construed to prohibit lawful
shooting of birds, deer and other game for human food; nor to prohibit the
Animal Control Department or its agents or veterinarians from destroying
dangerous, unwanted or injured animals in a humane manner; nor to prohibit the
lawful use of animals in scientific research.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or keeper to fail to provide his or
her animal or animals with proper shelter and protection from the weather,
sufficient and wholesome food and water to keep his or her animal or animals in
good health and comfort, the opportunity for vigorous daily exercise,
veterinary care when needed to prevent suffering and humane care and treatment.
(1988 Code, § 91.27) (Ord. passed 11-4-1986)
§ 91.28 CONFINEMENT, MUZZLING AND CONTROL OF VICIOUS OR DANGEROUS DOMESTIC
ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep any vicious, fierce or
dangerous domestic animal within Nash County unless it is confined within a
secure building or enclosure or it is securely muzzled and under restraint by
means of a leash, chain or rope and firmly under control at all times.
   (B)   (1)   Any vicious/public nuisance animal without any recognizable
identification may be destroyed after the animal control officer has been
unsuccessful in his or her attempt to catch, trap or tranquilize (within a
closed area) the animal.
      (2)   Any dog or cat left at the animal shelter may be impounded or
euthanized at the discretion of the animal control officer.
(1988 Code, § 91.28) (Ord. passed 11-4-1986)
§ 91.29 ANIMALS CREATING NUISANCE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for an owner or keeper to permit an animal or
animals to create a nuisance or to maintain a nuisance created by an animal or
animals. Compliance shall be required as follows:
      (1)   When an animal control officer, law enforcement officer or person
duly authorized by the Nash County Health Director observes a violation, the
owner or keeper will be provided written notification of the violation and be
given 48 hours from time of notification to abate the nuisance.
      (2)   Upon receipt of a written detailed and signed complaint being made
to the County Health Director by any person or persons that any other person is
maintaining a nuisance, as defined in this subchapter, the County Health
Director shall cause the owner or keeper of the animal or animals in question
to be notified that a complaint has been received, and shall cause the
situation complained of to be investigated and a report and findings thereon to
be reduced to writing.
      (3)   (a)   If the written findings indicate that the complaint is
justified, then the County Health Director or person duly authorized by the
County Health Director, shall cause the owner or keeper of the animal or
animals in question to be so notified in writing, and ordered to abate the
nuisance within 48 hours by whatever means may be necessary.
         (b)   In the event the owner or keeper of the animal or animals is
unknown and cannot be ascertained, the notice and order, along with a general
description of the animal or animals shall be posted for 48 hours at the animal
shelter.
         (c)   If after 48 hours the owner or keeper of the animal or animals
remains unknown, the animal may be impounded or humanely destroyed.
   (B)   Every female dog or cat, while in heat, shall be confined in a
building or secure enclosure in a manner that she will not be in contact with
another dog or cat, nor create a nuisance by attracting other animals;
provided, this section shall not be construed to prohibit the intentional
breeding of animals within an enclosed area on the premises of the owner of an
animal being bred. It shall be unlawful for a person to fail or refuse to abate
the nuisance as required by this subchapter.
(1988 Code, § 91.29) (Ord. passed 11-4-1986)
§ 91.30 NOISY ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep or have within Nash County
an animal that habitually or repeatedly makes noises that tend to annoy,
disturb or frighten its citizens.
(1988 Code, § 91.30) (Ord. passed 11-4-1986)
§ 91.31 LURING, MOLESTING OR TEASING AN ANIMAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to entice or lure any animal out of an
enclosure or off the property of its owner or keeper or to seize, molest or
tease any animal while the animal is held or controlled by its owner or keeper
or while the animal is on the property of its owner or keeper.
(1988 Code, § 91.31) (Ord. passed 11-4-1986)
§ 91.32 DOG AND CAT IDENTIFICATION TAG.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any dog or cat owner to fail to provide his
or her dog or cat which is four months of age or older with an identification
tag on which is inscribed the dog’s or cat’s owner’s name, address and
telephone number.
   (B)   (1)   It shall also be unlawful for any dog or cat owner to fail to
provide his or her dog or cat with a collar or harness to which a current
identification tag described under this section is securely attached.
      (2)   The collar or harness with the attached identification tag must be
worn at all times, except during the times the animal is performing at shows,
obedience trials, tracking tests, field trials, schools or other events
sanctioned and supervised by a recognized organization or is engaged in hunting
or some other activity in which a collar might endanger its safety.
(1988 Code, § 91.32) (Ord. passed 11-4-1986)
§ 91.33 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE RABIES LAWS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any animal owner or other person to fail to
comply with the state laws relating to the control of rabies.
   (B)   It is the purpose of this subchapter to supplement the state laws by
providing a procedure for the enforcement of state laws relating to rabies
control, in addition to the criminal penalties provided by state law.
(1988 Code, § 91.33) (Ord. passed 11-4-1986)
§ 91.34 VACCINATION OF DOGS, CATS AND OTHER PETS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for an owner or keeper to fail to provide
current vaccination against rabies (hydrophobia) for any dog or cat four months
of age or older.
      (2)   Should it be deemed necessary by the Nash County Health Director or
the Board of Health that other pets be vaccinated in order to prevent a
threatened epidemic or to control an existing epidemic, it shall be unlawful
for an owner or keeper to fail to provide current vaccination against rabies
for that pet.
   (B)   A rabies vaccination shall be deemed current for a dog or cat if the
first two doses of vaccine are administered 12 months apart and each subsequent
booster dose of vaccine administered as per the vaccine manufacturer’s
recommended schedule.
(1988 Code, § 91.34) (Ord. passed 11-4-1986)
§ 91.35 VACCINATION TAG AND CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   Upon complying with the provisions of §
91.34, there shall be issued to the owner or keeper of the dog or cat
vaccinated a rabies tag, stamped with a number and the year for which issued,
and a rabies vaccination certificate.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any dog or cat owner or keeper to fail
to provide the dog or cat with a collar or harness to which a current rabies
tag issued under this section is securely attached.
      (2)   The collar or harness, with attached tag, must be worn at all
times.
   (C)   In addition to all other penalties as prescribed by law, a dog or cat
is subject to impoundment in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter
if the dog or cat is found not to be wearing a currently valid rabies tag.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use for any animal a rabies
vaccination tag issued for an animal other than the one using the tag.
   (E)   All dogs or cats shipped or otherwise brought into Nash County, except
for exhibition purposes where the dogs or cats are confined and not permitted
to run at large, shall be securely confined and vaccinated within one week
after entry, and shall remain confined for two additional weeks after
vaccination unless accompanied by a certificate issued by a licensed
veterinarian showing that the dog or cat is apparently free from rabies and has
not been exposed to the same and that the dog or cat has received a proper dose
of rabies vaccine not more than six months prior to the date of issuing the
certificate.
(1988 Code, § 91.35) (Ord. passed 11-4-1986)
§ 91.36 NOTICE TO COUNTY HEALTH DIRECTOR WHEN PERSON BITTEN; CONFINEMENT OF
ANIMAL.
   (A)   (1)   When a person has been bitten by an animal having rabies or
suspected of having rabies, it shall be the duty of the person or his or her
parent or guardian if the person is a minor, and the person owning the animal
or having the same in his or her possession or under his or her control, to
notify the Nash County Health Director or person duly authorized by the County
Health Director immediately and give their names and addresses and the owner or
person having the animal in his or her possession or under his or her control
shall immediately securely confine it for ten days at the expense of the owner
in a place as may be designated by the County Health Director.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of every physician, after his or her first
professional attendance upon a person bitten by any animal having rabies or
suspected of having rabies, to report to the County Health Director the name,
age and sex of the person so bitten and precise location of the bite wound,
within 24 hours after first having knowledge that the person was bitten.
      (3)   If the owner of or a person who has in his or her possession or
under his or her control an animal having rabies or suspected of having rabies
refuses to confine the animal as required by this subchapter or by G.S. § 130A-
196, the County Health Director may order seizure of the animal and its
confinement for ten days in a place as the County Health Director designates.
   (B)   Law enforcement agencies investigating animal bites shall report the
bites immediately to the County Health Director or person duly authorized by
the County Health Director and give the names and addresses of persons bitten
and the owner of the animal.
   (C)   Animals confined per division (A) above shall not be released from
confinement, except by permission from the County Health Director.
   (D)   Animals confined per division (A) above shall be confined at the
expense of the owner or keeper.
   (E)   In the case of an animal whose owner or keeper is not known, the
animal shall be kept for the supervised confinement period required by this
subchapter at the animal shelter.
   (F)   Badly wounded, diseased or suffering animals which are suspected of
having rabies may be humanely destroyed immediately and the head forwarded for
examination.
(1988 Code, § 91.36) (Ord. passed 11-4-1986)
§ 91.37 DESTRUCTION OR CONFINEMENT OF ANIMAL BITTEN BY A KNOWN OR SUSPECTED
RABID ANIMAL.
   (A)   Animals not vaccinated against rabies which are bitten by a known or
suspected rabid animal shall be immediately destroyed, unless the owner or
keeper agrees to strict isolation of the animal at a veterinary hospital for a
period of six months at the owner’s or keeper’s expense.
   (B)   If the animal has a current rabies vaccination, it shall be
revaccinated and returned to the owner or keeper.
(1988 Code, § 91.37) (Ord. passed 11-4-1986)
§ 91.38 AREA-WIDE EMERGENCY QUARANTINE.
   (A)   (1)   When reports indicate a positive diagnosis of rabies to the
extent that lives of persons are endangered, the Nash County Health Director
may declare an area-wide quarantine for a period as he or she deems necessary.
      (2)   Upon invoking of emergency quarantine, no dog or cat may be taken
or shipped from Nash County without written permission of the County Health
Director.
      (3)   During the quarantine, the County Health Director, law enforcement
officers or persons duly authorized by the County Health Director may seize and
impound any dog or cat found running at large in the county.
      (4)   During the quarantine period the County Health Director shall be
empowered to provide for a program of mass immunization by the establishment of
temporary emergency rabies vaccination facilities strategically located
throughout the county.
   (B)   In the event there are additional positive cases of rabies occurring
during the period of quarantine, the period of quarantine may be extended at
the discretion of the County Health Director.
(1988 Code, § 91.38) (Ord. passed 11-4-1986)
§ 91.39 POST MORTEM DIAGNOSIS.
   (A)   If an animal dies while under observation for rabies, the head of the
animal shall be submitted to the Nash County Health Department for shipment to
the Laboratory Section of the North Carolina Division of Health Services for
rabies diagnosis.
   (B)   The carcass of any animal suspected of dying of rabies shall be
surrendered to the County Health Department. The head of the animal shall be
shipped to the Laboratory Section of the North Carolina Division of Health
Services for rabies diagnosis.
(1988 Code, § 91.39) (Ord. passed 11-4-1986)
§ 91.40 UNLAWFUL KILLING OR RELEASING OF CERTAIN ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to kill or release any animal under
observation for rabies or any animal under observation for biting a human or to
remove the animal from Nash County without written permission from the Nash
County Health Director, provided that a licensed veterinarian or the County
Health Director or persons duly authorized by the County Health Director, may
authorize any animal to be killed for rabies diagnosis.
(1988 Code, § 91.40) (Ord. passed 11-4-1986)
§ 91.41 FAILURE TO SURRENDER ANIMAL FOR CONFINEMENT OR DESTRUCTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to surrender any
animal for confinement or destruction as required in this subchapter, when
demand is made therefor by the Nash County Health Director.
(1988 Code, § 91.41) (Ord. passed 11-4-1986)
§ 91.42 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Any animal which appears to be lost, stray or unwanted or not wearing
a currently valid dog identification tag and a currently valid rabies
vaccination tag, as required by state law or this subchapter or not under
restraint in violation of this subchapter, may be seized, impounded and
confined in a humane manner in an animal shelter.
   (B)   Impoundment of such an animal shall not relieve the owner or keeper
thereof from any penalty which may be imposed for violation of this subchapter.
(1988 Code, § 91.42) (Ord. passed 11-4-1986)
§ 91.43 NOTICE TO OWNER OR KEEPER.
   (A)   (1)   Upon impounding an animal, notice of the impoundment shall be
posted for a minimum of 72 hours, beginning with the time the animal enters the
animal shelter or until the animal is disposed of.
      (2)   Reasonable effort shall be made to identify the owner or keeper and
inform the owner or keeper of the conditions whereby the animal may be
redeemed.
   (B)   The notice shall be prominently displayed on a bulletin board at the
animal shelter and the time and place of the taking of the animal, together
with the time and date of posting the notice shall be stated therein.
(1988 Code, § 91.43) (Ord. passed 11-4-1986)
§ 91.44 REDEMPTION BY OWNER OR KEEPER GENERALLY.
   (A)   The owner or keeper of an animal impounded under this subchapter may
redeem the animal and regain possession thereof within 72 hours after notice of
impoundment is posted as required by this subchapter by complying with all
applicable provisions of this subchapter and paying any applicable fees as
determined by the Nash County Board of Health.
   (B)   No animal owner or keeper may be permitted to adopt his or her own
animal under the provisions of this subchapter, but he or she must comply with
the provisions of this subchapter in order to reclaim an animal that has been
impounded pursuant to state law or this subchapter.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall have no application with respect
to animals surrendered by the owner or keeper to the County Health Department
for immediate adoption or destruction as provided for in §
91.47.
(1988 Code, § 91.44) (Ord. passed 11-4-1986)
§ 91.45 DESTRUCTION OR ADOPTION OF UNREDEEMED ANIMAL GENERALLY.
   (A)   If an impounded animal is not redeemed by the owner or keeper within
the period prescribed in §
91.44, it may be destroyed in a humane manner or shall become the property of
the animal shelter and offered for adoption to a responsible adult who is
willing to comply with this subchapter and with policies promulgated by the
Nash County Board of Health.
   (B)   No animal which has been impounded by reason of its being a stray,
unclaimed by its owner or keeper, shall be allowed to be adopted from the
animal shelter during a period of emergency rabies quarantine invoked pursuant
to this subchapter, except by special authorization of the County Health
Director.
(1988 Code, § 91.45) (Ord. passed 11-4-1986)
§ 91.46 PROCEDURE WITH RESPECT TO REDEMPTION OR ADOPTION OF UNVACCINATED DOG OR
CAT.
   (A)   (1)   Unless proof of a current rabies vaccination can be furnished,
every person who either adopts or redeems a dog or cat at the animal shelter
will be given a proof of rabies vaccination notice at the time of the
redemption or adoption.
      (2)   This notice will be stamped with a date stating the maximum time
limit allowed to take the dog or cat to the veterinarian of the person’s choice
for rabies vaccination.
      (3)   The time limit for dogs and cats four months and older will be 72
hours, with Sundays and holidays excluded.
      (4)   For puppies and kittens under four months, the time limit will vary
according to their age.
   (B)   The proof of rabies vaccination notice will be completed by the
veterinarian and returned to the animal shelter by the animal owner or keeper.
   (C)   Payment for rabies vaccination provided for in this section will be
the responsibility of the person redeeming or adopting the animal.
(1988 Code, § 91.46) (Ord. passed 11-4-1986)
§ 91.47 IMMEDIATE PLACEMENT FOR ADOPTION OR DESTRUCTION OF OWNER- SURRENDERED
ANIMALS.
   (A)   Any animal surrendered by its owner to the Animal Control Division of
the Nash County Health Department may be immediately placed for adoption or
humanely destroyed by the Animal Control Division of the County Health
Department when:
      (1)   (a)   The owner directs in writing that the animal be placed for
adoption if possible.
         (b)   If not adopted within a reasonable length of time, the animal
may be humanely destroyed.
      (2)   The owner states in writing that he or she is in fact the legal
owner of the animal.
      (3)   The owner agrees that he or she will indemnify and hold the County
Health Department harmless from any loss or damage it may sustain, including
attorneys’ fees, by reason of the destruction or placement for adoption of the
animal.
      (4)   The owner transfers ownership of the animal to the County Health
Department and releases the County Health Department from any and all future
claims with respect to the animal.
   (B)   (1)   Upon receiving the above assurances, the County Health
Department may rely on the same and place the animal for adoption or destroy
the animal, as it sees fit.
      (2)   The waiting periods provided in §§
91.43 and
91.44 shall not apply to immediate adoption or destruction as provided for in
this section.
(1988 Code, § 91.47) (Ord. passed 11-4-1986)
§ 91.48 DESTRUCTION OF WOUNDED, DISEASED OR UNWEANED ANIMALS.
   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this subchapter, any animal seized
and impounded which is badly wounded, diseased (not a rabies suspect) or
unweaned and has no identification shall be destroyed immediately in a humane
manner. If the animal has identification, the Nash County Health Department
shall attempt to notify the owner or keeper before disposing of the animal. If
the owner or keeper cannot be reached readily and the animal is suffering, the
County Health Department may destroy the animal at its discretion in a humane
manner.
(1988 Code, § 91.48) (Ord. passed 11-4-1986)
§ 91.49 DESTRUCTION OF ANIMALS WHICH CANNOT BE SEIZED BY REASONABLE MEANS.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this subchapter, an animal which
cannot be seized by reasonable means may be humanely destroyed by order of the
Nash County Health Director or person duly authorized by the County Health
Director.
(1988 Code, § 91.49) (Ord. passed 11-4-1986)
§ 91.50 KEEPING STRAY ANIMALS; REQUIREMENTS, FAILURE TO SURRENDER.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person in Nash County knowingly and
intentionally to harbor, feed, keep in possession by confinement or otherwise
allow to remain on his or her property any animal which does not belong to him
or her, unless he or she has, within 72 hours from the time the animal came
into his or her possession, notified the County Health Director or person duly
authorized by the County Health Director.
      (2)   Upon receiving the notice, the County Health Director or person
duly authorized by the County Health Director shall take the animal and place
it in the animal shelter and shall deal with it as provided by the County Board
of Health policy.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to surrender any stray
animal to the County Health Director or person duly authorized by the County
Health Director upon demand.
(1988 Code, § 91.50) (Ord. passed 11-4-1986)
§ 91.51 NON-DOMESTIC ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall possess or harbor any non-domestic animal or animals which
are dangerous to persons or property or which have the potential of being
dangerous to persons or property. This section shall not apply to bonafide
circuses, petting zoos and other traveling commercial animal exhibitions of
limited duration.
(1988 Code, § 91.51) (Ord. passed 11-4-1986)
§ 91.52 COLLECTING DOGS AND CATS FOR RESALE; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to collect any dog or cat for the
purpose of resale unless a permit for the same shall have been obtained from
the Nash County Health Director in accordance with the provisions of this
section and unless the permit shall remain unsuspended and unrevoked.
   (B)   The Nash County Board of Health shall promulgate regulations and
applicable fee schedule for the issuance of permits and shall include
requirements for humane care and transportation of all cats and dogs and for
the compliance with the provisions of this subchapter and applicable laws. The
Nash County Board of Health may amend the regulations from time to time as
deemed desirable for public health and welfare and for the protection of
collected dogs and cats.
   (C)   The County Health Director may revoke any permit if the person holding
the permit refuses or fails to comply with this subchapter, the regulations
promulgated by the Nash County Board of Health or any law governing the
protection and keeping of animals.
(1988 Code, § 91.52) (Ord. passed 11-4-1986)
§ 91.53 INTERFERENCE WITH ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, hinder or molest the
employees of the Nash County Health Department or animal control officers or
persons duly authorized by this subchapter or to seek to release any animal in
the custody of such persons, except as otherwise specifically provided.
(1988 Code, § 91.53) (Ord. passed 11-4-1986)
ANIMAL CONTROL PROVISIONS ENFORCEABLE IN AREAS OF TOWN LOCATED WITHIN WILSON
AND EDGECOMBE COUNTIES
§ 91.65 CONTRACTS WITH WILSON AND EDGECOMBE COUNTIES.
   (A)   Authority is hereby granted to Wilson and Edgecombe Counties to
establish and maintain an animal control program, to employ animal control
officers and other employees as shall be determined necessary and to appoint
and compensate animal control officers and other employees in accordance with
policies of the counties.
   (B)   The employees of the County Animal Control Program shall:
      (1)   Have the responsibility along with law enforcement agencies to
enforce all laws of North Carolina and all ordinances of the counties
pertaining to animals; and
      (2)   Enforce and carry out all laws of North Carolina and all ordinances
of the counties pertaining to animal control.
(1988 Code, § 91.65)
CHAPTER 92: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Officer in command at scene of fire
   
92.02   Interfering with firefighters or Fire Department apparatus
   
92.03   Riding on Fire Department trucks or apparatus
   
92.04   Interfering with fire alarm apparatus
   
92.05   Damaging fire hose
   
92.06   Congregating near fire
   
92.07   Passageways in places of public assemblage to be unobstructed
   
92.08   Permit required for bonfire
   
92.09   Lots and premises to be kept free of accumulated combustibles
   
92.10   Watchman required at certain fires
   
92.11   Open burning of leaves, trees, branches and the like
Gasoline and Other Combustibles
   
92.20   Unloading of gasoline or other combustible matter
   
92.21   Parking of gasoline tank trucks
   
92.22   Storage of gasoline or other combustibles
   
92.23   Possession or storage of explosives prohibited
State Fire Protection Laws
   
92.35   Adoption by reference
Cross-reference:
   Fire Department, see §§
33.15 through
33.18
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town as to fire prevention, see G.S. §§ 160A-291 through 160A-
294
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 OFFICER IN COMMAND AT SCENE OF FIRE.
   The Fire Chief or other officer in command at a fire shall have authority to
summon aid and no citizen so summoned may refuse to help in extinguishing the
fire or in protecting exposed property. During the continuance of a fire, the
Fire Chief, his or her assistant or the Mayor shall have authority to call upon
any citizen to render assistance in pulling down or demolishing any building or
in removing goods or furniture from a building on fire or in danger of fire,
but not without the consent of the officer of the Fire Department.
(1988 Code, § 92.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.02 INTERFERING WITH FIREFIGHTERS OR FIRE DEPARTMENT APPARATUS.
   No person shall interfere with a firefighter in the discharge of his or her
duty or hinder him or her in the performance of this duty. No person, other
than members of the Fire Department, shall loiter about any fire station or
change, handle or meddle in any manner with any fire engine or any other fire
apparatus.
(1988 Code, § 92.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.03 RIDING ON FIRE DEPARTMENT TRUCKS OR APPARATUS.
   No person, other than a bona fide member of the Fire Department, shall mount
any fire engine, wagon or apparatus before it leaves the station or while on
its way to or from a fire or at any other time, unless by permission of the
driver or officer in command of the engine, wagon or other apparatus.
(1988 Code, § 92.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.04 INTERFERING WITH FIRE ALARM APPARATUS.
   (A)   No person shall interfere carelessly or willfully with the fire alarm
system or injure the poles, wires, boxes or other apparatus connected
therewith.
   (B)   No person shall give or cause to be given any false alarm of fire by
means of the fire alarm system or otherwise.
(1988 Code, § 92.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.05 DAMAGING FIRE HOSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to in any way
damage or mutilate any fire hose while in use at a fire or otherwise.
(1988 Code, § 92.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.06 CONGREGATING NEAR FIRE.
   It shall be unlawful to congregate on the streets or alleys near a fire in a
manner which would interfere with the activities of the Fire Department.
(1988 Code, § 92.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.07 PASSAGEWAYS IN PLACES OR PUBLIC ASSEMBLAGE TO BE UNOBSTRUCTED.
   (A)   All doors, aisles and passageways within and leading into or out of
any theaters, churches, other places of public assemblage shall, during the
entire time which any show, performance, service, exhibition, lecture, concert,
ball or other assemblage may be held therein, be kept adequately lighted and
free from articles that might obstruct or delay the exit of the audience,
congregation or assemblage.
   (B)   The doors of the buildings while occupied shall not be fastened so
that they cannot easily be opened by anyone from within.
   (C)   No person shall sit or stand or remain seated or standing, nor shall
the owner or operator of any place of public assemblage allow any person to
remain in any place in any aisle under any circumstances or in any exit or
passage required for the safe exit of the assemblage. No aisle, passageway or
stairway in any store shall be obstructed with tables, showcases or other
obstructions during the hours the store is open to the public. Clear passage
from all exits and on outside sidewalks of places of public assemblage shall be
maintained at all times.
(1988 Code, § 92.07) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.08 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR BONFIRE.
   No person shall burn or maintain any bonfire or shall knowingly furnish the
material for any such fire or authorize any such fire to be kindled or
maintained on or in any street, avenue, road or lane or public ground or upon
any private lot within the limits of the town unless a written permit to do so
shall have first been secured from the Town Clerk, who shall notify the Fire
and Police Departments.
(1988 Code, § 92.08) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.09 LOTS AND PREMISES TO BE KEPT FREE OF ACCUMULATED COMBUSTIBLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit or suffer rubbish, refuse or
articles of combustible or inflammable nature to accumulate or remain on any
lot or premises.
(1988 Code, § 92.09) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.10 WATCHMAN REQUIRED AT CERTAIN FIRES.
   Upon obtaining a permit from the authorized official of the town, all
persons, firms or corp-orations who shall burn any tar kiln or pit of charcoal
or set fire to or burn any brush, grass or other material, whereby any property
may be endangered or destroyed, shall keep and maintain a careful and competent
watchman in charge of the kiln, pit, brush or other material while burning.
(1988 Code, § 92.10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.11 OPEN BURNING OF LEAVES, TREES, BRANCHES AND THE LIKE.
   No person, firm or corporation shall openly burn leaves, tree branches or
yard trimmings or trash originating on the premises of a private residence and
burned on those premises.
(Ord. O-10-3-95, passed 10-3-1995) Penalty, see §
10.99
GASOLINE AND OTHER COMBUSTIBLES
§ 92.20 UNLOADING OF GASOLINE OR OTHER COMBUSTIBLE MATTER.
   (A)   The driver, operator or attendant of any gasoline tank truck or other
vehicle loaded with any other combustible or explosive matter shall not remain
in the tractor, truck or vehicle, but shall not leave the tractor, truck or
vehicle unattended while it is being filled or discharged. Delivery hose, when
attached to any tank truck or vehicle shall be considered to be a part of the
tank truck or vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   The motor of the gasoline tank truck or tractor or other vehicle
loaded with any other combustible or explosive matter shall be stopped during
the making and breaking of hose connections to and from the tank truck or
vehicle.
      (2)   If loading or unloading is done without the use of a power pump,
the motor of the tank truck, tractor or vehicle shall be stopped throughout the
operations.
(1988 Code, § 92.20) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Vehicles transporting explosives, see G.S. § 20-167
§ 92.21 PARKING OF GASOLINE TANK TRUCKS.
   (A)   The parking of gasoline tank trucks at any place within the town
limits, except on premises approved by the Board of Commissioners for the
storage of gasoline is prohibited.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any gasoline tank truck or
permit the same to remain parked at any other place within the town limits,
except for the immediate serving of tanks at service stations.
(1988 Code, § 92.21) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.22 STORAGE OF GASOLINE OR OTHER COMBUSTIBLES.
   (A)   (1)   No person, firm or corporation shall erect or cause to be
erected or maintained within the town, above the level of the ground, any tank,
container or reservoir for the use in the storage of gasoline.
      (2)   Each day the tank, container or reservoir is allowed to remain
shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct or erect any
storage tank for gasoline, oil or other combustible or inflammable materials,
containing or capable of containing more than 100 gallons, unless the top of
the tank or container is buried at least two feet below the surface of the
ground at that point and a permit for the construction or erection is first
obtained upon application from the Town Clerk.
      (2)   The Town Clerk shall not issue a permit unless directed by the
Board of Commissioners.
(1988 Code, § 92.22)
   (C)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to install a propane or
other liquified petroleum gas (LP gas) container other than in accordance with
NFPA 58 (current edition) as adopted in the rules and regulations of the North
Carolina Department of Agriculture (02 NCAC 38.0101 et seq., G.S. §§ 119-54 et
seq.).
      (2)   Maintenance of the containers shall be in accordance with the
above.
(Ord. O-6-2-92, passed 6-2-1992) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.23 POSSESSION OR STORAGE OF EXPLOSIVES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to possess or
store any dynamite, TNT powder or other explosive, including explosive caps,
within the corporate limits of the town.
   (B)   Each day dynamite or explosive caps are allowed to remain in the
possession of any person, firm or corporation or stored in the town shall
constitute a separate offense.
(1988 Code, § 92.23) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate possession or storage of explosive substances, see
G.S. § 160A-183
STATE FIRE PROTECTION LAWS
§ 92.35 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The Fire Protection Laws of North Carolina, as reprinted from the North
Carolina General Statutes and published by the North Carolina State Firemen’s
Association and as amended from time to time, are hereby adopted by reference
and made a part of this code as if set forth in full. A copy of the laws shall
be maintained in the office of the Town Clerk.
(1988 Code, § 92.35)
CHAPTER 93: GARBAGE
Section
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Depositing garbage on public or private property
   
93.03   Receptacles to be provided; requirements
   
93.04   Nature of garbage to be collected
   
93.05   Frequency of collection
   
93.06   Placement of garbage and refuse for collection
   
93.07   Nonresident use of collection service prohibited
   
93.08   Monthly recycling fee
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate solid waste disposal, see G.S. § 160A-303.1
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Organic waste matter, both animal and vegetable, from houses,
kitchens, restaurants, hotels, hospitals and the like and it comprises chiefly
waste food. GARBAGE does not include moisture that may be drained in the sewer.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. A solid waste or combination of solid wastes, which because
of its quantity, concentration or physical, chemical or infectious
characteristics may:
      (1)   Cause or significantly contribute to an increase in mortality or an
increase in serious irreversible or incapacitating reversible illness; or
      (2)   Pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or
the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed of or
otherwise managed.
(G.S. § 130A-290(a)(8))
   REFUSE. Ashes, tin cans, dirty rags, trash, house sweepings, paper, paper
cups, shavings, bottles and other rubbish.
(1988 Code, § 93.01)
§ 93.02 DEPOSITING GARBAGE ON PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place in or on any street, sidewalk,
alley, public highway or any private premises any rubbish, dirt or filth of any
kind or any vegetables, fruit peels, tin cans or any other substance or refuse
matter of any kind whatsoever which would render the streets and premises
unclean, except in proper receptacles accessible to town collection vehicles.
(1988 Code, § 93.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.03 RECEPTACLES TO BE PROVIDED; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All householders and proprietors of business houses shall provide
receptacles for all garbage and refuse for removal by the Sanitation
Department.
   (B)   (1)   Garbage shall be stored in a container of one of two types
approved by the Board of Commissioners.
      (2)   Unless otherwise approved by the Board in writing, every container
shall be constructed of metal or equally durable material, in such a manner as
to be strong, watertight, not easily corrodible, fly-proof and rodent-proof;
shall have a capacity of not more than 30 gallons for residences and 50 gallons
for businesses; mounted in racks so as not to be less than 12 inches off the
ground, in order that rodents or dogs cannot get into or overturn; shall have
handles designed for lifting; and shall be no more than 24 inches in diameter.
      (3)   If one receptacle is not sufficient to hold the quantity of garbage
or refuse accumulated between collections, a sufficient number of similar
receptacles shall be provided.
(1988 Code, § 93.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Town’s authority to require garbage receptacles, see G.S. § 160A-303.1
§ 93.04 NATURE OF GARBAGE TO BE COLLECTED.
   (A)   (1)   Tree limbs, cuttings, shrubbery and similar items of more than
one load will be hauled at such time as trucks are available.
      (2)   Lengths that can be handled by two collectors, no larger than six
inches in diameter or eight feet in length, shall be placed on the front corner
of the owner’s or tenant’s property nearest the street right-of-way.
      (3)   Lawn trimmings shall be placed in boxes or cans for pick-up.
   (B)   Scrap building materials or ashes will not be removed by the town from
any premises, except on special request and at the property owner’s expense,
paid in advance.
   (C)   All liquid substances shall be placed in watertight containers.
(1988 Code, § 93.04)
   (D)   (1)   All construction, demolition, land clearing and landscaping
solid waste shall be collected, removed and disposed of by the contractor or
builder or, in the event of their failure, by the occupant and/or owner of the
property.
      (2)   Construction, demolition, land clearing and landscaping solid waste
means discarded or unused construction material, lumber, masonry, fixture,
stumps, trees, brush, dirt and other waste material resulting from
construction, reconstruction, repair and demolition of buildings, structures or
other improvements or from land clearing and landscaping activities on improved
or unimproved property including trees exceeding six inches in diameter at
ground level.
(Ord. O-2-4-92, passed 2-4-1992)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.05 FREQUENCY OF COLLECTION.
   Garbage and refuse set out for collection as provided in this chapter shall
be collected by the Street Department at the times as may be provided by the
Board of Commissioners.
(1988 Code, § 93.05)
§ 93.06 PLACEMENT OF GARBAGE AND REFUSE FOR COLLECTION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place garbage, trash, empty
cartons, paper and other refuse for pickup and collection by the Sanitation
Department of the town anywhere, except in the backyard for garbage or
immediately adjacent to the street right-of-way for refuse. No town employee
shall assist in any way in the performance of what has herein been set out as
the duty of the person, householder, tenant or proprietor.
(1988 Code, § 93.06)
   (B)   Garbage receptacles and recycling containers must be returned to the
proximity of the house/apartment within 24 hours of collection.
   (C)   Receptacles and containers not returned as stated are subject to a
warning the first time and a penalty as set forth in the Town Schedule of Rates
and Fees, a copy of which is located in the office of the Town Clerk and is
incorporated herein by reference, for each subsequent offense. The penalty will
be added to the monthly utility bill under the recycling line item.
   (D)   Garbage receptacles for apartments and duplexes will have the number
of the unit painted on the outside of the receptacle by the town.
(Am. Ord. passed 4-1-2003) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.07 NONRESIDENT USE OF COLLECTION SERVICE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person not a resident of the town to deposit or
cause to be deposited for collection by the town, any garbage, trash or refuse
in any container within the town if the garbage, trash or refuse is brought
into the town for the purpose of disposition.
(1988 Code, § 93.07) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.08 MONTHLY RECYCLING FEE.
   The recycling fee per month shall be as set forth in the Town Schedule of
Rates and Fees, a copy of which is located in the office of the Town Clerk and
is incorporated herein by reference.
CHAPTER 94: NOISE
Section
   
94.01   Unusual and loud noise prohibited
   
94.02   Amplified sound prohibited
 
   
94.99   Penalties
§ 94.01 UNUSUAL AND LOUD NOISE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
create or assist in creating any unreasonably loud and disturbing noise in the
town.
      (2)   Noise of such character, intensity and duration as to be
detrimental to the public health, welfare and peace is prohibited.
   (B)   The following acts, among others, are declared to be loud and
disturbing noises in violation of this section, but this enumeration shall not
be deemed to be exclusive:
      (1)   The sounding of any horn or signal device on any automobile,
motorcycle, bus or other vehicle, except as a danger signal, so as to create
any unreasonably loud or harsh sound or the sounding of the device for an
unreasonable period of time or the use of any gong or siren upon any vehicle,
other than police, fire or other emergency vehicle;
      (2)   The playing of any radio, phonograph or other musical instrument in
a manner or with such volume, particularly during hours between 11:00 p.m. and
7:00 a.m. as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of any person in
any dwelling, hotel or other type of residence;
      (3)   The keeping of any animal or bird, which, by causing frequent or
long continued noise, shall disturb the comfort and repose of any person in the
vicinity;
      (4)   The use of any automobile, motorcycle or vehicle so out of repair,
so loaded or in a manner as to create loud grating, grinding, rattling or other
noise;
      (5)   The blowing of any steam whistle attached to any stationary boiler
or engine, except to give notice of the time to begin or stop work or as a
warning of danger;
      (6)   The sounding of any bell or gong attached to any building or
premises which disturbs the quiet or repose of persons in the vicinity thereof;
      (7)   The conducting, operating or maintaining of any garage or service
station in any residential area so as to cause loud or offensive noises to be
emitted therefrom between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. on weekdays or
on Sundays;
      (8)   The creation of any excessive noise on any street adjacent to any
school, institution of learning or court while the same are in session or
within 150 feet of any hospital, which unreasonably interferes with the working
of those institutions, provided conspicuous signs are displayed in those
streets indicating that the area is a school, court or hospital area;
      (9)   The creation of any excessive noise on Sundays on any street
adjacent to any church, provided conspicuous signs are displayed in the streets
adjacent to churches indicating that the same is a church street;
      (10)   The erection (including excavation), demolition, alteration or
repair of any building in a residential or business district other than between
the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m., on weekdays, except in the case of urgent
necessity in the interest of public safety and then only with a permit from the
Building Inspector, which permit may be renewed for a period of three days or
less while the emergency continues;
      (11)   The use of any mechanical device operated by compressed air unless
the noise created thereby is effectively muffled and reduced;
      (12)   The shouting and crying of peddlers, barkers, hawkers and vendors
which disturbs the quiet and peace of the neighborhood;
      (13)   The use of any drum, loudspeaker or other instrument or device for
the purpose of attracting attention by creation of noise to any performance,
show or sale or display of merchandise; and
      (14)   The use of any mechanical loudspeakers or amplifiers on trucks or
other moving vehicles for advertising purposes or other purposes, except where
specific license is received from the Board of Commissioners.
      (15)   (a)   The use of generators as a means of providing electrical
service to property for which electrical service is available from a public
utility except during times of interrupted service due to natural calamity or
accidental disruption.
         (b)   This section shall not apply to the use of generators for the
supply of electrical power for home medical devices, temporary structural and
electrical home repairs, temporary use of a pressure washer, outdoor events,
temporary concession stands, or such other temporary use as may be permitted
upon written request to the Town Manager.
(1988 Code, § 94.01) (Ord. passed 2-5-1985; Am. Ord. passed 8-4-2015; Am. Ord.
passed 10-1-2024)
§ 94.02 AMPLIFIED SOUND PROHIBITED.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      AMPLIFIED MUSIC OR SOUND. Any music or sound which is clearly audible at
a distance of more than 50 feet from the device or speaker producing the music
or sound.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, partnership,
association or other organization to operate or cause to be operated in the
town any amplifier, radio device or any other mechanical musical or sound-
producing device or instrument which amplifies music or sound, other than
church chimes or chimes originating from a church, unless a permit is granted
by the Town Board.
(1988 Code, § 94.02) (Ord. passed 2-5-1985; Am. Ord. passed 10-1-2024)
§ 94.99 PENALTIES.
   A violation of this chapter by any person is a misdemeanor and shall subject
the offender to a fine of $100.
(Ord. passed 10-1-2024)
CHAPTER 95: [RESERVED]
CHAPTER 96: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
96.01   Park hours
Cross-reference:
   Parks and Recreation Commission, see §§
32.50 through
32.58
§ 96.01 PARK HOURS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to remain in or enter any area
designated a park by the Board of Commissioners between the hours of 8:00 p.m.
and 7:00 a.m. However, during the period commencing on the last Sunday of April
of each year and ending on the last Sunday of October of each year, it shall be
unlawful for any person to remain in or enter these areas between the hours of
9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section shall not apply to any person or group of
persons using any park on an overnight basis after having obtained a permit for
this use from the Chief of Police so long as the use is consistent with the
permit.
(1988 Code, § 96.01) (Ord. passed 7-2-1980) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 97: PUBLIC NUISANCES
Section
   
97.01   Administration
   
97.02   Declaration of public nuisance
   
97.03   Complaint; investigation of public nuisance
   
97.04   Abatement procedure
   
97.05   Procedure is alternative
§ 97.01 ADMINISTRATION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the term NUISANCE shall mean or refer to
any condition or any use of property or any act or omission affecting the
condition or use of property which threatens or is likely to threaten the
safety of the public; adversely affects the general health, happiness, security
or welfare of others; or, is detrimental to the rights of others to the full
use of their own property and their own comfort, happiness and emotional
stability because of decreased property values and the unsightliness and
decreased livabilily of neighborhoods.
(Ord. O-20120501-03, passed 5-1-2012)
§ 97.02 DECLARATION OF PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   The following enumerated and described conditions, or any combination
thereof, are hereby found, deemed, and declared to constitute a detriment,
danger and hazard to the health, safety, morals and general welfare of the
inhabitants of the town. They are hereby found, deemed and declared to be
public nuisances wherever the conditions may exist within the corporate limits
as now or hereafter established. The creation, maintenance or failure to abate
any nuisances is hereby declared unlawful:
   (A)   Any weeds or other vegetation having an overall height of more than 18
inches above the surrounding ground provided that the following shall not be
considered to be a part of this condition: trees and ornamental shrubs;
cultured plants; natural vegetation on undeveloped property that is not a
threat to the character of surrounding properties; and flowers and growing and
producing vegetable plants.
   (B)   Any accumulation of trash, garbage, food waste and other trash which
is the result of the absence of, or overflowing of, or improperly closed trash
or garbage containers, that attracts or is likely to attract mice and rats,
flies and mosquitoes or other pests.
   (C)   An open or unsecured storage or collection place for chemicals, acids,
oils, gasoline, flammable or combustible materials or flammable or combustible
liquids, poisonous materials or other similar harmful or dangerous substances,
gasses or vapors.
   (D)   An open place, collection, storage place or concentration of
combustible items such as mattresses, boxes, paper, automobile tires and tubes,
garbage, trash, refuse, brush, old clothes, rags, or any other combustible
materials collection.
   (E)   An open storage place for old worn out, broken or discarded machinery,
car parts, junk, tire rims, furniture, stoves, refrigerators, appliances, cans
and containers, household goods, plumbing or electrical fixtures, old rusty
metal, fencing materials or other similar materials.
   (F)   Any accumulation of garbage, rubbish, trash, or junk causing or
threatening to cause a fire hazard, or causing or threatening to cause the
accumulation of stagnant water, or causing or threatening to cause the
inhabitation therein of rats, mice, snakes, mosquitoes, or vermin prejudicial
to the public health.
   (G)   Any accumulation of animal or vegetable matter that is offensive by
virtue of odors or vapors or by the inhabitance therein of rats, mice, snakes,
or vermin of any kind which is or may be dangerous or prejudicial to the public
health.
   (H)   The open storage of any discarded ice box, furniture, refrigerator,
stove, glass, building materials, building rubbish or similar items. The use of
carports, open porches, decks, open garages and other outdoor areas that are
visible from the street as a storage or collection place for boxes, appliances,
furniture (not typical outdoor or yard furniture), tools, equipment, junk,
garbage, old worn out broken or discarded machinery and equipment, cans,
containers, household goods or other similar condition that increase the
likelihood of a fire; may conceal dangerous conditions; may be a breeding place
or habitat for mice, rats or other pests; or, create an unattractive condition
or visually blighted property.
   (I)   A collection place for lumber, bricks, blocks, nails, building
hardware, roofing materials, scaffolding, masonry materials, electrical
supplies or materials, plumbing supplies or materials, heating and air
conditioning supplies or materials or any other type of old or unusable
building supplies (especially those with nails, staples or sharp objects and
edges) unless such conditions are temporary in nature and caused by a current
construction project in progress pursuant to a lawfully issued building permit.
   (J)   Any building or other structure which has been burned, partially
burned or otherwise partially destroyed and which is unsightly or hazardous to
the safely of any person, is a continuing fire hazard or which is structurally
unsound to the extent that the Code Administrator or his or her designee can
reasonably determine that there is a likelihood of personal or property injury
to any person or property entering the premises.
   (K)   The placement, storage or use of upholstered sofas, couches, chairs or
other indoor type furniture, appliances, seats removed from motor vehicles or
other furniture not intended for outdoor use by the manufacturer, use on any
open porch, carport, sloop, deck, veranda, terrace, patio or other outdoor area
that is visible from nearby streets and sidewalks.
   (L)   A collection place, pool or pond of stagnant or foul water or
persistent dampness caused by overflowing septic tanks, manmade dams, open
ditches, overflowing pipes, foundation trenches or other impoundments of any
kind.
   (M)   Barns or farm animal pens, pastures or enclosures for farm animals
which are not kept sanitary and clean or otherwise become a collection place
for animal waste and which because of the conditions associated therewith
attract rats, mice, flies or other pests or emit foul odors that can be
detected or noticed on adjacent properties or are otherwise not kept in a
sanitary condition.
   (N)   Dog lots, pens, pet enclosures of all kinds, outdoor areas where dogs
or other pets are chained or kept or areas where dogs and cats are permitted to
roam which become a collection place for dog, cat or pet waste and excrement
and which attract flies or other pests, emit foul odors which can be detected
or noticed on adjacent property or are not kept in a sanitary condition.
   (O)   A collection place for sewage and sewage drainage or the seepage from
septic tanks, broken or malfunctioning plumbing and sewer pipes or any other
seepage of dangerous, hazardous or poisonous liquids.
   (P)   A collection place for tree limbs, dried brush, dead vegetation,
stumps or other decayed wood and materials or other similar rubbish.
   (Q)   Any discharge into or polluting of any stream, creek, river or other
body of water or the discharge of any dangerous substance or any other material
likely to harm the water or any vegetation, fish or wildlife in or along the
water or the storage of such harmful materials and substances in a manner so
that it is likely that such streams, creeks, rivers or other bodies of water
will become polluted or adversely affected in any manner.
   (R)   Any condition which blocks, hinders, or obstructs in any way the
natural flow of branches, streams, creeks, surface waters, ditches, or drains,
to the extent that the premises is not free from standing water.
   (S)   Any conditions or use of property, which results in the emission of
pollutants and particles into the atmosphere or causes noxious odors, vapors
and stenches to be discharged into the air.
   (T)   NUISANCE VEHICLE. A vehicle on public or private property that is
determined and declared to be a health or safety hazard, a public nuisance, and
unlawful, including a vehicle found to be:
      (1)   A breeding ground or harbor for mosquitoes, other insects, rats or
other pests; or
      (2)   A point of heavy growth of weeds or other noxious vegetation which
exceeds eight inches in height; or
      (3)   In a condition allowing the collection of pools or ponds of water;
or
      (4)   A concentration of quantities of gasoline, oil, or other flammable
or explosive materials as evidenced by odor; or
      (5)   An area of confinement which cannot be operated from the inside,
such as, but not limited to, trunks or hoods; or
      (6)   So situated or located that there is a danger of it falling or
turning over; or
      (7)   A collection of garbage, food waste, animal waste, or any other
rotten or putrescent matter of any kind; or
      (8)   One which has sharp parts thereof which are jagged or contain sharp
edges of metal or glass;
      (9)   Any other vehicle specifically declared a health and safely hazard
and a public nuisance by the Board of Commissioners.
   (U)   Any condition detrimental to the public health which violates the
rules and regulations of the County Health Departments.
(Ord. passed 1-2-2001; Am. Ord. O-20120501-03, passed 5-1-2012)
§ 97.03 COMPLAINT; INVESTIGATION OF PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   When any condition in violation of this section is found to exist, the Code
Administrator or such persons as may be designated by the Board of
Commissioners shall give notice to the owner of the premises to abate or remove
such conditions within a specified period of time. Such notice shall be in
writing, shall include a description of the premises sufficient for
identification and shall set forth the violation and state that, if the
violation is not corrected within the specified period of time, the town may
proceed to correct the same as authorized by this chapter. Service of such
notice shall be by any one of the following methods:
   (A)   By delivery to any owner personally or by leaving the notice at the
usual place of abode of the owner with a person who is over the age of 16 years
and a member of the family of the owner.
   (B)   By depositing the notice in the United States Post Office addressed to
the owner at his or her last known address with regular mail postage prepaid
thereon.
   (C)   By posting and keeping posted, for ten days, a copy of the notice, in
placard form, in a conspicuous place on the premises on which the violation
exists, when notice cannot be served by method (A) and (B).
(Ord. passed 1-2-2001; Am. Ord. O-20120501-03, passed 5-1-2012)
§ 97.04 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   If the owner of any property fails to comply with a notice given pursuant to
this chapter, within specified period of time, he or she shall be subject to
prosecution for violation of this chapter in accordance with law and each day
that such failure continues shall be a separate offense. In addition, the town
may have the condition described in the notice abated, removed or otherwise
corrected and all expenses incurred thereby shall be chargeable to and paid by
the owner of the property and shall be collected as taxes and levies are
collected. All such expenses shall constitute a lien against the property on
which the work was done.
(Ord. passed 1-2-2001; Am. Ord. O-20120501-03, passed 5-1-2012)
§ 97.05 PROCEDURE IS ALTERNATIVE.
   The procedure set forth in this chapter shall be in addition to any other
remedies that may now or hereafter exist under law for the abatement of public
nuisances. In addition to the remedies provided for herein, any violation of
the terms of this chapter shall subject the violator to the penalties and
remedies as set forth in
Chapter 10, §
10.99, General Penalties; Enforcement of Ordinances; Continuing Violations, of
the Code of Ordinances of the Town of Sharpsburg.
Ord. passed 1-2-2001; Am. Ord. O-20120501-03, passed 5-1-2012)
CHAPTER 98: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
98.01   Sheds and awnings
   
98.02   Excavations
   
98.03   Permit required for sidewalk construction
   
98.04   Throwing trash on street or sidewalk prohibited
   
98.05   Snow and ice removal
   
98.06   Obstructing streets or sidewalks
   
98.07   Damaging town property prohibited
   
98.08   Housemoving
   
98.09   Naming of streets and property numbering
   
98.10   Skateboards and skateboard half pipes prohibited
Local Improvements
   
98.20   Subchapter provisions not mandatory
   
98.21   Procedure for improvements
   
98.22   Assessments
   
98.23   Certain improvements at cost of town
   
98.24   Curb and gutter required prior to street improvement; exception
   
98.25   Sidewalks
Driveways
   
98.35   Application of subchapter
   
98.36   Approval of Board required; permit; fee
   
98.37   Specifications for driveways
Trees and Shrubs
   
98.50   Tree trimmings
   
98.51   Growth of shrubs, trees at intersections
Statutory reference:
   Establishment and control of streets and sidewalks, see G.S. § 160A-296
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 98.01 SHEDS AND AWNINGS.
   (A)   No person shall erect or repair over any sidewalk or street any wooden
shed or awning or any wooden shed for the support of any awning or erect upon
any street or sidewalk any post for the support of any awning.
   (B)   Division (A) shall not be construed to prevent the erection over the
sidewalk of cloth or metal awnings supported upon metallic frames firmly
suspended from the building and at least seven feet above the level of the
sidewalk.
(1988 Code, § 98.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 98.02 EXCAVATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to dig any
hole, ditch or to perform any excavation of any kind whatsoever, unless
authorized by the Town Administrator or their designee through approval of an
excavation permit.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of every person, firm or corporation who shall
open or dig a ditch, trench or hole in any street, public alley or sidewalk of
the town, to put the street, public alley or sidewalk in as good condition in
all respects as it was before.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation making any
excavation for any purpose whatsoever in any of the streets and sidewalks to
fail to securely cover the excavation with plank or place ropes around the same
three feet from the ground or place a sufficient number of red lights around
the excavation before dark and keep these lights burning all night every night
the excavation is open.
(1988 Code, § 98.02) (Am. Ord. O-2023-06, passed 11-8-2023) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 98.03 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   No sidewalk of any description shall be built by any individual, firm or
corporation of any brick, wood or other material without a written permit from
the town.
(1988 Code, § 98.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 98.04 THROWING TRASH ON STREET OR SIDEWALK PROHIBITED.
   No paper, straw, lemon peel, banana peel, watermelon rind or any trash of
any kind shall be thrown or swept upon any sidewalk or street of the town.
(1988 Code, § 98.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 98.05 SNOW AND ICE REMOVAL.
   Every occupant of a store building in front of which the sidewalk is paved
with stone, brick, asphalt or cement shall remove snow, ice or other
obstruction from the sidewalk at the earliest possible time and as soon as the
weather permits.
(1988 Code, § 98.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 98.06 OBSTRUCTING STREETS OR SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   No person shall place for display or sale any goods, wares or
merchandise of any kind upon any of the sidewalks of the town without first
obtaining a permit from the Town Clerk.
   (B)   No brick, stone, wood or other substances obstructing the free passage
of persons and vehicles shall be placed or suffered to lie in any of the
alleyways, streets or other routes of the town, nor shall any person place on
or in any of the streets, sidewalks or alleyways of the town any boxes, crates,
casks or barrels of any description or any other obstruction of any kind.
However, any person erecting a building may, with written permission, place
building material for immediate use on the streets in such a way as to not
interfere with the usual traffic.
   (C)   Before building or remodeling at any place in close proximity to a
sidewalk, a passageway shall be constructed as to leave the sidewalk
unobstructed and provide safe and easy passage.
   (D)   All persons are forbidden from assembling or collecting and standing
so as to obstruct any sidewalk or street. All persons so collecting and
standing shall disperse and move upon the demand of any police officer.
(1988 Code, § 98.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 98.07 DAMAGING TOWN PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to drag, run
or cause to be dragged or run upon any asphalt or other permanently paved
street of the town, any harrow or other implement, engine, machine or tool
which shall be liable in any way to injure or cut the surface thereof. It shall
also be unlawful to injure any dirt street in the same manner.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to break and remove the street
curbing and guttering or either, in any of the town’s improved streets, except
where permit for the same has been issued by the town.
   (C)   No person shall injure or misplace any part of any bridge, culvert,
ditch and drain or other property belonging to or used by the town or shall
place any obstruction in any culvert, ditch or drain, to prevent the free flow
of water on or over the streets of the town.
   (D)   No person shall injure, tamper with, remove, paint upon or deface any
sign, sign post, street light, traffic signal, bulletin board or other
municipal property upon the streets and sidewalks, except employees of the town
in performance of their duties.
(1988 Code, § 98.07) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 98.08 HOUSEMOVING.
   No person shall move any house or building upon or across the public streets
or sidewalks without the written consent of the Board of Commissioners and the
deposit of a good and sufficient bond in the sum of $500 to cover damage done
to the street or sidewalk or to any property of any person. However, the bond
requirement may be waived by the Board of Commissioners.
(1988 Code, § 98.08) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Municipal regulation of housemoving, see G.S. § 20-368
§ 98.09 NAMING OF STREETS AND PROPERTY NUMBERING.
   (A)   All streets, roads, alleyways, paths, trails and private drives
including private streets, roads, alleyways, paths, trails and drives shall be
named by the town in such a manner as to comply with 911 standards as they
exist from time to time. In the event that the town is naming a private street,
road, alleyway, path, trail or private drive in order to comply with 911
standards, the town is authorized to, but not required to, seek the input of
the owner of such private street, road, alleyway, path, trail or private drive
and to seek the input of the property owners of lots adjacent to such private
street, road, alleyway, path, trail or drive.
   (B)   All buildings, whether commercial, business or residential, fronting
on any named public or private street, any named public or private road, any
named public or private path, any named public or private trail, and any named
public or private drive shall be numbered in some conspicuous place by the
owner thereof according to the map on file with the Town Clerk. Such numbers
shall not be less than four inches for residential and six inches for
commercial or business. Any person or firm desiring or required to place a
number on their building shall obtain from the Town Clerk the property number
for such building. No person shall intentionally put the wrong number on any
building or structure and no person shall fail or refuse to comply with the
requirements of this section.
   (C)   The town shall be responsible for purchasing and erecting name
designation signs on all public or private streets, public or private roads,
public or private alleyways, pubic or private paths, public or private trails
and public or private drives that have been named in accordance with division
(A) of this section.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove, deface, alter or
otherwise interfere with any name designation sign installed by the town.
   (E)   No utility services will be provided on or inspection finalized to any
business structure, commercial structure or dwelling, including mobile and
modular homes, until proper house numbers have been displayed on the structures
as required by division (B) of this section.
(Ord. O-5-4-93, passed - -; Am. Ord. passed 3-1-2005; Am. Ord. passed 2-2-2010)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 98.10 SKATEBOARDS AND SKATEBOARD HALF PIPES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall use a skateboard on the streets
or sidewalks of the town or any property of the town.
   (B)   No person, firm or corporation shall erect or cause to be erected or
maintained on town streets, sidewalks or property any skateboard half pipe or
other equipment used in connection with skateboards.
(Ord. passed 5-5-1987) Penalty, see §
10.99
LOCAL IMPROVEMENTS
§ 98.20 SUBCHAPTER PROVISIONS NOT MANDATORY.
   (A)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not make it mandatory upon the
Board of Commissioners to approve any petitions for local improvements, nor
shall the Board of Commissioners be obligated in any manner to cause any local
improvements to be made pursuant to any petitions that may be approved.
   (B)   All improvements made or authorized by the Board of Commissioners
shall be subject to the availability of funds.
(1988 Code, § 98.20)
§ 98.21 PROCEDURE FOR IMPROVEMENTS.
   The procedures and methods of making public improvements as provided for in
this subchapter shall be governed by and be in accordance with the provisions
of state law and the Town Charter, as amended, as the same shall apply to the
town.
(1988 Code, § 98.21)
§ 98.22 ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided, all local improvements within the town
of the nature set forth in this subchapter shall be made by assessment against
the abutting property owners in accordance with the provisions of G.S. §§ 160A-
216 through 160A-238 and the Town Charter, as amended, as the same shall apply
to the town and the cost of these improvements shall be apportioned as provided
herein. However, in any project for any of the improvements or combination
thereof within the town of the nature set forth in this subchapter in which the
total cost to be paid by the town for the project will be no more than or less
than the total cost to be paid by the town on an assessment basis as set forth
in state law, the Town Charter, as amended and this subchapter, then and in
that event the Board of Commissioners may, in its discretion, elect to perform
the project without assessing abutting property owners for any portion of the
cost of the project.
   (B)   Assessments for curb, gutter and other similar improvements shall be a
sum not to exceed one-half the total cost as determined by the Board of
Commissioners per lineal foot of curb and gutter and other similar
improvements, for each foot of the property owner’s frontage against the
abutting property owner. The costs shall include engineering, grading and other
costs involved in the street improvements.
(Am. Ord. passed 8-6-1985)
   (C)   No assessment shall be made against an abutting property owner for
street improvements for which an assessment has previously been made.
(1988 Code, § 98.22)
§ 98.23 CERTAIN IMPROVEMENTS AT COST OF TOWN.
   (A)   Street surfacing or resurfacing improvements at street intersections,
exclusive of sidewalks at these intersections, shall be paid for by the town.
   (B)   The town shall also pay all costs involved in street drainage, piping,
catch basins, manholes and associated structures wherever located, except on
private property.
   (C)   On streets which are curbed and guttered and surfaced with permanent-
type paving from curb to curb, any resurfacing shall be considered maintenance
and shall be done at the expense of the town without assessment against the
abutting property owners.
(1988 Code, § 98.23)
§ 98.24 CURB AND GUTTER REQUIRED PRIOR TO STREET IMPROVEMENT; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   No unsurfaced street shall be surfaced and no surfaced street shall be
resurfaced in accordance with this subchapter until the street has been
properly curbed and guttered in accordance with this subchapter and in a manner
satisfactory to the Board of Commissioners or Mayor, as the case may be, nor
until water and sewer mains and laterals have been installed in accordance with
applicable provisions of this code and state law, except as authorized by the
Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   If any citizens wish to have a street or streets surfaced without curb
and gutters and 100% of the abutting property owners so petition and further,
if the total cost, including engineering, sub-base, grading, paving and all
associated costs, are paid for entirely by the abutting property owners in
case, deposited in advance with the Town Clerk, the town will cause this paving
to be accomplished but will not participate financially in the project.
(1988 Code, § 98.24)
§ 98.25 SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   The procedures and methods of making sidewalk improvements within the
town shall be governed by and be in accordance with the provisions of G.S. §§
160A-216 through 160A-236, the Town Charter, as amended and this subchapter.
   (B)   If the Board of Commissioners shall, in its discretion, determine that
heavy pedestrian traffic exists and likely will continue to exist for an
indefinite period along any street within the town; the pedestrian traffic is
generated by facilities operated and maintained by public funds, such as a
public school; and the convenience, safety and welfare of the public generally
would be served and promoted by the construction and maintenance of sidewalks
on either or both sides of the street without expense to the property owners
abutting on the sidewalks, the sidewalks shall be constructed at the expense of
the town.
(1988 Code, § 98.25)
DRIVEWAYS
§ 98.35 APPLICATION OF SUBCHAPTER.
   Except as otherwise expressly provided, the provisions of this subchapter
shall apply to and govern the construction of all driveways, whether for
commercial purposes or establishments or any noncommercial purpose or
establishment, within the town.
(1988 Code, § 98.35)
§ 98.36 APPROVAL OF BOARD REQUIRED; PERMIT; FEE.
   Before any driveway shall be constructed, built or repaired within the town,
the person desiring to do the same shall:
   (A)   Obtain the approval of the Board of Commissioners of the proposed work
to be done;
   (B)   Obtain an appropriate permit from the Town Clerk; and
   (C)   Pay a permit fee as set forth in the Town Schedule of Rates and Fees,
a copy of which is located in the office of the Town Clerk and is incorporated
herein by reference, for the construction of commercial driveways or as set
forth in the Town Schedule of Rates and Fees for the construction of any other
driveway.
(1988 Code, § 98.36) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 98.37 SPECIFICATIONS FOR DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   No individual driveway entrance constructed within the town shall be
of a greater width than 50 feet measured parallel to the street or roadway or
wider than one-third of the frontage, whichever is smaller. In the event that
the lot frontage does not permit the use of two driveways of one-third lot
frontage as above limited, then one combined entrance and exit of a maximum
width of 50 feet may be provided. Notwithstanding the above and regardless of
the number of driveways, the combined width of all driveways shall not exceed
two-thirds of the width of the lot on any street, except as otherwise
specifically authorized by the Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   The frontage on the street or road right-of-way other than the
driveway itself shall be either curb and gutter or in the form of a ditch or
drain. Modification thereof may be permitted provided proper drainage is
constructed and curbs or posts or other safeguards are installed to prevent
misuse. Written permit for any modification must be obtained from the Town
Clerk before any work is begun.
   (C)   Suitable return radii shall be provided as determined by the Town
Engineer.
   (D)   At intersections where sight-distance or clear vision areas have been
obtained, no driveway shall be permitted to cross these areas. The driveway at
the right-of-way line should begin at a point no closer than the intersection
of the sight-distance line and the right-of-way line.
   (E)   The drainage in street or roadside ditches shall not be altered or
impeded. The person constructing any driveway within the town shall provide
suitable drainage structures at entrances and exits at his or her own expense.
   (F)   No driveway or entrance shall be permitted to enter directly into an
intersection, but shall be so placed as to turn traffic into a dominant or
subservient street before passing through the intersection.
   (G)   (1)   All noncommercial driveways shall be so located that the flared
portion thereof adjacent to a traveled way shall not encroach on adjacent
property.
      (2)   A minimum distance of 18 inches shall be reserved between the
driveway and the property line.
   (H)   (1)   All commercial driveways shall be so located that the flared
portion thereof adjacent to the traveled way will not encroach on adjacent
property.
      (2)   A minimum distance of five feet shall be reserved between the
driveway and the property line.
      (3)   The grade of entrance and exit of commercial driveways shall slope
away from the street or road surface at a rate not less than one-fourth inch
per foot and not more than one inch per foot for the distance between the
sidewalk and the street or roadway, unless the grade of the sidewalk requires a
variance therefrom.
      (4)   (a)   Channelizing commercial driveways, curbs, channelizing
islands or posts shall be so constructed or placed as to define entrances and
exits to the degree needed to prevent entire frontages from being used as
driveways and thereby eliminating parking immediately adjacent to the traveled
way and in front of business places.
         (b)   Between each driveway, if there is more than one, there shall be
a channelizing island between the property line and the street curb for a
minimum length parallel with the street of eight feet along the property line
and such greater length along the curb as may be necessary to conform with the
requirements of division (A) of this section.
      (5)   (a)   The angle of commercial drive-ways shall not be less than 45
degrees with the edge of the street or roadway.
         (b)   However, on dual streets or roadways where there is a median
strip the entrance angle may be decreased to not less than 30 degrees.
         (c)   Exit drives onto dual streets or roadways shall have an angle of
not less than 60 degrees with the edge of the street or roadway.
(1988 Code, § 98.37) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate driveway connections, see G.S. § 160A-307
TREES AND SHRUBS
§ 98.50 TREE TRIMMINGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or allow to be placed any tree
trimmings or shrubbery on any street or sidewalk.
(1988 Code, § 98.50) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Collection of tree trimmings by town, see §
93.04(A)
§ 98.51 GROWTH OF SHRUBS, TREES AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      STREET GUTTER FLOW LINE. The street gutter flow line of the curb adjacent
to and bordering upon each restricted area. In the event there is no such curb,
the height restrictions set forth in this section shall be based upon the
actual level of the paved or used portion of the public street adjacent to and
bordering upon each restricted area.
   (B)   The areas in the town restricted by the provisions of this section
include all of that portion of land lying within a triangular shaped area on
each street corner within the town described by metes and bounds as follows:
      Beginning at the precise corner of intersection point of the curbs of
each of the two streets forming each corner and extending 20 feet along each
curb line from the curb intersection point, the third side being determined by
the drawing of a straight line from the ends of the 20-foot extensions; whether
the land is privately owned or unpaved or untraveled street right-of-way
property.
      (1)   Where no curbs are in existence at the street intersections, these
20-foot lines shall coincide with the central flow line of the ditches
paralleling these uncurbed streets as shall be determined by the town.
      (2)   The provisions of this section shall apply only to those areas of
the town designated and classified by the town’s zoning code requiring
construction on lots in zoned sections to be set back from the property line of
each lot.
   (C)   No person shall plant, grow or maintain in any restricted area any
plant, hedge, shrub or other growth, except trees, at a height greater than
three feet from the street gutter flow line.
   (D)   Any trees planted, grown and maintained in any restricted area shall
not have branches or foliage extending from the trunk thereof at a height lower
than ten feet from the street gutter flow line.
   (E)   No person shall plant, grow or maintain in any restricted area any
tree, plant, hedge, shrub or other growth at a height that would interfere with
utility lines.
   (F)   In addition to any penalty which may be imposed for the violation of
this section, the town shall have the power to enter upon the areas described
above and remove any of the growths prohibited by this section. The town shall
not be liable to the owners of the property for this entry and removal.
(1988 Code, § 98.51) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   BUSINESS LICENSE TAX
      
111.   CABLE COMMUNICATIONS
      
112.   MOTOR VEHICLE TAX
      
113.   PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, SPECIALTY MARKET VENDORS AND SPECIALTY
MARKET OPERATORS
      
114.   MASSAGE PARLORS
      
115.   TAXICABS AND LIMOUSINES
      
116.   YARD SALES
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESS LICENSE TAX
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   License tax levied
   
110.03   Tax Collector; duties
   
110.04   License; due date
   
110.05   Application; false statement thereon
   
110.06   Proration of tax; seasonal businesses
   
110.07   Multiple businesses
   
110.08   Separate places of business
   
110.09   Display of license
   
110.10   Change in place of business
   
110.11   No abatement of tax
   
110.12   Effect of license
   
110.13   Exemptions
   
110.14   Unlawful to conduct business without a license
   
110.15   Collection of unpaid tax
   
110.16   Schedule of license taxes
   
110.17   Internet cafés license tax
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. Any trade, occupation, profession, business, franchise or calling
of any kind, subject by the provisions of this chapter to a license tax.
   ENGAGED OR ENGAGING IN BUSINESS WITHIN THIS TOWN. A person is ENGAGED IN
BUSINESS WITHIN THE TOWN when he or she engages in business activity of any
type, either as owner or operator of the business, by maintaining a business
location within the town; by soliciting business within the town; or by picking
up or delivering merchandise or performing services within the town.
   SEASONAL IN NATURE. A business is SEASONAL IN NATURE when it is taxed by
this chapter on an annual basis, but is operated within the town for less than
six months of the year.
(1988 Code, § 110.01) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 110.02 LICENSE TAX LEVIED.
   (A)   A license tax is hereby levied on the privilege of engaging in every
business within the town which is listed in the schedule of taxes referred to
in §
110.16.
   (B)   Any person so engaged in business shall be responsible for making
certain that the applicable license tax is paid.
(1988 Code, § 110.02) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 110.03 TAX COLLECTOR; DUTIES.
   (A)   The town’s Tax Collector is hereby designated as the proper town
official to collect license taxes and to issue privilege licenses.
   (B)   (1)   The Tax Collector shall make any investigation necessary to
determine the tax liability of persons engaged in business within the town.
      (2)   If necessary, the Tax Collector is authorized to enter upon the
premises of any business during normal business hours for the purpose of
determining whether this chapter has been complied with.
(1988 Code, § 110.03) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 110.04 LICENSE; DUE DATE.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided in the schedule of taxes referred to in §
110.16, each privilege license issued shall cover the 12-month period beginning
July 1 of each calendar year and ending June 30 of the subsequent calendar
year.
   (B)   The privilege license tax is due on July l of each year. If, however,
a person begins a business after July l, the tax for that year must be paid
before the business is begun.
(1988 Code, § 110.04) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 110.05 APPLICATION; FALSE STATEMENT THEREON.
   (A)   Every person desiring to obtain a license for the privilege of
engaging in a business within the town shall make application therefor in
writing to the Tax Collector. The application, to be made on a form provided by
the Tax Collector, shall contain the following information: name and nature of
the business for which the license is sought; the address where the business is
conducted and a mailing address for the business, if different; the name and
address of the person filling out the application and his or her relationship
to the business; the gross receipts of the business for the most recently
completed tax year, if applicable; and any other information which the Tax
Collector determines to be necessary.
   (B)   Any person who willfully makes a false statement on a license
application shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be
punished as provided in §
10.99.
(1988 Code, § 110.05) (Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.06 PRORATION OF TAX; SEASONAL BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Except when a tax is based on gross receipts, if a business is begun
after January 31, but before July 1, the tax shall be one-half of the amount
otherwise due.
   (B)   Except when a tax is based on gross receipts, a person engaged in a
business which is seasonal in nature is liable for one-half of the amount of
tax otherwise due.
(1988 Code, § 110.06) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 110.07 MULTIPLE BUSINESSES.
   If a person is engaged in more than one business made subject to a license
tax under this chapter, the person shall pay the license tax prescribed in the
tax schedule referred to in §
110.16 for each business, even if the businesses are conducted at the same
business location.
(1988 Code, § 110.07) (Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.08 SEPARATE PLACES OF BUSINESS.
   Unless otherwise provided by state law or by the tax schedule referred to in
§
110.16, if a person engages in a business in two or more separate places, a
separate license tax shall be required for each place of business. For the
purposes of this section, if a person engages in the same business at two or
more locations within the town, which locations are contiguous, communicate
with and open directly into each other and are operated as a unit, the person
is liable for only one license tax.
(1988 Code, § 110.08) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 110.09 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Each person issued a license under this chapter shall post the license
in a conspicuous place in his or her regular place of business.
   (B)   If there is no regular place of business, the license shall be kept
where it may be inspected at appropriate times by the Town Tax Collector.
   (C)   If a machine or other item of personal property is licensed, the
license shall be affixed to the machine or item.
(1988 Code, § 110.09) (Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.10 CHANGE IN PLACE OF BUSINESS.
   If a person who has obtained a license for a business taxed under this
chapter desires to move from one business location to another within the town,
the license which has been issued shall be valid for the remainder of the
license year at this new location and no additional tax need be paid. Within a
reasonable time after the change in location, however, the person shall inform
the Tax Collector of the change in address.
(1988 Code, § 110.10) (Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.11 NO ABATEMENT OF TAX.
   If a licensee discontinues a business before the end of the period for which
the license was issued, the license tax shall not be abated nor shall a refund
of any part of the license tax be made.
(1988 Code, § 110.11) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 110.12 EFFECT OF LICENSE.
   The issuance of a license under this chapter does not authorize the carrying
on of a business for which additional licenses or qualifications are required
by state or local law, nor does the issuance of a license prevent the town from
enacting additional regulations applicable to the licensee.
(1988 Code, § 110.12) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 110.13 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Any person who engages in business within the town for religious,
educational or charitable purposes shall be exempt from paying any privilege
license tax levied by this chapter.
   (B)   Any blind person engaging in business within the town shall be exempt
from paying any privilege license tax levied by this chapter.
   (C)   Any person serving in any branch of the armed forces of the United
States or in the merchant marines and desiring to engage in business within the
town, shall be exempt from paying any privilege license tax levied by this
chapter during the period of service.
(1988 Code, § 110.13) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 110.14 UNLAWFUL TO CONDUCT BUSINESS WITHOUT A LICENSE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in a business within the
town upon which a privilege license tax is imposed by this chapter, without
having paid the license tax specified in §
110.16. Violators shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall
be fined or imprisoned as set forth in §
10.99. Each day that a person engages in business in violation of this section
constitutes a separate offense.
   (B)   The town may seek an injunction against any person engaging in
business in violation of this section.
   (C)   A conviction under this section does not relieve a person of his or
her liability for the license tax or taxes imposed by this chapter.
(1988 Code, § 110.14) (Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.15 COLLECTION OF UNPAID TAX.
   (A)   If a person begins or continues to engage in a business taxed under
this chapter without payment of the required privilege license tax, the Tax
Collector may use either of the following methods to collect the unpaid tax:
the remedy of levy and sale or attachment and garnishment, in accordance with
G.S. § 160A-207; or the or the remedies allowing in G.S. § 105-109(d).
   (B)   Any person who begins or continues to engage in a business taxed under
this chapter without payment of the tax is liable for an additional tax of 5%
of the original tax due for each 30 days or portion thereof that the tax is
delinquent.
(1988 Code, § 110.15) (Ord. passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Sale and levy, see G.S. § 105-367
§ 110.16 SCHEDULE OF LICENSE TAXES.
   Privilege license taxes shall be levied upon the various businesses,
occupations, trades and professions carried on within the town in amounts as
are set out on the schedules of the taxes, passed by the Board of Commissioners
from time to time. The schedules shall be on file in the office of the Town
Clerk and shall have the same force and effect as if set out in their entirety
in this code.
(1988 Code, § 110.16) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 110.17 INTERNET CAFÉS LICENSE TAX.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      INTERNET CAFÉ. Any business enterprise, whether as a principal or
accessory use, where persons utilize electronic machines, including but not
limited to computer and gaming terminals (collectively the “machines”), to
conduct games of chance, including sweepstakes, and where cash, merchandise or
other items of value are redeemed or otherwise distributed, whether or not the
value of such distribution is determined by electronic games played or by
predetermined odds. INTERNET CAFÉ may include but is not limited to, internet
sweepstakes, electronic gaming machines/operations or cybercafés. This does not
include any lottery approved by the State of North Carolina or any nonprofit
operation that is otherwise lawful under state law (for example, church or
civic organization fundraisers).
   (B)   The fee schedule is hereby amended to include a $2,000 annual
privilege license tax for each internet café.
   (C)   In addition to the amount levied in division (B) of this section, each
internet café shall pay an additional annual privilege license tax as set forth
in the Town Schedule of Rates and Fees, a copy of which is located in the
office of the Town Clerk and is incorporated herein by reference, per
electronic gaming machine used or stored as part of the internet café.
(Ord. passed 5-4-2010)
CHAPTER 111: CABLE COMMUNICATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Short title
   
111.02   Definitions
   
111.03   Franchise required
   
111.04   Selection of franchisee
   
111.05   Franchise agreement
   
111.06   Mandatory franchise provisions
   
111.07   Town rights in franchise
   
111.08   Town’s right of intervention
   
111.09   Payments to town
   
111.10   Reports, communications with regulatory agencies to be filed with
Board of Commissioners
   
111.11   Franchise term and renewal
   
111.12   Liability and indemnification
   
111.13   Insurance
   
111.14   Performance bond
   
111.15   Permits and authorizations
   
111.16   Construction standards
   
111.17   Conditions on street occupancy
   
111.18   Pole use
   
111.19   Required services and facilities
   
111.20   Operational standards
   
111.21   Safety requirements
   
111.22   New technological developments
   
111.23   Service to public buildings
   
111.24   Emergency use of facilities
   
111.25   Discriminatory or preferential practices prohibited
   
111.26   Open access to system
   
111.27   Franchisee to make repairs
   
111.28   Removal of facilities upon request
   
111.29   Other business activities
   
111.30   Transactions affecting ownership or control of franchise facilities
   
111.31   Receivership
   
111.32   Foreclosure
   
111.33   Nonenforcement not estoppel
   
111.34   Termination of franchise
Subscriber Rates and Charges
   
111.50   Limitations on rates and charges
   
111.51   Rate schedule
   
111.52   Advance charges
   
111.53   Franchisee to provide billing, maintenance service
   
111.54   Delinquent fees; disconnection of service
   
111.55   Service to multiple-dwelling units
   
111.56   No charge for disconnection
   
111.57   Refunds to subscribers
   
111.58   State or federal regulation of rates
Statutory reference:
   Cable television franchises, see G.S. § 160A-319
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the Town Regulation of Cable Communications
Chapter.
(1988 Code, § 111.01) (Ord. passed 10-2-1979)
§ 111.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESS CHANNELS. Those channels which, by the terms of this chapter or the
franchise agreement, are required to be kept available by the franchisee for
partial or total dedication to public access, educational access or local
government access.
   CABLE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM, CABLE SYSTEM, CATV or SYSTEM. A system of
coaxial cables or other electrical conductors and equipment used or to be used
to originate or receive television or radio signals directly or indirectly off
the air and to transmit them via cable to subscribers for a fixed or variable
fee, including the origination, receipt, transmission and distribution of
voices, sound signals, pictures, visual images, digital signals, telemetry or
any other type of closed circuit transmission by means of electrical impulses,
whether or not directed to originating signals or receiving signals off the
air.
   FRANCHISE. Both the franchise granted pursuant to this chapter and the
franchise agreement and all rights, powers and privileges thereunder.
   FRANCHISE AGREEMENT. The separate agreement and ordinance by which the
franchise is granted to the franchisee, as required by this chapter.
   FRANCHISEE. All persons having any rights, powers, privileges, duties,
liabilities or obligations under this chapter and the franchise agreement
(herein collectively called the franchise) and also all persons having or
claiming any title or interest in or to the system, whether by reason of the
franchise itself or any subcontract, transfer, assignment, mortgage, pledge,
hypothecation, security agreement, management agreement or operating agreement
or otherwise arising or created.
   GROSS SUBSCRIBER REVENUES. Those revenues derived from the service charges,
installation fees, disconnect and reconnect fees and fees for regular cable
benefits including the transmission of broadcast signals and access and
origination channels, if any. It does not include revenues derived from per-
program or per-channel charges, leased channel revenues, advertising revenues
or any other income derived from the system.
   PAY TV. An arrangement under which a charge is made to a subscriber for
receiving a particular television program or series of programs.
   PUBLIC AGENCY. An agency which is supported wholly or substantially, by
public funds.
   SUBSCRIBER. A person or organization whose premises are physically wired to
receive any transmission from the system.
   SUBSCRIBER SERVICE DROP. The extension wiring from the franchisee’s
distribution lines to a subscriber’s building.
   TOWN. The Town of Sharpsburg, North Carolina and all the territory within
its existing and future territorial corporate limits.
   USER. A person utilizing a system channel as a producer for purposes of
production or transmission of material or as a subscriber, for purposes of
receipt of material.
(1988 Code, § 111.02) (Ord. passed 10-2-1979)
§ 111.03 FRANCHISE REQUIRED.
   No person shall own or operate a CATV system or other system, as defined in
§
111.02 in the town, except by franchise granted by the town, in the form of a
franchise agreement between the town and the franchisee, which shall comply
with all the specifications of this chapter.
(1988 Code, § 111.03) (Ord. passed 10-2-1979) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.04 SELECTION OF FRANCHISEE.
   (A)   (1)   In selecting a franchisee pursuant to this chapter, the town
shall prepare a request for proposal to seek bids for a cable communication
system to be established under a franchise by the town.
      (2)   This request for proposal will contain information and instructions
relating to the preparation and filing of proposals; conditions regarding the
installation, operation and maintenance of a CATV system under town franchise;
and the criteria to be used in evaluating applicant proposals.
   (B)   Applicants will be evaluated according to the following criteria:
      (1)   Preference may be given an installation plan that would provide
flexibility needed to adjust to new developments, maintenance practices and
services that would be available to the subscriber and the community
immediately and in the future.
      (2)   Preference may be given to applicants with the most reasonable
installation and subscriber rate schedule.
      (3)   The evidence of financial ability required in the applicant’s
proposal shall be such as to assure ability to complete the entire system
within a minimum of three years of the date the franchisee receives the Federal
Communications Commission certificate of compliance.
      (4)   Demonstrated experience in operating a CATV system under town
franchise. Preference may be given upon evidence of the applicant’s experience
in operating a CATV system under town franchise, where this evidence would
show, tend to show or confirm the ability of the applicant to furnish
sufficient and dependable service to the potential public and private users.
   (C)   An application fee as set forth in the Town Schedule of Rates and
Fees, a copy of which is located in the office of the Town Clerk and is
incorporated herein by reference, shall be made by each franchise applicant,
which fee shall be in the form of cash, check or money order, to defray the
costs of studying, investigating and otherwise processing the application and
which shall be in consideration thereof and not refundable or returnable in
whole or in part.
   (D)   (1)   The Board of Commissioners shall award a franchise to an
applicant only after a public hearing on the application and proposal.
      (2)   Notice of the public hearing shall be published in a local
newspaper of general circulation at least 20 days before the date of the
hearing.
(1988 Code, § 111.06) (Ord. passed 10-2-1979)
§ 111.05 FRANCHISE AGREEMENT.
   (A)   The applicant awarded a franchise by resolution of the Board of
Commissioners shall execute a franchise agreement, agreeing to the terms and
provisions of the franchise and request for proposal. In addition, the
franchisee shall, within 30 days of the date of execution of the franchise
agreement, submit his or her filing of an application for a certificate of
compliance with the Federal Communications Commission. Failure of the selected
applicant to execute an agreement within 30 days of the town’s demand therefor
or failure to file an application for a certificate of compliance within the
time herein required, shall be grounds for immediate revocation of any rights
the applicant may have in the franchise.
   (B)   In addition to those matters required elsewhere in this chapter to be
included in the franchise agreement, the agreement must contain the following
express representations by the franchisee that it:
      (1)   Accepts and agrees to all of the provisions of this chapter and any
supplementary specifications, as to construction, operation or maintenance of
the system which the town may include in the franchise agreement;
      (2)   Has examined all of the provisions of this chapter and waives any
claims that any provisions hereof are unreasonable, arbitrary or void;
      (3)   Recognizes the right of the town to make reasonable amendments to
this chapter during the term of the franchise upon 60-days’ prior notice to the
franchisee or without notice with respect to emergency amendments. It further
recognizes and agrees that the town shall in no way be bound to renew the
franchise at the end of any franchise term; and
      (4)   Recognizes and agrees that it may be considered a licensee for the
purposes of this chapter.
   (C)   No franchise shall be exclusive.
   (D)   Every franchise agreement shall specifically delineate the territorial
extent of the town in which the franchisee is authorized to operate.
   (E)   Every franchise agreement shall specifically set forth standards which
the franchisee must maintain in respect to the following:
      (1)   Signal quality requirements; and
      (2)   Technical standards of construction, operation and maintenance of
the system.
   (F)   The franchise agreement shall contain further conditions or provisions
as may be included in the request for proposal or negotiated between the town
and the franchisee, except that no conditions or provisions shall be such as to
conflict with any provisions of this chapter or other law. In case of conflict
or ambiguity between any terms or provisions of the franchise agreement and
this chapter, the words of this chapter shall control.
   (G)   A breach by the franchisee of the franchise agreement, in addition to
constituting a breach of contract, shall constitute a violation of this
chapter.
(1988 Code, § 111.05) (Ord. passed 10-2-1979) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.06 MANDATORY FRANCHISE PROVISIONS.
   All franchises granted pursuant to this chapter shall be subject to and
shall expressly indicate that they are subject to, the following provisions.
   (A)   Any franchise granted hereunder shall be subject to the right of the
town by resolution of the Board of Commissioners to revoke the franchise for
cause shown pursuant to §
111.34.
   (B)   Any franchise granted hereunder shall be subject to all applicable
provisions of town ordinances and any amendments thereto. Should the Federal
Communications Commission modify the provisions of its rules and regulations
relating to federal-local regulatory relationships, the town shall then amend
this chapter within six months of the effective date of the modification, to be
in conformance with the modification.
(1988 Code, § 111.06) (Ord. passed 10-2-1979)
§ 111.07 TOWN RIGHTS IN FRANCHISE.
   Any franchise granted under this chapter shall be subject to the right of
the town to:
   (A)   Repeal the same for misuse, non-use or failure to comply with the
provisions of this chapter, any other local, state or federal laws or Federal
Communications Commission rules or regulations;
   (B)   Require proper and adequate extension of the plant and service and
maintenance thereof at the highest practicable standard of efficiency; (The
town shall require extension of subscriber service to 50% of the residents of
the town within 12 months of franchisee’s receipt of the Federal Communications
Commission (FCC) certificate of compliance and the town shall further require
extension of subscriber service to all residents of the town within two years
of the date of franchisee’s receipt of the FCC certificate of compliance. Any
area annexed by the town subsequent to the grant of a franchise shall be served
by the franchisee within one year from the effective date of annexation or
within the initial two-year service period specified above, whichever last
occurs.)
   (C)   Establish reasonable standards of service and quality of products and
to prevent unjust discrimination in service or rates;
   (D)   Require continuous and uninterrupted service to the public in
accordance with the terms of the franchise throughout the entire period
thereof;
   (E)   Impose other regulations as may be determined by the Board of
Commissioners to be conducive to the safety, welfare and accommodation of the
public;
   (F)   Control and regulate the use of its streets, alleys, bridges and
public places and the space above and beneath them; (Every franchisee shall pay
that part of the cost of repair of streets, alleys, bridges and public places
as well as privately owned property as shall arise from its use thereof and
shall protect and save the town harmless from all damages arising from this
use. The franchisee may be required by the town to permit joint use of its
property and appurtenances located in the streets, alleys and public places of
the town, by the town and other utilities insofar as the joint use may be
reasonably practicable and upon payment of reasonable rental therefor;
provided, that in the absence of agreement, upon application by any franchisee,
the Board of Commissioners shall provide for arbitration of the terms and
conditions of the joint use and the compensation to be paid therefor, which
award shall be final.)
   (G)   Through its appropriately designated representatives, inspect all
construction or installation work performed subject to the provisions of the
franchise and this chapter and make those inspections as it shall find
necessary to ensure compliance with the terms of the franchise, this chapter
and other pertinent provisions of law;
   (H)   At the expiration of the term for which the franchise is granted or
upon the termination and cancellation as provided therein, require the
franchisee to remove at its own expense any and all portions of the CATV system
from the public ways within the town; and
   (I)   Require the franchisee to pay the costs of publication of this chapter
as publication is required by law.
(1988 Code, § 111.07) (Ord. passed 10-2-1979)
§ 111.08 TOWN’S RIGHT OF INTERVENTION.
   The franchisee shall not oppose intervention by the town in any suit or
proceeding to which the franchisee is a party.
(1988 Code, § 111.08) (Ord. passed 10-2-1979) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.09 PAYMENTS TO TOWN.
   (A)   During the term of any franchise granted pursuant to this chapter, the
franchisee shall pay to the town for the use of its streets, public places and
other facilities, as well as the maintenance, improvement and supervision
thereof, an annual franchise fee in an amount equal to 3% of the annual gross
subscriber revenues received by it from operations conducted within the town.
This payment shall be in addition to any other fees or payments made to the
town by the franchisee, such as pole rental, business licenses and other fees
not based on gross subscriber revenues. Should the FCC regulations be amended
in the future to allow the town to receive a fee from its franchisee from other
than the previously mentioned subscriber revenues, the franchisee shall
immediately commence making additional payments to the town as are authorized
to the full extent of this authorization.
   (B)   Sales tax or other taxes levied directly on a per subscription basis
and collected by the franchisee shall be deducted from the gross subscriber
revenues before computation of sums due the town is made. Payments due the town
under the terms of this chapter shall be computed quarterly as of September 30,
December 31, March 31 and June 30 for the preceding quarter and shall be paid
on or before the thirtieth calendar day from each computation date at the
office of the Town Clerk during regular business hours. The town shall be
furnished a statement with each payment, certified as correct by the
franchisee, reflecting the total amount of gross subscriber revenues and the
above charges, deductions and computations, for the three-month payment period
covered by the payment. With the payment each year for the quarter ending on
December 31, a statement prepared by a certified public accountant shall be
submitted certifying that the statements filed and payments made by the
franchisee for the preceding year were correct.
   (C)   No acceptance of any payment shall be construed as a release or as an
accord and satisfaction of any claim the town may have for further or
additional sums payable as a franchise fee under this chapter or for the
performance of any other obligation hereunder.
   (D)   Failure to pay any fees required by this section shall result in
automatic suspension of the franchise granted and reinstatement thereof may be
had only upon resolution by the Board of Commissioners and payment of the
delinquent fee or fees plus any interest or penalties as may be required by the
resolution.
(1988 Code, § 111.09) (Ord. passed 10-2-1979) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Application fee, see §
111.04(C)
§ 111.10 REPORTS, COMMUNICATIONS WITH REGULATORY AGENCIES TO BE FILED WITH
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS.
   (A)   (1)   Each franchisee shall file with the Board of Commissioners
quarterly reports of gross subscriber revenues signed by a certified public
accountant and prepared in accordance with regulations of the Board of
Commissioners.
      (2)   Each franchisee shall also allow the Board of Commissioners to
audit all of its accounting and financial records upon reasonable notice; make
available all of its plans, contracts and engineering, statistical, customer
and service records relating to its system and all other records required to be
kept hereunder.
      (3)   Each franchisee shall, at all times, maintain complete, accurate
books of account, records of its business and operations and all other records
required by this chapter or the franchise.
   (B)   Each franchisee shall file annually with the Board of Commissioners an
ownership report, indicating all persons who at any time during the preceding
year did control or benefit from an interest in the franchise of 1% or more and
all creditors, both secured and unsecured, in excess of $1,000.
   (C)   Each franchisee shall also file annually with the Board of
Commissioners copies of all rules, regulations, terms and conditions which it
has adopted for the conduct of its business.
   (D)   Copies of all petitions, applications and communications submitted by
the franchise to the Federal Communications Commission, Securities and Exchange
Commission or any other federal or state regulatory commission or agency having
jurisdiction in respect to any matters affecting CATV operations authorized
pursuant to the franchise shall be submitted simultaneously to the town.
(1988 Code, § 111.10) (Ord. passed 10-2-1979) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Permits to be filed with Board of Commissioners, see §
111.15
§ 111.11 FRANCHISE TERM AND RENEWAL.
   No franchise granted hereunder or any renewal thereof, shall be for a term
of more than ten years. A renewal may be granted not more than two years prior
to the expiration of any existing term.
(1988 Code, § 111.11) (Ord. passed 10-2-1979)
§ 111.12 LIABILITY AND INDEMNIFICATION.
   (A)   The franchisee shall indemnify and hold harmless the town at all times
during the term of the franchise and specifically agrees that it shall pay all
damages and penalties which the town may be legally required to pay as a result
of granting the franchise. These damages and penalties shall include, but not
be limited to damages arising out of copyright infringements and other damages
arising out of the installation, operation or maintenance of the CATV system
authorized herein, whether or not any act or omission complained of is
authorized, allowed or prohibited by the franchise. In case suit shall be filed
against the town either independently or jointly with the franchisee to recover
for any claim or damages, the franchisee upon notice to it by the town shall
defend the town against the action. In the event of a final judgment being
obtained against the town, either independently or jointly with the franchisee
solely by reason of the acts of the franchisee, the franchisee shall pay the
judgment and all costs and hold the town harmless therefrom.
   (B)   The franchisee shall have no recourse whatsoever against the town or
its officers, boards, commissions, agents or employees for any loss, cost,
expense or damage arising out of any provision or requirement of this franchise
or because of its enforcement.
   (C)   Neither the provisions of division (A), nor any bonds accepted by the
town pursuant to §
111.14, nor any damage recovered by the town thereunder shall be construed to
excuse unfaithful performance by the franchisee or limit the liability of the
franchisee under this chapter or the franchise for damages, either to the full
amount of the bond or otherwise.
   (D)   The cost of any litigation incurred by the town to enforce this
chapter or the franchise granted pursuant hereto or the franchise agreement or
in relation to the cancellation or termination of a franchise, shall be
reimbursed to the town by the franchisee. This cost shall include filing fees,
costs of depositions, discovery and expert witnesses, all other expenses of
suit and a reasonable attorney’s fee.
   (E)   All persons, including officers of any franchisee, causing,
participating in or permitting any violation of any provision of this chapter
shall be severally or jointly liable therefor.
(1988 Code, § 111.12) (Ord. passed 10-2-1979)
§ 111.13 INSURANCE.
   (A)   The franchisee shall be required to maintain insurance in forms and in
companies as shall be approved by the town, the approval not to be unreasonably
withheld, to protect the town and the franchisee from and against any and all
claims, injury or damage to persons or property, both real and personal, caused
by the construction, erection, operation or maintenance of any aspect of the
system. The amount of this insurance shall be not less than the following:
      (1)   General liability insurance.
 
General Liability Insurance    Amount
Bodily injury per person       $500,000
Bodily injury per occurrence   $1,000,000
Property damage per occurrence $300,000
Property damage, aggregate     $300,000
 
      (2)   Automobile insurance.
 
Automobile Insurance           Amount
Bodily injury per person       $100,000
Bodily injury per occurrence   $300,000
Property damage per occurrence $300,000
 
   (B)   Worker’s compensation insurance shall also be provided as required by
state law.
   (C)   All insurance coverage shall provide a ten-day notice to the Town
Clerk in the event of material alteration or cancellation of any coverage
afforded in the policies prior to the date the material alteration or
cancellation shall become effective.
   (D)   Copies of all insurance policies required hereunder shall be furnished
to and filed with the Town Clerk prior to the commencement of operations or the
expiration of prior policies, as the case may be.
(1988 Code, § 111.13) (Ord. passed 10-2-1979) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.14 PERFORMANCE BOND.
   The franchisee shall, concurrently with its acceptance of the franchise,
file with the Town Clerk, at the franchisee’s sole expense, a corporate surety
bond in a responsible company licensed to do business in the state in the
amount of $100,000 and conditioned upon the faithful performance of the
franchisee to have service to 50% of the town residents within 12 months of
receipt of the FCC certificate of compliance and to have service to all
residents of town within two years thereof. Upon successful completion of
service to 50% of the town residents within the prescribed 12-month period and
to all residents within the prescribed two-year period, this bond shall be
cancelled.
(1988 Code, § 111.14) (Ord. passed 10-2-1979)
§ 111.15 PERMITS AND AUTHORIZATIONS.
   The franchisee or applicant for franchise shall diligently apply for all
necessary permits and authorizations required in the conduct of its business
and shall diligently pursue the acquisition thereof, including necessary pole
attachment contracts, necessary authorizations from the Federal Aviation Agency
to construct those receiving antenna towers as may be required and any
necessary authorizations or waivers from the Federal Communications Commission.
When any permit, authorization, contract or waiver is obtained, a copy thereof
shall be promptly filed by the franchisee with the Board of Commissioners.
After the franchisee has diligently pursued the acquisition of necessary pole
attachment contracts or other necessary easements and where necessary contracts
have not been entered or easements obtained after a reasonable period of time,
the franchisee may submit the matter to the Board of Commissioners. The Board
of Commissioners will thereupon provide assistance as may be necessary to
arrive at a solution so that the scheduled construction of the system will not
be impaired.
(1988 Code, § 111.15) (Ord. passed 10-2-1979)
§ 111.16 CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   All of the franchisee’s plant and equipment including, but not limited to,
the antenna site, head-end and distribution system, towers, house connections,
structures, poles, wire, cable, coaxial cable, fixtures and appurtenances shall
be installed, located, erected, constructed, reconstructed, replaced, removed,
repaired, maintained and operated in accordance with good engineering
practices, performed by experienced pole line construction crews and so as not
to endanger or interfere with the safety of any person or property, interfere
with improvements the municipality may deem proper to make, interfere in any
manner with the right of any property owner or unnecessarily hinder or obstruct
pedestrian or vehicular traffic on municipal properties. Further, all plant and
equipment and all construction shall meet all relevant specifications of the
Federal Communications Commission and other applicable federal, state and local
regulations.
(1988 Code, § 111.16) (Ord. passed 10-2-1979) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.17 CONDITIONS ON STREET OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Any opening or obstruction in or disturbance of the streets, public
ways or other municipal properties made by the franchisee in the exercise of
its rights under a franchise agreement shall be done in compliance with town
ordinances which regulate work in the public ways of the town, except that any
bond requirements therein may be waived in cognizance of bond requirements of
this chapter. Further, the town shall require the franchisee to install the
cable system underground in the town where other public utilities have been or
will be installed underground.
   (B)   The franchisee shall, at its expense, protect, support, temporarily
disconnect, relocate in the same street or other public place or municipal
property or remove from the street or other public place or municipal property,
any property of franchisee when required by the Board of Commissioners or its
designee by reason of traffic conditions, public safety, street vacation,
freeway and street construction, change or establishment of street grade,
installation of sewers, drains, water pipes, power lines, signal lines and
tracks or any other type of structures or improvements by public agencies.
   (C)   The franchisee shall, on the request of any private party holding an
appropriate permit issued by the town, temporarily raise or lower its lines to
permit the moving of any building or other structure and the actual expense of
the same shall be paid by the party requesting the same.
   (D)   Upon failure of the franchisee to commence, pursue or complete any
work required by law or by the provisions of this chapter to be done in any
street or other public place or municipal property, within the time prescribed
and to the satisfaction of the Board of Commissioners or its designee, the
Board of Commissioners or its designee may, at its option, cause this work to
be done and the franchisee shall pay to the town the cost thereof in the
itemized amounts reported by the Board of Commissioners or its designee to the
franchisee within 30 days after receipt of the itemized report.
(1988 Code, § 111.17) (Ord. passed 10-2-1979) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Excavations, see §
98.02
   Obstructing streets or sidewalks, see §
98.06
§ 111.18 POLE USE.
   The franchisee shall obtain pole space and other facilities from the town,
utilities and other lawful users of the public ways at its own expense and
cost. The franchisee shall obtain permission from the town before erecting any
new poles or underground conduit. Where reasonably available, utility poles of
the town shall be used in preference to those of any other utility. Pole usage
and rental shall be as specified in pole attachment agreements entered into
between the franchisee and the town or other applicable utility.
(1988 Code, § 111.18) (Ord. passed 10-2-1979) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.19 REQUIRED SERVICES AND FACILITIES.
   (A)   The franchisee’s distribution system shall initially be capable of
carrying at least 20 channels of television breadth.
   (B)   In conformance with Federal Communications Commission rules and
regulations, certain of the franchisee’s channels shall be dedicated as access
channels and charges for use thereof shall also be in conformance with FCC
rules and regulations. The franchisee is encouraged to employ a program and
production consultant to promote public use of the access channels and to
advise public users.
   (C)   (1)   Each franchisee shall upgrade its facilities, equipment and
service so that its system is as advanced as the current state of production
technology will allow. Each franchisee shall install additional channel
capacity as required to keep channel capacity in excess of the demand therefor
by users.
      (2)   At all times, each cable system shall be no less advanced than any
other system of comparable size, excepting only systems which are experimental,
pilot or demonstration.
      (3)   The Board of Commissioners shall order a franchisee to comply with
this division in case of specific violations, which it may investigate upon
complaint or on its own motion.
   (D)   The franchisee shall, at the request of the Board of Commissioners,
interconnect its cable system with all other contiguous cable systems and the
franchisee may interconnect with any other system or service.
(1988 Code, § 111.19) (Ord. passed 10-2-1979) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.20 OPERATIONAL STANDARDS.
   The technical standards for operation of the system shall, in addition to
meeting the requirements specified in this chapter, conform to all further
requirements specified in the franchise agreement which is to be in conformance
with the request for proposal and any other standards or codes therefor as may
be adopted by the town.
(1988 Code, § 111.20) (Ord. passed 10-2-1979) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.21 SAFETY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The franchisee shall, at all times, employ ordinary care and shall
install and maintain in use commonly accepted methods and devices preventing
failures and accidents which are likely to cause damage, injury or nuisance to
the public.
   (B)   The franchisee shall maintain a force of agents or employees at all
times and shall have sufficient employees to provide safe, adequate and prompt
service of its facilities.
(1988 Code, § 111.21) (Ord. passed 10-2-1979) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.22 NEW TECHNOLOGICAL DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners may amend this chapter or the franchise
whenever necessary to enable the franchisee to take advantage of any
developments in the field of transmission of communication signals which will
afford it an opportunity to more effectively, efficiently or economically serve
its customers.
   (B)   However, this section shall not be construed to require the town to
make any amendment.
(1988 Code, § 111.22) (Ord. passed 10-2-1979)
§ 111.23 SERVICE TO PUBLIC BUILDINGS.
   The franchisee shall, without charge for installation, maintenance or
service, make single installations of its standard community antenna service
facilities at each fire and police station, rescue and ambulance station,
hospital and public and private school within the town. The franchisee shall,
without charge for installation, maintenance or service, make single
installations of its standard community antenna service to the Town Hall and
all public libraries. These public service installations shall be made at
reasonable locations as shall be requested by the respective units of
government or educational institutions. Any charge for relocation of these
installations shall, however, be charged at actual cost. Additional
installations at the same location may be made at cost, plus 10%. No monthly
service charges shall be made for distribution of the franchisee’s signals
within these publicly owned buildings.
(1988 Code, § 111.23) (Ord. passed 10-2-1979) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.24 EMERGENCY USE OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   The franchisee shall, in the case of any emergency or disaster, make
its entire system available without charge to the town or to any other
governmental or civil defense agency that the town shall designate.
   (B)   The system shall be engineered to provide an audio alert system to
allow authorized officials to automatically override the audio signal on all
channels and transmit and report emergency information.
   (C)   In the event of any such use by the town, the town will hold harmless
and indemnify the franchisee from any damages or penalties resulting from the
use of this service.
(1988 Code, § 111.24) (Ord. passed 10-2-1979) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.25 DISCRIMINATORY OR PREFERENTIAL PRACTICES PROHIBITED.
   The franchisee shall not, in its rates or charges, in making available the
services or facilities of its system, in its rules or regulations or in any
other respect, make or grant preferences or advantages to any subscriber or
potential subscriber to the system or to any user or potential user of the
system and shall not subject any such persons to any prejudice or disadvantage.
The provisions herein shall not be deemed to prohibit promotional campaigns to
stimulate subscriptions to the system or other legitimate uses thereof; nor
shall it be deemed to prohibit the establishment of a graduated scale of
charges and classified rate schedules to which any customer coming within the
classification shall be entitled.
(1988 Code, § 111.25) (Ord. passed 10-2-1979) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.26 OPEN ACCESS TO SYSTEM.
   The entire system of the franchisee shall be operated in a manner consistent
with the principle of fairness and equal accessibility of its facilities,
equipment, channels, studios and other services to all citizens, businesses,
public agencies or other entities having a legitimate use for the system. No
one shall be arbitrarily excluded from its use. Allocation of use of the
facilities shall be made according to the rules or decisions of regulatory
agencies affecting the same and where these rules or decisions are not
effective to resolve a dispute between conflicting users or potential users,
the matter shall be submitted for resolution by the town.
(1988 Code, § 111.26) (Ord. passed 10-2-1979) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.27 FRANCHISEE TO MAKE REPAIRS.
   Any damage caused to the property of building owners or users or any other
person by the franchisee’s negligence shall be repaired fully by the
franchisee. In addition, any damage caused to privately owned property by the
franchisee’s installation and operation of service shall be repaired fully and
promptly by the franchisee.
(1988 Code, § 111.27) (Ord. passed 10-2-1979) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.28 REMOVAL OF FACILITIES UPON REQUEST.
   Upon termination of service to any subscriber, the franchisee shall promptly
remove all of its facilities and equipment from the premises of the subscriber
upon his or her written request.
(1988 Code, § 111.28) (Ord. passed 10-2-1979)
§ 111.29 OTHER BUSINESS ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   Subject to the right of the Board of Commissioners to change this
policy if it deems the change necessary, neither the franchisee nor any agency,
subsidiary or allied corporation of the franchisee shall engage in the business
of selling, repairing or installing television receivers, radio receivers or
accessories for these receivers within the town during the term of the
franchise and the franchisee shall not allow any of its agencies, subsidiaries
or allied corporations to so engage in any such business except upon
application to and approval by the Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   However, nothing herein shall be deemed to prohibit the franchisee, at
the customer’s request and without payment, from examining and adjusting a
customer’s receiver set to determine whether reception difficulties originate
in the set or in franchisee’s system.
   (C)   The franchise authorizes only the operation of a system as provided
for herein and does not take the place of any other franchise, license or
permit which might be required by law of the franchisee.
(1988 Code, § 111.29) (Ord. passed 10-2-1979) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.30 TRANSACTIONS AFFECTING OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL OF FRANCHISE FACILITIES.
   (A)   (1)   To protect the interests of the town under any franchise granted
pursuant to this chapter, the franchisee shall not make, execute or enter into
any deed, deed of trust, mortgage, contract, conditional sales contract or any
loan, lease, pledge, sale, pole agreement or any other agreement concerning any
of the facilities or property, whether real or personal, of the system, where
the transaction would be inimical to the rights of the town under any franchise
granted pursuant to this chapter, if consummated without adherence to the
following provisions:
         (a)   Without the express approval of the Board of Commissioners which
shall not be unreasonably withheld; and
         (b)   Without a written assent filed with the Board of Commissioners
binding upon the person in whom any right, power, privilege, duty, title,
interest, claim or demand in or to the franchise or the system is created or
vested, to the effect that the right, power, privilege, duty, title, interest,
claim or demand is and shall be held and exercised subject to all the terms and
provisions of the franchise, including this provision.
      (2)   The town may require the written assent to be contained in the
instrument or document creating or vesting the right, power, privilege, duty,
title, interest, claim or demand, provided, this requirement shall not apply to
the disposition of worn-out or obsolete facilities or personal property in the
normal course of carrying on the CATV business.
      (3)   The Board of Commissioners may determine what transaction may be
inimical to the rights of the town if consummated without adherence to these
provisions.
   (B)   Prior approval of the Board of Commissioners shall be required where
ownership or control of more than 25% or more of the right of control or
interest, singularly or collectively.
   (C)   No franchise granted under this chapter may be transferred unless the
transaction is first approved by the Board of Commissioners by resolution after
public hearing.
   (D)   By its acceptance of the franchise, the franchisee specifically
concedes and agrees that any acquisitions or transfers as set forth in
divisions (B) and (C) of this section, without prior approval of the Board of
Commissioners as may be required, shall constitute a violation of the franchise
and this chapter by the franchisee.
(1988 Code, § 111.30) (Ord. passed 10-2-1979) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.31 RECEIVERSHIP.
   The franchise shall, at the option of the Board of Commissioners or its
designee, cease and terminate 120 days after the appointment of a receiver or
receivers or trustee or trustees to take over and conduct the business of the
franchisee, whether in a receivership, reorganization, bankruptcy or other
action or proceeding, unless the receivership or trusteeship shall have been
vacated prior to the expiration of 120 days or unless:
   (A)   The receiver or trustee shall have, within 120 days after his or her
election or appointment, fully complied with all the terms and provisions of
this chapter and the franchise granted pursuant thereto and the receiver or
trustee within the 120 days shall have remedied all defaults under the
franchise; and
   (B)   The receiver or trustee shall, within 120 days, have executed an
agreement duly approved by the court having jurisdiction in the premises,
whereby the receiver or trustee assumes and agrees to be bound by each and
every term, provision and limitation of the franchise.
(1988 Code, § 111.31) (Ord. passed 10-2-1979) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.32 FORECLOSURE.
   Upon foreclosure or other judicial sale of the plant, property and equipment
of the franchise or any part thereof, including or excluding this franchise,
the Board of Commissioners or its designee may serve notice of termination upon
the franchisee and the successful bidder at the sale, in which event the
franchise granted and all rights and privileges of the franchisee thereunder
shall cease and terminate 30 days after service of this notice, unless the
Board of Commissioners shall have approved the transfer of the franchise, as
and in the manner provided in this chapter; and the successful bidder shall
have covenanted and agreed with the town to assume and be bound by all the
terms and conditions of the franchise.
(1988 Code, § 111.32) (Ord. passed 10-2-1979)
§ 111.33 NONENFORCEMENT NOT ESTOPPEL.
   The franchisee shall not be relieved of its obligation to comply promptly
with any of the provisions of the franchise by any failure of the town to
enforce prompt compliance.
(1988 Code, § 111.33) (Ord. passed 10-2-1979)
§ 111.34 TERMINATION OF FRANCHISE.
   (A)   In addition to all other rights and powers of the town by virtue of
the franchise or this chapter, the town may terminate and cancel the franchise
and all rights and privileges of the franchisee thereunder in the event that
the franchisee:
      (1)   Substantially violates any provision of the franchise or this
chapter or any rule order or determination of the Board of Commissioners made
pursuant thereto, where the violation shall remain uncured for a period of 30
days subsequent to receipt by the franchisee of written notice of the
violation, except where the violation is not the fault of the franchisee or is
due to excusable neglect;
      (2)   Attempts to dispose of any of the facilities or property of its
CATV business to prevent the town from purchasing same, as provided for herein;
or
      (3)   Attempts to evade any of the provisions of this chapter or the
franchise agreement or practices any fraud or deceit upon the town.
   (B)   Termination and cancellation shall be made by resolution of the Board
of Commissioners duly adopted after 60-days’ notice to the franchisee and
shall, in no way, affect any of the town’s rights under the franchise or any
provisions of law. However, before the franchise may be terminated and
cancelled under this section, the franchisee shall be provided with an
opportunity to be heard at a public hearing before the Board of Commissioners,
upon 30-days’ written notice to the franchisee of the time and place of the
public hearing. The notice shall affirmatively cite the reasons alleged to
constitute cause for revocation and shall be published in a local newspaper of
general circulation at least 20 days before the date of the hearing.
(1988 Code, § 111.34) (Ord. passed 10-2-1979)
SUBSCRIBER RATES AND CHARGES
§ 111.50 LIMITATIONS ON RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   (1)   The charges made to subscribers for services of the franchisee
hereunder shall be fair, reasonable and no higher than necessary to meet all
costs of the service (assuming efficient and economical management) and provide
a fair return on the original cost, less depreciation, of the properties
devoted to the service (without regard to any subsequent sale or transfer price
or cost of the properties).
      (2)   The franchisee shall receive no consideration whatsoever from its
subscribers for or in connection with its service to its subscribers other than
in accordance with this subchapter, without approval of the town.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners shall have the power, authority and right
to cause the franchisee’s rates and charges to conform to the provisions of
division (A) above and for this purpose, after a public hearing affording
proper notice to the franchisee and any other interested parties, it may deny
increases or order reductions in these rates and charges when it determines
that in the absence of the action on its part, the franchisee’s rates and
charges or proposed increased rates and charges will not conform to division
(A) above.
(1988 Code, § 111.50) (Ord. passed 10-2-1979) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.51 RATE SCHEDULE.
   An applicant for a franchise shall include in its proposal rates and charges
according to the following schedule, which shall be approved by the town and
shall not be increased without approval of the town.
   (A)   Standard rates and charges.
      (1)   Charges for the following services that must be specified include:
         (a)   Initial tap-in and connection charges (TV or radio, residential
or commercial);
         (b)   Subsequent connection;
         (c)   Additional installation at same location, each; and
         (d)   Each repositioning at same location (relocation).
      (2)   Monthly rates:
         (a)   First TV or TV/radio outlet, residential or commercial; and
         (b)   Additional TV or TV/radio outlets, each.
   (B)   Hotels, motels, rest homes and hospitals containing more than ten
rental units to which service is provided.
      (1)   Cost of installing service to building and units contained therein;
and
      (2)   Monthly rates.
   (C)   Multiple-dwelling units (contained within one structure or group of
structures located in one complex) where all service is billed to one customer.
      (1)   Cost of installing service to building and units contained therein;
and
      (2)   Monthly rates, per TV outlet, according to the following schedule:
 
Number of Dwelling Units Served
   Up to five
   Six through 49
   50 through 99
   100 and over
 
(1988 Code, § 111.51) (Ord. passed 10-2-1979)
§ 111.52 ADVANCE CHARGES.
   The franchisee shall be permitted to require advance payment for
installation fees and for one month’s advance subscriber fee. The franchisee
shall require no other deposit, advance payment or penalty from any subscriber
or potential subscriber without prior approval of the town.
(1988 Code, § 111.52) (Ord. passed 10-2-1979) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.53 FRANCHISEE TO PROVIDE BILLING, MAINTENANCE SERVICE.
   The franchisee shall maintain a convenient service in the town during normal
business hours for the receipt of sums due by its subscribers, provide for
regular billing of accounts and maintain a maintenance service which shall be
promptly available to subscribers 24 hours a day, upon telephone request.
(1988 Code, § 111.53) (Ord. passed 10-2-1979) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.54 DELINQUENT FEES; DISCONNECTION OF SERVICE.
   If a subscriber fails to pay a properly due monthly subscriber fee within 60
days after the due date of the fee, the franchisee may cause disconnection of
the subscriber’s cable installation. However, upon payment in full of the
delinquent monthly subscriber fee, the franchisee shall promptly reinstate the
subscriber’s cable service, without additional connection charges unless the
town has expressly authorized a charge for reconnection.
(1988 Code, § 111.54) (Ord. passed 10-2-1979)
§ 111.55 SERVICE TO MULTIPLE-DWELLING UNITS.
   The subscriber rates and charges imposed by the franchisee with respect to
service to multiple-family units shall not be increased or affected, either
directly or indirectly, by reason of any payment or payments which the
franchisee may make to the owner of any multiple-family unit or any other
person for the privilege of installing service or access to the multiple-family
units.
(1988 Code, § 111.55) (Ord. passed 10-2-1979)
§ 111.56 NO CHARGE FOR DISCONNECTION.
   There shall be no charge for disconnection of any CATV system installations
or connections.
(1988 Code, § 111.56) (Ord. passed 10-2-1979) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.57 REFUNDS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
   If any subscriber terminates service because of the franchisee’s failure to
render service to the subscriber of a type and quality and in the manner
provided for herein or because the franchisee ceases to operate the system
authorized herein for any reason except expiration of the franchise, the
franchisee shall refund to the subscriber a portion of the initial connection
charges which corresponds to the fraction obtained by dividing the number of
months of service received by the subscriber by 12.
(1988 Code, § 111.57) (Ord. passed 10-2-1979)
§ 111.58 STATE OR FEDERAL REGULATION OF RATES.
   If, in the future, the state or federal government or any regulatory agency
thereof, regulates the rates of the franchisee for the service provided for in
the franchise, this subchapter shall be of no effect during this regulation to
the extent of any conflict therewith.
(1988 Code, § 111.58) (Ord. passed 10-2-1979)
CHAPTER 112: MOTOR VEHICLE TAX
Section
   
112.01   Tax required; ownership
   
112.02   Collection
   
112.03   Exemption
Statutory reference:
   Authority to impose motor vehicle tax, see G.S. §§ 20-97 and 160A-213
§ 112.01 TAX REQUIRED; OWNERSHIP.
   (A)   (1)   Each owner of any vehicle, private or for hire, public dray,
taxi, truck or other motor vehicle, resident therein within the town limits and
for which a state license plate or tag is issued, shall pay an annual motor
vehicle tax of $4.
      (2)   Ownership shall be determined annually as of January 1.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      RESIDENT THEREIN.
         (a)   The vehicle’s fixed and permanent situs; when the owner or
operator is a resident of the town and the vehicle is garaged herein; or, if
used as a common carrier or for hire, has its base of operation within the
town.
         (b)   It shall be a rebuttable presumption, if a vehicle registered by
the state’s Department of Motor Vehicles at an address within the town, that
the address is the place of residence for that vehicle.
(1988 Code, § 112.01) (Ord. passed 1-1-1986) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.02 COLLECTION.
   The motor vehicle tax imposed by this chapter shall be based on a fiscal
year of July 1 to June 30 and shall be billed and collected by the town’s Tax
Collector in the same manner as property taxes.
(1988 Code, § 112.02) (Ord. passed 1-1-1986)
§ 112.03 EXEMPTION.
   Those firefighters and retired firefighters of the town’s Fire Department
who reside within the town shall be exempt from the above tax.
(1988 Code, § 112.03)
CHAPTER 113: PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, SPECIALTY MARKET VENDORS AND
SPECIALTY MARKET OPERATORS
Section
   
113.01   Permit required; exemptions
   
113.02   Application for permit
   
113.03   Bond
   
113.04   Issuance of permit
   
113.05   Denial of permit; appeal
   
113.06   Duration of permit; renewal
   
113.07   Permit not transferable
   
113.08   Revocation of permit
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate solicitation campaigns and itinerant merchants, see
G.S. § 160A-178
§ 113.01 PERMIT REQUIRED; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Peddlers. Every person engaged in business or employed as a peddler
shall obtain a license for the privilege of peddling goods and shall pay a tax
for the license as set forth in this chapter. A PEDDLER is a person who travels
from place to place with an inventory of goods, who sells the goods at retail
or offers the goods for sale at retail and who delivers the identical goods he
or she carries with him or her. A peddler of only farm products shall pay a tax
of $25. A peddler who travels from place to place on foot, selling goods other
than or in addition to farm products, shall pay a tax of $10. A peddler who
travels from place to place by vehicle, selling goods other than or in addition
to farm products, shall pay a tax of $25.
   (B)   Itinerant merchants. Every person engaged in business as an itinerant
merchant shall obtain a license as set forth in this chapter for the privilege
of engaging in business and shall pay a tax for the license of $100. An
ITINERANT MERCHANT is a merchant, other than a merchant with an established
retail store in the town, who transports an inventory of goods to a building,
vacant lot or other location in the town and who, at that location, displays
the goods for sale and sells the goods at retail or offers the goods for sale
at retail. An itinerant merchant’s license is not required to engage in the
business of a specialty market vendor at a location licensed as a specialty
market under division (C) or at a specialty market that is exempt from the
license requirement under division (C) of this section because the specialty
market operator is the state or a unit of local government. A merchant who
sells goods, other than farm products, in the town for less than six
consecutive months is considered an itinerant merchant unless he or she stopped
selling goods in the town because of his or her death or disablement, the
insolvency of his or her business or the destruction of his or her inventory by
fire or other catastrophe.
   (C)   Specialty market operators. Every person, other than the state or a
unit of local government, engaged in business as a specialty market operator
shall obtain a license as set forth in this chapter for the privilege of
engaging in business and shall pay a tax for the license of $200. A SPECIALTY
MARKET OPERATOR is a person, other than the state or a unit of local
government, who rents space, at a location other than a permanent retail store,
to others for the purpose of selling goods at retail or offering goods for sale
at retail.
   (D)   Specialty market vendors. The requirements and penalties set out in
divisions (I) through (L) of this section apply to every person engaged in
business as a specialty market vendor who is liable for retail sales tax under
G.S. §§ 105-164.1 et seq. A SPECIALTY MARKET VENDOR is a merchant, other than a
merchant with an established retail store in the town, who transports an
inventory of goods to a specialty market licensed under division (C) above and
who, at that location, displays the goods for sale and sells the goods at
retail or offers the goods for sale at retail. A specialty market is a
location, other than a permanent retail store, where space is rented to others
for the purpose of selling goods at retail or offering goods for sale at
retail.
   (E)   Exemptions. This section does not apply to the following:
      (1)   A peddler or itinerant merchant who:
         (a)   Sells farm or nursery products produced by him or her;
         (b)   Sells crafts or goods made by him or her or his or her own
household personal property;
         (c)   Is a nonprofit charitable, educational, religious, scientific or
civic organization;
         (d)   Sells printed material, wood for fuel, ice, seafood, meat,
poultry, livestock, eggs, dairy products, bread, cakes or pies; or
         (e)   Is an authorized automobile dealer licensed pursuant to G.S. §§
20-1 et seq.
      (2)   A peddler who maintains a fixed permanent location from which he or
she makes at least 90% of his or her sales, but who sells some goods in the
town of his or her fixed location by peddling;
      (3)   An itinerant merchant who:
         (a)   Locates at a farmer’s market;
         (b)   Is part of the State Fair or an agriculture fair which is
licensed by the State Commissioner of Agriculture pursuant to G.S. § 106-520.3;
or
         (c)   Sells goods at an auction conducted by an auctioneer licensed
pursuant to G.S. §§ 85B-1 et seq.
      (4)   A peddler who complies with the requirements of G.S. §§ 25A-38
through 25A-42 or who complies with the requirements of G.S. § 14-401.13.
   (F)   Person defined. As used in this section, PERSON has the same meaning
as in G.S. § 105-164.3(11).
   (G)   Town exemption. The Chief of Police, upon proper application, may
exempt from the annual license tax levied upon peddlers and itinerant merchants
in this section disabled veterans of World War I, World War II, Korean Conflict
and Vietnam Era, who have been bona fide residents of the town for 12 or more
months continuously and widows with dependent children; and when so exempted,
the Chief of Police shall furnish the person or persons with a certificate of
exemption and the certificate shall entitle the holder thereof to sell within
the limits of the town without payment of any license tax to the town.
   (H)   Display and possession of licenses and identification.
      (1)   An itinerant merchant shall keep both the license required by this
section and the retail sales tax license conspicuously and prominently
displayed, so as to be visible for inspection by patrons of the itinerant
merchant, at the places or locations at which the goods are to be sold or
offered for sale. A peddler shall have the license required by this section and
the retail sales tax license with him or her at all times he or she offers
goods for sale and must produce them upon the request of any customer, state or
local revenue or law enforcement agent. A specialty market vendor shall keep
the retail sales tax license conspicuously and prominently displayed, so as to
be visible for inspection by patrons of the specialty market vendor at the
places or locations at which the goods are to be sold or offered for sale. A
specialty market operator shall have the license required by this section
available for inspection during all times that the specialty market is open and
must produce it upon the request of any customer, state or local revenue or law
enforcement agent.
      (2)   Upon the request on any customer, state or local revenue or law
enforcement agent, a peddler, itinerant merchants, specialty market operator or
specialty market merchant, specialty market operator or specialty market vendor
is not a corporation, he or she shall, upon the request of any customer, state
or local revenue or law enforcement agent, provide a valid driver’s license, a
special identification card issued under G.S. § 20-37.7, military
identification or a passport bearing a physical description of the person named
reasonably describing the peddler, itinerant merchant, specialty market
operator or specialty market vendor. If the peddler, itinerant merchant,
specialty market operator or specialty market vendor is a corporation, it
shall, upon the request of any customer, state, local revenue or law
enforcement agent, give the name and registered agent of the corporation and
the address of the registered office of the corporation, as filed with the
Secretary of State.
   (I)   Permission of property owner. An itinerant merchant or a peddler who
travels from place to place by vehicle, in addition to other requirements of
this section, shall obtain a written statement signed by the owner or lessee of
any property upon which the itinerant merchant or peddler offers goods for sale
giving the owner’s or lessee’s permission to offer goods for sale upon the
property of the owner or lessee. The statement shall clearly state the name of
the owner or lessee, the location of the premises for which the permission is
granted and the dates during which the permission is valid. Further, the
statement shall be conspicuously and prominently displayed, so as to be visible
for inspection by patrons of the itinerant merchant or peddler, at the places
or locations at which the goods are to be sold or offered for sale.
   (J)   Specialty market registration list. A specialty market operator shall
maintain a daily registration list of all specialty market vendors selling or
offering goods for sale at the specialty market. This registration list shall
clearly and legibly show the specialty market vendor’s name, permanent address
and retail sales and use tax registration number. The specialty market operator
shall require each specialty vendor to exhibit a valid retail sales tax license
for visual inspection by the specialty market operator at the time of
registration and shall require each specialty market vendor operator at the
time of registration and shall require each specialty market vendor to keep the
retail sales tax license conspicuously and prominently displayed, so as to be
visible for inspection by patrons of the specialty market vendor at the places
or locations at which the goods are offered for sale. Each daily registration
list maintained pursuant to this section shall be retained by the specialty
market operator for no less than two years and shall at any time be made
available upon request to any law enforcement officer.
   (K)   Violations. No person shall:
      (1)   Fail to obtain a license as required by this section;
      (2)   Knowingly give false information in the application process for a
license or when registering pursuant to division (J) above;
      (3)   If the person is an itinerant merchant, fail to display the license
as required by division (H) or if the person is a peddler or specialty market
operator, fail to produce the license as required by division (H) or if the
person is required to do so, fail to comply with division (I); and (Whenever
satisfactory evidence shall be presented in any court of the fact that a
license was required by this section and the license was not displayed or
produced as required by division (H) or that permission was required by
division (I) of this section and was not displayed, the peddler, itinerant
merchant or specialty market operator shall be found not guilty of that
violation provided he or she produces in court a valid license or valid
permission which had been issued prior to the time he or she was charged with
the violation.)
      (4)   Fail to provide name, address or identification upon request as
required by division (H) of this section or provide false information in
response to such a request.
   (L)   Display requirement satisfied. For the purposes of this section, the
requirement that a retail sales tax license be displayed is satisfied if the
vendor displays either a copy of the license or evidence that the license has
been applied for and the applicable license fee has been paid within 30 days
before the date the license was required to be displayed. Whenever satisfactory
evidence shall be presented in any court of the fact that display of a retail
sales tax license was required by this section and the license was not
displayed, the specialty market operator or vendor shall not be found guilty of
that violation provided he or she produces in court a valid license which had
been issued prior to the time he or she was charged with this violation.
(G.S. §§ 66-250 et seq.) (1988 Code, § 113.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.02 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   (1)   Any person desiring to engage in the business or practices set
forth in §
113.01 shall file with the Chief of Police an application for a permit to do
so.
      (2)   The application shall be in writing, under oath and shall show the
applicant’s name, age, fingerprints, current address and his or her place of
residence and nature of employment during the preceding year, the address and
nature of business of his or her employer or principal, if any and shall
specify in detail the goods, wares, periodicals or other merchandise to be
offered for sale and shall state whether or not the applicant has been
convicted of any crime involving moral turpitude and if so the nature of the
crime and the place and time convicted.
   (B)   The applicant shall also furnish, at the time of filing his or her
application, two and one-half inch by two and one-half inch photographs made
within one year of the date of the application.
   (C)   The applicant shall give to the Chief of Police, at the time of the
filing of the application, other information requested as may be of assistance
in passing upon the qualification of the applicant.
   (D)   If the application is filed by an employer, there shall also be filed
a separate application for each solicitor giving the information set forth
above as to the qualifications of the solicitor and the same shall be signed
and sworn to by each solicitor.
   (E)   No permit shall be issued under the provisions of this chapter until
the application has been on file with the Chief of Police for a period of at
least two weeks.
(1988 Code, § 113.02) (Ord. passed 3-2-1982)
§ 113.03 BOND.
   Before a permit shall be issued under the provisions of this chapter, every
applicant not a resident of Nash, Edgecombe or Wilson Counties for at least six
months immediately preceding the filing of the application, shall file with the
Town Clerk a surety bond, running to the town in the amount of $500 with surety
acceptable to and approved by the Town Clerk, conditioned that the applicant
shall fully comply with all the applicable provisions of this chapter, state
law and town ordinances, rules and regulations and guaranteeing to any resident
of the town that all money paid in any transactions entered into will be
accounted for and applied according to the representations of the holder of the
permit and further guaranteeing to any resident of the town doing business with
the holder of the permit that the property purchased will be delivered
according to representations made. Action on the bond may be brought in the
name of the town to the use or benefit of the aggrieved person. A surety bond
issued by any surety company licensed to do business by the State Department of
Insurance shall constitute a valid bond under this section.
(1988 Code, § 113.03) (Ord. passed 3-2-1982)
§ 113.04 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   If, upon investigation, the Chief of Police ascertains and determines that
the applicant for a permit required by this chapter is a person over 18 years
of age, of good moral character and proposes to engage in a lawful commercial
or professional enterprise during hours that will not unduly disturb the
occupants of residences, the Chief of Police shall issue to him or her a permit
to engage in the business. The permit shall contain substantially the
information set forth in his or her application and shall have attached the
applicant’s photograph and fingerprints.
(1988 Code, § 113.04) (Ord. passed 3-2-1982)
§ 113.05 DENIAL OF PERMIT; APPEAL.
   (A)   If the Chief of Police shall, upon investigation, determine that the
applicant is not a person of good moral character and that he or she does not
propose to engage in a lawful commercial or professional enterprise during
hours reasonably convenient for the occupants of residences, he or she shall
refuse to issue the permit applied for under the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Upon the refusal of the Chief of Police to grant a permit under the
provisions of this chapter, the applicant may appeal to the Board of
Commissioners. If the Board of Commissioners shall be satisfied that the
applicant and his or her proposed business and hours of work meet the
requirements herein set forth, it shall direct the Chief of Police to issue the
permit; otherwise, the permit shall be refused.
(1988 Code, § 113.05) (Ord. passed 3-2-1982)
§ 113.06 DURATION OF PERMIT; RENEWAL.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall determine from the application for a permit
to be issued under the provisions of this chapter and from the facts as may be
developed in connection with the application the period for which the permit
shall be approved and granted. However, the period shall, in no case, exceed 12
calendar months.
   (B)   Upon the expiration of the permit, the Chief of Police may, upon
application filed in the form and giving the information required in the
original application, renew and extend the permit for additional periods not to
exceed 12 calendar months for any period.
(1988 Code, § 113.06) (Ord. passed 3-2-1982)
§ 113.07 PERMIT NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   No permit issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be transferable.
(1988 Code, § 113.07) (Ord. passed 3-2-1982) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.08 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   If it should appear that the facts set forth in the permittee’s application
for a permit under the provisions of this chapter are untrue; or if the
applicant is convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude; or if he or she
engages in businesses other than as set forth in his or her permit or fails to
utilize the same in good faith and for the purposes issued; or if the permittee
shall be convicted of the violation of any applicable provision of this
chapter, state law or town ordinances, rules and regulations, the permit shall
be revoked by the Chief of Police. The applicant may, if he or she desires,
appeal the revocation to the Board of Commissioners.
(1988 Code, § 113.08) (Ord. passed 3-2-1982)
CHAPTER 114: MASSAGE PARLORS
Section
General Provisions
   
114.01   Purpose and objective
   
114.02   Definitions
   
114.03   Exemptions
   
114.04   Multiple massage establishments
   
114.05   Sale or transfer or change of location
   
114.06   Name and place of business
Operational Requirements; Administrative Procedure
   
114.20   License or permit required
   
114.21   Application for massage establishment license
   
114.22   Application for massagist’s permit
   
114.23   Issuance of license or permit for a massage establishment
   
114.24   Approval or denial of application
   
114.25   Waiver of application requirements
   
114.26   Posting of license or permit
   
114.27   Register of employees
   
114.28   Revocation or suspension of license
   
114.29   Revocation of masseur or masseuse permit
   
114.30   Revocation or suspension proceedings
   
114.31   Facilities necessary
   
114.32   Operating requirements
   
114.33   Employment of massagist
   
114.34   Inspections
   
114.35   Transfer of license or permit
Prohibitions; Unlawful Activity
   
114.45   Persons under age 18 prohibited on premises
   
114.46   Alcoholic beverages prohibited
   
114.47   Hours
   
114.48   Unlawful acts
 
   
114.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 114.01 PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to protect the public health, safety
and welfare of the citizens of the town.
   (B)   In order to accomplish this purpose the following license provisions
and regulations are ordained for the privilege of carrying on the business,
trade or profession of massage and for the operation or carrying on of the
business, trade or profession commonly known as a massage wherein massage or
physical manipulation of the human body is carried on or practiced.
   (C)   The objective is to permit only the business or profession of massage
as authorized under this chapter.
(Ord. O-1-5-93, passed 1-5-1993)
§ 114.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHIEF OF POLICE. The Chief of Police of the town or one or more assistants
designated by him or her.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person over 18 years of age, other than a massagist, who
renders any service in connection with the operation of a massage business and
receives compensation from the operator of the business or from patrons.
   LICENSEE. Any person to whom a license has been issued to own or operate a
massage establishment as defined herein.
   MASSAGE. Any method of pressure on or friction against or stroking,
kneading, rubbing, tapping, pounding, vibrating or stimulating of the external
parts of the human body with hands or with the aid of any mechanical electrical
apparatus or appliances with or without supplementary aids as rubbing alcohol,
liniments, antiseptics, oils, powder, creams, lotions, ointments or other
similar preparations commonly used in the practice of massage, under the
circumstances that it is reasonably expected that the person to whom the
treatment is provided or some third person on his or her behalf will pay money
or give any other consideration or gratuity therefor.
   MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT. Any establishment having a source of income or
compensation derived from the practice of massage, as defined above, and which
has a fixed place of business where any person, firm, association or
corporation engages in or carries an any of the activities as defined above.
   MASSAGIST, MASSEUR or MASSEUSE. Any person who, for any consideration
whatsoever, engages in the practice of massage as defined herein above.
   OUTCALL MASSAGE SERVICE. Any business, the function of which is to engage in
or carry on massages at a location designated by the customer or client rather
than at a massage establishment as defined above.
   PATRON. Any person over 18 years of age who receives a massage under the
circumstances that it is reasonably expected that he or she will pay money or
give any other consideration therefor.
   PERMITTEE. Any person to whom a permit has been issued to act in the
capacity of massagist (masseur or masseuse), as herein defined.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, firm, association, joint stock company,
corporation or combination of individuals of whatever form or character.
   RECOGNIZED SCHOOL. Any school or educational institution in the state in
which it is located or any school recognized by, approved by or affiliated with
the American Massage and Therapy Association, Inc., and which has as one of its
purposes the teaching of the theory, method, profession or work of massage and
which school requires a resident course of study not less than 70 hours before
the student shall be furnished with a diploma or certificate of graduation from
the school or institution of learning following the successful completion of
the course of study or learning.
   SEXUAL OR GENITAL AREA. Genitals, pubic area, buttocks, anus or perineum of
any person or the vulva or breasts of a female.
(Ord. O-1-5-93, passed 1-5-1993)
§ 114.03 EXEMPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to the following individuals while engaged in
the personal performance of the duties of their respective professions:
   (A)   Physicians, surgeons, chiropractors, osteopaths, physical therapists
or podiatrists who are duly licensed to practice their respective professions
in the state;
   (B)   Nurses who are registered or licensed under the laws of the state;
   (C)   Athletic trainers who are employed by a recognized educational
institutional or professional sports team and whose work is limited to athletic
team members; and
   (D)   Barbers and beauticians who are duly licensed under the state, except
that this exemption shall apply solely to the massaging of the neck, face,
scalp and hair of the head of the customer or client for cosmetic or
beautifying purposes.
(Ord. O-1-5-93, passed 1-5-1993)
§ 114.04 MULTIPLE MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   Should any massage business have more than one location where the
business of massage is pursued, then a license, stating both the address of the
principal place of business and of the other location(s) shall be issued by the
Chief of Police upon the tender of a license fee per location as set forth in
the Town Schedule of Rates and Fees, a copy of which is located in the office
of the Town Clerk and is incorporated herein by reference.
   (B)   Licenses issued for other locations shall terminate on the same date
as that of the principal place of business, regardless of the date of issuance.
(Ord. O-1-5-93, passed 1-5-1993)
§ 114.05 SALE OR TRANSFER OR CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   (A)   Upon the sale, transfer or relocation of a massage establishment, the
license therefor shall be null and void unless a transfer of the license is
approved by the Chief of Police, as provided in §
114.35 of this chapter.
   (B)   Upon the death or incapacity of the licensee or any co-licensee of the
massage establishment, any heir or devisee of a deceased licensee or any
guardian of an heir or devisee of a deceased licensee, may continue the
business of the massage establishment for a reasonable period of time not to
exceed 60 days to allow for an orderly transfer of the license.
(Ord. O-1-5-93, passed 1-5-1993)
§ 114.06 NAME AND PLACE OF BUSINESS.
   No person granted a license pursuant to this chapter shall operate the
massage establishment under a name not specified in his or her license, nor
shall he or she conduct business in any designation or location not specified
in his or her license.
(Ord. O-1-5-93, passed 1-5-1993) Penalty, see §
114.99
OPERATIONAL REQUIREMENTS; ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE
§ 114.20 LICENSE OR PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall engage in or carry out the business of massage unless
the person has a valid business license issued by the town pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter for each location that the business of massage is
conducted by the person.
   (B)   No person shall practice massage as a massagist, employee or
otherwise, unless the person has a valid massagist’s permit issued to him or
her by the town pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. O-1-5-93, passed 1-5-1993) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.21 APPLICATION FOR MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT LICENSE.
   (A)   (1)   Every applicant for a license to maintain, operate or conduct a
massage establishment shall file an application under oath on a form provided
by the town with the Chief of Police and pay a non-refundable annual license
fee, which shall be as set forth in the Town Schedule of Rates and Fees, a copy
of which is located in the office of the Town Clerk and is incorporated herein
by reference, per year or any part thereof.
      (2)   The application, once accepted, shall be investigated by the Police
Department.
      (3)   Copies of the application shall within five days be referred to the
Inspection Services Division of the Department of Community Development and the
Fire Department.
      (4)   These departments shall, within 30 days of receipt of a copy of the
application, inspect the premises proposed to be operated as a massage
establishment and make written verification to the Chief of Police concerning
compliance with the codes of the town that they administer.
   (B)   Each application shall contain the following information:
      (1)   A definition of the service to be provided;
      (2)   The location, mailing address and all telephone numbers of the
premises where the business is to be conducted;
      (3)   (a)   The name and residence address of each applicant;
         (b)   All provisions which refer to applicant include an applicant
which may be a corporation or partnership;
         (c)   If the applicant is a corporation, the names and residence
addresses of each of the officers and directors of the corporation and of each
stockholder owning more than 10% of the stock of the corporation and the
address of the corporation itself, if different from the address of the massage
establishment;
         (d)   If the applicant is a partnership, the names and residence
addresses of each of the partners including limited partners and the address of
the partnership itself, if different from the address of the massage
establishment; and
         (e)   If any of the foregoing persons have resided at an address for
less than two years prior to date of filing the application, then the person
shall provide each address at which he or she resided during the previous two
years.
      (4)   Proof that the applicant is at least 18 years of age;
      (5)   Individual or partnership applicant’s height, weight, color of eyes
and hair and sex;
      (6)   Copy of identification such as driver’s license and Social Security
card;
      (7)   One portrait photograph of the applicant at least two inches by two
inches and a complete set of the applicant’s fingerprints which shall be taken
by the Chief of Police or his or her agent. If the applicant is a corporation,
one portrait photograph at least two inches by two inches of all officers and
managing agents of the corporation and a complete set of the same officers’ and
agents’ fingerprints which shall be taken by the Chief of Police or his or her
agent. If the applicant is a partnership, one front-face portrait photograph at
least two inches by two inches in size of each partner, including a limited
partner in the partnership and a complete set of each partner or limited
partner’s fingerprints which shall be taken by the Chief of Police or his or
her agents;
      (8)   The business, occupation or employment of the applicant for the
three years immediately preceding the date of application;
      (9)   The massage or similar business license history of the applicant;
whether the person, in previously operating in this or another city or state,
has had a business license revoked or suspended, the reason therefor and the
business activity or occupation subsequent to the action or suspension or
revocation;
      (10)   All criminal convictions other than misdemeanor traffic
violations, including the dates of convictions, nature of the crimes and place
convicted;
      (11)   The applicant must furnish a diploma or certificate of graduation
from a recognized school or other institution of learning wherein the method,
profession and work of massage is taught; provided, however, that if the
applicant will not personally engage in the practice of massage, as defined
herein, he or she need not possess the diploma or certificate of graduation
from a recognized school or other institution of learning wherein the method,
profession and work of massage is taught;
      (12)   The name and address of any massage business or other
establishment owned or operated by any person whose name is required to be
given in division (B)(3) above wherein the business or profession of massage is
carried on;
      (13)   A description of any other business to be operated on the same
premises or on adjoining premises owned or controlled by the applicant;
      (14)   Authorization for the town, its agents and employees to seek
information and conduct an investigation into the truth of the statements set
forth in the application and the qualifications of the applicant for the
permit;
      (15)   The names, current addresses and written statements of at least
three bona fide permanent residents of the United States that the applicant is
of good moral character; (If the applicant is able, the statement must first be
furnished from residents of the town, then from Nash, Wilson or Edgecombe
Counties, then from the state and lastly from the remainder of the United
States. These references must be persons other than relatives and business
associates.)
      (16)   Such other identification and information necessary to discover
the truth of the matters hereinbefore specified as required to be set forth in
the application; and
      (17)   Written declaration by the applicant, under penalty of perjury,
that the foregoing information contained in the application is true and
correct, the declaration being duly dated and signed in the town.
   (C)   (1)   Upon the completion of the above provided form and the
furnishing of all foregoing information the Police Department shall accept the
application for the necessary investigations.
      (2)   The holder of a massage establishment license shall notify the
Chief of Police of each change in any of the data required to be furnished by
this section within ten days after the change occurs.
(Ord. O-1-5-93, passed 1-5-1993)
§ 114.22 APPLICATION FOR MASSAGIST’S PERMIT.
   (A)   Application for a massagist’s business permit shall be made on a form
provided by the town to the Chief of Police in the same manner as provided
above for massage establishment licenses, accompanied by the annual
nonrefundable massagist’s permit fee as set forth in the Town Schedule of Rates
and Fees, a copy of which is located in the office of the Town Clerk and is
incorporated herein by reference, per year or part thereof.
   (B)   The application shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The business address and all telephone numbers where the massage is
to be practiced;
      (2)   Name and current residence address and all names, nicknames and
aliases by which the applicant has been known; (If the applicant has lived at
his or her current address for less than two years, then the applicant shall
list each address where he or she resided during the previous two years.)
      (3)   Social Security number, driver’s license number and date of birth;
      (4)   Applicant’s weight, height, color of hair and eyes and sex;
      (5)   Written evidence that the applicant is at least 18 years of age;
      (6)   A complete statement of all convictions of the applicant for any
felony or misdemeanor or violation of a local ordinance, except misdemeanor
traffic violations;
      (7)   Fingerprints of the applicant taken by the Police Department;
      (8)   Two front-face portrait photographs taken within 30 days of the
date of application and at least two inches by two inches in size;
      (9)   (a)   The name and address of the recognized school attended, the
dates attended and a copy of the diploma or certificate of graduation awarded
the applicant showing the applicant has completed not less than 70 hours of
instruction.
         (b)   For persons employed on the date of adoption of this chapter as
a masseur or masseuse in the town, this section shall not apply until 60 days
after adoption.
         (c)   Present employment shall be established by sworn affidavit from
the employer.
         (d)   Sixty days after the date of adoption of this chapter, the
person must be actively enrolled and participating in a course of study
designed to fulfill the requirements of this section and the enrollment and
participation shall be upon the person seeking a permit herein.
         (e)   For persons not so employed on the date of adoption of the
chapter, this section shall be effective upon passage.
         (f)   In no event shall any person engage in the business of massage
in the town or within its zoning jurisdiction without having satisfied the
training requirement of the first sentence of this division (B)(9) after March
30, 1992.
      (10)   The massage or similar business history and experience for three
years prior to the date of application, including, but not limited to whether
or not the person in previously operating in this or another city or state
under a license or permit has had the license or permit denied, revoked or
suspended and the reasons therefor and the business activities or occupations
subsequent to the action of denial, suspension or revocation;
      (11)   (a)   A medical certificate signed by a physician, licensed to
practice in the state, within seven days of the date of the application.
         (b)   The certificate shall state that the applicant was examined by
the certifying physician and that the applicant is free of communicable
disease.
         (c)   The additional information required by this division shall be
provided at the applicant’s expense.
      (12)   (a)   The names, current addresses and written statements of at
least three bona fide permanent residents of the United States that the
applicant is of good moral character.
         (b)   If the applicant is able, the statement must first be furnished
from residents of the town, then from Nash or Edgecombe Counties, then from the
state and lastly form the remainder of the United States.
         (c)   These references must be persons other than relatives and
business associates.
      (13)   Authorization for the town, its agents and employees to seek
information and conduct an investigation into the truth of the statements set
forth in the application and the qualifications of the applicant for the
permit; and
      (14)   Written declaration by the applicant, under penalty of perjury,
that the foregoing information contained in the application is true and
correct, the declaration being duly dated and signed in the town.
(Ord. O-1-5-93, passed 1-5-1993)
§ 114.23 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE OR PERMIT FOR A MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT.
   The Chief of Police shall issue a license for a massage establishment or a
permit for a masseur or masseuse, if all requirements for a massage
establishment or massage permit described in this chapter are met unless he or
she finds in writing that:
   (A)   The correct permit or license fee has not been tendered to the town
and, in the case of a check or bank draft, not honored with payment upon
presentation;
   (B)   The operation, as proposed by the applicant, if permitted, would not
comply with all applicable laws, including, but not limited to the town’s
building, zoning and health regulations;
   (C)   (1)   The applicant, if an individual; or any of the stockholders
holding more than 10% of the stock of the corporation, any of the officers and
directors, if the applicant is a corporation; or any of the partners, including
limited partners, if the applicant is a partnership; or the holder of any lien
of any nature upon the business and/or the equipment used therein; or the
manager or other person principally in charge of the operation of the business,
have been convicted of any of the following offenses:
         (a)   An offense involving the use of force and violence upon the
person of another that amount to a felony;
         (b)   An offense involving sexual misconduct; or
         (c)   An offense involving narcotics, dangerous drugs or dangerous
weapons that amounts to a felony.
      (2)   The Chief of Police may issue a license or permit to any person
convicted of any of the crimes described in divisions (C)(1)(a) through (c)
above if he or she finds that the conviction occurred at least five years prior
to the date of the application and the person has had no subsequent felony
convictions for crime mentioned in this section.
   (D)   The applicant has knowingly made any false, misleading or fraudulent
statement of fact in the permit application or in any document required by the
town in conjunction therewith;
   (E)   The applicant has had a massage business, masseur or other similar
permit or license denied, revoked or suspended by a municipality or any other
state or local agency within five years prior to the date of the application;
and
   (F)   The applicant, if an individual or any of the officers and directors,
if the applicant is a corporation; or any of the partners, including limited
partners, if the applicant is a partnership; and the manager or other person
principally in charge of the operation of the business, is not over the age of
18 years.
(Ord. O-1-5-93, passed 1-5-1993)
§ 114.24 APPROVAL OR DENIAL OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall act to approve or deny an application for a
license or permit under this chapter within a reasonable period of time and in
any event shall approve or deny the license 60 days from the date that the
application was accepted.
   (B)   Every license or permit issued pursuant to this chapter will terminate
at the expiration of one year from the date of its issuance unless sooner
suspended or revoked.
(Ord. O-1-5-93, passed 1-5-1993)
§ 114.25 WAIVER OF APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   The town shall waive the requirements of §§
114.21(B)(12) and
114.22(B)(9)(a) of this chapter if the applicant furnishes satisfactory
evidence that he or she attended not less than 70 hours of instruction in a
school within or without this state or in any foreign country that provides
education substantially equal to or in excess of the educational requirements
of this chapter.
(Ord. O-1-5-93, passed 1-5-1993)
§ 114.26 POSTING OF LICENSE OR PERMIT.
   (A)   Every massagist shall post the permit required by this chapter in his
or her work area.
   (B)   Every person, corporation, partnership or association licensed under
this chapter shall display the license in a prominent place.
(Ord. O-1-5-93, passed 1-5-1993) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.27 REGISTER OF EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The licensee or person designated by the licensee of a massage
establishment shall maintain a register of all persons employed at any time as
masseurs or masseuses.
   (B)   The register shall be available at the massage establishment to
representatives of the town during regular business hours.
(Ord. O-1-5-93, passed 1-5-1993) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.28 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Any license issued for a massage establishment may be revoked or
suspended after notice and a hearing, for a good cause, where it appears that
the licensee has violated any of the provisions of this chapter or where any
employee of the licensee, including a masseur or masseuse, is engaged in any
conduct at the licensee’s place of business which violates ordinances and of
which the licensee has actual or constructive knowledge or in the exercise of
reasonable diligence should have had actual or constructive knowledge.
   (B)   The permit may also be revoked or suspended by the town after notice
and hearing for good cause, upon the recommendations of the Nash, Wilson or
Edgecombe County Health Department upon a finding that the business is being
managed, conducted or maintained without regard to proper sanitation and
hygiene. The revocation proceedings shall be as prescribed in §
114.30 of the chapter.
(Ord. O-1-5-93, passed 1-5-1993)
§ 114.29 REVOCATION OF MASSEUR OR MASSEUSE PERMIT.
   A masseur or masseuse permit issued by the Chief of Police may be revoked or
suspended after notice and a hearing, for good cause, where it appears that the
masseur or masseuse has been convicted of any offense which would be cause for
denial of a permit upon an original application, has made a false statement on
an application for a permit or has committed an act in violation of this
chapter. The revocation proceedings shall be as prescribed in §
114.30 of this chapter.
(Ord. O-1-5-93, passed 1-5-1993)
§ 114.30 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   Upon the determination of a violation of this chapter or the existence
of any other condition which is grounds for the revocation or suspension of a
license or permit pursuant to §§
114.28 or
114.29 of this chapter, the Chief of Police shall serve written notice upon the
person whose license or permit has been determined to be subject to revocation
or suspension.
   (B)   The notice shall state:
      (1)   The specific grounds which make the license or permit subject to
revocation or suspension;
      (2)   The date, time and place of the hearing, which shall not be earlier
than ten days following service of the notice; and
      (3)   The hearing will be held before the Mayor and Board of
Commissioners.
   (C)   The Mayor shall conduct the hearing and, within three days, the Board
of Commissioners shall render its decision in writing either revoking the
license or permit, suspending the license or permit for a period of time not to
exceed 90 days or finding that insufficient grounds for revocation or
suspension exist and that the person should retain his or her license or
permit.
   (D)   In the case of a revocation or suspension the decision shall state the
reasons for the action taken.
(Ord. O-1-5-93, passed 1-5-1993)
§ 114.31 FACILITIES NECESSARY.
   No license to conduct a massage establishment shall be issued unless an
inspection by the town reveals that the establishment complies with each of the
following minimum requirements:
   (A)   (1)   Construction of rooms used for toilets, tubs, steam baths and
showers shall be installed in accordance with the North Carolina Building Code.
      (2)   All plumbing fixtures shall be installed in accordance with the
North Carolina Plumbing Code.
      (3)   Steam rooms and shower compartments shall have waterproof floors
walls and ceilings.
      (4)   Floors of wet and dry heat rooms shall be adequately pitched to one
or more floor drains properly connected to the sewer, except that dry heat
rooms with wooden floors need not be provided with pitched floors and floor
drains.
      (5)   A source of hot water must be available within the immediate
vicinity of dry and wet heat rooms to facilitate cleaning.
   (B)   (1)   The premises shall have adequate equipment for disinfecting and
sterilizing non-disposable instruments and materials used in administering
massages.
      (2)   The non-disposable instruments and materials shall be disinfected
after use on each patron.
   (C)   (1)   Closed cabinets shall be provided and used for the storage of
clean linen, towels and other materials used in connection with administering
massages.
      (2)   All soiled linens, towels and other materials shall be kept in
properly covered containers or cabinets, which containers or cabinets shall be
kept separate from the clean storage areas.
   (D)   (1)   Toilet facilities shall be provided in convenient locations.
      (2)   If employees and/or patrons of different sexes are on the premises
at the same time, separate toilet facilities shall be provided for each sex.
      (3)   A single water closet per sex shall be provided for each 20 or more
employees or patrons of that sex on the premises at any one time.
   (E)   (1)   Lavatories or washbasins provided with both hot and cold running
water shall be installed in either the toilet room or in close proximity
thereto.
      (2)   Lavatories or washbasins shall be provided with soap and a
dispenser and with sanitary towels.
   (F)   All electrical equipment shall be installed in accordance with the
requirements of the North Carolina Electrical Code.
(Ord. O-1-5-93, passed 1-5-1993) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.32 OPERATING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Every portion of the massage establishment, including appliances and
apparatus, shall be kept clean and operated in a sanitary condition.
   (B)   Price rates for all services shall be prominently posted in the
reception area in a location available to all prospective customers.
   (C)   (1)   All employees, including masseurs and masseuses, shall be clean
and wear clean, non-transparent outer garments, fully covering the body (except
for the arms and hands) from a point not to exceed four inches above the center
of the kneecap to the base of the neck.
      (2)   A separate dressing room for each sex must be available on the
premises with individual lockers for each employee. Doors to the dressing rooms
shall open inward and shall be self-closing.
   (D)   All massage establishments shall be provided with clean, laundered
sheets and towels in sufficient quantity and shall be laundered after each use
thereof and stored in a sanitary manner.
   (E)   No massage establishment granted a license under the provisions of
this chapter shall place, publish or distribute or cause to be placed,
published or distributed any advertisement, picture or statement which is known
or through the exercise of reasonable care should be known to be false,
deceptive or misleading in order to induce any person to purchase or utilize
any professional massage services.
(Ord. O-1-5-93, passed 1-5-1993) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.33 EMPLOYMENT OF MASSAGIST.
   No person shall employ as a massagist any person unless the employee has
obtained and has in effect a permit issued pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. O-1-5-93, passed 1-5-1993) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.34 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Chief of Police or his or her authorized representatives shall be
authorized to make inspections of each massage business establishment for the
purposes of determining that the provisions of this chapter are fully complied
with.
   (B)   (1)   If in the opinion of the Chief of Police or his or her
authorized representative there is probable cause to enter a massage
establishment for the purpose of making inspections and examinations pursuant
to this chapter, he or she shall request the owner or occupant thereof to grant
permission for entry.
      (2)   If refused, he or she shall make application for a search warrant
showing why the warrant should be issued for the purposes set forth in this
chapter.
(Ord. O-1-5-93, passed 1-5-1993)
§ 114.35 TRANSFER OF LICENSE OR PERMIT.
   (A)   No license or permit shall be transferable unless and until an
application for transfer has been submitted to and approved by the Chief of
Police.
   (B)   An application for the transfer shall be in writing and shall be
accompanied by fees prescribed in §§
114.21 and
114.22.
   (C)   The written application for the transfer shall contain the same
information as requested herein for initial application for the license or
permit and shall be issued to the Chief of Police pursuant to the provision of
§
114.23 of this chapter.
(Ord. O-1-5-93, passed 1-5-1993) Penalty, see §
114.99
PROHIBITIONS; UNLAWFUL ACTIVITY
§ 114.45 PERSONS UNDER AGE 18 PROHIBITED ON PREMISES.
   No person shall permit any person under the age of 18 years to come or
remain on the premises of any massage business establishment, as masseur,
employee or patron unless the person is on the premises on lawful business.
(Ord. O-1-5-93, passed 1-5-1993) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.46 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall sell, give, dispense, provide or keep or cause to be sold,
given, dispensed, provided or kept, any alcoholic beverage on the premises of
any massage business.
(Ord. O-1-5-93, passed 1-5-1993) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.47 HOURS.
   No massage business shall be kept open for any purpose between the hours of
10:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m.
(Ord. O-1-5-93, passed 1-5-1993) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.48 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person holding a permit under this
chapter to treat a person of the opposite sex, except upon the signed order of
a licensed physician, osteopath, chiropractor or registered physical therapist,
which order shall be dated and shall specifically state the number of
treatments, not to exceed ten.
      (2)   The date and hour of each treatment given and the name of the
operator shall be entered on the order by the establishment where the
treatments are given and shall be open to inspection by the police pursuant to
§
114.34.
      (3)   Any disclosure or use of the information for purposes other than
the enforcement of this chapter shall be unlawful.
      (4)   The requirements of this division shall not apply to treatments
given in the residence of a patient, the office of a licensed physician,
osteopath or registered physical therapist, chiropractor or in a regularly
established and licensed hospital or sanitarium.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, in a massage parlor, to
place his or her hand or hands upon, to touch with any part of his or her body,
to fondle in any manner or to massage, a sexual or genital part of any other
person.
      (2)   Sexual or genital parts shall include the genitals, pubic area,
buttocks, anus or perineum of any person or the vulva or breasts of a female.
   (C)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, in a massage parlor, to
expose his or her sexual or genital parts or any portions thereof, to any other
person.
      (2)   It shall also be unlawful for any person, in a massage parlor, to
expose the sexual or genital parts or any portions thereof, of any other
person.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person while in the presence of any other
person in a massage parlor, to fail to conceal with a fully opaque covering,
the sexual or genital parts of his or her body.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, operating or managing a
massage parlor, knowingly to cause, allow or permit in or about the massage
parlor, any agent, employee or any other person under his or her control or
supervision to perform acts prohibited in divisions (A), (B), (C) or (D) of
this section.
   (F)   (1)   It shall be further unlawful for any permittee under this
chapter to administer massage on an outcall basis as defined in §
114.02.
      (2)   The person shall administer massage solely within an establishment
licensed to carry on business under this chapter.
      (3)   Any violation of these provisions shall be deemed grounds for
revocation of the permit granted hereunder.
      (4)   The restriction on outcall massage shall not apply to a permittee
who performs outcall massage, as defined herein, upon a customer or client who,
because of reasons of physical defects or incapacities or due to illness is
physically unable to travel to the massage establishment.
      (5)   If any outcall massage is performed under this exception, a record
of the date and hour of each treatment and the name and address of the customer
or client and the name of the employee administering the treatment and the type
of treatment administered, as well as the nature of the physical defect,
incapacity or illness of the client or customer shall be kept by the licensee
or person or employee designated by the licensee.
      (6)   The records shall be open to inspection by the police pursuant to §
114.34.
      (7)   The information furnished or secured as a result of any inspection
shall be confidential.
      (8)   Any disclosure or use of the information for purposes other than
the enforcement of this chapter shall be unlawful.
   (G)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any massage service to be carried on
within any cubicle, room, booth or any area within a massage establishment
which is fitted with a door capable of being locked.
      (2)   Nothing contained herein shall be construed to eliminate other
requirements concerning the maintenance of premises, nor to preclude authorized
inspection thereof, whenever the inspection is deemed necessary by the police
or other authorities.
(Ord. O-1-5-93, passed 1-5-1993) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, except those persons who are specifically exempted by this
chapter, whether acting as an individual owner, employee of the owner, operator
or employee of the operator or whether acting as a mere agent or independent
contractor for the owner, employee or operator or acting as a participant or
worker, in any way, directly or indirectly, who gives massages or operates a
massage establishment or provides any of the services defined in this chapter
without first obtaining a license or permit and paying a fee to do so to the
town shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction the person shall be
punished by a fine not to exceed $500 or by imprisonment for a period not to
exceed 30 days or both.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any provision, section or division of
this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction the person
shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $500 or by imprisonment for a period
not to exceed 30 days or both.
(Ord. O-1-5-93, passed 1-5-1993)
CHAPTER 115: TAXICABS AND LIMOUSINES
Section
General Provisions
   
115.01   Definitions
   
115.02   Substitution of vehicles
   
115.03   Determination of increased need for certificates of convenience and
necessity
Operational Requirements
   
115.15   Licensing required
   
115.16   Revocation or suspension of owner’s permit and certificate
   
115.17   Failure to operate with regularity
   
115.18   Inspection of safety devices and taximeters
   
115.19   Ownership designation
   
115.20   Appearance and cleanliness standards
   
115.21   Liability insurance
   
115.22   Display of rates and map
   
115.23   Accident report
   
115.24   Taximeter required; definition; specifications; operation; inspection
   
115.25   Driver’s manifests
   
115.26   Display of permit
Application for Permit
   
115.40   Permit required
   
115.41   Application; form and contents
   
115.42   Investigation of applicant
   
115.43   Issuance
   
115.44   Appeal from denial
   
115.45   Duration and renewal
   
115.46   Revocation
   
115.47   Suspension of operating rights for failure to comply
Prohibited Activity
   
115.60   Evasion of fare
   
115.61   Soliciting taxicab patronage
   
115.62   Refusal of passengers restricted
   
115.63   Acceptance of additional passengers
Fare Regulations
   
115.75   Fare regulated
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 115.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CERTIFICATE OF CONVENIENCE AND NECESSITY. Certification by the Board of
Commissioners prior to the issue of a permit to operate a taxicab that public
convenience and necessity requires or will be served by the operation of the
taxicab.
   DRIVER’S PERMIT. A permit issued after examination authorizing a person to
drive a taxicab or limousine operating under this chapter.
   LIMOUSINE CERTIFICATE. A permit or license issued to an individual who owns
a motor vehicle to be used for hire in a passenger limousine service. Issuance
of the license certifies that the owner has met all ordinance requirements for
the operation of a limousine in the town.
   OWNER. Any individual operating one or more taxicabs or limousines.
   OWNER’S PERMIT. A license issued to an individual who owns a motor vehicle
or taxicab to be used for hire and transporting passengers within the city.
Issuance of the license constitutes a certificate of convenience and necessity.
   TAXICAB, LIMOUSINE or VEHICLE FOR HIRE. A passenger motor vehicle, other
than motor uses operating along regular routes and upon regular schedules,
which shall be used for the purpose of carrying or transporting any person or
persons from one place to another for which service a charge or fee is made.
   TAXIMETER. A mechanical instrument or device attached to a taxicab by which
the charge for the hire of a taxicab and its corresponding waiting time at a
predetermined rate is mechanically calculated and registered for the distance
traveled and the period of time awaited and upon which the charges shall be
identified by means of figures clearly visible for the passenger’s information.
(Ord. O-1-5-93, passed - -)
§ 115.02 SUBSTITUTION OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   The person to whom a certificate has been issued may, by appropriate
endorsement thereon by the Chief of Police or his or her designee, substitute
other vehicles for the vehicles for which certificates were granted.
   (B)   In such instance, the liability insurance or bonds shall also be
transferred to the substitute vehicles.
   (C)   Failure to responsibly and lawfully report and maintain liability
insurance records and vehicle registrations may render a permit subject to
revocation.
(Ord. O-1-5-93, passed - -)
§ 115.03 DETERMINATION OF INCREASED NEED FOR CERTIFICATES OF CONVENIENCE AND
NECESSITY.
   For the purpose of determining the need for increased taxicab service, the
following shall be considered:
   (A)   The number of filled and unfilled telephone requests for taxicab
service made on average days;
   (B)   The average response time for cabs after being dispatched;
   (C)   The percentage of instances in which the time of arrival at origin
followed the estimated time of arrival at origin by more than five minutes;
   (D)   The average travel time for fares;
   (E)   The percentage of instances in which the time of arrival at
destination followed the estimated time of arrival at destination by more than
ten minutes; and
   (F)   The number of permits not being operated with reasonable regularity as
defined herein.
(Ord. O-1-5-93, passed - -)
OPERATIONAL REQUIREMENTS
§ 115.15 LICENSING REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a taxicab on the
streets, alleys or highways of the town until the Board of Commissioners shall
establish that the public convenience and necessity will be served by the
operation of the taxicab.
      (2)   An application for consideration shall be filed with the Chief of
Police and shall contain the following: full name and address of the owners,
the place of business from which it will be operated and other information as
the Chief of Police or the Board of Commissioners may direct.
   (B)   (1)   The Chief of Police shall make investigations as to the fitness
of the applicant to operate a taxicab.
      (2)   If the results of the investigations are favorable to the
applicant, he or she shall submit the application to the Board of Commissioners
or its designee.
      (3)   The burden of proof shall be upon the applicant to establish the
existence of convenience and necessity to be served by the taxicab.
   (C)   In determining whether or not public convenience and necessity
requires or will be promoted by the operation of the taxicab, the Board of
Commissioners shall among other things take into consideration the following
factors:
      (1)   Whether or not the public convenience and necessity requires the
proposed or additional taxicab service within the town;
      (2)   The financial responsibility of the applicant and the likelihood of
the proposed service being permanent, responsible and satisfactory;
      (3)   The number and condition of equipment;
      (4)   The schedule of proposed rates to be charged;
      (5)   The number of taxicabs now operated and the demand for increased
service, if any and whether or not the safe use of the streets by the public,
both vehicular and pedestrian, will be preserved and whether or not adequate
provision has been made for off-street parking of the taxicabs;
      (6)   The experience of the applicant in the taxicab business;
      (7)   The location and method of dispatch; and
      (8)   Other relative facts as may be deemed necessary and advisable.
   (D)   If, after the investigations, the Board of Commissioners is of the
opinion that the applicant is a suitable person to operate the taxicab and will
use due diligence in safeguarding and protecting its passengers and the
interest of the public will be promoted by permitting its operation, the
application shall be approved and the Chief of Police shall issue to the
applicant an owner’s permit which constitutes a certificate of convenience and
necessity.
   (E)   The Board of Commissioners shall have the power and it shall be its
duty to order certain certificates issued or to refuse to issue certain
certificates or to issue certificates for a partial exercise only of the
privileges sought and may attach to the exercise of the rights granted only by
the certificates the terms and conditions as in their judgment the public
convenience and necessity may require.
   (F)   If the Board of Commissioners is of the opinion either that the
applicant is not a suitable person to engage in the business of operating
taxicabs in the town or that the public convenience and necessity does not
require and will not be promoted by the licensing of an additional taxicab, the
application shall be denied and one or more of the following factors shall be
deemed sufficient grounds:
      (1)   Failure of the applicant (owner) to comply with all the provisions
of this chapter;
      (2)   Unpaid or unbonded judgements of record against the applicant
(owner);
      (3)   The applicant, from a standpoint of experience and financial
responsibility, is not sufficiently qualified and able to render satisfactory
taxicab service to the public as the public safety, convenience and welfare
requires;
      (4)   (a)   The criminal record of the applicant, if any, is such that it
would be against the public interest and welfare for the application to be
granted; and
         (b)   In addition to felony convictions, misdemeanors of a serious
nature may be considered.
      (5)   The applicant has made false or misleading statements in his or her
application; and/or
      (6)   Habitual violation of traffic laws or ordinances.
   (G)   The Board of Commissioners may refuse to issue an owner’s permit to
any person who has been convicted of a felony or of a violation of any federal
or state statute relating to the use, possession or sale of intoxicating
liquors or of any federal or state statute relating to the use, possession or
sale of habit-forming drugs; or to any person who is an habitual user of
intoxicating liquors or narcotic drugs.
   (H)   The applicant shall be notified when the application will be
considered by the Board of Commissioners and given an opportunity to attend and
be heard.
      (1)   If approved, the applicant shall be granted 60 days from the date
of approval to obtain a vehicle to be used in the exercise of the permit,
certificates of insurance as required by §
115.21 and a permanent means of 24-hour radio dispatch.
      (2)   Proof that the above requirements have been met shall be submitted
to the Chief of Police or his or her designee within the 60-day period.
      (3)   The applicant shall submit, for approval, information on the
vehicle to be used.
      (4)   The Chief of Police or his or her designee, shall have the
authority to approve the vehicle after considering age, type, mechanical
condition, appearance and general suitability of the vehicle to be used as a
taxicab.
   (I)   (1)   The applicant may appeal disapproval of a vehicle to the Board
of Commissioners for review within 30 days of the disapproval.
      (2)   Any appeal shall be in writing and set forth in the reasons for the
appeal.
   (J)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a limousine on
the streets or highways of the town until he or she shall have obtained a
certificate for its operation approved by the Board of Commissioners.
      (2)   An application shall be filed with the Chief of Police and shall
contain the following: full name and address of the owner(s), the place of
business from which it will be operated and documentation of the attainment of
public liability and property damage insurance.
      (3)   If the Chief of Police determines that the applicant is a suitable
person to operate the limousine and will use due diligence in safeguarding and
protecting its passengers and the interest of the public will be promoted by
permitting its operation, he or she shall recommend to the Board of
Commissioners issuance of the limousine certificate.
      (4)   Factors listed in the foregoing portions of this section shall be
considered in making this determination.
   (K)   The issuance of an owner’s permit shall constitute a franchise from
the town subject to the provisions of this chapter for one year ending on
December 31 of each year, unless a shorter period of time is specified.
   (L)   Applications for renewal shall constitute surrender of the permit.
   (M)   (1)   A limousine certificate shall be valid for one year ending
December 31 of each year.
      (2)   Applications for renewal shall be filed annually prior to January
31.
   (N)   Permits are not transferable.
   (O)   In the event that a taxicab owner dies or becomes permanently
disabled, the Board of Commissioners may give priority consideration to the
spouse of the owner for re-issue of the permit, dependent upon family
circumstances.
(Ord. O-1-5-93, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.16 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF OWNER’S PERMIT AND CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   (1)   The required permit and certificate shall be subject to
revocation by any court of competent jurisdiction or by the Board of
Commissioners for violations of the conditions of issuance specified in this
chapter.
      (2)   Pending action by the court or the Board of Commissioners, the
permits and certificates shall be subject to revocation by the Chief of Police.
      (3)   The operator shall be notified when the revocation of his or her
permit will be considered by the Board of Commissioners and he or she shall be
given an opportunity to attend and be heard.
   (B)   An owner’s permit may be suspended or revoked by the Board of
Commissioners at any time the Board finds and determines:
      (1)   The past record of the holder of the owner’s permit is
unsatisfactory and that it is detrimental to and not in the public interest to
permit the continued operation of a taxicab business by the person;
      (2)   The owner has failed to operate the taxicab or taxicabs in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter;
      (3)   The taxicabs or taxicabs of the owner have been operated at a rate
of fare other than that provided by this chapter;
      (4)   The holder of a permit has failed to register properly with the
state, in the correct and true owner’s name, any taxicab covered by the owner’s
permit;
      (5)   The holder of an owner’s permit has been convicted of a felony; or
violation of any federal or state statute or town ordinance relating to the
possession or sale of intoxicating liquors; or violation of any federal or
state statute or town ordinance relating to prostitution; or any federal or
state statute or town ordinance relating to the use, possession or sale of
narcotic drugs; or repeated violations of traffic laws or ordinances; or
becomes a habitual user of intoxicating liquors or narcotic drugs; or
      (6)   The holder of any owner’s permit has made a false or misleading
statement on his or her application.
   (C)   No owner’s permit shall be suspended or revoked unless and until at
least five-days’ written notice of the time and place of a hearing shall have
been given to the holder of the permit and the hearing by and before the Board
of Commissioners is duly had thereon.
(Ord. O-1-5-93, passed - -)
§ 115.17 FAILURE TO OPERATE WITH REGULARITY.
   (A)   (1)   Every person having obtained a permit to operate a taxicab shall
be required to operate the taxicab in business with reasonable regularity.
      (2)   Reasonable regularity shall be defined as a minimum of 72 hours per
week that the vehicle used in the operation of the permit must be available for
service.
      (3)   The permit of every taxicab operator shall be subject to revocation
if the operator fails to operate the taxicab with reasonable regularity for any
period of 60 days.
      (4)   Every operator of a taxicab who fails to operate with reasonable
regularity shall be given ten-days’ notice to appear before the Board of
Commissioners to show just cause why the permit should not be revoked.
      (5)   The notice shall be made by certified mail to the permit holder.
      (6)   If delivery is refused, no further notice is required.
      (7)   The operator may request an automatic 14-day continuance before the
matter is heard.
      (8)   If, upon the hearing, it shall appear that the taxicab is not being
operated in the interest or the convenience and necessity of the public and not
being operated with reasonable regularity, the Board of Commissioners is
authorized to revoke the permit.
   (B)   Hours and days of operation of every valid permit shall be
consideration in the decision to issue or not issue additional certificates as
provided in §
115.40.
(Ord. O-1-5-93, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.18 INSPECTION OF SAFETY DEVICES AND TAXIMETERS.
   (A)   Before any vehicle shall be operated as a taxicab or limousine in the
town, the owner thereof shall submit the same to the Chief of Police or his or
her designated assistant at a time and place to be fixed by the Chief of Police
for the inspection of the taximeter and brakes, lights, horns, tires and all
other features of the vehicle.
   (B)   If, upon examination of the vehicle by the Chief of Police or his or
her designated assistant, it is found to be in proper condition, he or she
shall approve the same and issue to the owner a certificate of approval and if
found unsafe or unfit for operation or if the vehicle otherwise fails to comply
with the provisions of this chapter, the Chief of Police shall notify the owner
thereof and the vehicle shall not be operated thereafter until it has been put
in safe and proper condition.
   (C)   Every taxicab and limousine shall be submitted to the Chief of Police
or his or her designated assistant for an examination as herein set forth not
less than once each 90 days and at other intervening periods as deemed
necessary.
   (D)   The inspections may be scheduled in advance or unannounced.
   (E)   It shall be the responsibility of each owner to regularly inspect the
vehicles for which he or she is permitted to ensure its safe and proper
operating condition.
   (F)   The inspections shall be made monthly and a record of these
inspections kept by each owner to be provided to the taxicab inspector upon
request.
(Ord. O-1-5-93, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.19 OWNERSHIP DESIGNATION.
   Every taxicab operated upon the streets of the town shall have the name of
the owner and, at his or her option, the address and telephone number painted
in letters at least two inches in height upon each side of the main portion of
the body in a manner plainly visible at all times and in addition thereto the
owner’s identifying number shall be pointed on each side of the body and on the
rear in a conspicuous place in numerals at least three inches high.
(Ord. O-1-5-93, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.20 APPEARANCE AND CLEANLINESS STANDARDS.
   (A)   Each taxicab and limousine owner shall, at all times, maintain the
taxicab he or she is driving in a clean, sanitary and good mechanical condition
to the standard determined by the taxicab inspector to be satisfactory.
   (B)   Each taxicab driver shall adhere to the following code of dress and
behavior which shall be considered by the taxicab inspector at each inspection.
      (1)   T-shirts, shorts and sandals are not permitted attire.
      (2)   Shirts must have collars.
      (3)   Cigarette smoking is permitted only with the passenger’s express
permission; cigar smoking is never permitted.
      (4)   Daily personal hygiene is required.
      (5)   Hair must be combed neatly.
      (6)   Shirts must be buttoned and shirt tails tucked in.
      (7)   Socks must be worn with shoes.
   (C)   The following are recommended standards for taxicab drivers:
      (1)   Offering patrons a friendly and courteous greeting and avoiding
profanity or offensive language;
      (2)   Opening car doors for passengers when feasible and offering
assistance to handicapped and elderly patrons;
      (3)   Playing radios and tape players only with the passenger’s
permission; and
      (4)   Thanking patrons for their business.
(Ord. O-1-5-93, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.21 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   (A)   The owner of every bus, taxicab, limousine or other motor vehicle
engaged in the business of transporting passengers for hire over the public
streets of the town shall furnish to the Chief of Police, to be filed by the
Town Clerk and keep in effect for each bus, taxicab or other vehicle so
operated, a policy of insurance or surety bonds, in the forms and issued by the
company or executed by sureties as shall be approved by the Town Clerk, to
insure the payment of damages incurred in any one accident for personal
injuries resulting from the negligent operation of the vehicle to any one
person to the extent of $50,000 and to more than one person to the extent of
$100,000 and for property damage to the extent of $25,000.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle for
hire within the town and unlawful for the owner thereof to permit the same to
be operated unless and until a public liability insurance policy or surety bond
is filed with the Chief of Police and unless the policy or surety bond is in
full force and effect at the time of the operation of the motor vehicle.
(Ord. O-1-5-93, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.22 DISPLAY OF RATES AND MAP.
   (A)   A copy of the rates and charges authorized by this chapter shall be
conspicuously displayed on the inside of the taxicab where the same can be
clearly seen by occupants of the back seat on every taxicab operated in the
town; and it shall be unlawful for any driver to operate a taxicab unless the
rates are displayed therein.
   (B)   (1)   If it is determined that an owner or driver charges a passenger
in excess of the metered fare or attempts to overcharge in any manner, the
permit for that cab is subject to revocation.
      (2)   In no event shall any operator take a longer route to the
destination than necessary, unless so requested by the passenger or unless an
alternate route is known by the driver to be the most efficient route due to
traffic conditions, road construction, trains and similar obstacles.
(Ord. O-1-5-93, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.23 ACCIDENT REPORT.
   It shall be the duty of any taxicab limousine operator, owner or driver to
report any and all accidents of any taxicabs including incidents of passenger
injury operated by him or her to the Chief of Police immediately after the
accident. Failure to report as required within one week shall constitute cause
for revocation of the permit. If, following an investigation, a determination
is made by the Chief of Police that the number of accidents for an owner or
driver is excessive, he or she shall recommend to the Board of Commissioners
that the owner or driver’s permit be revoked.
(Ord. O-1-5-93, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.24 TAXIMETER REQUIRED; DEFINITION; SPECIFICATIONS; OPERATION; INSPECTION.
   Every taxicab shall have affixed thereto and must use a taximeter the size,
design and contents of which have been approved by the Chief of Police or his
or her designee and which conforms substantially to the following
specifications.
   (A)   A taximeter is a mechanical instrument or device by which the charge
for hire of a taxicab is mechanically calculated either for distance traveled
or for waiting time or both and upon which the charge shall be indicated by
means of legible figures which are electrically lighted each time the taximeter
flag is thrown from nonearning to earning position.
   (B)   Each taximeter must be driven directly from the taxicab transmission
(instead of merely connecting with the speedometer driving shaft) to the
taximeter head itself, using a flexible shaft and a flexible housing so
connected and sealed as to be nontamperable.
   (C)   No person shall use or permit to be used upon any taxicab a taximeter
which shall be in a condition as to be over 5% incorrect to the prejudice of
any passenger.
   (D)   No person shall use or permit to be used or driven for hire a taxicab
equipped with a taximeter the case of which and does not have its cover and
gear intact.
   (E)   If demanded by the passenger, the driver in charge of a taxicab shall
deliver to the person paying for the hiring of the same at the time of the
payment a receipt therefor in legible type or writing containing the name of
the owner, the town license number of the driver’s town license number or the
taximeter number and any items for which a charge is made, the total amount
paid and the day of payment.
   (F)   (1)   No person shall drive a taxicab equipped with a taximeter that
has not been duly inspected and approved pursuant to taximeter that has not
been duly inspected and approved pursuant to §
115.18 of this chapter.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to change the size of the wheels or tires of a
taxicab or the gears operating the taximeter or to change a taximeter from one
taxicab to another unless the taximeter is retested and approved by the Chief
of Police or his or her designee.
(Ord. O-1-5-93, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.25 DRIVER’S MANIFESTS.
   (A)   (1)   Every driver shall maintain a daily manifest upon which is
recorded all trips made each day, showing time and place of origin and
destination of each trip, the number of passengers and amount of fare, in the
case of shared taxicab service trips, time the request was made for the
taxicabs, estimated time of arrival at destination and whether any of the
passengers were blind and/or handicapped and/or confined to a wheelchair and/or
required assistance by the driver.
      (2)   All the completed manifests shall be returned to the owner by the
driver at the conclusion of his or her tour of duty.
      (3)   The forms for the records shall be furnished to the driver by the
owner and shall be of a character approved by the Chief of Police.
   (B)   Every owner shall retain and preserve all drivers’ manifests in a safe
place for at least 180 days and the same shall be made available upon demand
for inspection by the Police Department and as requested by the Chief of
Police, information on the driver’s manifests shall be tabulated and forwarded
to him or her.
   (C)   Enforcement of the above section shall be held in abeyance until the
time as a request is made for an increase in the number of certificates of
convenience and necessity allowed in the town. Accompanying the a request shall
be a minimum of six months of manifests for each cab for the preceding period
kept in accordance with the provisions of this section.
(Ord. O-1-5-93, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.26 DISPLAY OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The driver’s permit shall be conspicuously displayed where the same
may be seen by occupants of the rear seat in any taxicab operated by the
permittee and it shall be unlawful for any person to operate or for any owner
to permit to be operated, any taxicab by any person other than the operator
designated in the permit displayed in the taxicab.
   (B)   (1)   Permits for limousine drivers must be available in the vehicle
the driver is operating and be submitted for inspection upon request of any
passenger or police official.
      (2)   Failure to have a valid permit in the vehicle shall constitute
cause for suspension of the permit.
(Ord. O-1-5-93, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
APPLICATION FOR PERMIT
§ 115.40 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall drive a taxicab or limousine in the town, nor shall any
owner permit any person to drive a taxicab or limousine, until the person shall
have been granted a driver’s permit by the Chief of Police.
(Ord. O-1-5-93, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.41 APPLICATION; FORM AND CONTENTS.
   (A)   Application for a driver’s permit shall be made in writing to the
Chief of Police, which application shall contain the name, age and address of
the applicant and the name of his or her employer and shall contain a statement
as to whether the applicant has ever been convicted of any provision of this
code, state law or city ordinance rule or regulation.
   (B)   The application shall be signed by the owner who shall have made
reasonable determination that the driver meets the requirements of this chapter
and is recommended for approval by the owner.
(Ord. O-1-5-93, passed - -)
§ 115.42 INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall make the investigation as he or she may deem
necessary of the applicant to determine whether the applicant may be relied
upon to transport passengers with reasonable safety and is knowledgeable of the
chapter regulating taxicabs.
   (B)   Refusal to grant or renew a permit shall be made for any person:
      (1)   Whose state driver’s license or chauffeur’s license has been
suspended or revoked;
      (2)   Who has accumulated a sufficient number of points against his or
her driving record to justify a suspension or revocation in accordance with
G.S. §§ 20-1 et seq.;
      (3)   Who, within a period of three years, has been convicted of a
felony;
      (4)   Who, within a period of three years, has been convicted of any
crime involving the driving of an automobile resulting in death to any person;
      (5)   Who, within a period of three years, has been convicted of driving
a motor vehicle while impaired;
      (6)   Who, within a period of three years, has been convicted of a
violation of any city, county, state or federal law relating to the use,
possession or sale of intoxicating liquors, alcoholic beverages, beer or wine,
narcotic or barbituric or other habit-forming drugs;
      (7)   Who, within a period of three years, has been convicted of any
city, state, county or federal law relating to prostitution or lotteries; and/
or
      (8)   Who, within a period of three years has been a habitual user of
intoxicating liquors, alcoholic beverages, narcotic, barbituric or other habit-
forming drugs.
(Ord. O-1-5-93, passed - -)
§ 115.43 ISSUANCE.
   (A)   If the result of the investigation is satisfactory, the Chief of
Police shall issue to the applicant a driver’s permit consisting of an
identification card bearing the name, age and residence of the person to whom
it is issued, the date of the issuance and the expiration date and the name of
the owner of the vehicle to be operated.
   (B)   A small photograph of the applicant shall be posted on the permit in a
place to be provided therefor. A fee shall be required of the applicant for the
permit.
(Ord. O-1-5-93, passed - -)
§ 115.44 APPEAL FROM DENIAL.
   (A)   In the event that the applicant is denied a driver’s permit by the
Chief of Police, the applicant may appeal the denial to the Board of
Commissioners in accordance with the following:
      (1)   The applicant shall appeal, in writing, to the Board of
Commissioners;
      (2)   The Board’s decision on the question of the granting or refusing
the permit shall be final and conclusive; and/or
      (3)   The Board may attach conditions to any appeal it sustains.
   (B)   After refusal by the Board, the applicant shall make no new
application within 12 months from the date of the original application.
   (C)   During pendency of an appeal from a decision to revoke a driver’s
permit, it shall be unlawful for the applicant to drive a vehicle for hire.
(Ord. O-1-5-93, passed - -)
§ 115.45 DURATION AND RENEWAL.
   (A)   Every permit issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be
valid for a period of one year, except as noted.
   (B)   The applicant shall file with the Chief of Police a renewal
application.
   (C)   Permits are renewable on January 1 of each year.
   (D)   Upon the expiration of any permit issued under the provisions of this
chapter, the Chief of Police may, upon application filed in the form and giving
the information required in the original application, renew and extend the
permit for an additional period of 12 months.
(Ord. O-1-5-93, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.46 REVOCATION.
   (A)   The driver’s permit shall be subject to revocation by the Chief of
Police for the violation of provision of this code, state law or town
ordinance, rule or regulation governing or regulating the operation of taxicabs
or motor vehicles or relating to alcoholic beverages or prostitution.
   (B)   The permit may be revoked by the Board of commissioners upon a finding
by the Board that the driver is not a suitable person to operate a taxicab in
the town.
   (C)   The driver shall be notified when the revocation of this permit will
be considered by the Board of Commissioners and he or she shall be given an
opportunity to attend and be heard.
(Ord. O-1-5-93, passed - -)
§ 115.47 SUSPENSION OF OPERATING RIGHTS FOR FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   If the Chief of Police or his or her designee, shall determine that any
owner of driver has failed to comply with any provisions of this chapter, he or
she is hereby authorized to temporarily suspend the owner’s permit and require
the vehicle to be taken out of service until the vehicle and/or owner is in
compliance, with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. O-1-5-93, passed - -)
PROHIBITED ACTIVITY
§ 115.60 EVASION OF FARE.
   Any person who obtains transportation from a licensed taxicab or limousine
driver without paying therefor with intent to defraud the driver or who after
obtaining the transportation refuses or knowingly and willfully fails to pay
for the same shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. O-1-5-93, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.61 SOLICITING TAXICAB PATRONAGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person operating or in charge of a taxicab or
other public vehicle for hire to go upon the premises of any place or public
accommodation to solicit patronage from travelers or other persons or to take
hold of any passenger’s clothing, baggage or other property, unless requested
to do so or to, in any manner, disturb or annoy passengers or other persons on
the premises or on the streets in the vicinity thereof provided, that this
section shall not be construed or forbid any person in charge of a taxicab or
other public vehicle from calling the word taxicab, courteously soliciting
patronage while the operator is standing near and not exceeding ten feet from
his or her taxicab nor to forbid any taxicab operator in possession of a check
for baggage from going upon the premises to secure the checked baggage.
(Ord. O-1-5-93, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.62 REFUSAL OF PASSENGERS RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any taxicab operator to refuse to carry or
transport any orderly person anywhere in the town unless previously engaged or
unable to do so or to select and reject fares by points of origination based on
their comparative profit margins.
(Ord. O-1-5-93, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.63 ACCEPTANCE OF ADDITIONAL PASSENGERS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any taxicab or limousine operator, driver or
owner of any vehicle carrying passengers for hire within the corporate limits
to allow any person from the general public to ride when transporting in the
vehicle for hire a paying passenger or passengers.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for additional passengers to be picked up if the
original passenger is under 16 years of age.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for additional passenger(s) to be picked up
without the prior permission of the first paying passenger(s).
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for additional passengers to be picked up
unknowing that the taxicab carries previous passengers.
(Ord. O-1-5-93, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
FARE REGULATIONS
§ 115.75 FARE REGULATED.
   (A)   (1)   Effective June 30, 1992, all taxicabs shall be equipped with
taximeters meeting the standards of §
115.18 of this chapter and it shall be unlawful for an operator of an any
taxicab or vehicle for hire to charge for transporting any passenger from or to
any place inside the corporate limits of the Town, taxicab fares in excess of
the following rates determined by the taximeter:
 
Distance                                           Cost
First one-sixth mile or fraction thereof           $1.40
Each succeeding one-sixth mile or fraction thereof $.10
Waiting time, per hour                             $12.00
 
      (2)   Waiting time is to be charged only as provided in division (E).
   (B)   In addition to the charges set forth in division (A) of this section,
the following handling charges to transport, load and unload the following may
be charged if requested by the passenger:
 
Items                                                                     Cost
Each suitcase, traveling bag or bundles exceeding one in number           $.25
Each footlocker or other package or article of similar size               $.50
Each steamer trunk or other package of similar size                       $1.00
Groceries in bags in excess of one per passenger                          $.10
Groceries in cartons, boxes or crates, each                               $.10
Bulky items which weigh more than 50 pounds (such as, but not limited to, $.50
bags, cartons, boxes of coal, feed, fertilizer, rolls of paper)
 
   (C)   (1)   There shall be no additional charge for groups whose trips
originate at the same location and whose destination is the same.
      (2)   The maximum number of passengers which may be transported in a
taxicab is five.
   (D)   (1)   For multiple passengers boarding at different locations and
traveling to different destinations, the first passenger leaving the taxicab
shall be chargeable for the amount of the fare shown on the taximeter and
before proceeding to transport the remaining passenger(s), the flag shall again
be placed in the earning position so as to designate the beginning of a new and
separate trip as to the remaining passenger(s) in the taxicab and the process
shall be repeated each time a passenger reaches his or her destination and
alights from the taxicab so that the last passenger(s) leaving the taxicab
shall be chargeable with the fare appearing upon the taximeter upon leaving the
taxicab unless otherwise arranged between the taxicab operator and the
passengers.
      (2)   Provided that for taxicabs equipped with taximeters capable of
multiple flag drops so that each passenger’s fare is calculated separately from
the point of pickup to his or her destination, this method shall be employed to
charge each passenger unless otherwise arranged between the taxicab operator
and the passengers.
      (3)   In no case, however, shall the fares charged exceed the amount as
calculated by one of the above methods or as provided in division (C).
   (E)   Waiting time shall be defined as the period of time consumed when a
taxicab is not in motion at the direction of a passenger from the time of
acceptance of a passenger(s) to the time of discharge and also the time
consumed while a driver is waiting for a passenger after having responded to a
call but does not include the time consumed by a premature response or for the
first three minutes following the timely arrival in response to a call or for
delay caused by traffic interruption, the inefficiency of the taxicab or its
driver or due to any cause other than the request, act or fault of the
passenger(s).
   (F)   Although not regulated by this chapter, all fare schedules and related
charges for limousine services must be submitted to the Chief of Police and
updated as needed.
(Ord. O-1-5-93, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 116: YARD SALES
Section
   
116.01   Definition
   
116.02   Procedures and regulations
§ 116.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   YARD SALE, ATTIC SALE, LAWN SALE or GARAGE SALE. The sale of residential
household items which have been owned or used previously primarily by a person
residing on the premises where the sale is conducted, but does not include
items purchased for re-sale.
(Ord. O-7-2-91, passed 7-2-1991)
§ 116.02 PROCEDURES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   A yard sale, as defined above, shall be limited to the daylight hours
of no more than two consecutive days, four times during the calendar year.
   (B)   No more than two signs of not more than six square feet each may be
displayed on the property of the residence where the sale is held.
   (C)   Permits are not required for the signs.
   (D)   Signs may not be exhibited for more than two days prior to the day the
sale is to be commenced and must be removed at the completion of the sale.
   (E)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to or affect the
following persons or sales:
      (1)   Persons selling goods pursuant to an order or process of a court of
competent jurisdiction; and/or
      (2)   Any person conducting an incidental sale of one or two separate
items when the sale is not part of a general sale of a number of items of
personal property.
(Ord. O-7-2-91, passed 7-2-1991) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST MORALS
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND SAFETY
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
      
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION
      
134.   OFFENSES INVOLVING THE PROTECTION OF YOUTH
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST MORALS
Section
   
130.01   Profanity
   
130.02   Indecent exposure
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 PROFANITY.
   No person shall, in any public place, whether publicly or privately owned,
use indecent, obscene, or profane language.
(Ord. O-1-5-93, passed - -) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 INDECENT EXPOSURE.
   (A)   Unless the conduct is punishable under division (A)(1) of this
section, any person who shall willfully expose the private parts of his or her
person in any public place and in the presence of any other person or persons,
except for those places designated for a public purpose where the same sex
exposure is incidental to a permitted activity, or aids or abets in any such
act, or who procures another to perform such act; or any person, who as owner,
manager, lessee, director, promoter or agent, or in any other capacity
knowingly hires, leases or permits the land, building, or premises of which he
is owner, lessee or tenant, or over which he has control, to be used for
purposes of any such act, shall be guilty of a Class 2 misdemeanor.
      (1)   Unless the conduct is prohibited by another law providing greater
punishment, any person at least 18 years of age who shall willfully expose the
private parts of his or her person in any public place
in the presence of a minor as defined in G.S. 14-190.13 for the purpose of
arousing or gratifying sexual desire shall be guilty of a Class H felony. An
offense committed under this subsection shall not be considered to be a lesser
included offense under G.S. 14-202.1.
      (2)   Unless the conduct is prohibited by another law providing greater
punishment, any person who shall willfully expose the private parts of his or
her person in the presence of anyone other than a consenting adult on the
private premises of another or so near thereto as to be seen from such private
premises for the purpose of arousing or gratifying sexual desire is guilty of a
Class 2 misdemeanor.
      (3)   Unless the conduct is punishable by another law providing greater
punishment, any person at least 18 years of age who shall willfully expose the
private parts of his or her person in a private residence of which they are not
a resident and in the presence of a minor as defined in G.S. 14-190.13 who is a
resident of that private residence shall be guilty of a Class 2 misdemeanor.
      (4)   Unless the conduct is prohibited by another law providing greater
punishment, any person located in a private place who shall willfully expose
the private parts of his or her person with the knowing intent to be seen by a
person in a public place shall be guilty of a Class 2 misdemeanor.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a woman may breast feed in
any public or private location where she is otherwise authorized to be,
irrespective of whether the nipple of the mother's breast is uncovered during
or incidental to the breast feeding.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a local government may
regulate the location and operation of sexually oriented businesses. Such local
regulation may restrict or prohibit nude, seminude, or topless dancing to the
extent consistent with the constitutional protection afforded free speech.
(G.S. § 14-190.9) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Violation of §
130.01 is a general misdemeanor, punishable by a fine not exceeding $50, or
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 30 days, or both.
(Ord. O-1-5-93, passed - -)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND SAFETY
Section
   
131.01   Consumption of alcoholic beverages in public
   
131.02   Public intoxication
   
131.03   Unlawful assembly
   
131.04   Discharge of firearms
   
131.05   Possession of guns, pistols, knives or dangerous weapons
   
131.06   Carrying concealed handguns on town property
   
131.07   Nuisance party
   
131.08   Party permits
§ 131.01 CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES IN PUBLIC.
   No person shall consume, serve, or drink wine, beer, whiskey, or alcoholic
beverages of any kind on the public streets, boulevards, alleys, or in public
buildings.
(1988 Code, § 131.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.02 PUBLIC INTOXICATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any intoxicated person to be on or upon any public
street or other public place.
(1988 Code, § 131.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.03 UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any two or more persons within the town to
assemble together for any unlawful purpose, or being assembled, to act in
concert to do any unlawful act with force and violence against the property of
the town, or the person or property of another, or against the peace or to the
terror of citizens or other persons or who shall make any movement or
preparation therefor.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly suffer or permit any assemblage for the
purpose of committing any unlawful act or breach of the peace or any riotous,
offensive, or disorderly conduct in or upon the premises owned by him or her or
under his or her control within the town.
(1988 Code, § 131.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.04 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any firearm of any
type within the corporate limits except a peace officer in the performance of
his or her duty.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section shall not be applicable to persons
participating in shooting events sponsored by a non-profit or charitable
organization when the organization has obtained permission from the Board of
Commissioners to conduct the event.
(1988 Code, § 131.04) (Am. Ord. passed 11-6-1984) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town to regulate or prohibit discharge of firearms, see G.S. §
160A-189
§ 131.05 POSSESSION OF GUNS, PISTOLS, KNIVES OR DANGEROUS WEAPONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to have in his or her immediate
possession and control any guns, pistols, rifles, knives, bowie knife, dirk,
dagger, slingshot, loaded cane, brass iron or metallic weapon of like kind
while under the influence of intoxicating drinks or on the premises of a
church, polling place or other public building or facility in the town.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall apply within the town limits and
within one mile thereof.
(Ord. O-10-3-95, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.06 CARRYING CONCEALED HANDGUNS ON TOWN PROPERTY.
   (A)   The Town Superintendent or his or her designee is hereby authorized
and instructed to post conspicuous signs on or within each park and each
building or portion of a building owned, leased as lessee, operated, occupied,
managed, or controlled by the town, as well as the appurtenant premises to the
buildings, indicating that carrying a concealed handgun therein is prohibited.
   (B)   (1)   Signs on buildings shall be visibly posted on the exterior of
each entrance by which any member of the general public can enter the building.
      (2)   The signs posted in town parks, appurtenant premises to town
buildings, shall be placed in an appropriate location to clearly indicate that
the carrying of concealed handguns in the park or appurtenant premises is
prohibited.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person not a law enforcement officer to
carry a concealed handgun on town property or in a town vehicle which has been
posted pursuant to this section.
   (D)   The violation of this section shall constitute a violation of G.S. §
14-54.
(Ord. O-11-7-95, passed 11-7-1995) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.07 NUISANCE PARTY.
   (A)   A nuisance party is a party or other social gathering conducted in the
town and which, by reason of the conduct of those persons in attendance,
results in any one or more of the following conditions or occurrences: unlawful
sale or public possession or use of alcohol or illegal drugs, unlawful drunken
and disruptive conduct; public urination or defecation; the
unlawful sale, furnishing, or consumption of alcoholic beverages; the unlawful
deposit of trash or litter on public or private property; the unlawful
destruction of public or private property; the generation of pedestrian or
vehicular traffic caused by those invited to or allowed to attend which
obstructs the free flow of residential traffic or interferes with the ability
to provide emergency services; excessive, unnecessary or unusually loud noise
which disturbs the repose of the neighborhood; public disturbances, brawls,
fights or quarrels; or any other activity resulting in conditions that annoy,
injure or endanger the safety, health, comfort or repose of the neighboring
residents, or results in any obscene conduct, or results in any immoral
exhibition or indecent exposure by persons at the gathering.
   (B)   Any person being the owner, occupant, tenant, or otherwise having any
possessory control of any degree of any premises who either sponsors, conducts,
hosts, invites, suffers, permits, or continues to allow a gathering to continue
which is or becomes
a nuisance as described in division (A) above is in violation of this section
and may be punished by any of the criminal or civil enforcement penalties
available. Any person who remains in attendance at a nuisance party after being
directed by an officer to leave is also in violation of this section.
   (C)   Party permit required. A party permit shall be required for all
properties where a nuisance party has occurred within the previous 24-month
period, as evidenced by a notice letter or issuance of a civil penalty, prior
to any subsequent use of the property for a party, as that term is defined in §
131.08.
   (D)   Civil penalties.
      (1)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this section shall be
subject to a civil penalty of $250. The Police Department is authorized to
issue civil penalty citations to enforce this section. Each calendar day on
which a continuing violation occurs shall constitute a separate violation under
this division. For each subsequent violation occurring within 12 months of any
other violation, the violator shall be subject to a civil penalty of $500 per
violation. If a person fails to pay any civil penalty within 30 days after it
is assessed, the town may recover the penalty, together with all costs allowed
by law, by filing a civil action in the General Court of Justice in the nature
of a suit to collect a debt.
      (2)   Appeal of civil penalties. Any person issued a civil penalty under
the provisions of this section may appeal by filing an appeal in writing with
the Police Department within ten calendar days after the civil penalty is
issued. The written appeal shall state all reasons that the civil penalty was
wrongly applied and shall include all supporting documentation that the
appellant contends supports the appeal. If a person files a written appeal
within the time provided in this section, the penalty being appealed shall be
stayed pending the decision of the Chief.
   (E)   Injunctive and other equitable relief. This section may be enforced by
injunction or any appropriate equitable remedy. The institution of an action
for injunctive or equitable relief shall not relieve any party to such
proceeding from any civil or criminal penalty prescribed for violations of this
section.
   (F)   Criminal penalties. Any person who violates any provision of this
section shall be deemed guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor punishable by
imprisonment not to exceed 30 days or by fine not to exceed $500. Each day of a
continuing violation shall constitute a separate violation under this division.
   (G)   This section may be enforced by any one, all, or a combination of the
remedies set out herein.
(Ord. passed 10-1-2024)
§ 131.08 PARTY PERMITS.
   (A)   Applicability. A party permit shall be required as provided in §
131.07 and for any event falling within the definition of PARTY as defined in
the following division (B).
   (B)   PARTY. Any gathering, whether it be social, fraternal, commercial, or
otherwise, of 40 or more persons where any of the following is expected to, or
does occur:
      (1)   Amplified music;
      (2)   Alcoholic beverages will be sold, served, or consumed;
      (3)   The gathering is for a commercial or fundraising purpose; or
      (4)   The owner of the building is not present for the party.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not be applicable to churches,
governmental buildings, school buildings, or residential buildings including
single or multi-family dwellings.
   (D)   An application for a party permit shall provide the following
information:
      (1)   The name, address, and phone number of the property owner;
      (2)   The name, address, and phone number of the applicant;
      (3)   The date and times during which the party is to occur;
      (4)   The expected number of persons in attendance for the party;
      (5)   Whether alcohol is to be served or consumed on the premises during
the party; and
      (6)   The identity of the party sponsorship: Individual, non-profit, or
for profit.
   (E)   The cost of a party permit shall be listed in the town fee schedule.
   (F)   The permit shall give the permit holder the permission to conduct a
party at the described place during the described hours with the following
conditions:
      (1)   The holder of a party permit shall provide at least one uniformed
sworn law enforcement officer or at least one uniformed security guard
furnished by a company licensed to provide security by the State of North
Carolina continuously present on the premises between 8:00 p.m. and until one
hour after closing to provide security for the party and supervision of the
parking area.
      (2)   All events must end no later than 11:00 p.m. It shall be the
responsibility of the permit holder to enforce closure of the facility on or
before this time.
      (3)   The holder of a party permit shall follow all applicable statutes,
laws, ordinances, or rules of the State of North Carolina, the town, and their
respective departments and agencies.
      (4)   The holder of a party permit shall verify that, prior to the party,
the party location has been inspected by the Fire Marshal and Building
Inspector for compliance with all applicable codes.
      (5)   Residential structures shall not be eligible for party permits.
   (G)   Violations of any of the provisions of this section will result in the
following civil penalties:
      (1)   First offense in any 12-month period: $250.
      (2)   Second offense in any 12-month period: $500.
      (3)   Third offense in any 12-month period: $500.
      (4)   Fourth offense in any 12-month period: One-year suspension.
   (H)   In addition to the above fines and suspension, a violation of this
section is also a misdemeanor and may also be enforced through injunctive or
other equitable relief.
   (I)   All violations set out in division (A) above shall be assessed by the
Chief of Police. An appeal of the Chief of Police's decision may be made to the
Town Board of Commissioners. The scope of the Board's review shall be limited
to verifying the findings of fact made by the Chief of Police. If the Town
Board of Commissioners finds that the facts as found by the Chief of Police are
correct, the fine or suspension shall not be disturbed.
   (J)   Failure to obtain a party permit as required in this section shall be
punishable by a fine of $500. The Chief of Police is authorized to terminate
any party occurring without a permit.
   (K)   The Chief of Police shall be authorized to enter a property for the
limited purpose of verifying compliance with this section. Nothing in this
section shall preclude the issuance of an arrest warrant or issuance of a
criminal summons, where appropriate.
(Ord. passed 10-1-2024)
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
132.01   Damaging public works
§ 132.01 DAMAGING PUBLIC WORKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully and intentionally deface,
injure, destroy, damage, or mischievously interfere with any hydrant, fountain,
pump, pipe, main, or any other part of lighting system, water system, or other
public works of the town, or to remove any signal, lantern, street sign or
marker, or other safeguards placed by the town or its agents or employees.
(1988 Code, § 132.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
133.01   Impersonating police officer
   
133.02   Interfering with police officer
   
133.03   Interfering with town agent or employee
§ 133.01 IMPERSONATING POLICE OFFICER.
   No person, not a member of the police force of the town, shall assume to act
as a member or represent himself or herself to be a member of the police force.
(1988 Code, § 133.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.02 INTERFERING WITH POLICE OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, hamper, molest,
resist, or hinder a police officer in the lawful discharge of his or her duty.
(1988 Code, § 133.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.03 INTERFERING WITH TOWN AGENT OR EMPLOYEE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, molest, or threaten
bodily harm to any employee or agent of the town while the employee or agent is
carrying out any of the duties prescribed in connection with the supplying or
disconnecting of utilities, electric current, or water by the town.
(1988 Code, § 133.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 134: OFFENSES INVOLVING THE PROTECTION OF YOUTH
Section
   
134.01   Purpose and objective
   
134.02   Definitions
   
134.03   Offenses
   
134.04   Exceptions
   
134.05   Defenses
   
134.06   Enforcement
 
   
134.99   Penalty
§ 134.01 PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to protect juveniles from victimization and
exposure to criminal activity by establishing a curfew for juveniles under the
age of 16 years in the town. This chapter is intended to reinforce and promote
the role of the parent in raising and guiding children and promote the health,
safety, and welfare of both juveniles and adults by creating an environment
offering better protection and security for all concerned.
(Ord. passed 6-17-2008)
§ 134.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. The
following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   DIRECT ROUTE. The shortest reasonable path of travel or a commonly used
route to reach a final destination without any detour or stop along the way.
   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting state
that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited to, a
fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident, or any situation requiring
immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or death. This term also
includes any action that is reasonably necessary in order to respond to the
medical needs of a family member of the juvenile, regardless of whether the
juvenile’s action is taken in order to prevent death or serious bodily injury.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Any privately owned place of business operated for profit to
which the public has access or is invited, including, but not limited to, any
place of amusement or entertainment.
   GUARDIAN. A person appointed by the court or other legal authority to be the
guardian of a juvenile.
   JUVENILE. Any person under the age of 16 years.
   OWNER/OPERATOR. Any individual, firm, association, partnership or
corporation operating, managing or conducting any establishment, including the
employees, members or partners of an association or partnership and the
officers of a corporation.
   PARENT. A person who is a natural parent, adoptive parent, foster parent,
stepparent or other person to whom legal custody has been given by court order.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any place that is generally open to and used by the public or
a substantial group of the public, whether it be publicly or privately owned,
including, but not limited to, streets, sidewalks, highways, alleys, rights-of-
way, public vehicular areas and parking lots, transportation facilities,
theaters, restaurants, convenience stores, shops, any business offering
products or goods for sale to the public, bowling alleys, schools and school
grounds, places of business and amusement, playgrounds, parks, similar areas
that are open to the public, and other common areas open to or accessible to
the public.
   REMAIN. To linger or stay in a public place, to fail to leave the premises
when requested to do so by a police officer, or to fail to leave the premises
of an establishment when requested to do so by the owner/operator or employee
of the premises.
   RESTRICTED HOURS. The time of night referred to in this chapter is based
upon the prevailing standard of time, whether Eastern Standard Time or Eastern
Daylight Saving Time, generally observed at that hour by the public in the town
or in its extraterritorial jurisdiction. Restricted hours are 10:00 p.m. until
5:00 a.m. of the following day for every day of each week.
(Ord. passed 6-17-2008)
§ 134.03 OFFENSES.
   Except as provided by the hereinafter set forth exceptions, the following
offenses constitute a violation of this chapter.
   (A)   A juvenile commits an offense by being present in or remaining in any
public place or on the premises of any establishment within the town or within
the town’s extraterritorial jurisdiction during the restricted hours.
   (B)   A parent or guardian of a juvenile commits an offense if the parent or
guardian knowingly permits, or by insufficient control, insufficient
supervision or insufficient attention, allows the juvenile to remain in any
public place or on the premises of any establishment within the town or within
the town’s extraterritorial jurisdiction during the restricted hours. The term
“knowingly” includes knowledge that a parent should reasonably be expected to
have concerning the whereabouts of a juvenile in that parent’s legal custody.
This requirement is intended to hold a neglectful or careless parent up to a
reasonable community standard of parental responsibility through an objective
test. It shall, therefore, be no defense that a parent was completely
indifferent to the activities or conduct or whereabouts of such juvenile.
   (C)   The owner, operator, or any employee of an establishment commits an
offense if such owner, operator or employee, knowingly allows a juvenile to
remain upon the premises of the establishment during the restricted hours. The
term “knowingly” includes knowledge that an operator or employer should
reasonably be expected to have concerning the patrons of an establishment. The
standard for “knowingly” shall be applied through an objective test: whether a
reasonable person in the operator’s or employee’s position should have known
that the patron was a juvenile in violation of this article.
   (D)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person 16 years of age
or older to aid or abet a juvenile in the violation of this section.
   (E)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for a parent or guardian to
refuse to take custody during the restricted hours of a juvenile for whom the
parent or guardian is responsible.
(Ord. passed 6-17-2008) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.04 EXCEPTIONS.
   A juvenile who is in a public place or establishment during the restricted
hours shall not be in violation of this chapter if the juvenile is:
   (A)   Accompanied by his parent or guardian;
   (B)   Accompanied by an adult 18 years of age or older authorized by the
parent or guardian of such juvenile to take the parent’s or guardian’s place in
accompanying the juvenile for a designated period of time and purpose within a
specified area;
   (C)   On an errand, using a direct route, at the direction of the juvenile’s
parent or guardian until the hour of 12:30 a.m.;
   (D)   In a motor vehicle with parental consent engaged in interstate travel
through the city or originating or terminating in the city;
   (E)   Traveling in a motor vehicle with a parent or guardian, or traveling
in a motor vehicle with an adult 18 years of age or older authorized by the
parent or guardian of such juvenile to take the parent’s or guardian’s place in
accompanying the juvenile for a designated period of time and purpose within a
specified area;
   (F)   Engaged in a lawful employment activity, or using a direct route to or
from a place of employment;
   (G)   Reacting or responding to an emergency;
   (H)   Attending or traveling to or from, by direct route, an official
school, religious, or recreational activity that is supervised by adults and
sponsored by a public or private school, the city or other governmental entity,
a civic organization, or another similar entity that accepts responsibility for
the juvenile;
   (I)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly;
   (J)   Married or emancipated;
   (K)   When authorized, by special permit from the Chief of Police or his or
her designee carried on the person of the juvenile thus authorized, as follows:
when necessary nighttime activities of a juvenile may be inadequately provided
for by other sections of this chapter, recourse may be had to the Chief of
Police, or his or her designee, either for a special permit as the
circumstances warrant. Upon the findings of reasonable necessity for the use of
a public place to the extent warranted by a written application signed by a
juvenile, and by a parent of the juvenile, if feasible, stating (i) the name,
age and address of the juvenile; (ii) the name, address, and telephone number
of a parent thereof; (iii) the height, weight, sex, color of eyes and hair and
other physical characteristics of the juvenile; (iv) the necessity that
requires the juvenile to remain upon a public place during the restricted hours
otherwise applicable; (v) the public place; and (vi) the beginning and ending
of the period of time involved by date and hour, the Chief of Police or his or
her designee may grant a permit in writing for the juvenile’s use of a public
place at such hours as in the opinion of the Chief of Police may reasonably be
necessary and consistent with the purposes of this chapter; or
   (L)   When authorized, by regulation issued by the Chief of Police or his or
her designee in other similar cases of reasonable necessity, similarly handled
as set forth in division (K) of this section but adapted to reasonably
necessary nighttime activities of more juveniles than can readily be dealt with
on an individual special permit basis. Normally such regulation by the Chief of
Police or his or her designee permitting use of public places should be issued
sufficiently in advance to permit appropriate publicity through news media and
through other agencies, such as the schools, and shall define the activity, the
scope of the use of the public places permitted, the period of time involved
not to extend more than one hour beyond the time for termination of the
activity, and the reason for finding that the regulation is reasonably
necessary and is consistent with the purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-17-2008)
§ 134.05 DEFENSES.
   It is a defense to prosecution under this chapter or under G.S. § 14-316.1
that the owner, operator, or employee of an establishment promptly notified the
Police Department that a juvenile was present on the premises of the
establishment during the restricted hours and refused to leave.
(Ord. passed 6-17-2008)
§ 134.06 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Before taking any enforcement action under this chapter, a police
officer shall ask the apparent offender’s age and reason for being in the
public place or establishment during restricted hours.
   (B)   The officer shall not prepare a juvenile arrest report, issue a
citation, or make an arrest under this article unless the officer reasonably
believes that an offense has occurred and that, based on any response and other
circumstances, no exception or defense as described in this chapter is present.
(Ord. passed 6-17-2008)
§ 134.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A juvenile who violates any section of this chapter is subject to
being adjudicated delinquent. The court may, in its discretion, impose any
dispositional alternatives that are provided in the state juvenile code for any
juvenile who is delinquent.
   (B)   Any person other than a juvenile who violates any section of this
chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine not to
exceed $100 and imprisonment in the discretion of the court in accordance with
G.S. § 14-4 and G.S. § 14-316.1.
(Ord. passed 6-17-2008)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING CODE
      
151.   MINIMUM HOUSING STANDARDS
      
152.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
      
153.   ZONING CODE
      
154.   MOBILE HOME SKIRTING
      
155.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
156.   NON-RESIDENTIAL BUILDING OR STRUCTURE STANDARDS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Building Code adopted by reference
   
150.02   Electrical Code adopted by reference
   
150.03   Plumbing Code adopted by reference
   
150.04   Heating Code adopted by reference
   
150.05   Uniform Residential Building Code adopted by reference
   
150.06   Amendments to codes
   
150.07   Compliance with codes
   
150.08   Nonconforming structures not to receive electric or water service
   
150.09   Expenses in ensuring compliance to be paid by builder
   
150.10   Copies of codes filed with Town Clerk
Permits
   
150.20   Permits required; application
   
150.21   Building permit and inspection fees
   
150.22   Time limitations on validity
   
150.23   Changes in work after issuance
   
150.24   Revocation
Unsafe Buildings
   
150.35   Inspection; notice to owner to correct
   
150.36   Condemnation of especially dangerous buildings
   
150.37   Failure of owner to take corrective action
   
150.38   Appeal by owner
   
150.39   Enforcement procedures against owner
Inspection Department
   
150.50   Organization
   
150.51   Duties and powers of inspectors
   
150.52   Conflicts of interest
   
150.53   Records and reports
   
150.54   Inspection procedure
Administrative Procedure
   
150.65   General right to appeal
   
150.66   Remedies
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 BUILDING CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The most current edition of the North Carolina State Building Code, Volume
I, General Construction, as adopted by the State Building Code Council and as
amended, is adopted by reference as fully as though set forth herein as the
Building Code of the town to the extent the Code is applicable for safe and
stable design, methods of construction, minimum standards and use of materials
in building or structures hereafter erected, enlarged, altered, repaired or
otherwise constructed or reconstructed.
(1988 Code, § 150.01)
§ 150.02 ELECTRICAL CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The most current edition of the North Carolina Electrical Code (North
Carolina State Building Code, Volume IV, Electrical), adopting by reference the
1975 Edition of the National Electrical Code of the National Fire Protection
Association as adopted by the State Building Code Council and as amended, is
adopted by reference as fully as though set forth herein as the Electrical Code
for the town.
(1988 Code, § 150.02)
§ 150.03 PLUMBING CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The most current edition of the North Carolina Plumbing Code (North Carolina
State Building Code, Volume II, Plumbing) as adopted and published by the State
Building Code Council, as amended, is adopted by reference as fully as though
set forth herein as the Plumbing Code for the town.
(1988 Code, § 150.03)
§ 150.04 HEATING CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The most current edition of the North Carolina Heating, Air Conditioning,
Refrigeration and Ventilation Code (North Carolina State Building Code, Volume
III, Heating, Air Conditioning, Refrigeration and Ventilation) as adopted and
published by the State Building Code Council and as amended, is adopted by
reference as fully as though set forth herein as the Heating, Air Conditioning,
Refrigeration and Ventilation Code for the town.
(1988 Code, § 150.04)
§ 150.05 UNIFORM RESIDENTIAL BUILDING CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The 1968 Edition of the North Carolina Uniform Residential Building Code
(North Carolina State Building Code, Volume I-B, Residential One- and Two-
Family Dwellings), as adopted and amended by the State Building Code Council,
is adopted by reference as fully as though set forth herein as the Residential
Building Code for One- and Two-Family Residential Buildings in the town.
(1988 Code, § 150.05)
§ 150.06 AMENDMENTS TO CODES.
   Amendments to and/or new editions of the regulatory codes adopted by
reference herein, which are from time to time adopted and published by the
agencies or organizations referred to herein, shall be effective in the town at
the time the amendments and/or new editions are filed with the Town Clerk as
provided in §
150.10.
(1988 Code, § 150.06)
§ 150.07 COMPLIANCE WITH CODES.
   (A)   All buildings or structures which are hereafter constructed,
reconstructed, erected, altered, extended, enlarged, repaired, demolished or
removed shall conform to the requirements, minimum standards and other
provisions of either the North Carolina State Building Code, General
Construction, Volume I, or the North Carolina Uniform Residential Building
Code, Volume I-B, whichever is applicable, or both, if both are applicable.
   (B)   All electrical wiring, installations and appurtenances shall be
erected, altered, repaired, used and maintained in accordance with the minimum
standards, requirements and other provisions of the Electrical Code.
   (C)   Every building intended for human habitation, occupancy or use shall
have plumbing, plumbing systems or plumbing fixtures installed, constructed,
altered, extended, repaired or re- constructed in accordance with the minimum
standards, requirements and other provisions of the Plumbing Code. However, any
standards or requirements, dependent upon or solely applicable to the existence
of a sewage collection system rather than septic tanks shall not be required
until the date of the completion of the sewage collection system in the town.
   (D)   All mechanical systems consisting of heating, ventilation, air
conditioning and refrigeration systems, fuel burning equipment and
appurtenances shall be installed, erected, repaired, used and maintained in
accordance with the minimum standards, requirements and other provisions of the
Heating, Air Conditioning, Refrigeration and Ventilation Code.
(1988 Code, § 150.07) (Ord. passed 12-7-1976; Am. Ord. passed 1-3-1978)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.08 NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES NOT TO RECEIVE ELECTRIC OR WATER SERVICE.
   (A)   No request for electric or water service for other than construction
purposes shall be granted with respect to any structure including, but not
limited to dwellings, commercial buildings or mobile homes proposed to be
served by the town’s distribution systems until the Building Inspector finds
the structure to be in full compliance with the provisions of this chapter and
until a certificate of occupancy/ compliance has been issued with respect to
the same. However, the Building Inspector may waive the requirements for a
certificate of occupancy/ compliance.
   (B)   Electric service and water service shall be discontinued to all
structures found unfit or unsafe for human habitation or occupancy under the
provisions of this chapter or Chapter 151; however, the owners and occupants
shall be notified in writing in advance of the discontinuance of service.
(1988 Code, § 150.08)
§ 150.09 EXPENSES IN ENSURING COMPLIANCE TO BE PAID BY BUILDER.
   Any expenses incurred by the town in ensuring the compliance of the builder
or developer to the town ordinances and state codes shall be passed on and paid
by the builder or developer. In the event of a subdivision, these expenses
would include street, water and sewer installation supervision as well.
(1988 Code, § 150.09) (Ord. passed 4-6-1982)
§ 150.10 COPIES OF CODES FILED WITH TOWN CLERK.
   An official copy of each regulatory code adopted herein and official copies
of all amendments thereto, shall be kept on file in the office of the Town
Clerk. These copies shall be the official copies of the codes and amendments.
(1988 Code, § 150.10)
PERMITS
§ 150.20 PERMITS REQUIRED; APPLICATION.
    (A)   Except as provided in division (A)(2) of this section, no person
shall commence or proceed with any of the following without first securing from
the inspection department with jurisdiction over the site of the work any and
all permits required by the state building code and any other state or local
laws applicable to the work:
      (1)   The construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair, movement to
another site, removal, or demolition of any building or structure.
      (2)   The installation, extension, or general repair of any plumbing
system except that in any one- or two-family dwelling unit a permit shall not
be required for the connection of a water heater that is being replaced,
provided that the work is performed by a person licensed under G.S. 87-21, who
personally examines the work at completion and ensures that a leak test has
been performed on the gas piping, and provided the energy use rate or thermal
input is not greater than that of the water heater which is being replaced,
there is no change in fuel, energy source, location, capacity, or routing or
sizing of venting and piping, and the replacement is installed in accordance
with the current edition of the state building code.
      (3)   The installation, extension, alteration, or general repair of any
heating or cooling equipment system.
      (4)   The installation, extension, alteration, or general repair of any
electrical wiring, devices, appliances, or equipment except that in any one- or
two-family dwelling unit a permit shall not be required for repair or
replacement of electrical lighting fixtures or devices, such as receptacles and
lighting switches, or for the connection of an existing branch circuit to an
electric water heater that is being replaced, provided that all of the
following requirements are met:
         (a)   With respect to electric water heaters, the replacement water
heater is placed in the same location and is of the same or less capacity and
electrical rating as the original.
         (b)   With respect to electrical lighting fixtures and devices, the
replacement is with a fixture or device having the same voltage and the same or
less amperage.
         (c)   The work is performed by a person licensed under G.S. 87-43.
         (d)   The repair or replacement installation meets the current edition
of the state building code, including the state electrical code.
   (B)   However, a permit is not required for the installation, maintenance,
or replacement of any load control device or equipment by an electric power
supplier, as defined in G.S. 62-133.8, or an electrical contractor contracted
by the electric power supplier, so long as the work is subject to supervision
by an electrical contractor licensed under G.S. Chapter 87, Article 4. The
electric power supplier shall provide such installation, maintenance, or
replacement in accordance with:
      (1)   An activity or program ordered, authorized, or approved by the
North Carolina Utilities Commission pursuant to G.S. 62-133.8 or G.S. 62-133.9;
or
      (2)   A similar program undertaken by a municipal electric service
provider, whether the installation, modification, or replacement is made before
or after the point of delivery of electric service to the customer. The
exemption under this subdivision applies to all existing installations.
   (C)   A permit shall be in writing and shall contain a provision that the
work done shall comply with the State Building Code and all other applicable
State and local laws. Nothing in this section shall require a city to review
and approve residential building plans submitted to the city pursuant to
Section R-110 of Volume VII of the North Carolina State Building Code; provided
that the city may review and approve such residential building plans as it
deems necessary. No permits shall be issued unless the plans and specifications
are identified by the name and address of the author thereof, and if the
General Statutes of North Carolina require that plans for certain types of work
be prepared only by a licensed architect or licensed engineer, no permit shall
be issued unless the plans and specifications bear the North Carolina seal of a
licensed architect or of a licensed engineer. When any provision of the General
Statutes of North Carolina or of any ordinance requires that work be done by a
licensed specialty contractor of any kind, no permit for the work shall be
issued unless the work is to be performed by such a duly licensed contractor.
   (D)   No permit issued under G.S. Chapter 143, Articles 9 or 9C shall be
required for any construction, installation, repair, replacement, or alteration
performed in accordance with the current edition of the North Carolina State
Building Code and costing $15,000 or less in any single family residence or
farm building unless the work involves any of the following:
      (1)   The addition, repair or replacement of load bearing structures.
However, no permit is required for replacements of windows, doors, exterior
siding, or the pickets, railings, stair treads, and decking of porches and
exterior decks.
      (2)   The addition or change in the design of plumbing. However, no
permit is required for replacements otherwise meeting the requirements of this
subsection that do not change size or capacity.
      (3)   The addition, replacement or change in the design of heating, air
conditioning, or electrical wiring, devices, appliances, or equipment, other
than like-kind replacement of electrical devices and lighting fixtures.
      (4)   The use of materials not permitted by the North Carolina
Residential Code for one- and two-family dwellings.
      (5)   The addition (excluding replacement) of roofing.
   (E)   A city shall not require more than one permit for the complete
installation or replacement of any natural gas, propane gas, or electrical
appliance on an existing structure when the installation or replacement is
performed by a person licensed under G.S. 87-21 or G.S. 87-43. The cost of the
permit for such work shall not exceed the cost of any one individual trade
permit issued by that city, nor shall the city increase the costs of any fees
to offset the loss of revenue caused by this provision.
   (F)   No permit shall be issued pursuant to division (A) for any land-
disturbing activity, as defined in G.S. 113A-52(6), for any activity covered by
G.S. 113A-57, unless an erosion and sedimentation control plan has been
approved by the Sedimentation Pollution Control Commission pursuant to G.S.
113A-54(d)(4) or by a local government pursuant to G.S. 113A-61 for the site of
the activity or a tract of land including the site of the activity.
   (G)   No permit shall be issued pursuant to division (A)(1) of this section
where the cost of the work is $30,000 or more, other than for improvements to
an existing single-family residential dwelling unit as defined in G.S. 87-15.5
(7) that the owner occupies as a residence, or for the addition of an accessory
building or accessory structure as defined in the North Carolina Uniform
Residential Building Code, the use of which is incidental to that residential
dwelling unit, unless the name, physical and mailing address, telephone number,
facsimile number, and electronic mail address of the lien agent designated by
the owner pursuant to G.S. 44A-11.1(a) is conspicuously set forth in the permit
or in an attachment thereto. The building permit may contain the lien agent's
electronic mail address. The lien agent information for each permit issued
pursuant to this subsection shall be maintained by the inspection department in
the same manner and in the same location in which it maintains its record of
building permits issued. Where the improvements to a real property leasehold
are limited to the purchase, transportation, and setup of a manufactured home,
as defined in G.S. 143-143.9(6), for which there is a current certificate of
title, the purchase price of the manufactured home shall be excluded in
determining whether the cost of the work is $30,000 or more.
   (H)   No city may withhold issuing a building permit or certificate of
occupancy that otherwise would be eligible to be issued under this section to
compel, with respect to another property or parcel, completion of work for a
separate permit or compliance with land use regulations under this Article
unless otherwise authorized by law or unless the city reasonably determines the
existence of a public safety issue directly related to the issuance of a
building permit or certificate of occupancy.
   (I)   Violation of this section constitutes a Class 1 misdemeanor.
(G.S. § 160A-417) (1988 Code, § 150.20) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.21 BUILDING PERMIT AND INSPECTION FEES.
   Fees shall be charged for all building permits and building inspections as
approved and adopted by the Town Board and shall be kept on file in the office
of the Town Clerk.
(1988 Code, § 150.21) (Am. Ord. passed 2-5-1985)
§ 150.22 TIME LIMITATIONS ON VALIDITY.
   All permits issued under this chapter shall expire by limitation six months
after the date of issuance, if the work authorized by the permit has not been
commenced. If, after commencement, the work is discontinued for a period of 12
months, the permit therefor shall immediately expire. No work authorized by any
permit which has expired shall thereafter be performed, until a new permit
therefor has been secured.
(G.S. § 160A-418) (1988 Code, § 150.22) (Ord. passed 12-7-1976; Am. Ord. passed
10-4-1977) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.23 CHANGES IN WORK AFTER ISSUANCE.
   After a permit has been issued, no changes or deviations from the terms of
the application, plans and specifications or permit, except where changes or
deviations are clearly permissible under the state building code, shall be
made, until specific written approval of the changes or deviations has been
obtained from the Inspection Department.
(G.S. § 160A-419) (1988 Code, § 150.23) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.24 REVOCATION.
   The appropriate inspector may revoke and require the return of any permit by
notifying the permit holder in writing, stating the reason for the revocation.
Permits shall be revoked for any substantial departure from the approved
application, plans or specifications; for refusal or failure to comply with
requirements of this chapter and the appropriate regulatory codes; or for false
statements or misrepresentations made in securing the permits.
(G.S. § 160A-422) (1988 Code, § 150.24)
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 150.35 INSPECTION; NOTICE TO OWNER TO CORRECT.
   When the Inspector finds any defects in a building or finds that the
building has not been constructed in accordance with the applicable state and
local laws or that a building because of its condition is dangerous or contains
fire hazardous conditions, it shall be his or her duty to notify the owner or
occupant of the building of its defects, hazardous conditions or failure to
comply with law. The owner or occupant shall each immediately remedy the
defects, hazardous conditions or violations of law in the property he or she
owns.
(G.S. § 160A-425) (1988 Code, § 150.35) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.36 CONDEMNATION OF ESPECIALLY DANGEROUS BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Every building which shall appear to the Inspector to be especially
dangerous to life because of its liability to fire or because of bad condition
of walls, overloaded floors, defective construction, decay, unsafe wiring or
heating system, inadequate means of egress or other causes, shall be held to be
unsafe and the Inspector shall affix a notice of the dangerous character of the
structure to a conspicuous place on the exterior wall of the building.
(G.S. § 160A-426)
   (B)   If any person shall remove any notice that has been affixed to any
building or structure by the Inspector that states the dangerous character of
the building or structure, he or she shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(G.S. § 160A-427)
(1988 Code, § 150.36) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.37 FAILURE OF OWNER TO TAKE CORRECTIVE ACTION.
   (A)   If the owner of a building or structure that has been condemned as
unsafe pursuant to §
150.36(A) shall fail to take prompt corrective action, the Inspector shall give
him or her written notice, by certified or registered mail to his or her last
known address or by personal service:
      (1)   (a)   The building or structure is in a condition that appears to
constitute a fire or safety hazard or to be dangerous to life, health or other
property;
         (b)   The building is likely to cause or contribute to blight,
disease, vagrancy, or danger to children;
         (c)   The building has a tendency to attract persons intent on
criminal activities or other activities which would constitute a public
nuisance.
      (2)   A hearing will be held before the Inspector at a designated place
and time, not later than ten days after the date of the notice, at which time
the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or by counsel and to present
arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter; and
      (3)   Following the hearing, the Inspector may issue the order to repair,
close, vacate or demolish the building or structure as appears appropriate.
   (B)   If the name or whereabouts of the owner cannot after due diligence be
discovered, the notice shall be considered properly and adequately served if a
copy thereof is posted on the outside of the building or structure in question
at least ten days prior to the hearing and a notice of the hearing is published
in a newspaper having general circulation in the town at least once not later
than one week prior to the hearing.
(G.S. § 160A-428)
   (C)   If, upon a hearing held pursuant to the notice prescribed in divisions
(A) and (B) above, the Inspector shall find that the building or structure is
in a condition that constitutes a fire or safety hazard or renders it dangerous
to life, health or other property, he or she shall make an order in writing,
directed to the owner of the building or structure, requiring the owner to
remedy the defective conditions by repairing, closing, vacating or demolishing
the building or structure or taking other necessary steps, within a period, not
less than 60 days, that the Inspector may prescribe. However, where the
Inspector finds that there is imminent danger to life or other property, he or
she may order that corrective action be taken in such lesser period as may be
feasible.
(G.S. § 160A-429)
(1988 Code, § 150.37) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.38 APPEAL BY OWNER.
   Any owner who has received an order under §
150.37(C) may appeal from the order to the Board of Commissioners by giving
notice of appeal in writing to the Inspector and to the Town Clerk within ten
days following issuance of the order. In the absence of an appeal, the order of
the Inspector shall be final. The Board of Commissioners shall hear an appeal
within a reasonable time and may affirm, modify and affirm or revoke the order.
(G.S. § 160A-430) (1988 Code, § 150.38)
§ 150.39 ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES AGAINST OWNER.
   If the owner of a building or structure fails to comply with an order issued
pursuant to §
150.37(C) from which no appeal has been taken or fails to comply with an order
of the Board of Commissioners following an appeal, he or she shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor and shall be punished in the discretion of the court.
(G.S. § 160A-431) (1988 Code, § 150.39) Penalty, see §
10.99
INSPECTION DEPARTMENT
§ 150.50 ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   The Inspection Department shall consist of a Building Inspector, an
Electrical Inspector, a Mechanical Inspector, a Plumbing Inspector and the
other inspectors or deputy or assistant inspectors as may be authorized by the
Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   On and after the applicable date set forth in the schedule in G.S. §
160A-411, no town shall employ an inspector to enforce the state building code
as a member of the town’s Inspection Department who does not have one of the
following types of certificates issued by the North Carolina Code Officials
Qualification Board attesting to his or her qualifications to hold the
position:
      (1)   A probationary certificate, valid for one year only;
      (2)   A standard certificate; or
      (3)   A limited certificate which shall be valid only as an authorization
for him or her to continue in the position held on the date specified in G.S. §
143-151.13(c) and which shall become invalid if he or she does not successfully
complete in-service training specified by the Qualification Board within the
period specified in G.S. § 143-151.13(c).
   (C)   An inspector holding one of the above certificates can be promoted to
a position requiring a higher level certificate only upon issuance by the
Qualification Board of a standard certificate or probationary certificate
appropriate for the new position.
(G.S. § 160A-411.1) (1988 Code, § 150.50)
Statutory reference:
Inspection Department, see G.S. § 160A-411
§ 150.51 DUTIES AND POWERS OF INSPECTORS.
   (A)   The Inspection Department shall possess all the powers conferred and
perform all the duties prescribed by G.S. §§ 160A-412 et seq. and other
statutes applicable thereto. The Inspectors shall possess such further powers
and perform such further duties as may be prescribed by this chapter. They
shall collect the fees allowed by statute and fixed by this chapter to be
collected for the town.
   (B)   The Inspection Department and the inspectors therein shall enforce
within the town, state and local laws relating to: the construction of
buildings and other structures; the installation of such facilities as plumbing
systems, electrical systems, heating systems, refrigeration systems and air
conditioning systems; the maintenance of buildings and other structures in a
safe, sanitary and healthful condition; and other matters that may be specified
by the Board of Commissioners. These duties shall include the receipt of
applications for permits and the issuance or denial of permits, the making of
any necessary inspections, the issuance or denial of certificates of
compliance, the issuance of orders to correct violations, the bringing of
judicial actions against actual or threatened violations, the keeping of
adequate records and any other actions that may be required in order adequately
to enforce those laws. The Board of Commissioners shall have the authority to
enact reasonable and appropriate provisions governing the enforcement of those
laws.
(G.S. § 160A-412)
   (C)   Inspectors are also authorized, empowered and directed to enforce all
the provisions of this chapter and the regulatory codes herein adopted.
   (D)   Inspectors shall have the right of entry on any premises within the
jurisdiction of the Inspection Department, at all reasonable hours, for the
purpose of inspection or other enforcement action, upon presentation of proper
credentials.
   (E)   (1)   Whenever any building or structure or part thereof is being
demolished, constructed, reconstructed, altered or repaired in a hazardous
manner or in substantial violation of any state or town building law or in a
manner that endangers life or property, the appropriate inspector may order the
specific part of the work that is in violation or presents such a hazard to be
immediately stopped. The order shall be in writing to the person doing the work
and shall state the specific work to be stopped, the specific reasons therefor
and the conditions under which the work may be resumed.
      (2)   The owner or builder may appeal from a stop order involving alleged
violation of the state building code or any approved local modification thereof
to the State Commissioner of Insurance within a period of five days after the
order is issued. Notice of appeal shall be given in writing to the Commissioner
of Insurance, with a copy to the Town Inspector. The Commissioner of Insurance
shall promptly conduct a hearing at which the appellant and the Inspector shall
be permitted to submit relevant evidence and shall rule on the appeal as
expeditiously as possible. Pending the ruling by the Commissioner of Insurance
on an appeal no further work shall take place in violation of a stop order.
      (3)   Appeals from a stop order based on violation of any other town
ordinance relating to buildings shall be taken to the local official designated
by the town and shall be taken, heard and decided in the same manner as
prescribed herein for appeals to the Commissioner. Violation of a stop order
shall constitute a misdemeanor.
(G.S. § 160A-421)
(1988 Code, § 150.51)
Statutory reference:
   Duties and responsibilities, see G.S. § 160A-412
   Failure to perform, see G.S. § 160A-416
   Inspections of work in progress, see G.S. § 160A-420
§ 150.52 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   No member of the Inspection Department shall be financially interested in
the furnishing of labor, material or appliances for the construction,
alteration or maintenance of any building within the town’s jurisdiction or any
part or system thereof or in the making of plans or specifications therefor,
unless he or she is the owner of the building. No member of the Inspection
Department shall engage in any work which is inconsistent with his or her
duties or with the interests of the town.
(G.S. § 160A-415) (1988 Code, § 150.52) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.53 RECORDS AND REPORTS.
   The Inspection Department shall keep complete and accurate records in
convenient form of all applications received, permits issued, inspections and
reinspections made, defects found, certificates of compliance granted and all
other work and activities of the Inspection Department. These records shall be
kept in the manner and for the periods prescribed by the State Department of
Cultural Resources. Periodic reports shall be submitted to the Board of
Commissioners and to the State Commissioner of Insurance as they shall by
ordinance, rule or regulation require.
(G.S. § 160A-433) (1988 Code, § 150.53) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.54 INSPECTION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Inspections of work in process. The Inspection Department shall
inspect all buildings and structures and work therein for which a permit of any
kind has been issued as often as necessary in order to determine whether the
work complies with this chapter and the appropriate codes. When deemed
necessary by the appropriate inspector, materials and assemblies may be
inspected at the point of manufacture or fabrication or inspections may be made
by approved and recognized inspection organizations. However, no approval shall
be based upon reports of the organizations, unless the same are in writing and
certified by a responsible officer of the organization. All holders of permits
or their agents, shall notify the Inspection Department and the appropriate
inspector at each of the following stages of construction, so that approval may
be given before work is continued:
      (1)   Foundation inspection. To be made after trenches are excavated and
the necessary reinforcement and forms are in place and before concrete is
placed. Drilled footings, piles and similar types of foundations shall be
inspected as installed.
      (2)   Framing inspection. To be made after all structural framing is in
place and all roughing-in of plumbing and electrical and heating has been
installed, after all fire blocking, chimneys, bracing and vents are installed,
but before any of the structure is enclosed or covered. Poured-in-place
concrete structural elements shall be inspected before each pour of any
structural member.
      (3)   Fireproofing inspection. To be made after all areas required to be
protected by fireproofing are lathed, but before the plastering or other
fireproofing is applied.
      (4)   Final inspection. To be made after the building or structure has
all doors hung and fixtures set and is ready for occupancy, but before the
building is occupied.
   (B)   Calls for inspection. Request for inspections may be made to the
Office of the Inspection Department or to the appropriate inspector. The
Inspection Department shall make inspections as soon as practicable after
requests are made therefor, provided the work is ready for inspection at the
time the request is made.
      (1)   Reinspections.
         (a)   Reinspections may be at the convenience of the Inspector. No
work shall be inspected until it is in proper and completed condition ready for
inspection.
         (b)   All work which has been concealed before the inspection and
approval shall be uncovered at the request of the Inspector and placed in
condition for proper inspection.
         (c)   Approval or rejection of the work shall be furnished by the
appropriate inspector in the form of a notice posted on the building or given
to the permit holder or his or her agent.
      (2)   Lack of inspection a violation. Failure to call for inspections or
proceeding without approval at each stage of construction shall be deemed a
violation of this chapter.
   (C)   Street or alley lines. Where the applicant for a permit proposes to
erect any building or structure on the line of any street, alley or other
public place, he or she shall secure a survey of the line of the street, alley
or other public place adjacent to the property upon which the building or
structure is to be erected, before proceeding with construction of the building
or structure. It shall be the duty of the Building Inspector to see that the
building does not encroach upon the street, alley or other public place.
   (D)   Certificates of compliance. At the conclusion of all work done under a
permit, the appropriate inspector shall make a final inspection and if he or
she finds that the completed work complies with all applicable state and local
laws and with the terms of the permit, he or she shall issue a certificate of
compliance. No new building or part thereof may be occupied, no addition or
enlargement of an existing building may be occupied and no existing building
that has been altered or moved may be occupied, until the Inspection Department
has issued a certificate of compliance. A temporary certificate of compliance
may be issued permitting occupancy for a stated period of specified portions of
the building that the Inspector finds may safely be occupied prior to final
completion of the entire building. Violation of this section shall constitute a
misdemeanor.
(G.S. § 160A-423)
   (E)   Periodic inspections. The Inspection Department shall make periodic
inspections, subject to the Board of Commissioner’s directions, for unsafe,
unsanitary or otherwise hazardous and unlawful conditions in structures within
its territorial jurisdiction. In addition, it shall make inspections when it
has reason to believe that such conditions may exist in a particular structure.
In exercising this power, members of the Department shall have a right to enter
on any premises within the jurisdiction of the Department at all reasonable
hours for the purposes of inspection or other enforcement action, upon
presentation of proper credentials.
(1988 Code, § 150.54) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Certificates of compliance, see G.S. § 160A-423
   Inspection of work in process, see G.S. § 160A-420
   Periodic inspections, see G.S. § 160A-424
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE
§ 150.65 GENERAL RIGHT TO APPEAL.
   Unless otherwise provided by law, appeals from any order, decision or
determination by a member of the Inspection Department pertaining to the state
building code or other state building laws shall be taken to the Commissioner
of Insurance or other official specified in G.S. § 143-139, by filing a written
notice with him or her and with the Inspection Department within a period of
ten days after the order, decision or determination. Further appeals may be
taken to the State Building Code Council or to the courts as provided by law.
(G.S. § 160A-434) (1988 Code, § 150.97)
§ 150.66 REMEDIES.
   Whenever any violation is denominated a misdemeanor under the provisions of
this chapter, the town, either in addition to or in lieu of other remedies, may
initiate any appropriate action or proceedings to prevent, restrain, correct or
abate the violation or to prevent the occupancy of the building or structure
involved.
(G.S. § 160A-432) (1988 Code, § 150.98)
Statutory reference:
   Remedies, see G.S. § 160A-432
CHAPTER 151: MINIMUM HOUSING STANDARDS
Section
   
151.01   Findings; purpose; authority
   
151.02   Scope
   
151.03   Definitions
   
151.04   Office of Housing Inspector created; powers and duties
   
151.05   Inspections
   
151.06   Preliminary investigations; notices; hearings
   
151.07   Dwelling unfit for human habitation
   
151.08   Dwellings not in compliance but not unfit for human habitation
   
151.09   Procedure after hearing; order
   
151.10   Failure to comply with order
   
151.11   Service of complaints and orders
   
151.12   Appeals
   
151.13   Alternative remedies
   
151.14   Conflict with other provisions
   
151.15   Violations
§ 151.01 FINDINGS; PURPOSE; AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-441, it is hereby found and declared that
there exist in the town dwellings which are unfit for human habitation due to
dilapidation, defects increasing the hazards of fire, accidents and other
calamities, lack of ventilation, light and sanitary facilities, and due to
other conditions rendering such dwellings unsafe and unsanitary, and dangerous
and detrimental to the health, safety and morals, and otherwise inimical to the
welfare of the residents of Sharpsburg.
   (B)   In order to protect the health, safety and welfare of the residents of
the town, as authorized by Part 6 of Article 10, Chapter 160A of the General
Statutes of North Carolina, it is the purpose of this chapter to establish
minimum standards of fitness for the initial and continued occupancy of all
buildings used for human habitation, as expressly authorized by G.S. § 160A-
444.
   (C)   In addition, it is hereby found and declared, under the authority of
G.S. § 160A-174, that there exist in the town dwellings which, although not
meeting the classification as unfit for human habitation, fail to fully comply
with all the minimum standards for housing fitness as established herein and
therefore have present one or more conditions which are inimical to the public
health, safety and general welfare. Such conditions, if not corrected can lead
to deterioration and dilapidation of dwellings which render them unfit for
human habitation.
(1988 Code, §§ 151.01, 151.02) (Am. Ord. O-20120501-04, passed 5-1-2012)
§ 151.02 SCOPE.
   (A)   This chapter is hereby declared to be remedial and shall be construed
to secure the beneficial interests and purposes thereof which are public
safety, health and general welfare through structural strength, stability,
sanitation, adequate light and ventilation and safety to life and property from
fire and other hazards incident to the construction, alteration, repair,
removal, demolition, use and occupancy of dwellings, apartment houses, rooming
houses or buildings, structures or premises used or intended for use as such.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all existing housing and
to all housing hereafter constructed within the town. Portable, mobile or
demountable buildings or structures, including trailers, manufactured homes and
mobile homes when used or intended for use for housing within the jurisdiction,
shall be subject to the applicable provisions of this chapter. This chapter
establishes minimum requirements for the initial and continued occupancy of all
buildings used for human habitation and does not replace or modify requirements
otherwise established for the construction, repair, alteration or use of
buildings, equipment or facilities except as provided in this chapter.
   (C)   The provisions of this chapter shall also apply to abandoned
structures which are found by the Board of Commissioners to be a health or
safety hazard as a result of the attraction of insects or rodents, conditions
creating a fire hazard, dangerous conditions constituting a threat to children
or frequent use by vagrants as living quarters in the absence of sanitary
conditions.
(Ord. O-20120501-04, passed 5-1-2012)
§ 151.03 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ABANDONED STRUCTURE. Any structure, whether designed and intended for
residential or other uses, which has been vacant or not in active use,
regardless of purpose or reason, for the past two-year period and which is
determined by the Housing Inspector to be unfit for human habitation or
occupancy based upon the standards as set forth in this chapter.
      BASEMENT. A portion of a building which is located partly underground,
having access to light and air from windows located above the level of the
adjoining ground.
      CELLAR. A portion of a building located partly or wholly underground
having inadequate access to light and air from windows located partly or wholly
below the level of the adjoining ground.
      DETERIORATED DWELLING. A dwelling that is unfit for human habitation and
can be repaired, altered or improved to comply with all of the minimum
standards established by this chapter, at a cost not in excess of 50% of its
value, as determined by finding of the Housing Inspector.
      DILAPIDATED DWELLING. A dwelling that is unfit for human habitation and
cannot be repaired, altered or improved to comply with all of the minimum
standards established by this chapter at a cost not in excess of 50% of its
value, as determined by finding of the Housing Inspector.
      DWELLING. Any building, structure, manufactured home or mobile home, or
part thereof, used and occupied for human habitation or intended to be so used,
and includes any accessory buildings and structures and appurtenances belonging
thereto or usually enjoyed therewith, except that it does not include any
manufactured home or mobile home, which is used solely for a seasonal vacation
purpose.
      DWELLING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms located within a dwelling and
forming a single habitable unit with facilities which are used or intended to
be used for living, sleeping, cooking and eating.
      EXTERMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rodents or other
pests by eliminating their harborage places; by removing or making inaccessible
materials that may serve as their food; by poisoning, spraying, fumigating,
trapping or by any other recognized and legal pest elimination methods approved
by the Housing Inspector.
      GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
      HABITABLE ROOM. A room or enclosed floor space used or intended to be
used for living, sleeping, cooking or eating purposes, excluding bathrooms,
water closet compartments, laundries, heater rooms, foyers or communicating
corridors, closets and storage spaces.
      HOUSING INSPECTOR. The person appointed by the Board of Commissioners to
carry out the administration and enforcement of this chapter.
      INFESTATION. The presence, within or around a dwelling, of any insects,
rodents or other pests in such number as to constitute a menace to the health,
safety or welfare of the occupants or to the public.
      MANUFACTURED HOME (MOBILE HOME). A structure as defined in G.S. § 143-145
(7).
      MULTIPLE DWELLING. Any dwelling containing more than two dwelling units.
      OCCUPANT. Any person over one year of age living, sleeping, cooking or
eating in, or having actual possession of, a dwelling unit or rooming unit.
      OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care or control of a building or
part thereof, in which dwelling units or rooming units are let.
      OWNER. The holder of the title in fee simple and every mortgagee of
record.
      PARTIES IN INTEREST. All individuals, associations and corporations who
have interests of record in a dwelling and any who are in possession thereof.
      PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Any housing authority or any officer who is in charge
of any department or branch of the government of the town, county, or state
relating to health, fire, building regulations, or other activities concerning
dwellings in the town.
      ROOMING HOUSE. Any dwelling, or that part of any dwelling containing one
or more rooming units, in which space is let by the owner or operator to three
or more persons who are not husband and wife, son or daughter, mother or father
or sister or brother of, the owner or operator.
      ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group or rooms forming a single habitable unit
used or intended to be used for living and sleeping, but not for cooking or
eating purposes.
      RUBBISH. Combustible and noncombustible waste materials except garbage
and ashes, and the term shall include, but not be limited to, paper, rags,
cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior, rubber, leather, tree branches, yard
trimmings, tin cans, metals, mineral matter, glass crockery and dust.
      SUPPLIED. Paid for, furnished or provided by, or under the control of,
the owner or operator.
   (B)   Whenever the words “dwelling,” “dwelling unit,” “rooming house,”
“rooming unit” or “premises” are used in this chapter, they shall be construed
as though they were followed by the words “or any part thereof.”
(1988 Code, § 151.03) (Am. Ord. passed 2-6-1979; Am. Ord. O-20120501-04, passed
5-1-2012)
§ 151.04 OFFICE OF HOUSING INSPECTOR CREATED; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   For the purposes of administering and enforcing the provisions of this
chapter, the Office of Housing Inspector is hereby created. The Housing
Inspector shall be appointed by the Board of Commissioners, and shall have such
powers as may be necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the
purposes and provisions of this chapter, including, without limiting the
generality of the foregoing, in addition to others herein granted, the
following powers:
   (A)   Investigations. To investigate the dwelling and building conditions in
the town in order to determine which dwellings therein are unfit for human
habitation and dangerous, being guided in such examination of dwellings and
buildings by the requirements set forth in this chapter.
   (B)   Oaths, witnesses, and the like. To administer oaths and affirmations
and to examine witnesses and receive evidence.
   (C)   Right of entry. To enter upon and within premises and dwellings for
the purpose of making examinations and investigations; provided, that such
entries shall be made in such a manner as to cause the least possible
inconvenience to the persons in possession.
   (D)   Warrants, citations, and the like. To swear criminal warrants, issue
civil citations and to take such other actions as may be necessary to carry out
the enforcement procedures of this chapter.
   (E)   Delegation of functions, and the like. To delegate any of his
functions and powers under this chapter to such officers and agents as he or
she may designate.
(1988 Code, § 151.30) (Am. Ord. O-20120501-04, passed 5-1-2012)
§ 151.05 INSPECTIONS.
   For the purpose of carrying out the intent of this chapter, the Housing
Inspector, upon proper identification, is hereby authorized to enter, examine
and survey at all reasonable times all dwellings, dwelling units, rooming
houses, rooming units and premises, including abandoned structures. The owners
or occupants of every dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming unit, or rooming house,
or the person in charge thereof, shall give the Housing Inspector free access
to such dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house or rooming unit, and its
premises, at all reasonable times for the purposes of such inspection,
examination and survey. Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall
give the owner thereof, or his or her agent or employee, access to any part of
such dwelling or dwelling unit, and its premises, at all reasonable times for
the purpose of making such repairs or alterations as are necessary to effect
compliance with the provisions of this chapter or with any lawful order issued
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. O-20120501-04, passed 5-1-2012)
§ 151.06 PRELIMINARY INVESTIGATIONS; NOTICES; HEARINGS.
   (A)   Whenever a petition is filed with the Housing Inspector by a public
authority or by at least five residents of the town charging that any dwelling
is unfit for human habitation or whenever it appears to the Housing Inspector
(on his or her own motion) that any dwelling is unfit for human habitation, the
Housing Inspector shall, if his or her preliminary investigation discloses a
basis for such charges, issue and cause to be served upon the owner and parties
in interest in such dwellings a complaint stating the charges in that respect
and containing a notice that a hearing will be held before the Housing
Inspector (or his or her designated agent) at a place within the town therein
fixed not less than ten days nor more than 30 days after the serving of the
complaint; that the owner and parties in interest shall be given the right to
file an answer to the complaint and to appear in person, or otherwise, and give
testimony at the place and time fixed in the complaint; and that the rules of
evidence prevailing in courts of law or equity shall not be controlling in
hearings before the Housing Inspector.
   (B)   Upon the issuance of a complaint and notice of hearing pursuant to
this section, the Inspector may cause the filing of a notice of lis pendens,
with a copy of the complaint and notice of hearing attached thereto, in the
Office of the Clerk of Superior Court of the county in which the subject
property exists, to be indexed and cross-indexed in accordance with the
indexing procedures of the North Carolina General Statutes. The Inspector shall
cause a copy of the notice of lis pendens to be served upon the owners and
parties in interest in the dwelling at the time of filing in accordance with
G.S. § 160A-445, as applicable. Upon compliance with the requirements of any
order issued based upon such complaint and hearing, the Inspector shall direct
the Clerk of Superior Court to cancel the notice of lis pendens.
(1988 Code, § 151.32) (Am. Ord. O-20120501-04, passed 5-1-2012)
§ 151.07 DWELLING UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION.
   (A)   The Housing Inspector shall determine that a dwelling is unfit for
human habitation if he or she finds that any one of the following conditions
exist in such dwelling:
      (1)   Interior walls or vertical studs which seriously list, lean or
buckle to such an extent as to render the dwelling unsafe.
      (2)   Supporting member or members which show 33% or more damage or
deterioration, or non-supporting, enclosing or outside walls or covering which
shows 50% or more of damage or deterioration.
      (3)   Floors or roofs which have improperly distributed loads, which are
overloaded or which have insufficient strength to be reasonably safe for the
purpose used.
      (4)   Such damage by fire, wind or other causes as to render the dwelling
unsafe.
      (5)   Dilapidation, decay, unsanitary conditions or disrepair which is
dangerous to the health, safety or welfare of the occupants or other people in
the town.
      (6)   Inadequate facilities for egress in case of fire or panic.
      (7)   Defects significantly increasing the hazards of fire, accident or
other calamities.
      (8)   Lack of adequate ventilation, light, heating or sanitary facilities
to such extent as to endanger the health, safety or general welfare of the
occupants or other residents of the town.
      (9)   Lack of proper electrical, heating or plumbing facilities required
by this chapter which constitutes a definite health or safety hazard.
      (10)   Lack of connection to a potable water supply and/or to the public
sewer or other approved sewage disposal system, the lack of either one of which
renders a dwelling unfit for human habitation. For the purposes of this
standard, a dwelling is not connected to a potable water supply if the water
supply has been “cut off” because of nonpayment of the water bill or otherwise
or if the system for any reason is not receiving a flow of potable water to the
tap.
   (B)   In addition to the ten conditions stated above, any one of which
renders a dwelling unfit for human habitation, the Housing Inspector shall
determine that a dwelling is unfit for human habitation if he or she finds that
a dwelling fails to fully comply with seven or more of the following enumerated
standards of dwelling fitness:
STRUCTURAL STANDARDS
Structural Integrity
(1)   Walls, partitions, supporting members, sills, joists, rafters or other
structural members shall not list, lean or buckle, shall not be rotted,
deteriorated or damaged, and shall not have holes or cracks which might admit
rodents.
Supports
(2)   Floors or roofs shall have adequate supporting members and strength to be
reasonably safe for the purpose used.
Foundations
(3)   Foundations, foundation walls, piers or other foundation supports shall
not be deteriorated or damaged.
Steps
(4)   Steps, stairs, landings, porches or other parts or appurtenances shall be
maintained in such condition that they will not fail or collapse.
Egress
(5)   Adequate facilities for egress in case of fire or panic shall be
provided.
Interior materials
(6)   Interior walls and ceilings of all rooms, closets and hallways shall be
furnished of suitable materials which will, by use of reasonable household
methods, promote sanitation and cleanliness, and shall be maintained in such a
manner so as to enable the occupants to maintain reasonable privacy between
various spaces.
Weatherization
(7)   The roof, flashings, exterior walls, basement walls, floors and all doors
and windows exposed to the weather shall be constructed and maintained so as to
be weather and watertight.
Chimneys
(8)   There shall be no chimneys or parts thereof which are defective,
deteriorated or in danger of falling, or in such condition or location as to
constitute a fire hazard.
Floors
(9)   There shall be no use of the ground for floors, or wood floors on the
ground.
PLUMBING STANDARDS
Facilities
(10)   Each dwelling unit shall contain not less than a kitchen sink, lavatory,
tub or shower, water closet, and an adequate supply of both cold water and hot
water. All water shall be supplied through an approved pipe distribution system
connected to a potable water supply. For the purposes of this standard, a
dwelling is not connected to a potable water supply if the water supply has
been “cut off” because of non-payment of the water bill or otherwise or if the
system for any reason is not receiving a flow of potable water to the tap.
Maintenance
(11)   All plumbing fixtures shall meet the standards of the Plumbing Code and
shall be maintained in a state of good repair and in good working order.
Accessible
(12)   All required plumbing fixtures shall be located within the dwelling and
be accessible to the occupants of the same. The water closet and tub or shower
shall be located in a room or rooms affording privacy to the user.
HEATING STANDARDS
Generally
(13)   Every dwelling shall have facilities for providing heat in accordance
with either (a) or (b) below. Such facilities shall be maintained in a state of
good repair and good working order.
   (a)   Central and electrical heating systems. Every central or electric
heating system shall be of sufficient capacity so as to heat all habitable
rooms, bathrooms and water closet compartments in every dwelling to which it is
connected with a minimum temperature of 70 degrees Fahrenheit measured at a
point three feet above the floor during average winter conditions.
   (b)   Other heating facilities. Where a central or electric healing system
is not provided, each dwelling shall be provided with sufficient electrical
receptacles, fireplaces, chimneys, fines or gas vents whereby heating
appliances may be connected so as to heat all habitable rooms, bathrooms and
water closet compartments with a minimum temperature of 70 degrees Fahrenheit
measured three feet above the floor during average winter conditions.
ELECTRICAL STANDARDS
Wiring
(14)   Every dwelling shall be wired for electric lights and convenience
receptacles. Every habitable room shall contain at least two floor or wall type
electrical convenience receptacles, connected in such manner as determined by
the Electrical Code. There shall be installed in every bathroom, water closet
room, laundry room and furnace room at least one supplied ceiling or wall type
electric light fixture. In the event wall or ceiling light fixtures are not
provided in any habitable room, then each such habitable room shall contain at
least three door or wall type electric convenience receptacles.
Hall Lights
(15)   Every public hall and stairway in every multiple dwelling shall be
adequately lighted by electric lights at all times when natural light is not
sufficient.
Maintenance
(16)   All fixtures, receptacles, equipment and wiring shall be maintained in a
state of good repair, safe, capable of being used, and installed in accordance
with the Electrical Code.
VENTILATION STANDARDS
Generally
(17)   Every habitable room shall have at least one window or skylight facing
directly to the outdoors. The minimum total window area, measured between
stops, for every habitable room shall be 10% of the floor area of such room.
Whenever walls or other portions of structures face a window of any such room
and such light obstructions are located less than five feet from the window and
extend to a level above that of the ceiling of the room, such a window shall
not be deemed to face directly to the outdoors and shall not be included as
contributing to the required minimum total window area. Whenever the only
window in a room is a skylight type window in the top of such a room, the total
window area of such skylight shall equal at least 15% of the total floor area
of such room.
Habitable Rooms
(18)   Every habitable room shall have at least one window or skylight which
can easily be opened, or such other device as will adequately ventilate the
room. The total openable window area in every habitable room, shall be equal to
at least 45% of the minimum window area size or minimum skylight type window
size as required, or shall have other approved equivalent ventilation.
Bathroom and Water Closet Room
(19)   Every bathroom equipped with more than one water closet compartment
shall comply with the light and ventilation requirements for habitable rooms.
SPACE, USE AND LOCATION STANDARDS
Room Sizes
(20)   Every dwelling unit shall contain at least the minimum room size in each
habitable room as required by the Residential Building Code. (Floor area shall
be calculated on the basis of habitable room area. However, closet area and
wall area within the dwelling may count for not more than 10% of the required
habitable floor area. The floor area of any part of any room where the ceiling
height is less than four and one-half feet shall not be considered as a part of
the floor area in computing the total area of the room to determine maximum
permissible occupancy.) Every dwelling unit shall contain at least 150 square
feet of habitable floor area for the first occupant, at least 100 square feet
of additional habitable area for each of the next three occupants, and at least
75 square feet of additional habitable floor area for each additional occupant.
In every dwelling unit and in every rooming unit, every room occupied for
sleeping purposes by one occupant shall contain at least 70 square feet of
floor area, and every room occupied for sleeping purposes by more than one
occupant shall contain at least 50 square feet of floor area for each occupant
12 years of age and over, and at least 35 square feet of floor area for each
occupant under 12 years of age.
Ceiling Height
(21)   At least one-half of the floor area of every habitable room shall have a
ceiling height of not less than seven feet and six inches.
Cellar
(22)   No cellar shall be used for living purposes unless:
   (a)   The floor and walls are substantially watertight;
   (b)   The total window area, total openable window area and ceiling height
are equal to those required for a habitable room;
   (c)   The required minimum window area of every habitable room is entirely
above the grade adjoining such window area, except where the windows face a
stairwell, window well or access way.
SAFE AND SANITARY MAINTENANCE STANDARDS
Exterior Foundation, Walls and Roofs
(23)   Every foundation wall, exterior wall and exterior roof shall be
substantially weather tight and rodent proof; shall be kept in sound condition
and good repair; shall be capable of affording privacy; shall be safe to use
and capable of supporting the load which normal use may cause to be placed
thereon. Every exterior wall shall be protected with paint or other protective
covering to prevent the entrance or penetration of moisture or the weather.
Interior Floors, Walls and Ceilings
(24)   Every floor, interior wall and ceiling shall be substantially rodent
proof; shall be kept in sound condition and good repair; and shall be safe to
use and capable of supporting the load which normal use may cause to be placed
thereon.
Windows and Doors
(25)   Every window, exterior door, basement or cellar door and hatchway shall
be substantially weather tight, water tight and rodent proof; and shall be kept
in sound working condition and good repair.
Stairs, Porches and Appurtenances
(26)   Every inside and outside stair, porch and any appurtenances thereto
shall be safe to use and capable of supporting the load that normal use may
cause to be placed thereon; and shall be kept in sound condition and good
repair.
Bathroom and Kitchen Floors
(27)   Every bathroom and kitchen floor surface and water closet compartment
floor surface shall be constructed and maintained so as to be reasonably
impervious to water and so as to permit such floor to be easily kept in sound
condition and good repair.
Supplied Facilities
(28)   Every supplied facility, piece of equipment or utility which is required
under this chapter shall be so constructed or installed that it will function
safely and effectively and shall be maintained in satisfactory working
condition.
Drainage
(29)   Every yard shall be properly graded so as to obtain thorough drainage
and so as to prevent the accumulation of stagnant water.
INSECT, RODENT AND INFESTATION CONTROL STANDARDS
Screens
(30)   For protection against mosquitoes, flies and other insects every
dwelling shall have:
   (a)   Supplied and installed screens on every door opening leading directly
from the dwelling to outdoor space. Except, that sliding doors, doors with self
closing devices, doors on mobile homes with self closing devices and doors that
open into rooms of living spaces that are artificially ventilated or air
conditioned are exempt from this provision.
   (b)   Supplied and installed screens on every window or other device with an
opening to outdoor space, except that this requirement shall not apply for any
room or rooms of a dwelling that are ventilated year round with an operable and
installed healing and air conditioning system.
Rodent Control
(31)   Every basement or cellar window used or intended to be used for
ventilation, and every other opening to a basement which might provide an entry
for rodents, shall be supplied with screens installed or such other approved
device as will effectively prevent their entrance.
Infestation
(32)   Every dwelling shall be maintained in a manner to be free of any
infestations of insects, rodents or other pests. Every occupant of a dwelling
containing a single dwelling unit shall be responsible for the extermination of
any insects, rodents or other pests therein or on the premises; and every
occupant of a dwelling unit in a dwelling containing more than one dwelling
unit shall be responsible for such extermination whenever his or her dwelling
unit is the only one infested. Whenever infestation exists in two or more of
the dwelling units in any dwelling or in the shared or public parts of any
dwelling containing two or more dwelling units, extermination shall be the
responsibility of the owner.
Rubbish Storage and Disposal
(33)   Every dwelling shall be supplied with approved containers and covers for
storage of rubbish as may be required by town codes, and the owner, operator or
agent in control of such dwelling or dwelling unit shall be responsible for the
removal of rubbish.
Garbage Storage and Disposal
(34)   Every dwelling shall be supplied with an approved garbage disposal
facility, which may be an adequate mechanical garbage disposal unit (mechanical
sink grinder) in each dwelling unit or an incinerator unit, to be approved by
the Inspector, in the structure for the use of the occupants of each dwelling
unit, or an approved outside garbage container as may be required by town
codes.
Smoke Detector Systems
(35)   Every dwelling unit shall be provided with an approved listed smoke
detector installed in accordance with the manufacturer’s recommendations and
listing. When activated, the detector shall provide an audible alarm. The
detector shall be tested in accordance with and meet the requirements of UL
217, Single and Multiple Station Smoke Detectors.
ROOMING HOUSE STANDARDS
All of the provisions of this chapter, and all of the minimum standards and
requirements of this chapter, shall be applicable to rooming houses, and to
every person who operates a rooming house or who occupies or lets to another
for occupancy any rooming unit in any rooming house, except as provided in the
following:
Water Closet, Hand Lavatory and Bath Facilities
(36)   At least one water closet, lavatory basin and bathtub or shower,
properly connected to an approved water and sewer system and in good working
condition, shall be supplied for each four rooms within a rooming house
wherever such facilities are shared. All such facilities shall be located
within the residence building served, shall be directly accessible from a
common hall or passageway and shall not be more than one story removed from any
of the persons sharing such facilities. Every lavatory basin and bathtub or
shower shall be supplied with hot and cold water at all times. Such required
facilities shall not be located in a cellar.
Minimum Floor Area for Sleeping Purposes
(37)   Every room occupied for sleeping purposes by one occupant shall contain
at least 70 square feet of floor area, and every room occupied for sleeping
purposes by more than one occupant shall contain at least 50 square feet of
floor area for each occupant 12 years of age and over and at least 35 square
feet of floor area for each occupant under 12 years of age.
Sanitary Conditions
(38)   The operator of every rooming house shall be responsible for the
sanitary maintenance of all walls, floors and ceilings, and for the sanitary
maintenance of every other part of the rooming house; and shall be further
responsible for the sanitary maintenance of the entire premises where the
entire structure or building within which the rooming house is contained is
leased or occupied by the operator.
Sanitary Facilities
(39)   Every water closet, flush urinal, lavatory basin and bathtub or shower
required by division (B)(36) of this section shall be located within the
rooming house and within a room or rooms which afford privacy and are separate
from the habitable rooms, and which are accessible from a common hall and
without going outside the rooming house or through any other room therein.
[Note: Full compliance with a standard means that if any part of the stated
standard is not complied with by a particular dwelling then that dwelling has
failed to fully comply with the enumerated standard. For example, in regard to
standard #10, if all standards are met in a dwelling except that a supply of
hot water is not provided then the dwelling fails to fully comply with standard
#10.
(1988 Code, §§ 151.15 through 151.19) (Am. Ord. O-20120501-04, passed 5-1-2012)
§ 151.08 DWELLINGS NOT IN COMPLIANCE BUT NOT UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION.
   In any case where the Housing Inspector determines that a dwelling fails to
fully comply with one or more but less than seven of the above enumerated
standards of dwelling fitness, such dwelling shall not be found to be unfit for
human habitation and shall not be subject to the procedures and remedies as
provided for in this chapter for dwellings unfit for human habitation. Each
such failure or noncompliance, however, shall constitute a violation of the
terms of this chapter and shall subject the violator to the penalties and
enforcement procedures of §
10.99, General Penalties; Enforcement of Ordinances; Continuing Violations. In
making the determination as described in this section, the Housing Inspector
shall not be required to make notice and hold the hearing as called for in §
151.06, but the Housing Inspector may do so if the determination of the
severity and classification of dwelling fitness is not clear to the Housing
Inspector upon preliminary investigation.
(Ord. O-20120501-04, passed 5-1-2012)
§ 151.09 PROCEDURE AFTER HEARING; ORDER.
   (A)   If, after notice and hearing, the Housing Inspector determines that
the dwelling under consideration is unfit for human habitation in accordance
with the standards set forth above, he or she shall state in writing his or her
findings of fact in support of that determination and shall issue and cause to
be served upon the owner thereof an order:
      (1)   If the repair, alteration or improvement of the dwelling can be
made at a cost of less than 50% of the value of the dwelling, requiring the
owner, within the time specified, to repair, alter or improve the dwelling in
order to render it fit for human habitation or to vacate and close the dwelling
as a human habitation, based upon the Housing Inspector’s standards for closing
dwellings; or
      (2)   If the repair, alteration or improvement of the dwelling cannot be
made at a cost of less than 50% of the value of the dwelling, requiring the
owner, within the time specified in the order, to remove or demolish such
dwelling.
   (B)   If after notice and hearing the Housing Inspector determines that the
dwelling under consideration is not unfit for human habitation but is not in
full compliance with one or more standards of dwelling fitness as set forth
above, he or she may proceed with the enforcement procedures of §
10.99, General Penalties; Enforcement of Ordinances; Continuing Violations.
   (C)   Whenever a determination is made pursuant to divisions (A)(1) or (2)
of this section that a dwelling must be vacated and closed, or removed or
demolished, under the provisions of this chapter, notice of the order shall be
given by first-class mail to any organization involved in providing or
restoring dwellings for affordable housing that has filed a written request for
such notices. A minimum period of 45 days from the mailing of such notice shall
be given before removal or demolition by action of the Inspector, to allow the
opportunity for any organization to negotiate with the owner to make repairs,
lease, or purchase the property for the purpose of providing affordable
housing. The Inspector shall certify the mailing of the notices, and the
certifications shall be conclusive in the absence of fraud. Only an
organization that has filed a written request for such notices may raise the
issue of failure to mail such notices, and the sole remedy shall be an order
requiring the Inspector to wait 45 days before causing removal or demolition.
(Ord. O-20120501-04, passed 5-1-2012)
§ 151.10 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ORDER.
   (A)   If the owner fails to comply with an order to repair, alter or improve
or to vacate and close the dwelling, the Housing Inspector may:
      (1)   Cause the dwelling to be repaired, altered or improved or to be
vacated and closed.
      (2)   Cause to be posted on the main entrance of any such dwelling, a
placard with the following words: “This building is unfit for human habitation;
the use or occupation of this building for human habitation is prohibited and
unlawful.” Occupation of a building so posted shall constitute a violation of
this chapter.
   (B)   If the owner fails to comply with an order to repair, alter or improve
or to remove or demolish the dwelling, the Housing Inspector may:
      (1)   Cause such dwelling to be vacated and removed or demolished.
      (2)   Cause to be posted on the main entrance of any such dwelling, a
placard with the following words: “This building is unfit for human habitation;
the use or occupation of this building for human habitation is prohibited and
unlawful.” Occupation of a building so posted shall constitute a violation of
this chapter.
   (C)   The duties of the Housing Inspector set forth in divisions (A) and (B)
above shall not be exercised until the Board of Commissioners shall have by
ordinance ordered the Housing Inspector to proceed to effectuate the purpose of
this chapter with respect to the particular property or properties which the
Housing Inspector shall have found to be unfit for human habitation and which
property or properties shall be described in the ordinance. No such ordinance
shall be adopted to require demolition of a dwelling until the owner has first
been given a reasonable opportunity to bring it into conformity with the
housing standards. For the purposes of this division (C), a period of 90 days
following the date of the Housing Inspector’s order shall constitute a
reasonable opportunity. The ordinance shall be recorded in the Office of the
Register of Deeds in the county wherein the property or properties are located
and shall be indexed in the name of the properly owner in the grantor index.
   (D)   The amount of the cost of repairs, alterations or improvements, or
vacating and closing, or removal or demolition by the Housing Inspector shall
be a lien against the real property upon which the cost was incurred, which
lien shall be filed, have the same priority, and be collected as the lien for
special assessment provided in Article 10 of Chapter 160A of the General
Statutes of North Carolina. If the dwelling is removed or demolished by the
Housing Inspector, he or she shall sell the materials of the dwelling, and any
personal property, fixture or appurtenances found in or attached to the
dwelling, and shall credit the proceeds of the sale against the cost of the
removal or demolition and any balance remaining shall be deposited in the
Superior Court by the Housing Inspector, shall be secured in a manner directed
by the Court, and shall be disbursed by the Court to the persons found to be
entitled thereto by final order of the decree of the Court.
   (E)   If any occupant fails to comply with an order to vacate a dwelling,
the Housing Inspector may file a civil action in the name of the town to remove
such occupant. The action to vacate the dwelling shall be in the nature of
summary ejectment and shall be commenced by filing a complaint naming as
parties-defendant any persons occupying such dwelling. The Clerk of Superior
Court shall issue a summons requiring the defendant to appear before a
magistrate at a certain time, date and place not to exceed ten days from the
issuance of the summons to answer the complaint. The summons and complaint
shall be served as provided in G.S. § 42-29. The summons shall be returned
according to its tenor, and if on its return it appears to have been duly
served, and if at the hearing the Housing Inspector produces the certified copy
of an ordinance adopted by the Board of Commissioners pursuant to division (C)
above authorizing the Housing Inspector to proceed to vacate the occupied
dwelling, the magistrate shall enter judgment ordering that the premises be
vacated and that all persons be removed. The judgment ordering that the
dwelling be vacated shall be enforced in the same manner as the judgment for
summary ejectment entered under G.S. § 42-30. An appeal from any judgment
entered hereunder by the magistrate may be taken as provided in G.S. § 7A-228,
and the execution of such judgment may be stayed as provided in G.S. § 7A-227.
An action to remove an occupant of a dwelling who is a tenant of the owner may
not be in the nature of a summary ejectment proceeding pursuant to this
division (E) unless such occupant was served with notice at least 30 days
before the filing of the summary ejectment proceeding that the Board of
Commissioners has ordered the Housing Inspector to proceed to exercise his or
her duties under divisions (A), (B) and (C) of this section to vacate and close
or remove and demolish the dwelling.
   (F)   If the Board of Commissioners shall have adopted an ordinance, or the
Housing Inspector shall have issued an order, ordering a dwelling to be
repaired or vacated and closed, as provided in §
151.09(A)(1), and if the owner has vacated and closed such dwelling and kept
such dwelling vacated and closed for a period of one year pursuant to the
ordinance or order, then if the Board of Commissioners shall find that the
owner has abandoned the intent and purpose to repair, alter, or improve the
dwelling in order to render it fit for human habitation and that the
continuation of the dwelling in its vacated and closed status would be inimical
to the health, safety, moral, and welfare of the town in that the dwelling
would continue to deteriorate, would create a fire and safety hazard, would be
a threat to children and vagrants, would attract persons intent on criminal
activities, would cause or contribute to blight and the deterioration of
property values in the area, and would render unavailable property and a
dwelling which might otherwise have been made available to ease the persistent
shortage of decent and affordable housing in the town, then in such
circumstances, the Board of Commissioners may, after the expiration of such
one- year period, enact an ordinance and serve such ordinance on the owner,
setting forth the following:
      (1)   If it is determined that the repair of the dwelling to render it
fit for human habitation can be made at a cost not exceeding 50% of the then
current value of the dwelling, the ordinance shall require that the owner
either repair or demolish and remove the dwelling within 90 days; or
      (2)   If it is determined that the repair of the dwelling to render it
fit for human habitation cannot be made at a cost not exceeding 50% of the then
current value of the dwelling, the ordinance shall require the owner to
demolish and remove the dwelling within 90 days.
      (3)   The ordinance shall be recorded in the Office of the Register of
Deeds in the county wherein the property or properties are located and shall be
indexed in the name of the property owner in the grantor index, if the owner
fails to comply with this ordinance, the Housing Inspector shall effect the
purpose of the ordinance.
(1988 Code, §§ 151.33, 151.35, 151.36) (Am. Ord. O-20120501-04, passed 5-1-
2012)
§ 151.11 SERVICE OF COMPLAINTS AND ORDERS.
   (A)   Complaints or orders issued by the Housing Inspector shall be served
upon persons either personally or by registered or certified mail. When service
is made by registered or certified mail, a copy of the complaint or order may
also be sent by regular mail. Service shall be deemed sufficient if the
registered or certified mail is unclaimed or refused, but the regular mail is
not returned by the post office within ten days after the mailing. If regular
mail is used, a notice of the pending proceedings shall be posted in a
conspicuous place on the premises affected.
   (B)   If the identities of any owners or the whereabouts of persons are
unknown and cannot be ascertained by the Inspector in the exercise of
reasonable diligence, or, if the owners are known but have refused to accept
service by registered or certified mail, and the Inspector makes an affidavit
to that effect, then the serving of the complaint or order upon the owners or
other persons may be made by publication in a newspaper having general
circulation in the town at least not later than the time at which personal
service would be required under the provisions of this chapter. When service is
made by publication, a notice of the pending proceedings shall be posted in a
conspicuous place on the premises thereby affected.
(1988 Code, § 151.37) (Am. Ord. O-20120501-04, passed 5-1-2012)
§ 151.12 APPEALS.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment is hereby appointed as the Housing Appeals
Board to which appeals from any decision or order of the Housing Inspector may
be taken. Except where this chapter provides for different rules or procedures,
the Board of Adjustment acting as the Housing Appeals Board shall follow its
rules of procedure, which may be amended to provide specifically for this
function.
   (B)   An appeal from any decision or order of the Housing Inspector may be
taken by any person aggrieved thereby or by any officer, board or commission of
the town. Any appeal from the Housing Inspector shall be taken within ten days
from the rendering of the decision or service of the order by filing with the
Housing Inspector and with the Board a notice of appeal which shall specify the
grounds upon which the appeal is based. Upon the filing of any notice of
appeal, the Housing Inspector shall forthwith transmit to the Board all the
papers constituting the record upon which the decision appealed from was made.
When an appeal is from a decision of the Housing Inspector refusing to allow
the person aggrieved thereby to do any such act, his or her decision shall
remain in force until modified or reversed. When any appeal is from a decision
of the Housing Inspector requiring the person aggrieved to do any act, the
appeal shall have the effect of suspending the requirement until the hearing by
the Board, unless the Housing Inspector certifies to the Board after the notice
of appeal is filed with him or her, that because of facts stated in the
certificate (a copy of which shall be furnished the appellant), a suspension of
this requirement would cause imminent peril to life or property. In that case
the requirement shall not be suspended except by a restraining order, which may
be granted for due cause shown upon not less than one day’s written notice to
the Housing Inspector, by the Board, or by a court of record upon petition made
pursuant to division (E) of this section.
   (C)   The Board of Adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for hearing
appeals, shall give due notice to the parties, and shall render its decision
within a reasonable time. Any party may appear in person or by agent or
attorney. The Board may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the
decision or order appealed from, and may make any decision and order that in
its opinion ought to be made in the matter, and to that end it shall have all
the powers of the Housing Inspector, but the concurring vote of four-fifths of
the members of the Board shall be necessary to reverse or modify any decision
or order of the Housing Inspector. The Board shall have power also in passing
upon appeals, when practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships would result
from carrying out the strict letter of the chapter, to adapt the application of
the chapter to the necessities of the case to the end that the spirit of the
chapter shall be observed, public safety and welfare secured, and substantial
justice done.
   (D)   Every decision of the Board shall be subject to review by proceedings
in the nature of certiorari instituted within 15 days of the decision of the
Board, but not otherwise.
   (E)   Any person aggrieved by an order issued by the Housing Inspector or a
decision rendered by the Board may petition the Superior Court for an
injunction, restraining the Housing Inspector from carrying out the order or
decision and the Court may, upon such petition, issue a temporary injunction
restraining the Housing Inspector pending a final disposition of the cause. The
petition shall be filed within 30 days after issuance of the order or rendering
of the decision. Hearings shall be had by the Court on a petition within 20
days, and shall be given preference over other matters on the Court’s calendar.
The Court shall hear and determine the issues raised and shall enter such final
order or decree as law and justice may require. It shall not be necessary to
file bond in any amount before obtaining a temporary injunction under this
division (E).
(1988 Code, §§ 151.31, 151.34, 151.40, 151.41) (Am. Ord. O-20120501-04, passed
5-1-2012)
§ 151.13 ALTERNATIVE REMEDIES.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter nor any of its provisions shall be construed
to impair or limit in any way the power of the town to define and declare
nuisances and to cause their removal or abatement by summary proceedings or
otherwise nor shall enforcement of one remedy provided herein prevent the
enforcement of any other remedy or remedies provided herein or in other
chapters or laws. In addition to the remedies provided for herein, any
violation of the terms of this chapter shall subject the violator to the
penalties and remedies, as set forth in Chapter 10, §
10.99, General Penalties; Enforcement of Ordinances; Continuing Violations, of
the Code of Ordinances of the Town of Sharpsburg.
   (B)   No dwelling shall be hereafter erected, altered, moved, or changed in
occupancy without a certificate of occupancy. In any case where the Housing
Inspector, after notice and hearing as required herein, finds that a dwelling
or dwelling unit is unfit for human habitation, he or she shall withhold
issuance of a certificate of occupancy for such dwelling or dwelling unit until
such time that he or she determines that it is fit for human habitation. In
addition, in any case where the Housing Inspector, after preliminary
investigation as provided for herein, concludes, based upon that investigation,
that a dwelling or dwelling unit is unfit for human habitation and believes
that the occupancy of such dwelling or dwelling unit could cause imminent peril
to life or property from fire or other hazards, he or she shall withhold
issuance of a certificate of occupancy for such dwelling or dwelling unit until
such time that he or she determines that it is fit for human habitation.
   (C)   If any dwelling is erected, constructed, altered, repaired, converted,
maintained, or used in violation of this chapter or of any valid order or
decision of the Housing Inspector or Board made pursuant to any chapter or code
adopted under authority of this chapter, the Housing Inspector may institute
any appropriate action or proceedings to prevent the unlawful erection,
construction, reconstruction, alteration or occupancy, to restrain, correct or
abate the violation, to prevent the occupancy of the dwellings, or to prevent
any illegal act, conduct or use in or about the premises of the dwelling.
(1988 Code, § 151.38) (Am. Ord. O-20120501-04, passed 5-1-2012)
§ 151.14 CONFLICT WITH OTHER PROVISIONS.
   In the event any provision, standard or requirement of this chapter is found
to be in conflict with any provision of any other chapter or code of the town,
the provision which establishes the higher standard or more stringent
requirement for the promotion and protection of the health and safety of the
residents of the town’s jurisdiction shall prevail. The North Carolina Building
Code, current edition, shall serve as the standard for all alterations,
repairs, additions, removals, demolitions and other acts of building made or
required pursuant to this chapter.
(1988 Code, § 151.04) (Am. Ord. O-20120501-04, passed 5-1-2012)
§ 151.15 VIOLATIONS.
   In addition to the conditions, acts or failures to act that constitute
violations specified in this chapter above, it shall be unlawful for the owner
of any dwelling or dwelling unit to fail, neglect or refuse to repair, alter or
improve the same, or to vacate and close or vacate and remove or demolish the
same, upon order of the Inspector duly made and served as herein provided,
within the time specified in such order. It shall be unlawful for the owner of
any dwelling, with respect to which an order has been issued pursuant to §
151.09, to occupy or permit the occupancy of the same after the time prescribed
in such order for its repair, alteration or improvement or its vacation and
closing, or vacation and removal or demolition.
(1988 Code, § 151.98) (Am. Ord. O-20120501-04, passed 5-1-2012)
CHAPTER 152: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
   
152.01   Adoption by reference
§ 152.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The subdivision ordinance and all amendments thereto are adopted and
incorporated as part of this code of ordinances as fully as if set out at
length herein.
(1988 Code, § 152.01) (Ord. passed 7-1-1980)
CHAPTER 153: ZONING CODE
Section
   
153.01   Adoption by reference
§ 153.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The zoning ordinance and all amendments thereto are adopted and incorporated
as part of this code of ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein.
(1988 Code, § 153.01) (Ord. passed 5-6-1980; Am. Ord. passed 5-4-2010)
CHAPTER 154: MOBILE HOME SKIRTING
Section
   
154.01   Requirements
§ 154.01 REQUIREMENTS.
   Every mobile home set up in the town shall have skirting installed in
accordance with the following requirements:
   (A)   Skirting shall be of non-combustible material or material that will
not support combustion. Skirting material shall be durable and suitable for
exterior exposures.
   (B)   Any wood framing used to support the skirting shall be of approved
moisture resistant treated wood.
   (C)   The skirting shall be ventilated openings, perforated panels or other
means of ventilation shall be arranged to provide cross ventilation. Any
ventilation opening which will permit the passage of a one-half-inch sphere
shall be covered with corrosion resistant wire mesh. The openings shall have a
net area of no less than two square feet for each 100 linear feet of exterior
wall, plus one third square for each 100 square feet of crawl space. If a six-
mil polyethylene vapor barrier is installed over 80% of the crawl space, ground
surface, the specified net area of the vent openings may be reduced 50%. Access
shall be provided to the crawl space by either a minimum 18 feet high by 24
feet wide door or by panels which are removable without the use of tools.
   (D)   Masonry curtain walls for skirting 40 inches in height or less may be
installed on a minimum one-inch bed of mortar placed on firm, level,
undisturbed soil or controlled fill. Masonry curtain walls for skirting
exceeding 40 inches in height, shall comply with the requirements of the N.C.
Uniform Residential Code, Volume I-B; or be designed by a professional engineer
or registered architect.
   (E)   Skirting manufactured specifically for this purpose shall be installed
in accordance with the manufacturer’s specifications.
   (F)   Skirting shall be installed no later than 90 days after the set up of
the home. Existing homes have one year from the date of this chapter to comply.
   (G)   A building permit shall be required unless skirting is included on
original set up permit.
   (H)   Notification to the town shall be required before starting work on
skirting. Inspection will be made as work progresses and a final inspection
made when work is complete.
(Ord. O-5-4-93, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 155: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
155.01   Statutory authorization
   
155.02   Findings of fact
   
155.03   Statement of purpose
   
155.04   Objectives
   
155.05   Definitions
   
155.06   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
155.07   Basis for establishing the special flood hazard areas
   
155.08   Establishment of floodplain development permit
   
155.09   Compliance
   
155.10   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
155.11   Interpretation
   
155.12   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Administration
   
155.25   Designation of Floodplain Administrator
   
155.26   Floodplain development application, permit and certification
requirements
   
155.27   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
   
155.28   Corrective procedures
   
155.29   Variance procedures
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
155.40   General standards
   
155.41   Specific standards
   
155.42   Reserved
   
155.43   Standards for floodplains without established base flood elevations
   
155.44   Standards for riverine floodplains with BFE but without established
floodways or non-encroachment areas
   
155.45   Floodways and non-encroachment areas
   
155.46   Standards for areas of shallow flooding (AO Zones)
Legal Status Provisions
   
155.60   Effect on rights and liabilities under the existing flood damage
prevention ordinance
   
155.61   Effect upon outstanding building permits
 
   
155.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   (A)   The Legislature of the Slate of North Carolina has in G.S. Ch. 143,
Art. 21, part 6, Ch. 160A, Art. 19, parts 3, 5, and 8, and Ch. 160A, Art. 8,
delegated the responsibility to local governmental units to adopt regulations
designed to promote the public health, safety, and general welfare of its
citizenry.
   (B)   Therefore, the Board of Commissioners of the Town of Sharpsburg, North
Carolina, does ordain as follows.
(Ord. passed 10-5-2004)
§ 155.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood prone areas within the jurisdiction of Sharpsburg, including
areas within Nash, Edgecombe and Wilson Counties, are subject to periodic
inundation which results in loss of life, property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures of flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities and by the
occupancy in flood prone areas of uses vulnerable to floods or other hazards.
(Ord. passed 10-5-2004)
§ 155.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions within flood prone areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water or erosion hazards or that result in damaging increases
in erosion, flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities that
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and all other development that may
increase erosion or flood damage: and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers that will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(Ord. passed 10-5-2004)
§ 155.04 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are:
   (A)   To protect human life and health;
   (B)   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   To minimize prolonged business losses and interruptions;
   (E)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities (i.e. water and
gas mains, electric, telephone, cable and sewer lines, streets, and bridges)
that are located in flood prone areas;
   (F)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas; and
   (G)   To insure that potential buyers are aware that property is in a
Special Flood Hazard Area.
(Ord. passed 10-5-2004)
§ 155.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Unless
specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter shall be
interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to
give this chapter its most reasonable application.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure which is located on
the same parcel of property as the principal structure and the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principal structure. Garages, carports and storage
sheds are common urban accessory structures. Pole barns, hay sheds and the like
qualify as accessory structures on farms, and may or may not be located on the
same parcel as the farm dwelling or shop building.
   ADDITION (to an existing building). An extension or increase in the floor
area or height of a building or structure.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO Zone on a community’s Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with base flood depths determined to be from one to
three feet. These areas are located where a clearly defined channel does not
exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate, and where
velocity flow may be evident.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. See SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA).
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). A determination as published in the Flood
Insurance Study of the water surface elevations of the base flood. This
elevation combined with the “Freeboard” creates the “Regulatory Flood
Protection Elevation”.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   CHEMICAL STORAGE FACILITY. A building, portion of a building, or exterior
area adjacent to a building used for the storage of any chemical or chemically
reactive products.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
   DISPOSAL. Defined as in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(6).
   ELEVATED BUILDING. A non-basement building which has its reference level
raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear walls, posts, piers,
pilings, or columns.
   ENCROACHMENT. The advance or infringement of uses, fill, excavation,
buildings, permanent structures or development into a floodplain, which may
impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. A
manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities
for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) was
completed before the original effective date of the floodplain management
regulations adopted by the community.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). An official map of a community,
issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, on which the Special Flood
Hazard Areas and the flood ways are delineated. This official map is a
supplement to and shall be used in conjunction with the Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM).
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). An official map of a community, issued by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency, where the boundaries of the Special
Flood Hazard Areas have been defined as Zone A.
   FLOOD INSURANCE. The insurance coverage provided under the National Flood
Insurance Program.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, issued by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency, on which both the Special Flood Hazard
Areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community are delineated.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). An examination, evaluation, and determination
of flood hazard areas, corresponding water surface elevations (if appropriate),
flood insurance risk zones, and other flood data in a community issued by FEMA.
The FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY report includes Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FlRMs) and
Flood Boundary and Floodway Maps (FBFMs). if published.
   FLOOD PRONE AREA. See FLOODPLAIN.
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any source.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The individual appointed to administer and enforce
the floodplain management regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. Any type of permit that is required in
conformance with the provisions of this chapter, prior to the commencement of
any development activity.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including but not limited
to emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations, and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances, and other applications of police power which control development in
flood prone areas. This term describes federal, state or local regulations in
any combination thereof, which provide standards for preventing and reducing
flood loss and damage.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures, which reduce or eliminate risk of flood
damage to real estate or improved real property, water and sanitation
facilities, or structures with their contents.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   FLOOD ZONE. A geographical area shown on a Flood Hazard Boundary Map or
Flood Insurance Rate Map that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the
area.
   FREEBOARD. The additional amount of height added to the Base Flood Elevation
(BFE) to account for uncertainties in the determination of flood elevations.
The FREEBOARD plus the Base Flood Elevation establishes the “Regulatory Flood
Protection Elevation”.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT FACILITY. A facility which cannot be used for its
intended purpose unless it is located in close proximity to water, such as a
docking or port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or
passengers, shipbuilding, or ship repair. The term does not include long term
storage, manufacture, sales, or service facilities.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT FACILITY. A facility for the collection, storage,
processing, treatment, recycling, recovery, or disposal of hazardous waste as
defined in G.S. Ch. 130A, Art. 9.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE (HAG). The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface, prior to construction, immediately next to the proposed walls of the
structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the U.S. Department of Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of Interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of Interior in states without approved
programs.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE (LAG). The elevation of the ground, sidewalk or patio
slab immediately next to the building, or deck support, after completion of the
building. For Zone A and AO, use the natural grade elevation prior to
construction.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The subfloor, top of slab or grade of the lowest enclosed area
(including basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely
for parking of vehicles, building access, or limited storage in an area other
than a basement area is not considered a building’s lowest floor provided that
such an enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of
the applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a “recreational vehicle”.
   MARKET VALUE. The building value, excluding the land, established by
independent certified appraisal, replacement cost depreciated by age of
building (actual cash value), or adjusted assessed values.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. For purposes of the NFIP, the National Geodetic Vertical
Datum (NGVD) as corrected in 1929, the North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) as
corrected in 1988, or other vertical control datum used as a reference for
establishing varying elevations within the floodplain, to which Base Flood
Elevalions (BFEs) shown on a FIRM are referenced. Refer to each FIRM panel to
determine datum used.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the “start of construction” commenced
on or after the effective date of the original version of this chapter and
includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NONCONFORMING BUILDING OR DEVELOPMENT. Any legally existing building or
development which fails to comply with the current provisions of this chapter.
   NON-ENCROACHMENT AREA. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot
as designated in the Flood Insurance Study report.
   POST-FIRM. Construction or other development which started on or after the
effective date of the initial Flood Insurance Rate Map for the area.
   PRE-FIRM. Construction or other development which started before the
effective date of the initial Flood Insurance Rate Map for the area.
   PUBLIC SAFETY and/or NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to the safety or
health of an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of
persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV). A vehicle, which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duly truck; and
      (4)   Not designed for use as a permanent primary dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REFERENCE LEVEL. The portion of a structure or other development that must
be compared to the regulatory flood protection elevation to determine
regulatory compliance. For structures within Special Flood Hazard Areas
designated as zones A1-A30, AE, A, A99, AO, or AH, the reference level is the
top of the lowest floor or bottom of lowest attendant utility including
ductwork, whichever is lower. For structures within Special Flood Hazard Areas
designated as zones VE or V1-V30, the reference level is the bottom of the
lowest horizontal structural member or bottom of lowest attendant utility
including ductwork, whichever is lower.
   REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION. The elevation, in relation to mean
sea level, to which the reference level of all structures and other development
located within Special Flood Hazard Areas must be protected. Within areas where
Base Flood Elevations (BFEs) have been determined, this elevation shall be the
BFE plus one foot of freeboard. In areas where no BFE has been established,
this elevation shall be at least two feet above the highest adjacent grade.
   REMEDY A VIOLATION. To bring the structure or other development into
compliance with state or community floodplain management regulations, or, if
this is not possible, to reduce the impacts of its noncompliance. Ways that
impacts may be reduced include protecting the structure or other affected
development from flood damages, implementing the enforcement provisions of the
ordinance or otherwise deterring future similar violations, or reducing federal
financial exposure with regard to the structure or other development.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, and the like.
   SALVAGE YARD. Any non-residential property used for the storage, collection,
and/or recycling of any type of equipment, and including but not limited to
vehicles, appliances and related machinery.
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITY. Any facility involved in the disposal of
solid waste, as defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(35).
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL SITE. Defined as in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(36).
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). The land in the floodplain subject to a 1%
or greater chance of being flooded in any given year as determined in §
155.07.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement, or other
improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start means
either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure (including
a manufactured home) on a site, such as the pouring of slabs or footings,
installation of piles, construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of
excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent
construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading, and
filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor
does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations or
the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the
property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as
dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a substantial
improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the building, whether or not
that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, a manufactured home, or a gas or
liquid storage tank that is principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure during any
one-year period whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before
damaged condition would equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the
structure before the damage occurred. See definition of “substantial
improvement”.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any combination of repairs, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, or other improvement oi a structure, taking place
during any one-year period for which the cost equals or exceeds 50% of the
market value of the structure before the “start of construction” of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred “substantial
damage”, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
      (1)   Any correction of existing violations of state or community health,
sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been identified by the
community code enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in §§
155.25 through
155.46 is presumed to be in violation until such time as that documentation is
provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION (WSE). The height, in relation to mean sea level, of
floods of various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplatns of coastal or
riverine areas.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
(Ord. passed 10-5-2004)
§ 155.06 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all Special Flood Hazard Areas within the
jurisdiction, including Extra-Territorial Jurisdictions (ETJ) if applicable, of
the Town of Sharpsburg and within the jurisdiction of any other community whose
governing body agrees, by resolution, to such applicability.
(Ord. passed 10-5-2004)
§ 155.07 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   The Special Flood Hazard Areas are those identified under the Cooperating
Technical State (CTS) agreement between the State of North Carolina and FEMA in
its Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for Edgecombe County, dated June 18, 2013, Nash
County, dated June 18, 2013, and Wilson County, dated April 16, 2013 and the
accompanying flood maps such as the Flood Insurance Rate Map Panels (3736J,
3737K, 3746J, 3747K, 3748K, 3756K, 3757K, and 3758K), including any digital
data developed as part of the FIS, which are adopted by reference and declared
to be a part of this chapter. Future revisions to the FIS or FIRM panels that
do not change flood hazard data within the jurisdicational authority of the
Town of Sharpsburg are also adopted by reference and declared to be part of
this chapter. Subsquent revisions to the FIRM should be adopted within six
month.
   (A)   The initial Flood Insurance Rate Map for Edgecombe County, dated
August 3, 1981.
   (B)   The initial Flood Insurance Rate Map for Nash County, dated June 1,
1978.
   (C)   The intiial Flood Insurance Rate Map for Wilson County, dated January
6, 1983.
   (D)   The initial Flood Insurance Rate Map for the Town of Sharpsburg, dated
November 3, 2004.
(Ord. passed 10-5-2004; Am. Ord., passed 6-4-2013)
§ 155.08 ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities within Special Flood Hazard Areas as determined in §
155.07.
(Ord. passed 10-5-2004)
§ 155.09 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted,
altered, or developed in any way without full compliance with the terms of this
chapter and other applicable regulations.
(Ord. passed 10-5-2004)
§ 155.10 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions
shall prevail.
(Ord. passed 10-5-2004)
§ 155.11 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. passed 10-5-2004)
§ 155.12 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
consideration. Larger floods can and will occur. Actual flood heights may be
increased by human-made or natural causes. This chapter does not imply that
land outside the Special Flood Hazard Areas or uses permitted within such areas
will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create
liability on the part of the Town of Sharpsburg or by any officer or employee
thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any
administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. passed 10-5-2004)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 155.25 DESIGNATION OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Mayor or his or her designee, hereinafter referred to as the “Floodplain
Administrator”, is hereby appointed to administer and implement the provisions
of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-5-2004)
§ 155.26 FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT APPLICATION, PERMIT AND CERTIFICATION
REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Application requirements. Application for a floodplain development
permit shall be made to the Floodplain Administrator prior to any development
activities located within Special Flood Hazard Areas. The following items shall
be presented to the Floodplain Administrator to apply for a floodplain
development permit:
      (1)   A plot plan drawn to scale which shall include, but shall not be
limited to, the following
specific details of the proposed floodplain development:
         (a)   The nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the area of
development/disturbance; existing and proposed structures, utility systems,
grading/pavement areas, fill materials, storage areas, drainage facilities, and
other development;
         (b)   The boundary of the Special Flood Hazard Area as delineated on
the FIRM or other flood map as determined in §
155.07 or a statement that the entire lot is within the Special Flood Hazard
Area;
         (c)   Flood zone(s) designation of the proposed development area as
determined on the FIRM or other flood map as determined in §
155.07;
         (d)   The boundary of the floodway(s) or non-encroachment area(s) as
determined in §
155.03;
         (e)   The Base Flood Elevation (BFE) where provided as set forth in §
155.07; §
155.27(K) and (L); or §
155.43; and
         (f)   The old and new location of any watercourse that will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development;
      (2)   Proposed elevation, and method thereof, of all development within a
Special Flood Hazard Area including but not limited to:
         (a)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the proposed
reference level (including basement) of all structures;
         (b)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any non-
residential structure will be flood-proofed;
         (c)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any proposed
utility systems will be elevated or floodproofed;
      (3)   If flood proofing, a floodproofing certificate along with detailed
back-up computations and operational plans that specify the location on a FIRM
panel, and entity responsible for maintenance and operation of such plans.
Floodproofing certificate and back-up computations and operational plans shall
be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect to ensure that
the non-residential fioodproofed development will meet the floodproofing
criteria in §
155.41(B).
      (4)   A foundation plan drawn to scale which shall include details of the
proposed foundation system to ensure all provisions of this chapter are met.
These details include but are not limited to:
         (a)   The proposed method of elevation, if applicable (i.e., fill,
solid foundation perimeter wall, solid backfilled foundation, open foundation
on columns/piers);
         (b)   Openings to facilitate the unimpeded movements of floodwaters,
in accordance with §
155.41(D), when solid foundation perimeter walls are used in A, AO, AE, and A1-
30 zones;
      (5)   Usage details of any enclosed space below the regulatory flood
protection elevation;
      (6)   Plans and/or details for the protection of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems to be located and
constructed to minimize flood damage;
      (7)   Copies of all other local, state and federal permits required prior
to floodplain development permit issuance (i.e. wetlands, erosion and
sedimentation control, CAMA, riparian buffers, mining, and the like);
      (8)   Documentation for placement of recreational vehicles and/or
temporary structures, when applicable, to ensure §
155.41(F) and (G) of this chapter are met; and
      (9)   A description of proposed watercourse alteration or relocation,
when applicable, including an engineering report on the effects of the proposed
project on the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the effects to
properties located both upstream and downstream; and a map (if not shown on
plot plan) showing the location of the proposed watercourse alteration or
relocation.
   (B)   Permit requirements. The floodplain development permit shall include,
but not be limited to:
      (1)   A description of the development to be permitted under the
floodplain development permit issuance;
      (2)   The Special Flood Hazard Area determination for the proposed
development per available data specified in §
155.07;
      (3)   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the
reference level and all attendant utilities;
      (4)   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the
protection of all public utilities;
      (5)   All certification submittal requirements with timelines; and
      (6)   A statement that no fill material shall encroach into the floodway
or non-encroachment area of any watercourse, if applicable.
   (C)   Certification requirements.
      (1)   A final as-built elevation certificate (FEMA Form 81-31) or
floodproofing certificate (FEMA Form 81-65) is required after construction is
completed and prior to certificate of compliance/occupancy issuance. It shall
be the duty of the permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a
certification of final as-built construction of the elevation or floodproofed
elevation of the reference level and all attendant utilities. Elevation
certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
registered land surveyor or professional engineer and certified by same.
Floodproofing certification shall be prepared by or under the direct
supervision of a professional engineer or architect and certified by same. The
Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data submitted.
Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the permit holder
immediately and prior to certificate of compliance/occupancy issuance. In some
instances, another certification may be required to certify corrected as-built
construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure to make required
corrections shall be cause to withhold the issuance of a certificate of
compliance/occupancy.
      (2)   If a manufactured home is placed within an A, AO, AE, or A1-30 zone
and the elevation of the chassis is above 36 inches in height, an engineered
foundation certification is required per §
155.41(C).
      (3)   If a watercourse is to be altered or relocated, a description of
the extent of watercourse alteration or relocation; an engineering report on
the effects of the proposed project on the flood-carrying capacity of the
watercourse and the effects to properties located both upstream and downstream;
and a map showing the location of the proposed watercourse alteration or
relocation shall all be submitted by the permit applicant prior to issuance of
a floodplain development permit.
      (4)   Certification exemptions. The following structures, if located
within A, AO, AE or A1-30 zones, are exempt from the elevation/flood proofing
certification requirements specified in items (C)(1) and (2) above:
         (a)   Recreational vehicles meeting requirements of §
155.41(F)(1):
         (b)   Temporary Structures meeting requirements of §
155.41(G); and
         (c)   Accessory structures less than 150 square feet meeting
requirements of §
155.41(H).
(Ord. passed 10-5-2004)
§ 155.27 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Floodplain Administrator shall perform the following duties including
but not be limited to:
   (A)   Review all floodplain development applications and issue permits for
all proposed development within Special Flood Hazard Areas to assure that the
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
   (B)   Advise permittee that additional federal or state permits (i.e.,
wetlands, erosion and sedimentation control, CAMA, riparian buffers, Mining,
and the like) may be required, and if specific federal or state permits are
known, require that copies of such permits be provided and maintained on file
with the floodplain development permit;
   (C)   Notify adjacent communities and the North Carolina Department of Crime
Control and Public Safety, Division of Emergency Management, State Coordinator
for the National Flood Insurance Program prior to any alteration or relocation
of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to the Federal
Emergency Management Agency;
   (D)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished;
   (E)   Prevent encroachments within flood ways and non-encroachment areas
unless the certification and flood hazard reduction provisions of §
155.44 are met;
   (F)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the
reference level (including basement) of all attendant utilities of all new or
substantially improved structures, in accordance with §
155.26(C);
   (G)   Obtain the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which
the new or substantially improved structures and all utilities have been flood
proofed, in accordance with §
155.26(C);
   (H)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of all public
utilities, in accordance with §
155.26(C);
   (I)   When flood proofing is utilized for a particular structure, obtain
certifications from a registered professional engineer or architect in
accordance with §
155.26(C) and §
155.41(B);
   (J)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of boundaries
of the Special Flood Hazard Areas (for example, where there appears to be a
conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions), make the
necessary interpretation. The person contesting the location of the boundary
shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation as
provided in this subchapter;
   (K)   When Base Flood Elevation (BFE) data has not been provided in
accordance with §
155.07, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any Base Flood Elevation (BFE)
data, along with flood way data or non-encroachment area data available from a
federal, state, or other source, including data developed pursuant to §
155.43(B)(2), in order to administer the provisions of this chapter;
   (L)   When Base Flood Elevation (BFE) data is provided but no floodway nor
non-encroachment area data has been provided in accordance with §
155.07, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any floodway data or non-
encroachment area data available from a federal, state, or other source in
order to administer the provisions of this chapter;
   (M)   When the exact location of boundaries of the Special Flood Hazard
Areas conflict with the current, natural topography information at the site,
the property owner may apply and be approved for a letter of map amendment
(LOMA) by FEMA. Maintain a copy of the letter of map amendment issued from FEMA
in the floodplain development permit file;
   (N)   Permanently maintain all records that pertain to the administration of
this chapter and make these records available for public inspection;
   (O)   Make on-site inspections of work in progress. As the work pursuant to
a floodplain development permit progresses, the Floodplain Administrator shall
make as many inspections of the work as may be necessary to ensure that the
work is being done according to the provisions of the local ordinance and the
terms of the permit. In exercising this power, the Floodplain Administrator has
a right, upon presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises
within the jurisdiction of the community at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action;
   (P)   Issue stop-work orders as required. Whenever a building or part
thereof is being constructed, reconstructed, altered, or repaired in violation
of this chapter, the Floodplain Administrator may order the work to be
immediately slopped. The stop-work order shall be in writing and directed to
the person doing the work. The stop-work order shall state the specific work to
be stopped, the specific reason(s) for the stoppage, and the condition(s) under
which the work may be resumed. Violation of a stop-work order constitutes a
misdemeanor;
   (Q)   Revoke floodplain development permits as required. The Floodplain
Administrator may revoke and require the return of the floodplain development
permit by notifying the permit holder in writing stating the reason(s) for the
revocation. Permits shall be revoked for any substantial departure from the
approved application, plans, or specifications; for refusal or failure to
comply with the requirements of state or local laws; or for false statements or
misrepresentations made in securing the permit. Any floodplain development
permit mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable state or local law may
also be revoked;
   (R)   Make periodic inspections throughout all special flood hazard areas
within the jurisdiction of the community. The Floodplain Administrator and each
member of his or her inspections department shall have a right, upon
presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises within the
territorial jurisdiction of the department at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action; and
   (S)   Follow through with corrective procedures of
155.28.
(Ord. passed 10-5-2004)
§ 155.28 CORRECTIVE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Violations to be corrected. When the Floodplain Administrator finds
violations of applicable state and local laws, it shall be his or her duty to
notify the owner or occupant of the building of the violation. The owner or
occupant shall immediately remedy each of the violations of law pertaining to
their property.
   (B)   Actions in event of failure to take corrective action. If the owner of
a building or property shall fail to take prompt corrective action, The
Floodplain Administrator shall give the owner written notice, by certified or
registered mail to the owner’s last known address or by personal service,
stating:
      (1)   That the building or property is in violation of the Flood Damage
Prevention Ordinance;
      (2)   That a hearing will be held before the Floodplain Administrator at
a designated place and time, not later than ten days after the date of the
notice, at which time the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or by
counsel and to present arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter; and
      (3)   That following the hearing, the Floodplain Administrator may issue
an order to alter, vacate, or demolish the building; or to remove fill as
appears appropriate.
   (C)   Order to take corrective action. If, upon a hearing held pursuant to
the notice prescribed above, the Floodplain Administrator shall find that the
building or development is in violation of the Flood Damage Prevention
Ordinance, he or she shall issue an order in writing to the owner, requiring
the owner to remedy the violation wilhin a specified time period, not less than
60 days, nor more than one year. Where the Floodplain Administrator finds that
there is imminent danger to life or other property, he or she may order that
corrective action be taken in such lesser period as may be feasible.
   (D)   Appeal. Any owner who has received an order to take corrective action
may appeal the order to the local elected governing body by giving notice of
appeal in writing to the Floodplain Administrator and the clerk within ten days
following issuance of the final order. In the absence of an appeal, the order
of the Floodplain Administrator shall be final. The local governing body shall
hear an appeal within a reasonable time and may affirm, modify and affirm, or
revoke the order.
   (E)   Failure to comply with order. If the owner of a building or property
fails to comply with an order to take corrective action for which no appeal has
been made or fails to comply with an order of the governing body following an
appeal, he or she shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished at the
discretion of the court.
(Ord. passed 10-5-2004)
§ 155.29 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment as established by the Town of Sharpsburg,
hereinafter referred to as the “appeal board”, shall hear and decide requests
for variances from the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the appeal board may appeal
such decision to the Court, as provided in G.S. Ch. 7A.
   (C)   Variances may be issued for:
      (1)   The repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon the
determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the
structure’s continued designation as a historic structure and that the variance
is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the
structure;
      (2)   Functionally dependant facilities if determined to meet the
definition as stated in §
155.05 of this chapter; and
      (3)   Any other type of development, provided it meets the requirements
stated in this section.
   (D)   In passing upon variances, the appeal board shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other
sections of this chapter, and:
      (1)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (2)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effeel of such damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location as defined
under §
155.05 as a functionally dependant facility, where applicable;
      (6)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use:
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (10)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
      (11)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
   (E)   A written report addressing each of the above factors shall be
submitted with the application for a variance.
   (F)   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of
this chapter, the appeal board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of this chapter.
   (G)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway or non-
encroachment area if any increase in flood levels during the base flood
discharge would result.
   (H)   Conditions for variances.
      (1)   Variances may not be issued when the variance will make the
structure in violation of other federal, state, or local laws, regulations, or
ordinances.
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, or
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (4)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the Base Flood Elevation (BFE) and the
elevation to which the structure is to be built and a written statement that
the cost of flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk
resulting from the reduced reference level elevation. Such notification shall
be maintained with a record of all variance actions.
      (5)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all
appeal actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency and the State of North Carolina upon request.
   (I)   A variance may be issued for solid waste disposal facilities,
hazardous waste management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage
facilities that are located in Special Flood Hazard Areas provided that all of
the following conditions are met.
      (1)   The use serves a critical need in the community.
      (2)   No feasible location exists for the use outside the Special Flood
Hazard Area.
      (3)   The reference level of any structure is elevated or floodproofed to
at least the regulatory Flood protection level.
      (4)   The use complies with all other applicable federal, state and local
laws.
      (5)   The Town of Sharpsburg has notified the Secretary of the North
Carolina Department of Crime Control and Public Safety of its intention to
grant a variance at least 30 days prior to granting the variance.
(Ord. passed 10-5-2004)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 155.40 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all Special Flood Hazard Areas the following provisions are required.
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure.
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
   (C)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damages.
   (D)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as
to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components during
conditions of Flooding. These include but are not limited to HVAC equipment,
water softener units, bath/kitchen fixtures, ductwork, electric meter panels/
boxes, utility/cable boxes, appliances (i.e., washers, dryers, refrigerator,
and the like), hot water heaters, electric outlets/switches.
   (E)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (F)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters.
   (G)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (H)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a structure
which is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, shall meet the
requirements of “new construction” as contained in this chapter.
   (I)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the repair, reconstruction, or
replacement of a building or structure existing on the effective dale of this
chapter and located totally or partially within the floodway, non-encroachment
area, or stream setback, provided that the bulk of the building or structure
below the regulatory flood protection elevation in the floodway, non-
encroachment area, or stream setback is not increased and provided that such
repair, reconstruction, or replacement meets all of the other requirements of
this chapter.
   (J)   New solid waste disposal facilities, hazardous waste management
facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage facilities shall not be
permitted in Special Flood Hazard Areas, except by variance as specified in §
155.29(I). A structure or tank for chemical or fuel storage incidental to an
allowed use or to the operalion of a water treatment plant or wastewater
treatment facility may be located in a Special Flood Hazard Area only if the
structure or tank is either elevated or flood proofed to at least the
regulatory flood protection elevation and certified according to §
155.26(C) of this chapter.
   (K)   All development proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
   (L)   All development proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (M)   All development proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards.
(Ord. passed 10-5-2004)
§ 155.41 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all Special Flood Hazard Areas where Base Flood Elevation (BFE) data has
been provided, as set forth in §
155.07, or §
155.27(K) and (L), the following provisions are required.
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction or substantial improvement
of any residential structure (including manufactured homes) shall have the
reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the regulatory
flood protection elevation, as defined in §
155.05.
   (B)   Non-residential construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or other non-residential structure
shall have the reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the
regulatory flood protection elevation, as defined in §
155.05. Structures located in A, AO, AE and A1-30 Zones may be flood proofed to
the regulatory flood protection elevation in lieu of elevation provided that
all areas of the structure below the required flood protection elevation are
watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water, using
structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and the effect of buoyancy. A registered professional
engineer or architect shall certify that the standards of this division are
satisfied. Such certification shall be provided to the official as set forth in
§
155.26(C).
   (C)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   New or replacement manufactured homes shall be elevated so that the
reference level of the manufactured home is no lower than the regulatory flood
protection elevation, as defined in §
155.05.
      (2)   Manufactured homes shall be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement in
accordance with the State of North Carolina Regulations for Manufactured/Mobile
Homes, 1995 Edition, and any revision thereto adopted by the Commissioner of
Insurance pursuant to G.S. § 143-143.15 or a certified engineered foundation.
Additionally, when the elevation would be met by an elevation of the chassis 36
inches or less above the grade at the site, the chassis shall be supported by
reinforced piers or engineered foundation. When the elevation of the chassis is
above 36 inches in height, an engineering certification is required.
      (3)   All foundation enclosures or skirting shall be in accordance with §
155.41(D).
      (4)   An evacuation plan must be developed for evacuation of all
residents of all new. substantially improved or substantially damaged
manufactured home parks or subdivisions located within flood prone areas. This
plan shall be filed with and approved by the Floodplain Administrator and the
local emergency management coordinator.
   (D)   Elevated buildings. Enclosed areas, of new construction or
substantially improved structures, which are below the regulatory flood
protection elevation:
      (1)   Shall not be designed or used for human habitation, but shall only
be used for parking of vehicles, building access, or limited storage of
maintenance equipment used in connection with the premises. Access to the
enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow for parking of vehicles
(garage door) or limited storage of maintenance equipment (standard exterior
door), or entry to the living area (stairway or elevator). The interior portion
of such enclosed area shall not be partitioned or finished into separate rooms,
except to enclose storage areas;
      (2)   Shall be constructed entirely of flood resistant materials below
the regulatory flood protection elevation;
      (3)   Shall include, in A, AO, AE, and A1-30 zones, measures to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on walls by allowing for the
entry and exit of fioodwaters. To meet this requirement, the foundation must
either be certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet the
following minimum design criteria;
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings on different sides of each
enclosed area subject to flooding;
         (b)   The total net area of all openings must be at least one square
inch for each square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding;
         (c)   If a building has more than one enclosed area, each area must
have openings to allow flood water to enter directly;
         (d)   The bottom of all required openings shall be no higher than one
foot above the adjacent grade;
         (e)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other opening
coverings or devices, provided they permit the automatic flow of flood waters
in both directions; and
         (f)   Foundation enclosures made of vinyl or other flexible skirting
are not considered enclosures for regulatory purposes, and, therefore, do not
require openings. Masonry or wood underpinning, regardless of structural
status, is considered an enclosure and requires openings as outlined above.
   (E)   Additions/improvements.
      (1)   Additions and/or improvements to pre-FIRM structures whereas the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure:
         (a)   Are not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or
improvements must be designed to minimize flood damages and must not be any
more non-conforming than the existing structure; and
         (b)   Are a substantial improvement, both the existing structure and
the addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
      (2)   Additions to post-FIRM structures with no modifications to the
existing structure shall require only the addition to comply with the standards
for new construction.
      (3)   Additions and/or improvements to post-FIRM structures whereas the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure:
         (a)   Are not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or
improvements only must comply with the standards for new construction; and
         (b)   Are a substantial improvement, both the existing structure and
the addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
      (4)   Where a fire wall or independent perimeter load-bearing wall is
provided between the addition and the existing building, the addition(s) shall
be considered a separate building and only the addition must comply with the
standards for new construction.
   (F)   Recreational vehicles. Recreational vehicles placed on sites within a
Special Flood Hazard Area shall either:
      (1)   Be on site for fewer than 180 consecutive days and be fully
licensed and ready for highway use (a recreational vehicle is ready for highway
use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by
quick disconnect type utilities and has no permanently attached additions); or
      (2)   Meet all the requirements for new construction, including anchoring
and elevation requirements of §
155.26 and §§
155.40 and
155.41(C).
   (G)   Temporary non-residential structures. Prior to the issuance of a
floodplain development permit for a temporary structure, applicants musl submit
to the Floodplain Administrator a plan for the removal of such structure(s) in
the event of a hurricane, flash flood or other type of flood warning
notification. The following information shall be submitted in writing to the
Floodplain Administrator for review and written approval:
      (1)   A specified lime period for which the temporary use will be
permitted. Time specified should be minimal with total time on site not to
exceed one year;
      (2)   The name, address, and phone number of the individual responsible
for the removal of the temporary structure;
      (3)   The time frame prior to the event at which a structure will be
removed (i.e. minimum of 72 hours before landfall of a hurricane or immediately
upon flood warning notification);
      (4)   A copy of the contract or other suitable instrument with a trucking
company to insure the availability of removal equipment when needed; and
      (5)   Designation, accompanied by documentation of a location outside the
Special Flood Hazard Area, to which the temporary structure will be moved.
   (H)   Accessory structures. When accessory structures (sheds, detached
garages, and the like) are to be placed within a Special Flood Hazard Area, the
following criteria shall be met:
      (1)   Accessory structures shall not be used for human habitation
(including work, sleeping, living, cooking or restroom areas);
      (2)   Accessory structures shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential;
      (3)   Accessory structures shall be constructed and placed on the
building site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
      (4)   Accessory structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance with §
155.40(A);
      (5)   All service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment
shall be installed in accordance with §
155.40(D); and
      (6)   Openings to relieve hydrostatic pressure during a flood shall be
provided below regulatory flood protection elevation in conformance with §
155.41(D)(1).
      (7)   An accessory structure with a footprint less than 150 square feet
that satisfies the criteria outlined above does not require an elevation or
floodproofing certificate. Elevation or floodproofing certifications are
required for all other accessory structures in accordance with §
155.26(C).
(Ord. passed 10-5-2004)
§ 155.42 RESERVED.
§ 155.43 STANDARDS FOR FLOODPLAINS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS.
   Within the Special Flood Hazard Areas established in §
155.07, where no Base Flood Elevation (BFE) data has been provided, the
following provisions shall apply.
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements or new development shall be permitted within a distance of 20 feet
each side from top of bank or five times the width of the stream whichever is
greater, unless certification with supporting technical data by a registered
professional engineer is provided demonstrating that such encroachments shall
not result in any increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the base
flood discharge.
   (B)   The regulatory flood protection elevation shall be determined based on
one of the following criteria set in priority order.
      (1)   If Base Flood Elevation (BFE) data is available from other sources,
all new construction and substantial improvements within such areas shall also
comply with all applicable provisions of this chapter and shall be elevated or
floodproofed in accordance with elevations established in accordance with §
155.27(K) and (L).
      (2)   All subdivision, manufactured home park and other development
proposals located within Special Flood Hazard Areas shall provide Base Flood
Elevation (BFE) data if development is greater than five acres or has more than
50 lots/manufactured home sites. Such Base Flood Elevation (BFE) data shall be
adopted by reference per §
155.07 to be utilized in implementing this chapter.
      (3)   When Base Flood Elevation (BFE) data is not available from a
federal, state, or other source as outlined above, the reference level,
including basement, shall be elevated at least two feet above the highest
adjacent grade (natural grade if known).
(Ord. passed 10-5-2004)
§ 155.44 STANDARDS FOR RIVERINE FLOODPLAINS WITH BFE BUT WITHOUT ESTABLISHED
FLOODWAYS OR NON-ENCROACHMENT AREAS.
   Along rivers and streams where Base Flood Elevation (BFE) data is provided
but neither floodway nor non-encroachment areas are identified for a Special
Flood Hazard Area on the FIRM or in the FIS, no encroachments, including fill,
new construction, substantial improvements, or other development, shall be
permitted unless certification with supporting technical data by a registered
professional engineer is provided demonstrating that the cumulative effect of
the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated
development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood
more than one foot at any point within the community.
(Ord. passed 10-5-2004)
§ 155.45 FLOODWAYS AND NON-ENCROACHMENT AREAS.
   Areas designated as floodways or non-encroachment areas are located within
the Special Flood Hazard Areas established in §
155.07 The floodways and non-encroachment areas are extremely hazardous areas
due to the velocity of floodwaters that have erosion potential and carry debris
and potential projectiles. The following provisions shall apply to all
development within such areas.
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements and other developments shall be permitted unless it has been
demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance
with standard engineering practice that the proposed encroachment would not
result in any increase in the flood levels during the occurrence of the base
flood. Such certification and technical data shall be presented to the
Floodplain Administrator prior to issuance of floodplain development permit.
   (B)   If division (A) of this section is satisfied, all development shall
comply with all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   No manufactured homes shall be permitted, except replacement
manufactured homes in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision
provided the following provisions are met:
      (1)   the anchoring and the elevation standards of §
155.41(C): and
      (2)   The no encroachment standards of division (A) of this section are
met.
(Ord. passed 10-5-2004)
§ 155.46 STANDARDS FOR AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (AO ZONES).
   Located within the Special Flood Hazard Areas established in §
155.07 are areas designated as shallow flooding areas. These areas have special
flood hazards associated with base flood depths of one to three feet where a
clearly defined channel does not exist and where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate. The following provisions shall applv within
such areas.
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements of all structures
shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated at least as high as
the depth number specified on the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), in feet,
above the highest adjacent grade. If no depth number is specified, the lowest
floor, including basement, shall be elevated at least to the regulatory flood
protection elevation as defined for the Special Flood Hazard Areas where no BFE
has been established.
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements of non-residential
structures may, in lieu of elevation, be completely flood proofed together with
attendant utilities and sanitary facilities at least as high as the depth
number specified on the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), in feet, above the
highest adjacent grade so that any space below that level is watertight with
walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads and effects of buoyancy. If no depth number is specified, the lowest
floor, including basement, shall be flood proofed at least to the regulatory
flood protection elevation as defined for the Special Flood Hazard Areas where
no BFE has been established. Certification is required as per §
155.26(C) and §
155.41(B).
(Ord. passed 10-5-2004)
LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS
§ 155.60 EFFECT ON RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES UNDER THE EXISTING FLOOD DAMAGE
PREVENTION ORDINANCE.
   This chapter in part comes forward by re-enactment of some of the provisions
of the flood damage prevention ordinance enacted August 2000, as amended, and
it is not the intention to repeal but rather to re-enact and continue to
enforce without interruption of such existing provisions, so that all rights
and liabilities that have accrued thereunder are reserved and may be enforced.
The enactment of the ordinance codified herein shall not affect any action,
suit or proceeding instituted or pending. All provisions of the flood damage
prevention ordinance of the Town of Sharpsburg enacted August 2000, as amended,
which are not recnactcd herein are repealed.
(Ord. passed 10-5-2004)
§ 155.61 EFFECT UPON OUTSTANDING BUILDING PERMITS.
   Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the plans,
construction, size or designated use of any development or any part thereof for
which a floodplain development permit has been granted by the Floodplain
Administrator or his or her authorized agents before the time of passage of
this chapter: provided, however, that when construction is not begun under such
outstanding permit within a period of six months subsequent to passage of this
chapter or any revision therein, construction or use shall be in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-5-2004)
§ 155.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with
any of its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with grants of variance or special exceptions, shall
constitute a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Any person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any of
its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to fines and/or
penalties as designated elsewhere in the zoning ordinance;
Chapter 153: Zoning Code, §
153.01 for violations.
   (C)   Each day such violation continues shall be considered a separate
offense.
   (D)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the Town of Sharpsburg from
taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any
violation.
(Ord. passed 10-5-2004)
CHAPTER 156: NON-RESIDENTIAL BUILDING OR STRUCTURE STANDARDS
Section
   
156.01   Title
   
156.02   Purpose
   
156.03   Findings; authority
   
156.04   Scope; jurisdiction
   
156.05   General definitions and interpretation
   
156.06   Special definitions and interpretations
   
156.07   Office of Non-Residential Building or Structure Standards Inspector
created; powers and duties
   
156.08   Duties and responsibilities of the owner
   
156.09   Duties and responsibilities of the occupant
   
156.10   Relationship of duties and responsibilities to occupancy
   
156.11   Validity
   
156.12   Conflict with other provisions
   
156.13   Amendments
   
156.14   Unlawful to own unsafe buildings and structures
   
156.15   Buildings and premises not declared unsafe but which are not in
compliance with all standards
   
156.16   Investigation
   
156.17   Complaint; notice of hearing
   
156.18   Order to take corrective action; contents; issuance
   
156.19   Service of complaints; orders of Inspector
   
156.20   Appeal of order of Inspector; finality if not appealed
   
156.21   Failure to comply with order of Inspector
   
156.22   Remedies; lien for cost of demolition and removal
   
156.23   Failure of occupant to comply with order to vacate
   
156.24   Action by Board of Commissioners upon abandonment of intent to repair
   
156.25   Demolition of non-residential buildings by owner
   
156.26   Inspections
   
156.27   Defects in buildings to be corrected
   
156.28   Violations
   
156.29   Procedure is alternative
§ 156.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Non-Residential Building or Structure
Standards” for the Town of Sharpsburg, and may be cited as such, and will be
referred to hereinafter as “this chapter.”
(Ord. O-20120501-05, passed 5-1-2012)
§ 156.02 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of the provisions of this chapter to provide a just,
equitable and practicable method to evaluate whether non-residential buildings
or structures fail to meet minimum standards of maintenance, sanitation, and
safety established by the town. The minimum standards address conditions that
are dangerous and injurious to public health, safety, and welfare and identify
circumstances under which a public necessity exists for the repair, closing, or
demolition of such buildings or structures. The provisions of this chapter are
cumulative with and in addition to any other remedy provided by law including
the current editions of standard codes adopted by the Town of Sharpsburg.
(Ord. O-20120501-05, passed 5-1-2012)
§ 156.03 FINDINGS; AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Pursuant to G.S. Chapter 160A-439, it is hereby found and declared
that there exist in the town non-residential buildings or structures which are
unsafe and especially dangerous to life because of liability to fire or because
of bad conditions of walls, overloaded floors, defective construction, decay,
unsafe wiring or healing systems, inadequate means of egress and other causes.
   (B)   In addition, it is hereby found and declared, that there exist in the
town non-residential buildings or structures which, although not meeting the
classification of unsafe and especially dangerous to life, fail to fully comply
with all the minimum standards for non-residential buildings or structures
fitness as established herein and, therefore, have present one or more
conditions which are inimical to the public health, safely and general welfare.
Such conditions, if not corrected, can lead to deterioration and dilapidation
of non-residential buildings or structures which render them unsafe and
especially dangerous to life.
(Ord. O-20120501-05, passed 5-1-2012)
§ 156.04 SCOPE; JURISDICTION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all existing non-residential
buildings or structures and to all non-residential buildings or structures
hereafter constructed within the corporate town limits as now or hereafter
established.
(Ord. O-20120501-05, passed 5-1-2012)
§ 156.05 GENERAL DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS.
   Unless specifically defined in §
156.06, words used in the Non-Residential Building or Structure Standards shall
have their respective customary dictionary definitions. For the purpose of
these regulations certain words, terms or phrases used herein are interpreted
and defined as follows:
   (A)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future tense.
   (B)   Words used in the singular shall include the plural and words used in
the plural shall include the singular.
   (C)   The words “shall” and “will” always indicate mandatory. The words
“should” and “may” always indicate optional.
   (D)   The word “lot” includes the words “plot” and/or “parcel.” The word
“building” includes the word “structure.”
   (E)   The word “person” includes a “firm, association, organization,
partnership, trust, company, corporation and/or individual.”
   (F)   The word “use” includes the terms “arranged, designed, and/or
intended” for a use, activity and/or purpose.
   (G)   The term “Board of Adjustment” shall always indicate the Board of
Adjustment of the Town of Sharpsburg, North Carolina as created and appointed
by the Board of Commissioners of the Town of Sharpsburg.
   (H)   The term “Board of Commissioners” shall always indicate the Board of
Commissioners of the Town of Sharpsburg, North Carolina.
(Ord. O-20120501-05, passed 5-1-2012)
§ 156.06 SPECIAL DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS.
   The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement
of this chapter:
   BUILDING. Any covered structure intended for shelter, housing or enclosure
of persons, animals, facilities, equipment or chattels; the term BUILDING shall
be construed to include the term STRUCTURE; furthermore, it shall be construed
as if followed by the term or part thereof.
   BUILDING, ACCESSORY. A detached subordinate building located on a lot,
parcel or tract whose use is incidental to that of the principal building. A
building cannot be considered accessory unless it accompanies a principal
building on the same lot, parcel or tract.
   BUILDING CODE. The North Carolina State Building Code.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A building in which the principal use of the lot,
parcel or tract is conducted.
   DETERIORATION. The condition of a building or part thereof, characterized by
holes, breaks, rot, crumbling, rusting, peeling paint or other evidence of
physical decay or loss of structural integrity.
   FIRE HAZARD. (See also NUISANCE.) Any thing or act which increases, or may
cause an increase of, the hazard, likelihood or menace of fire to a greater
degree than reasonable for the conduct of the non-residential use on the
premises, or which may unreasonably obstruct, delay, or hinder, or may
unreasonably become the cause of an obstruction, a delay, a hazard or an
unreasonable hindrance to the prevention, suppression or extinguishment of
fire.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   INFESTATION. The haunting or overrunning by rats, snakes, birds, insects or
other destructive vermin or animals that endanger the public health and safety.
   NON-RESIDENTIAL BUILDING OR STRUCTURES STANDARDS INSPECTOR. The person
delegated as such by the Board of Commissioners of the Town of Sharpsburg.
(Hereinafter referred to as “the Inspector”.)
   NUISANCE.
      (1)   Any public nuisance known at common law or in equity jurisprudence,
or as provided by the statutes of the State of North Carolina, or the
ordinances of the Town of Sharpsburg; or
      (2)   Any condition including an attractive nuisance which may prove
detrimental to human health or safety whether in a building, on the premises of
a building, or part of a building or upon an occupied lot; or
      (3)   Physical conditions dangerous to human life or detrimental to
health of persons in, on or near the premises where the condition exists; or
      (4)   Unsanitary conditions or conditions that are dangerous to public
health, well-being or the general welfare; or
      (5)   Fire hazards or other safety hazards.
   OCCUPANT. Any person who has charge, care or control of a non-residential
building or structure or a part thereof, whether with or without the knowledge
and consent of the owner, or any person, individually or jointly, entitled to
possession regardless of whether the building or structure is actually occupied
or not.
   OWNER. The holder of the title in fee simple and every mortgagee of record
of a property.
   PARTIES IN INTEREST. All individuals, associations, and corporations who
have interests of record in a nonresidential building or structure and any who
are in possession thereof.
   PHYSICAL VALUATION. The estimated cost to replace a building in kind.
   PLUMBING. All of the following supplies, facilities and equipment: gas
pipes, gas burning equipment, water pipes, water heaters, garbage disposal
units, waste pipes, water closets, sinks, installed dishwashers, lavatories,
bathtubs, shower baths, installed clothes washing machines, catch basins, vents
and other similar fixtures, together with all connections to water, sewer or
gas lines, and water pipes and lines utilized in conjunction with HVAC
equipment.
   PREMISES. A lot, plot or parcel of land including the buildings or
structures thereon, under control by the same owner or occupant, devoted to or
zoned for non-residential use.
   PUBLIC SANITARY SEWER. Any sanitary sewer owned, operated and maintained by
the Town of Sharpsburg and available for public use for the disposal of sewage.
   RUBBISH. Combustible and non-combustible waste materials, except garbage and
ashes, including, but not limited to, paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood,
excelsior, rubber, leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin cans, metals,
mineral matter, glass crockery and dust.
   SEWAGE. Waste from a flush toilet, bathtub, sink, lavatory, dishwashing or
laundry machine, or water-carried waste from any other fixture, equipment or
machine.
   STRUCTURALLY SOUND. Substantially free from flaw, defect, decay or
deterioration to the extent that such structure or structural member is capable
of adequately or safely accomplishing the purpose for which it was intended or
designed.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected which requires location on the
ground. (Refer to the definition of BUILDING herein.)
   SUPPLIED. Paid for, furnished or provided by, or under control of, the owner
or occupant.
   VACANT INDUSTRIAL WAREHOUSE. Any building or structure designed for the
storage of goods or equipment in connection with manufacturing processes, which
has not been used for that purpose for at least one year and has not been
converted to another use.
   VACANT MANUFACTURING FACILITY. Any building or structure previously used for
the lawful production or manufacturing of goods, which has not been used for
that purpose for at least one year and has not been converted to another use.
(Ord. O-20120501-05, passed 5-1-2012)
§ 156.07 OFFICE OF NON-RESIDENTIAL BUILDING OR STRUCTURE STANDARDS INSPECTOR
CREATED; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   For the purposes of administering and enforcing the provisions of this
chapter the Office of Non-Residential Building or Structures Standards
Inspector, (herein called “Inspector”), is hereby created.
   (B)   The Inspector shall be appointed by the Town Board of Commissioners
and shall have such powers as may be necessary or convenient to carry out and
effectuate the purposes and provisions of this chapter, including without
limiting the generality of the foregoing, in addition to others herein granted,
the following powers:
      (1)   To investigate the non-residential building conditions in the
jurisdiction in order to determine which buildings therein are unsafe, being
guided in such examinations of buildings by the requirements set forth in this
chapter and for the purpose of carrying out the objectives of this chapter with
respect to such non-residential buildings or structures.
      (2)   To administer oaths and affirmations and to examine witnesses and
receive evidence.
      (3)   To enter upon and within premises and buildings for the purpose of
making examinations and investigations; provided, that such entries shall be
made at reasonable hours in such a manner as to cause the least possible
inconvenience to the persons in possession.
      (4)   To delegate any of his or her functions and powers under this
chapter to such officers and agents as he or she may designate.
(Ord. O-20120501-05, passed 5-1-2012)
§ 156.08 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE OWNER.
   It shall be the duly and responsibility of the owner to maintain all non-
residential buildings or structures in accordance with all standards for non-
residential buildings or structures fitness as stated in this chapter.
(Ord. O-20120501-05, passed 5-1-2012)
§ 156.09 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE OCCUPANT.
   It shall be the duly and responsibility of the occupant to ensure that:
   (A)   All parts of the premises under the control of the occupant shall be
kept in a safe, clean and sanitary condition consistent with the non-
residential use and the occupant shall refrain from performing any acts which
would render any part of the building or premises unsafe or unsanitary or which
would obstruct any adjacent owner/occupant from performing any duty required,
or from maintaining his or her building or premises in a safe and sanitary
condition.
   (B)   Every occupant shall be responsible for the elimination of infestation
in and on the premises, subject to his or her control.
   (C)   Every occupant shall maintain all supplied plumbing fixtures in a safe
and sanitary condition and shall be responsible for the exercise of reasonable
care in the proper use and operation of same.
   (D)   No garbage or solid waste shall be stored or allowed by the occupant
to accumulate on the premises unless contained in a trash receptacle(s) which
is in accordance with the ordinances of the Town of Sharpsburg.
   (E)   Damage to public sidewalks and/or curb and gutter located in the
public right-of-way shall be repaired or replaced at no expense to the town
when such damage is caused by vehicles making deliveries to the non-residential
use under the control of the occupant.
   (F)   Where the owner would not otherwise know of a defect of any facility,
utility or equipment required to be furnished hereunder and the same is found
to be defective or inoperable, the occupant affected thereby shall, upon
learning of such defect, provide notice to the owner.
(Ord. O-20120501-05, passed 5-1-2012)
§ 156.10 RELATIONSHIP OF DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES TO OCCUPANCY.
   The provisions of this chapter that apply to the exterior or exterior
components of a structure or building or to the premises shall be complied with
whether the structure or building or premises is occupied or vacant. All
unoccupied or vacant structures or buildings shall be secured by their owners
to prevent the entry of unauthorized persons or the formation of nuisance
conditions such as infestation.
(Ord. O-20120501-05, passed 5-1-2012)
§ 156.11 VALIDITY.
   If any section, division, sentence, clause, or phrase of this chapter is for
any reason held to be invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of
the remaining portions of this chapter. The Board of Commissioners hereby
declares that it would have passed chapter and each section, division, clause
and phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections,
subsections sentences, clauses or phrases be declared invalid.
(Ord. O-20120501-05, passed 5-1-2012)
§ 156.12 CONFLICT WITH OTHER PROVISIONS.
   In the event any provision, standard or requirement of this chapter is found
to be in conflict with any provision of any other ordinance or code of the
town, the provision which establishes the higher standard or more stringent
requirement for the promotion and protection of the health and safety of the
residents of the jurisdiction shall prevail. The North Carolina State Building
Code, current edition, shall serve as the standard for all alterations,
repairs, additions, removals, demolitions and other acts of building made or
required pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. O-20120501-05, passed 5-1-2012)
§ 156.13 AMENDMENTS.
   The Board of Commissioners may, from time to time amend, supplement, or
change the provisions and requirements of this chapter. Any such amendment
shall be by ordinance of the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. O-20120501-05, passed 5-1-2012)
§ 156.14 UNLAWFUL TO OWN UNSAFE BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any firm, person or corporation to own a
building or a structure situated in the jurisdiction of the Town of Sharpsburg
which is in such a defective or hazardous condition that it is unsafe and
especially dangerous to life. The Board of Commissioners has determined that
unsafe and especially dangerous buildings and structures are detrimental to the
health, safety and welfare of the citizens of Sharpsburg, that such unsafe and
especially dangerous buildings and structures shall be condemned, and that the
owners of such unsafe and especially dangerous buildings and structures shall
immediately remedy the unsafe, dangerous, hazardous or unlawful conditions or
demolish such buildings or structures.
   (B)   A building or structure shall be found to be especially dangerous to
life and held unsafe by the Inspector if the Inspector finds that any one of
the following conditions exists in such building or structure:
      (1)   Interior walls or vertical studs which seriously list, lean or
buckle to an extent as to render the building unsafe.
      (2)   Supporting member or members which show 33% percent or more damage
or deterioration, or non-supporting, enclosing or outside walls or covering
which shows 50% or more of damage or deterioration.
      (3)   Floors or roofs which have improperly distributed loads, which are
overloaded or which have insufficient strength to be reasonably safe for the
purpose used.
      (4)   Such damage by fire, wind or other causes as to render the building
unsafe.
      (5)   Dilapidation, decay, unsanitary conditions or disrepair which is
dangerous to the health, safely or welfare of the occupants or other people of
the jurisdiction.
      (6)   Inadequate facilities for egress in case office or panic.
      (7)   Defects significantly increasing the hazards of fire, accident or
other calamities.
      (8)   Lack of adequate ventilation, light, heating or sanitary facilities
to such extent as to endanger the health, safely or general welfare of the
occupants or other residents of the jurisdiction.
      (9)   Lack of proper electrical, heating or plumbing facilities required
by this chapter which constitutes a health or a definite safety hazard.
      (10)   For any building whose occupancy classification requires it, lack
of connection to a potable water supply and/or to the public sanitary sewer or
other approved sewage disposal system. For the purposes of this standard, a
building is not connected to a potable water supply if the water supply has
been “cut off” because of nonpayment of the water bill or otherwise or if the
system for any reason is not receiving a flow of potable water to the tap.
      (11)   Any violation of the state Fire Prevention Code which constitutes
a condition which is unsafe and especially dangerous to life.
      (12)   Any abandoned non-residential building or structure which is found
to be a health or safety hazard by the Inspector as a result of the attraction
of insects or rodents, conditions creating a fire hazard, dangerous conditions
constituting a threat to children, or frequent use by vagrants as living
quarters in the absence of sanitary facilities.
   (C)   In addition to conditions 1 -12 enumerated in division (B) above, any
one of which renders a building or structure unsafe, the Inspector shall
determine that a non-residential building or structure is unsafe if he or she
finds that a building or structure fails to fully comply with any five or more
of the following enumerated standards of building and premises fitness. Full
compliance with a standard means that if any part of the stated standard is not
complied with by a particular building and premises, then that building and
premises has failed to fully comply with the enumerated standard.
GENERAL
(1)   Buildings and premises shall be kept clear of accumulations of garbage,
trash, or rubbish which create health and sanitation problems. All garbage and
solid waste shall be in approved containers or stored in a safe and sanitary
way.
(2)   Flammable, combustible, explosive or other dangerous or hazardous
materials shall be stored in a manner approved for such materials and
consistent with the state Fire Prevention Code.
(3)   Buildings and premises shall be kept free of loose and insufficiently
anchored overhanging objects which constitute a danger of falling on persons or
property.
(4)   The premises shall be kept free of insufficiently protected holes,
excavations, breaks, projections, obstructions and other such dangerous
impediments on and around fences, walls, walks, driveways, parking lots and
other areas which are accessible to and generally used by persons on the
premises.
(5)   Building and premise surfaces shall be kept clear of cracked or broken
glass, loose shingles, loose wood, crumbling stone or brick, loose or broken
plastic or other dangerous objects or similar hazardous conditions. Exterior
surfaces shall be maintained in such material or treated in such a manner as to
prevent deterioration.
(6)   Buildings and premises shall be kept free of objects and elements
protruding from building walls, roof or premises which are unsafe or not
properly secured or which can create a hazard such as abandoned electrical
boxes and conduits, wires, sign brackets and other brackets, and similar
objects.
APPURTENANCES
(7)   All chimneys, flues and vent attachments thereto shall be maintained
structurally sound. Chimneys, flues, gas vents or other draft-producing
equipment which are in use shall provide sufficient draft to develop the rated
output of the connected equipment, shall be structurally safe, durable, smoke-
tight and capable of withstanding the action of flue gases.
(8)   All exterior porches, landings, balconies, stairs and fire escapes shall
be provided with banisters or railings properly designed and maintained to
minimize the hazard of falling, and the same shall be kept structurally sound,
in good repair, and free of defects.
(9)   All cornices shall be made structurally sound. Rotten or weakened
portions shall be removed and/or replaced. All exposed wood shall be treated or
painted.
(10)   Gutters and down spouts shall be replaced or repaired as necessary and
shall be appropriately located and securely installed so as not to cause a
hazard to pedestrians, vehicular traffic or property.
(11)   Attached and unattached accessory structures shall be maintained in a
state of good repair.
(12)   Advertising sign structures, attached or freestanding, awnings, marquees
and their supporting members and other similar attachments and structures shall
be maintained in good repair and shall not cause a nuisance or safety hazard.
STRUCTURAL
(13)   Walls, partitions, supporting members, sills, joists, rafters or other
structural members shall not list, lean or buckle, shall not be rotted,
deteriorated or damaged, and shall not have holes or cracks which might admit
rodents.
(14)   Floors or roofs shall have adequate supporting members and strength to
be reasonably safe for the purpose used.
(15)   Foundations, foundation walls, piers or other foundation supports shall
not be deteriorated or damaged.
(16)   Interior and exterior steps, railings, landings, porches or other parts
or appurtenances shall be maintained in such condition that they will not fall
or collapse.
(17)   Where a wall of a building has become exposed as a result of demolition
of an adjacent building said wall must have all doors, windows, vents or other
similar openings closed with material of the type comprising the wall unless
such doors, windows, vents or other similar openings are to be maintained in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter. No protrusions or loose
material shall be in the wall. The exposed wall shall be painted, stuccoed or
bricked and weatherproofed if necessary to prevent deterioration of the wall.
PLUMBING, ELECTRICAL AND SUPPLIED FACILITIES
(18)   All plumbing fixtures and pipes shall meet the standards of the state
Plumbing Code and shall be maintained in a stale of good repair and in good
working order.
(19)   All electrical fixtures, receptacles, equipment and wiring shall be
maintained in a state of good repair, safe, capable of being used, and
installed in accordance with the state Electric Code.
(20)   Every supplied facility, piece of equipment or utility which is required
under this chapter or the state Building Code for occupancy or use shall be so
constructed or installed that it will function safely and effectively and shall
be maintained in satisfactory working condition.
EGRESS
(21)   Facilities for egress in case of fire or panic shall be adequate and
shall remain clear for such purposes.
(22)   All windows must be tight-fitting and have sashes of proper size and
design and free from rotten wood, broken joints, or broken or loose mullions.
(23)   All windows shall be maintained free of broken glass that could be
dangerous to the public, invitees or third parties ordinarily expected to use
the premises, from falling or shattering.
(24)   All openings originally designed as windows shall be maintained as
windows, unless specifically approved by the Inspector for enclosure.
DRAINAGE
(25)   All yards and premises shall be properly graded and maintained so as to
obtain thorough drainage and so as to prevent the accumulation of stagnant
water.
(Ord. O-20120501-05, passed 5-1-2012)
§ 156.15 BUILDINGS AND PREMISES NOT DECLARED UNSAFE BUT WHICH ARE NOT IN
COMPLIANCE WITH ALL STANDARDS.
      In any case where the Inspector determines that a non-residential
building or structure fails to fully comply with one or more but less than five
of the standards of non-residential buildings or structures fitness set forth
in §
156.14(C), such building or structure shall not be found to be unsafe and shall
not be subject to the procedures and remedies as provided for in this chapter
for unsafe buildings and premises. Each such failure of non-compliance,
however, shall constitute a violation of the terms of this chapter and shall
subject the violator to the penalties and enforcement procedures, civil or
criminal or both, of §
156.29. In such case the Inspector shall notify the owner as provided for in §
156.19.
(Ord. O-20120501-05, passed 5-1-2012)
§ 156.16 INVESTIGATION.
   Whenever it appears to the Inspector that any nonresidential building or
structure has not been properly maintained so that the safely or health of its
occupants or members of the general public are jeopardized for failure of the
property to meet the minimum standards established by the Board of
Commissioners, the Inspector shall undertake a preliminary investigation. If
entry upon the premises for purposes of investigation is necessary, such entry
shall be made pursuant to a duly issued administrative search warrant in
accordance with G.S. § 15-27.2 or with permission of the owner, the owner’s
agent, a tenant, or other person legally in possession of the premises.
(Ord. O-20120501-05, passed 5-1-2012)
§ 156.17 COMPLAINT; NOTICE OF HEARING.
   If the preliminary investigation discloses evidence of a violation of the
minimum standards, the Inspector shall issue and cause to be served upon the
owner of and parties in interest in the nonresidential building or structure a
complaint. The complaint shall state the charges and contain a notice that a
hearing will be held before the Inspector (or his or her designated agent) at a
place within the county scheduled not less than ten days nor more than 30 days
after the serving of the complaint; that the owner and parties in interest
shall be given the right to answer the complaint and to appear in person, or
otherwise, and give testimony at the place and time fixed in the complaint; and
that the rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law or equity shall not be
controlling in hearings before the Inspector.
(Ord. O-20120501-05, passed 5-1-2012)
§ 156.18 ORDER TO TAKE CORRECTIVE ACTION; CONTENTS; ISSUANCE.
   If, after notice and hearing, the Inspector determines that the
nonresidential building or structure has not been properly maintained so that
the safety or health of its occupants or members of the general public is
jeopardized for failure of the property to meet the minimum standards as
established by the Board of Commissioners, the Inspector shall state in writing
the findings of fact in support of that determination and shall issue and cause
to be served upon the owner thereof an order. The order may require the owner
to take remedial action, within a reasonable time specified, subject to the
procedures and limitations herein.
   (A)   An order may require the owner to repair, alter, or improve the
nonresidential building or structure in order to bring it into compliance with
the minimum standards established by the Board of Commissioners or to vacate
and close the nonresidential building or structure for any use.
   (B)   An order may require the owner to remove or demolish the
nonresidential building or structure if the cost of repair, alteration, or
improvement of the building or structure would exceed 50% of its then current
value. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, if the nonresidential
building or structure is designated as a local historic landmark, listed in the
National Register of Historic Places, or located in a locally designated
historic district or in a historic district listed in the National Register of
Historic Places and the Board of Commissioners determines, after a public
hearing as provided by ordinance, that the nonresidential building or structure
is of individual significance or contributes to maintaining the character of
the district, and the nonresidential building or structure has not been
condemned as unsafe, the order may require that the nonresidential building or
structure be vacated and closed until it is brought into compliance with the
minimum standards established by this chapter.
   (C)   An order may not require repairs, alterations, or improvements to be
made to vacant manufacturing facilities or vacant industrial warehouse
facilities to preserve the original use. The order may require such building or
structure to be vacated and closed, but repairs may be required only when
necessary to maintain structural integrity or to abate a health or safety
hazard that cannot be remedied by ordering the building or structure closed for
any use.
(Ord. O-20120501-05, passed 5-1-2012)
§ 156.19 SERVICE OF COMPLAINTS AND ORDERS OF INSPECTOR.
   Complaints or orders issued by the Inspector pursuant to this chapter shall
be served upon persons either personally or by registered or certified mail so
long as the means used are reasonably designed to achieve actual notice. When
service is made by registered or certified mail, a copy of the complaint or
order may also be sent by regular mail. Service shall be deemed sufficient if
the registered or certified mail is refused, but the regular mail is not
returned by the post office within ten days after the mailing. If regular mail
is used, a notice of the pending proceedings shall be posted in a conspicuous
place on the premises affected. If the identities of any owners or the
whereabouts of persons are unknown and cannot be ascertained by the Inspector
in the exercise of reasonable diligence, and the Inspector makes an affidavit
to that effect, the serving of the complaint or order upon the owners or other
persons may be made by publication in a newspaper having general circulation in
the town at least once no later than the time that personal service would be
required under this section. When service is made by publication, a notice of
the pending proceedings shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises
affected.
(Ord. O-20120501-05, passed 5-1-2012)
§ 156.20 APPEAL OF ORDER OF INSPECTOR; FINALITY IF NOT APPEALED.
   Any owner who has received an order under §
156.18 may appeal from the order to the Town Board of Adjustment by giving
notice of appeal in writing to the Inspector and to the Town Clerk within ten
days following issuance of the order. In the absence of an appeal to the Board
of Adjustment within the prescribed time, the order of the Inspector shall be
final. The Board of Adjustment shall hear appeals within a reasonable time
after receipt of the notice of appeal and it may modify and affirm or revoke
the order. Any person aggrieved by a decision or order of the Inspector shall
have the remedies provided in G.S. § 160A-446.
(Ord. O-20120501-05, passed 5-1-2012)
§ 156.21 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ORDER OF INSPECTOR.
   (A)   If the owner fails to comply with an order to repair, alter, or
improve or to vacate and close the nonresidential building or structure, the
Board of Commissioners may adopt an ordinance ordering the Inspector to proceed
to effectuate the purpose of this section with respect to the particular
property or properties that the Inspector found to be jeopardizing the health
or safety of its occupants or members of the general public. The property or
properties shall be described in the ordinance. The ordinance shall be recorded
in the Office of the Register of Deeds and shall be indexed in the name of the
property owner or owners in the grantor index. Following adoption of an
ordinance, the Inspector may cause the building or structure to be repaired,
altered, or improved or to be vacated and closed. The Inspector may cause to be
posted on the main entrance of any nonresidential building or structure so
closed a placard with the following words: “This building is unfit for any use;
the use or occupation of this building for any purpose is prohibited and
unlawful.” Any person who occupies or knowingly allows the occupancy of a
building or structure so posted shall be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor.
   (B)   If the owner fails to comply with an order to remove or demolish the
nonresidential building or structure, the Board of Commissioners may adopt an
ordinance ordering the Inspector to proceed to effectuate the purpose of this
section with respect to the particular property or properties that the
Inspector found to be jeopardizing the health or safety of its occupants or
members of the general public. No ordinance shall be adopted to require
demolition of a nonresidential building or structure until the owner has first
been given a reasonable opportunity to bring it into conformity with the
minimum standards established by the Board of Commissioners. The property or
properties shall be described in the ordinance. The ordinance shall be recorded
in the Office of the Register of Deeds and shall be indexed in the name of the
property owner or owners in the grantor index. Following adoption of an
ordinance, the Inspector may cause the building or structure to be removed or
demolished.
(Ord. O-20120501-05, passed 5-1-2012)
§ 156.22 REMEDIES; LIEN FOR COST OF DEMOLITION AND REMOVAL.
   (A)   The amount of the cost of repairs, alterations, or improvements, or
vacating and closing, or removal or demolition by the Inspector shall be a lien
against the real property upon which the cost was incurred, which lien shall be
filed, have the same priority, and be collected as the lien for special
assessment provided in Article 10 of Chapter 160A of the General Statutes.
   (B)   The amount of the costs is also a lien on any other real property of
the owner located within the town limits except for the owner’s primary
residence. The additional lien provided in this division is inferior to all
prior liens and shall be collected as a money judgment.
   (C)   If the nonresidential building or structure is removed or demolished
by the Inspector, he or she shall offer for sale the recoverable materials of
the building or structure and any personal properly, fixtures, or appurtenances
found in or attached to the building or structure and shall credit the proceeds
of the sale, if any, against the cost of the removal or demolition, and any
balance remaining shall be deposited in the Superior Court by the Inspector,
shall be secured in a manner directed by the Court, and shall be disbursed by
the Court to the persons found to be entitled thereto by final order or decree
of the Court. Nothing in this section shall be construed to impair or limit in
any way the power of the Board of Commissioners to define and declare nuisances
and to cause their removal or abatement by summary proceedings or otherwise.
(Ord. O-20120501-05, passed 5-1-2012)
§ 156.23 FAILURE OF OCCUPANT TO COMPLY WITH ORDER TO VACATE.
   If any occupant fails to comply with an order to vacate a nonresidential
building or structure, the Inspector may file a civil action in the name of the
town to remove the occupant. The action to vacate shall be in the nature of
summary ejectment and shall be commenced by filing a complaint naming as
parties-defendant any person occupying the nonresidential building or
structure. The Clerk of Superior Court shall issue a summons requiring the
defendant to appear before a magistrate at a certain time, date, and place not
to exceed ten days from the issuance of the summons to answer the complaint.
The summons and complaint shall be served as provided in G.S. § 42-29. The
summons shall be returned according to its tenor, and if on its return it
appears to have been duly served and if at the hearing the Inspector produces a
certified copy of an ordinance adopted by the Board of Commissioners pursuant
to §
156.21 of this chapter to vacate the occupied nonresidential building or
structure, the magistrate shall enter judgment ordering that the premises be
vacated and all persons be removed. The judgment ordering that the
nonresidential building or structure be vacated shall be enforced in the same
manner as the judgment for summary ejectment entered under G.S. § 42-30. An
appeal from any judgment entered under this section by the magistrate may be
taken as provided in G.S. § 7A-228, and the execution of the judgment may be
stayed as provided in G.S. § 7A-227. An action to remove an occupant of a
nonresidential building or structure who is a tenant of the owner may not be in
the nature of a summary ejectment proceeding pursuant to this section unless
the occupant was served with notice, at least 30 days before the filing of the
summary ejectment proceeding, that the governing body has ordered the Inspector
to proceed to exercise his or her duties under §
156.21 of this chapter to vacate and close or remove and demolish the
nonresidential building or structure.
(Ord. O-20120501-05, passed 5-1-2012)
§ 156.24 ACTION BY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS UPON ABANDONMENT OF INTENT TO REPAIR.
   (A)   If the Board of Commissioners has adopted an ordinance or the
Inspector has issued an order requiring the building or structure to be
repaired or vacated and closed and the building or structure has been vacated
and closed for a period of two years pursuant to the ordinance or order, the
Board of Commissioners may make findings that the owner has abandoned the
intent and purpose to repair, alter, or improve the building or structure and
that the continuation of the building or structure in its vacated and closed
status would be inimical to the health, safety, and welfare of the municipality
in that it would continue to deteriorate, would create a fire or safety hazard,
would be a threat to children and vagrants, would attract persons intent on
criminal activities, or would cause or contribute to blight and the
deterioration of property values in the area. Upon such findings, the Board of
Commissioners may, after the expiration of the two-year period, enact an
ordinance and serve such ordinance on the owner, setting forth the following:
      (1)   If the cost to repair the nonresidential building or structure to
bring it into compliance with the minimum standards is less than or equal to
50% of its then current value, the ordinance shall require that the owner
either repair or demolish and remove the building or structure within 90 days;
or
      (2)   If the cost to repair the nonresidential building or structure to
bring it into compliance with the minimum standards exceeds 50% of its then
current value, the ordinance shall require the owner to demolish and remove the
building or structure within 90 days.
   (B)   Iin the case of vacant manufacturing facilities or vacant industrial
warehouse facilities, the building or structure must have been vacated and
closed pursuant to an order or ordinance for a period of five years before the
Board of Commissioners may take action under this section. The ordinance shall
be recorded in the Office of the Register of Deeds in the county wherein the
property or properties are located and shall be indexed in the name of the
property owner in the grantor index. If the owner fails to comply with the
ordinance, the Inspector shall effectuate the purpose of the ordinance.
(Ord. (O-20120501-05, passed 5-1-2012)
§ 156.25 DEMOLITION OF NON-RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS BY OWNER.
   Where a non-residential building or structure is under the jurisdiction of
this chapter, the building may be demolished by the owner provided that the
following requirements arc met:
   (A)   The owner shall obtain a demolition permit from the Building
Inspections Department.
   (B)   All sewer, gas, water and similar taps or connections shall be
properly closed and disconnected.
   (C)   All debris from the building shall be removed from the site. This
requirement is for the removal of all debris that is above the street level of
the building.
   (D)   The lot shall be graded to a smooth, even, finished grade, free from
building material, debris, holes, and/or depressions. Where building debris
remains on the site below street level, the owner must back fill the lot with
12 inches of clean fill which shall be graded to a smooth, even finished grade.
   (E)   Where walls of adjacent buildings become exposed as a result of the
demolition, said walls must have all doors, windows, vents or other similar
openings closed with material of the type comprising the wall, unless such
doors, windows, vents, or other similar openings are to be maintained in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter. No protrusions or loose
material shall be in the wall. The exposed wall shall be painted, stuccoed or
bricked and weatherproofed if necessary to prevent deterioration of the wall.
(Ord. O-20120501-05, passed 5-1-2012)
§ 156.26 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of carrying out the intent of this chapter, the
Inspector is hereby authorized to enter, examine and survey at all reasonable
times all non-residential buildings and premises, including abandoned
structures. The owner or occupant of every non-residential building or the
person in charge thereof, shall give the Inspector free access to such building
and its premises, at all reasonable times for the purposes of such inspection,
examination and survey. Every occupant of a non-residential building shall give
the owner thereof, or his or her agent or employee, access to any part of such
building and its premises at all reasonable times for the purpose of making
such repairs or alterations as are necessary to effect compliance with the
provisions of this chapter or with any lawful order issued pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Inspector may make periodic inspections for unsafe, unsanitary or
otherwise hazardous and unlawful conditions in non-residential structures
within the jurisdiction. In addition, he or she may make inspections when he or
she has reason to believe that such conditions may exist in a particular
structure or premises.
(Ord. O-20120501-05, passed 5-1-2012)
§ 156.27 DEFECTS IN BUILDINGS TO BE CORRECTED.
   When the Inspector finds any defects in a non-residential building, or finds
that a building has not been constructed in accordance with applicable state
and town laws, or that a building because of its condition is dangerous or
contains fire hazardous conditions, it shall be his or her duty to notify the
owner or occupant of the building of its defects, hazardous conditions or
failure to comply with law. The owner or occupant shall each immediately remedy
the defects, hazardous conditions or violations of law in the property he or
she owns. Failure to do so shall constitute a violation of this chapter. Each
day any violation of this chapter shall continue shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Ord. O-20120501-05, passed 5-1-2014)
§ 156.28 VIOLATIONS.
   In addition to the conditions, acts or failure to act that constitute
violations specified in this chapter, it shall be unlawful for the owner of any
building or structure to fail, neglect or refuse to repair, alter or improve
the same, or to vacate and close or vacate and remove or demolish the same,
upon order of the Inspector duly made and served as herein provided, within the
time specified in such order. It shall be unlawful for the owner of any
building, with respect to which an order has been issued pursuant to §
156.18, to occupy or permit the occupancy of the same after the time prescribed
in such order for its repair, alteration or improvement or its vacation and
closing, or vacation and removal or demolition.
(Ord. O-20120501-05, passed 5-1-2012)
§ 156.29 PROCEDURE IS ALTERNATIVE.
   Neither this chapter nor any of its provisions shall be construed to impair
or limit in any way the power of the town to define and declare nuisances and
to cause their abatement by summary action or otherwise, or to enforce this
chapter by criminal process, and the enforcement of any remedy provided herein
shall not prevent the enforcement of any other remedy or remedies provided
herein or in other ordinance or laws. In addition to the remedies provided for
herein, any violation of the terms of this chapter shall subject the violator
to the penalties and remedies as set forth in
Chapter 10, §
10.99, General Penalties; Enforcement of Ordinances; Continuing Violations, of
the Code of Ordinances Town of Sharpsburg.
(Ord. O-20120501-05, passed 5-1-2012)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
Reserved
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to North Carolina General Statutes
References to 1988 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTES
G.S. Cite Code Section
G.S. Cite                            Code Section
4.01(7)(a)                           70.01
Ch. 7A                               155.29
7A-227                               151.10,
                                     156.23
7A-228                               151.10,
                                     156.23
                                     10.99;
14-4                                 71.48;
                                     134.99
14-4(b)                              70.99
14-54                                131.06
14-190.9                             130.02
14-190.13                            130.02
14-277.2                             71.45
14-316.1                             134.05;
                                     134.99
14-401.13                            113.01
15-27.2                              156.16
15A-401(b)                           33.04
17C-10                               33.01
20-1 et seq.                         113.01;
                                     115.42
20-4.01                              70.01
20-4.01(12a)                         71.60
20-37.7                              113.01
20-50                                71.60
20-54                                71.60
20-97                                112.01-
                                     112.03
20-114.1                             70.06
20-141                               71.02
                                     71.01-
                                     71.06;
20-141(b)(1)                         71.20;
                                     71.21;
                                     71.35-
                                     71.48
20-146                               71.01
20-153                               70.18
20-158                               70.16
20-162                               72.12
20-167                               92.20
20-168(b)                            70.03
                                     70.01-
                                     70.06;
20-169                               70.15-
                                     70.19;
                                     70.99
20-219.11                            90.09
20-368                               98.08
25A-38–25A-42                      113.01
42-29                                151.11,
                                     156.23
42-30                                151.11,
                                     156.23
Ch. 44A, Art. 1                      90.11
44A-11.1(a)                          150.20
62-133.8                             150.20
62.133.9                             150.20
66-250 et seq.                       113.01
85B-1 et seq.                        113.01
87-15.1(7)                           150.20
87-21                                150.20
87-43                                150.20
105-109(d)                           110.15
105-164.1 et seq.                    113.01
105-164.3(11)                        113.01
105-349(g)                           31.22
105-350                              31.22
105-352(b)                           31.22
105-367                              110.15
105-373                              31.22
106-520.3                            113.01
113A-52(6)                           150.20
113A-54(d)(4)                        150.20
113A-57                              150.20
113A-61                              150.20
113A-71                              150.20
119-54 et seq.                       92.22
Ch. 130A, Art. 9                     155.05
130A-196                             91.36
130A-290(a)(6)                       155.05
130A-290(a)(8)                       93.01
130A-290(a)(35)                      155.05
130A-290(a)(36)                      155.05
132-1                                36.07
132-1.1                              36.07
132-2                                36.04
132-3                                36.04
132-6                                36.04
136-141 et seq.                      90.14
136-143                              90.14
Ch. 143                              30.16;
                                     Charter, Section 14
Ch. 143, Art. 9                      150.20
Ch. 143, Art. 9C                     150.20
Ch. 143, Art. 21, Part 6             155.01
143-139                              150.65
143-143.15                           155.41
143-145(7)                           151.03
143-151.13(c)                        150.50
Ch. 159                              37.01-
                                     37.04
159-9                                31.20
159-13(a)(3)                         37.04
159-24                               31.19
159-25                               31.19
Ch. 160A                             Charter, Section 13
Ch. 160A, Art. 7, Part 3             Charter, Section 12.1
Ch. 160A, Art. 8                     155.01
Ch. 160A, Art. 10                    151.10,
                                     156.22
Ch. 160A, Art. 10, Part 6            151.01
160A, Art. 19                        32.30
Ch. 160A, Art. 19, Parts 3, 5, and 8 155.01
160A-61                              30.01
160A-63                              30.02;
                                     31.15
160A-64                              31.15
160A-67                              31.15
160A-68                              30.17
160A-69                              30.19;
                                     31.15
160A-70                              31.16
160A-71                              30.15;
                                     30.16
160A-155                             31.17
160A-162                             31.29
160A-168                             36.07
160A-171                             31.18
160A-173                             31.21
160A-174                             151.01
160A-175                             10.99
160A-178                             113.01-
                                     113.08
160A-183                             92.23
160A-186                             91.10
                                     91.01;
160A-187                             91.25-
                                     91.53;
                                     91.65
160A-189                             131.04
160A-195                             71.20
160A-207                             110.15
160A-213                             112.01-
                                     112.03
160A-216–160A-236                  98.25
160A-216–160A-238                  98.21
160A-282                             33.31
160A-285                             33.04
160A-286                             33.04
160A-291                             33.15
                                     92.01-
                                     92.11;
160A-291–160A-294                  92.20-
                                     92.23;
                                     92.35
160A-292                             33.16
                                     98.01-
                                     98.10;
                                     98.20-
160A-296                             98.25;
                                     98.35-
                                     98.37;
                                     98.50;
                                     98.51
160A-300.6                           71.60
                                     70.01-
                                     70.06;
160A-300                             70.15-
                                     70.19;
                                     70.99
                                     72.01;
160A-301                             72.10-
                                     72.17
160A-303                             90.01;
                                     90.02
160A-303.1                           93.01-
                                     93.08
160A-303.2                           90.01;
                                     90.02
160A-307                             98.37
                                     53.01-
                                     53.13;
                                     53.25-
                                     53.28;
160A-311                             53.40-
                                     53.41;
                                     53.50-
                                     53.60;
                                     53.99
                                     50.31;
                                     53.01-
                                     53.13;
                                     53.25-
160A-312                             53.28;
                                     53.40;
                                     53.41;
                                     53.50-
                                     53.60;
                                     53.99
                                     50.15;
160A-314                             51.095;
                                     51.115
160A-314(b)                          50.04
160A-317                             51.003
                                     111.01-
160A-319                             111.34;
                                     111.50-
                                     111.58
160A-350 et seq.                     32.52;
                                     32.57
160A-354                             32.50
160A-389                             10.99
160A-411                             150.50
160A-411.1                           150.50
160A-412                             150.50
160A-412 et seq.                     150.50
160A-415                             150.52
160A-416                             150.50
160A-417                             150.20
160A-418                             150.22
160A-419                             150.23
160A-420                             150.51;
                                     150.54
160A-421                             150.50
160A-422                             150.24
160A-423                             150.54
160A-424                             150.54
160A-425                             150.35
160A-426                             150.36
160A-427                             150.36
160A-428                             150.37
160A-429                             150.37
160A-430                             150.38
160A-431                             150.39
160A-432                             150.65
160A-433                             150.53
160A-434                             150.65
160A-439                             156.03
160A-441                             151.01
160A-444                             151.01
160A-445                             151.06
160A-446                             156.20
162A-9.1                             53.75
Ch. 163                              34.01
163-302                              34.01
 
REFERENCES TO 1988 CODE
1988 Code 2003 Code
1988 Code        2003 Code
30.01            30.01
30.02            30.02
30.03            30.03
30.15            30.15
30.16            30.16
30.17            30.17
30.18            30.18
30.19            30.19
30.20            30.20
30.21            30.21
30.22            30.22
30.23            30.23
30.24            30.24
31.01            31.01
31.15            31.15
31.16            31.16
31.17            31.18
31.18            31.19
31.19            31.20
31.20            31.21
31.21            31.22
31.22            31.23
31.23            31.24
31.24            31.25
31.25            31.26
31.26            31.27
31.27            31.28
31.28            31.29
32.01            32.01
32.10            32.10
32.20            32.20
32.40            32.40
32.50            32.50
32.51            32.51
32.52            32.52
32.53            32.53
32.54            32.54
32.55            32.55
32.56            32.56
32.57            32.57
32.58            32.58
33.01            33.01
33.02            33.02
33.03            33.03
33.04            33.04
33.05            33.05
33.15            33.15
33.16            33.16
33.17            33.17
33.18            33.18
33.30            33.30
33.31            33.31
33.32            33.32
33.33            33.33
33.34            33.34
34.01            34.01
36.01            36.01
36.02            36.02
36.03            36.03
36.04            36.04
36.05            36.05
36.06            36.06
36.07            36.07
37.01            37.01
37.02            37.02
37.03            37.03
50.01            50.01
50.02            50.02
50.03            50.03
50.15            50.15
50.16            50.16
50.30            50.30
50.31            50.31
50.99            50.99
51.001           51.001
51.002           51.002
51.003           51.003
51.004           51.004
51.005           51.005
51.006           51.006
51.007           51.007
51.008           51.008
51.009           51.009
51.010           51.010
51.030           51.030
51.031           51.031
51.032           51.032
51.033           51.033
51.034           51.034
51.045           51.045
51.046           51.046
51.055           51.055
51.056           51.056
51.057           51.057
51.058           51.058
51.059           51.059
51.060           51.060
51.061           51.061
51.062           51.062
51.063           51.063
51.064           51.064
51.065           51.065
51.080           51.080
51.081           51.081
51.082           51.082
51.083           51.083
51.090           51.095
51.091           51.096
51.112           51.112
51.113           51.113
51.114           51.114
51.116           51.116
51.117           51.117
51.118           51.118
51.119           51.119
51.120           51.120
51.121           51.121
51.999           51.999
52.01            52.01
53.01            53.01
53.02            53.02
53.03            53.03
53.04            53.04
53.05            53.05
53.06            53.06
53.06            53.07
53.07            53.08
53.09            53.09
53.10            53.10
53.11            53.11
53.12            53.12
53.25            53.25
53.26            53.26
53.27            53.27
53.28            53.28
53.40            53.40
53.41            53.41
53.50            53.50
53.52            53.52
53.53            53.53
53.55            53.55
53.56            53.56
53.57            53.57
53.58            53.58
53.59            53.59
53.60            53.60
70.01            70.01
70.02            70.02
70.03            70.03
70.04            70.04
70.05            70.05
70.06            70.06
70.15            70.15
70.16            70.16
70.17            70.17
70.18            70.18
70.19            70.19
70.99            70.99
71.01            71.01
71.02            71.02
71.03            71.03
71.04            71.04
71.05            71.05
71.06            71.06
71.20            71.20
71.21            71.21
71.35            71.35
71.36            71.36
71.37            71.37
71.38            71.38
71.39            71.39
71.40            71.40
71.41            71.41
71.42            71.42
71.43            71.43
71.44            71.44
71.45            71.45
71.46            71.46
71.47            71.47
71.48            71.48
72.01            72.01
72.10            72.10
72.11            72.11
72.12            72.12
72.13            72.13
72.14            72.14
72.16            72.16
72.17            72.17
Ch. 73, Sch. I   Ch. 73, Sched. I
Ch. 73, Sch. II  Ch. 73, Sched. II
Ch. 73, Sch. III Ch. 73, Sched. III
Ch. 73, Sch. IV  Ch. 73, Sched. IV
Ch. 73, Sch. V   Ch. 73, Sched. V
Ch. 74, Sch. I   Ch. 74, Sched. I
91.01            91.01
91.10            91.10
91.11            91.11
91.12            91.12
91.25            91.25
91.26            91.26
91.27            91.27
91.28            91.28
91.29            91.29
91.30            91.30
91.31            91.31
91.32            91.32
91.33            91.33
91.34            91.34
91.35            91.35
91.36            91.36
91.37            91.37
91.38            91.38
91.39            91.39
91.40            91.40
91.41            91.41
91.42            91.42
91.43            91.43
91.44            91.44
91.45            91.45
91.46            91.46
91.47            91.47
91.48            91.48
91.49            91.49
91.50            91.50
91.51            91.51
91.52            91.52
91.53            91.53
91.65            91.65
92.01            92.01
92.02            92.02
92.03            92.03
92.04            92.04
92.05            92.05
92.06            92.06
92.07            92.07
92.08            92.08
92.09            92.09
92.10            92.10
92.20            92.20
92.21            92.21
92.22            92.22
92.23            92.23
92.35            92.35
93.01            93.01
93.02            93.02
93.03            93.03
93.04            93.04
93.05            93.05
93.06            93.06
93.07            93.07
94.01            94.01
94.02            94.02
96.01            96.01
98.01            98.01
98.02            98.02
98.03            98.03
98.04            98.04
98.05            98.05
98.06            98.06
98.07            98.07
98.08            98.08
98.20            98.20
98.21            98.21
98.22            98.22
98.23            98.23
98.24            98.24
98.25            98.25
98.35            98.35
98.36            98.36
98.37            98.37
98.50            98.50
98.51            98.51
110.01           110.01
110.02           110.02
110.03           110.03
110.04           110.04
110.05           110.05
110.06           110.06
110.07           110.07
110.08           110.08
110.09           110.09
110.10           110.10
110.11           110.11
110.12           110.12
110.13           110.13
110.14           110.14
110.15           110.15
110.16           110.16
111.01           111.01
111.02           111.02
111.03           111.03
111.05           111.05
111.06           111.04
111.06           111.06
111.07           111.07
111.08           111.08
111.09           111.09
111.10           111.10
111.11           111.11
111.12           111.12
111.13           111.13
111.14           111.14
111.15           111.15
111.16           111.16
111.17           111.17
111.18           111.18
111.19           111.19
111.20           111.20
111.21           111.21
111.22           111.22
111.23           111.23
111.24           111.24
111.25           111.25
111.26           111.26
111.27           111.27
111.28           111.28
111.29           111.29
111.30           111.30
111.31           111.31
111.32           111.32
111.33           111.33
111.34           111.34
111.50           111.50
111.51           111.51
111.52           111.52
111.53           111.53
111.54           111.54
111.55           111.55
111.56           111.56
111.57           111.57
111.58           111.58
112.01           112.01
112.02           112.02
112.03           112.03
113.01           113.01
113.02           113.02
113.03           113.03
113.04           113.04
113.05           113.05
113.06           113.06
113.07           113.07
113.08           113.08
131.01           131.01
131.02           131.02
131.03           131.03
131.04           131.04
132.01           132.01
133.01           133.01
133.02           133.02
133.03           133.03
150.01           150.01
150.02           150.02
150.03           150.03
150.04           150.04
150.05           150.05
150.06           150.06
150.07           150.07
150.08           150.08
150.09           150.09
150.10           150.10
150.20           150.20
150.21           150.21
150.22           150.22
150.23           150.23
150.24           150.24
150.35           150.35
150.36           150.36
150.37           150.37
150.38           150.38
150.39           150.39
150.50           150.50
150.51           150.51
150.52           150.52
150.53           150.53
150.54           150.54
150.97           150.65
150.98           150.66
151.01           151.01
151.02           151.01
151.03           151.03
151.04           151.14
151.15           151.07
151.16           151.07
151.17           151.07
151.18           151.07
151.19           151.07
151.30           151.04
151.31           151.12
151.32           151.06
151.33           151.10
151.34           151.12
151.35           151.10
151.36           151.10
151.38           151.13
151.39           151.11
151.40           151.12
151.41           151.12
151.98           151.15
152.01           152.01
153.01           153.01
                 
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No.    Date Passed Code Section
                        Charter § 14;
2014-2      4-1-2014    31.17;
                        50.01;
                        53.50
Res. 2014-3 4-1-2014    91.13–
                        91.15
                       
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.      Date Passed Code Section
–           - -         37.04
–           - -         51.033
–           - -         53.28
–           - -         110.01–
                          110.16
–           8-6-1975    33.31
                          51.001–
                          51.010;
                          51.030-
                          51.034;
                          51.055-50.065;
                          51.080-
                          51.083;
–           12-7-1976   51.095;
                          51.096;
                          51.112-
                          51.114,
                          51.116-51.122;
                          150.07;
                          151.03;
                          Ch. 74, Sched. I
–           2-6-1977    Ch. 74, Sched. I
–           10-4-1977   150.22
–           1-3-1978    150.07
                          53.01–
                          53.12;
                          53.40;
                          53.41;
1979-2        - -         53.50;
                          53.52;
                          53.53;
                          53.55-
                          53.60
–           2-6-1979    151.03;
                          151.06
                          51.001–
                          51.010;
                          51.030-50.034;
                          51.055-
–           5-1-1979    51.065;
                          51.080-
                          51.083;
                          51.095;
                          51.096;
                          51.112-51.122
                          111.01–
–           10-2-1979   111.34;
                          111.50-
                          111.58
–           5-6-1980    153.01
–           7-1-1980    152.01
–           7-2-1980    96.01
                          50.30;
–           9-2-1980    50.31;
                          53.27
–           l-5-1982    71.06; Ch. 71, Sched. IV
–           3-2-1982    113.02–
                          113.08
–           4-6-1982    52.01;
                          150.09
–           6-1-1982    37.03
–           3-31-1983   36.01–
                          36.07
–           11-6-1984   131.04
                          91.01;
                          91.10-
–           2-5-1985    91.12;
                          94.01;
                          94.02;
                          150.21
–           8-6-1985    98.22
–           1-1-1986    112.01;
                          112.02
–           11-4-1986   91.25–
                          91.53
–           5-5-1987    98.10
–           3-1-1988    Ch. 73, Sched. II
–           7-5-1988    71.35–
                          71.48
–           8-2-1988    71.04
–           6-6-1989    Ch. 74, Sched. I
–           5-1-1990    Ch. 74, Sched. I
O-2-5-91      2-5-1991    37.01
O-7-2-91      7-2-1991    116.01;
                          116.02
O-2-4-92      2-4-1992    93.04
O-6-2-92      6-2-1992    92.22
                          114.01–
                          114.06;
                          114.20-
                          114.35;
                          114.45-
                          114.48;
                          114.99;
                          115.01-
O-1-5-93      1-5-1993    115.03;
                          115.15-
                          15.26;
                          115.40-
                          115.47;
                          115.60-
                          11.63;
                          115.75;
                          130.01;
                          130.99
O-4-6-93      - -         54.01–
                          54.06
–           5-4-1993    90.01–
                          90.16
O-5-4-93      - -         98.09;
                          154.01
                          51.030;
                          51.031;
O-7-5-94      - -         53.25;
                          53.26;
                          Ch. 73, Sched. VI
O-10-3-95     10-3-1995   92.11;
                          131.05
O-11-7-95     11-7-1995   131.06
–           1-2-2001    97.02–
                          97.05
–           9-3-2002    53.13;
                          53.99
–           10-24-2002  52.02
–           4-1-2003    93.06
- -           4-6-2004    31.17–
                          31.29
- -           4-6-2004    Ch. 73, Sched. II
- -           5-4-2004    51.096
- -           5-4-2004    53.41
- -           5-4-2004    72.15
                          155.01–
                          155.12;
                          155.25-
                          155.29,
- -           10-5-2004   155.40-
                          155.46;
                          155.60;
                          155.61;
                          155.99
- -           3-1-2005    98.09
- -           6-7-2005    51.096
- -           6-21-2005   Ch. 73, Sched. II
- -           2-05-2008   32.30–
                          32.38
- -           3-5-2008    51.057;
                          51.999
- -           4-1-2008    53.75
- -           5-8-2008    35.04
- -           5-8-2008    35.05
                          50.04;
- -           5-8-2008    51.115;
                          53.54
                          134.01–
- -           6-17-2008   134.06;
                          134.99
- -           9-2-2008    Charter § 14
- -           2-2-2010    98.09
- -           5-4-2010    110.17
- -           5-4-2010    153.01
O-20120501-01 5-1-2012    10.99
O-20120501-02 5-1-2012    90.01–
                          90.16
O-20120501-03 5-1-2012    97.01–
                          97.05
O-20120501-04 5-1-2012    151.01–
                          151.15
O-20120501-05 5-1-2012    156.01–
                          156.29
             11-6-2014   53.14
             9-5-2015    94.01
             4-5-2016    10.99
             8-2-2016    91.01;
                          91.02
                          Charter § 12;
                          14;
                          31.02;
                          31.15;
             8-2-2016    31.17;
                          50.01;
                          51.110;
                          51.111;
                          53.50;
                          53.51
                          71.60–
O-2018-01     3-6-2018    71.64,
                          71.99
O-2019-10     9-3-2019    91.03
O-2023-06     11-8-2023   98.02
                          94.01,
-             10-1-2024   94.02,
                          94.99
-             10-1-2024   131.07,
                          131.08
O-2024-05     11-6-2024   Ch. 73, Sched. III
                         
 
