TOWN OF SPARTA, NORTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-5 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. passed 1-9-2024; and
State legislation current through 2023 North Carolina
Legislative Service, Pamphlet No. 6
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      Chapter
         
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time; computing time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinances
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend code; effect of new ordinances
   
10.18   Section histories; section headings; statutory references
   
10.19   Relation to Charter
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the municipality shall be
designated as the Sparta Code of Ordinances or the Sparta Municipal Code, and
may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain,
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      COMPUTATION OF TIME. The time within which an act is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and the last day; and if the last day is
Saturday, Sunday or a legal holiday, that day shall be excluded.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council of Sparta, North Carolina.
      LEGISLATIVE BODY. The Mayor and legislative body, or governing body, of
Sparta, North Carolina.
      COUNTY. The County of Alleghany, North Carolina.
      G.S. or GENERAL STATUTES. The latest edition of the GENERAL STATUTES of
North Carolina, as amended.
      GENDER. Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine
and neuter.
      GOVERNOR. The Governor of North Carolina.
      JOINT AUTHORITY. All words giving a joint authority to three or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving the authority to a majority of
persons or officers.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      MUNICIPALITY. Sparta, North Carolina.
      NUMBER. Words used in the singular include the plural and the plural
includes the singular number.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath and, in those cases, the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of the town unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD. Whenever certain hours are named in this code,
they shall mean standard time or daylight saving time as may be in current use
in the town.
      OWNER. Applied to any property, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the whole
or a part of the property.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as applied to
any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Every species of property except real property.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property.
      REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of North Carolina.
      STREET. Any public way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard,
parkway, dedicated alley, lane, viaduct, bridge and the approaches thereto
within the town and shall mean the entire width of the right-of-way between
abutting property lines.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      TENANT or OCCUPANT. When applied to a building or land, shall include any
person who occupies the whole or a part of the building or land, whether alone
or with others.
      TENSE. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well
as the past and present.
      TOWN. The Town of Sparta, North Carolina.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
      ZONING ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. One designated by the legislative body.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of the town shall be by the following
rules, unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
"and/or", if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of an act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the town exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, that spelling shall be corrected and the word
or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within the town for the transaction of all municipal
business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME; COMPUTING TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
Statutory reference:
   Computation of time, see G.S. § 1-593
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   (A)   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other
ordinances pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in
full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary
implication.
   (B)   Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall be
construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
      (1)   Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture
incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective
date of this code;
      (2)   Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment
of money for the municipality or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the
municipality or any evidence of the municipality's indebtedness;
      (3)   Any contract or obligation assumed by the municipality;
      (4)   Any ordinance fixing the salary of any municipal officer or
employee;
      (5)   Any right or franchise granted by the municipality;
      (6)   Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating,
relocating, opening, widening, paving and the like, any street or public way in
the municipality;
      (7)   Any appropriation ordinance;
      (8)   Any ordinance which, by its own terms, is effective for a stated or
limited term;
      (9)   Any ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing taxes
therefor;
      (10)   Any zoning ordinance or zoning map amendment;
      (11)   Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any subdivision plat;
      (12)   Any ordinance describing or altering the boundaries of the
municipality;
      (13)   The administrative ordinances or resolutions of the municipality
not in conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this code;
      (14)   Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes not included herein;
      (15)   Any ordinance establishing or prescribing street grades in the
municipality; and/or
      (16)   Any personnel ordinance.
   (C)   Nor shall any ordinance be construed to revive any ordinance or part
thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance which is repealed by
this chapter; and all ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full
force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length herein.
Statutory reference:
   Statutes not repealed by General Statutes, see G.S. § 164-7
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from
their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall, in any way, be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND CODE; EFFECT OF NEW ORDINANCES.
   (A)   (1)   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend,
repeal or, in any way, affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the
numbering system hereof and printed for inclusion herein.
      (2)   When subsequent ordinances repeal any chapter, section or division,
or any portion thereof, the repealed portions may be excluded from this code by
omission from reprinted pages.
      (3)   The subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted in
the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence that the subsequent
ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new code by the municipality.
   (B)   Amendments to any of the provisions of the code shall be made by
amending provisions by specific reference to the section number of this code in
language substantially similar to the following: "Section                of the
Code of Ordinances, Sparta, North Carolina, is hereby amended as follows...."
The new provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (C)   If a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to be added,
language substantially similar to the following shall be used: "The Code of
Ordinances, Sparta, North Carolina, is hereby amended by adding a section, to
be numbered                , which section shall read as follows:...." The new
section shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (D)   All sections, subchapters, chapters or provisions desired to be
repealed must be specifically repealed by section, subchapter or chapter
number, as the case may be.
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; SECTION HEADINGS; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   (1)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text
of the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example: (G.S. §
160A-11) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1985)
      (2)   A statutory cite set forth as a "statutory reference" following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
         § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection
or copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            Inspection of public records, see G.S. §§ 132-1 et seq.
   (B)   The section headings, any notes following sections and the references
scattered throughout the code are not part of the code, but are merely for the
benefit for the user of the code.
§ 10.19 RELATION TO CHARTER.
   This code, or any part thereof, shall not be interpreted so as to alter or
modify the requirements of the municipal Charter relating to the power and
authority granted therein to the municipality, the municipal legislative body,
or any individual municipal official. It is the intent of this code to
establish provisions and procedures for implementing and expediting municipal
powers and duties granted by the Charter.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   General penalty. Continuing violations. Unless otherwise provided
herein, each violation of this code shall constitute a Class 3 misdemeanor,
except as otherwise provided by statute or otherwise provided herein, and
violations of such provisions of this code shall be punished by fine or
imprisonment as by law provided. Each day any violation of this code shall
continue shall constitute a separate offense, except as may be specifically
provided. If a person is charged with a violation of a town ordinance, and if
the person then desires to plead guilty by waiving his or her appearance in the
general court of justice of the state and paying a fine, together with the
applicable court costs, the person may do so by paying into the office of the
Clerk of Court the fine of $25 plus court costs, the fine to be remitted to the
town.
   (B)   Violations of this code shall constitute either a misdemeanor or, at
the election of the town, shall subject the offender to a civil penalty upon
the issuance of a citation for said violation as hereinafter provided. The
civil penalty, if not paid to the town within 15 days of the issuance of a
citation, may be recovered by the town in a civil action in the nature of debt.
Unless otherwise provided by a specific provision of this code, said civil
penalties shall be in the amount of $100 for each violation and each day any
single violation continues shall be a separate violation.
   (C)   In addition to the civil penalties set out above, any provisions of
this code or any other town ordinance may be enforced by the appropriate
equitable remedy issuing from a competent jurisdiction. In such case, the
General Court of Justice shall have jurisdiction to issue such orders as may be
appropriate and it shall not be a defense to the application of the town for
equitable relief that there is an adequate remedy at law.
   (D)   In addition to the civil penalties set out above, any provision of
this code or any other town ordinance that makes unlawful a condition existing
upon or use made of real property may be enforced by injunction and order of
abatement by General Court of Justice. When a violation of such a provision
occurs, the town may apply to the appropriate division of the General Court of
Justice for a mandatory or prohibitory injunction and/or order of abatement
commanding the defendant to correct the unlawful condition upon or cease the
unlawful use of the property. The action shall be governed in all respects by
the laws and rules governing civil proceedings, including the rules of civil
procedure in general and Rule 65 in particular.
   (E)   An order of abatement may direct that buildings or other structures on
the property be closed, demolished or removed; that fixtures, furniture or
other movable property be removed from buildings on the property; that grass
and weeds be cut; that abandoned or junked vehicles be removed; that
improvements or repairs be made; or that any other action be taken that is
necessary to bring the property into compliance with this code or such
ordinance. If the defendant fails or refuses to comply with an injunction or
with an order of abatement within the time allowed by the court, he may be
cited for contempt, and the town may execute the order of abatement. The town
shall have a lien on the property for the cost of executing an order of
abatement in the nature of a mechanic's material man's lien. The defendant may
secure cancellation of an order of abatement by paying all costs of the
proceedings and posting a bond for compliance with the order. The bond shall be
given with sureties approved by the Clerk of Superior Court in an amount
approved by the judge before whom the matter is heard and shall be conditioned
on the defendant's full compliance with the terms of the order of abatement
within a time fixed by judicial order. Cancellation of an order of abatement
shall not suspend or cancel an injunction issued in conjunction therewith.
   (F)   The provision of this code and any other town ordinance may be
enforced by one, all or a combination of the remedies authorized and prescribed
by this section.
   (G)   Any ordinances hereafter adopted by the Sparta Town Council, the
violation of which shall incur a penalty shall specify whether the enforcement
shall be pursuant to the civil penalty and/or criminal penal provisions of this
section.
   (H)   Upon determination of a violation of any section of the Code of
Ordinances, the penalty for which is a civil penalty, the enforcement official
of the town shall cause a warning citation to be issued to the violator. Such
citation shall set out the nature of the violation, the section violated, the
date of the violation, and shall contain an order to immediately cease the
violation. If the violation is in the nature of an infraction for which an
order of abatement would be appropriate in a civil proceeding, a reasonable
period of time must be stated during which the violation must be abated. The
warning citation shall specify that a second citation shall incur a civil
penalty, together with costs, and attorney fees.
   (I)   An appeal from a warning citation shall be taken within ten days from
the date of said warning citation to the Board of Adjustment. Except in any
case where the ordinance violated, which is the subject of the warning
citation, specifically grants to the Board of Adjustment other powers in
considering appeals and such appeal is applied for, the Board of Adjustment in
considering appeals of warning citations shall have power only in the manner of
administrative review and interpretation where it is alleged that the
enforcement official has made an error in the application of an ordinance, in
the factual situation as it relates to the application of an ordinance or both.
   (J)   Where the enforcement official of the town determines that the period
of time stated in the original warning citation is not sufficient for abatement
based upon the work required or consent agreement, the enforcement official may
amend the warning citation to provide for additional time.
   (K)   Upon failure of the violator to obey the warning citation a civil
citation shall be issued by the appropriate official of the town and either
served directly on the violator, his duly designated agent, or registered agent
if a corporation, either in person or posted in the United States mail service
by first class mail addressed to the last known address of the violator as
contained in the records of the town or obtained from the violator at the time
of issuance of the warning citation. The violator shall be deemed to have been
served upon the mailing of said citation. The citation shall direct the
violator to appear before the town manager of the town, or his designee, within
15 days of the date of the citation, or alternatively to pay the citation by
mail. The violation for which the citation is issued must have been corrected
by the time the citation is paid, otherwise further citations shall be issued.
Citations may be issued for each day the offense continues until the prohibited
activity is ceased or abated.
   (L)   Within 15 days from the date the first civil citation is served, the
town manager shall have the authority, upon written request by the violator, to
void the civil citation(s) issued to date and relieve the violator of any civil
penalties due. The written request shall state the reasons why the violator
believes the citation(s) should be voided. Prior to any civil citations being
voided, the violation for which the citations(s) were issues must be fully
corrected. The town manager shall use extreme discretion in voiding civil
citations and such action shall be taken only under extraordinary
circumstances. Such circumstances may include, but not be limited to, an error
by an official of the town, civil citations not reaching the violator due to
mail delivery difficulties and extreme weather constraints. After 15 days from
the first civil citation being served, the town manager may only exercise said
authority when correcting an error made by an official of the town. In those
circumstances involving an error by an official of the town, the town manager
may exercise said authority without a written request by the violator but must
consider the recommendation of the official making the error.
   (M)   If the violator fails to respond to a citation within 15 days of its
issuance, and pay the penalty prescribed therein or receive relief from the
town manager as described above, the town may institute a civil action in the
nature of debt in the appropriate division of the North Carolina General Court
of Justice for the collection of the penalty, costs, attorney fees, and such
other relief as permitted by law.
   (N)   The existing provisions of the Town of Sparta Code of Ordinances, a
violation of which shall subject the offender to civil penalties and/or
criminal penal provisions of law are noted in each section as applicable.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2012)
State law references:
   Penalties, G.S. 14-4; Enforcement of Ordinances, G.S. 160A-175.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      Chapter
         
30.   TOWN COUNCIL
         
31.   ORDINANCES
         
32.   TOWN OFFICERS
         
33.   TOWN ORGANIZATIONS
         
34.   PURCHASING
CHAPTER 30: TOWN COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Council elections
   
30.02   Elective officers and employees
   
30.03   Vacancies
Meetings
   
30.15   Regular meetings
   
30.16   Special meetings
   
30.17   Adjourned meetings
   
30.18   Mayor presides over meeting
   
30.19   Order of business
   
30.20   Quorum
   
30.21   Rules of procedure
   
30.22   Public meetings
   
30.23   Minutes
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 COUNCIL ELECTIONS.
   (A)   A Mayor and a board of five Council members shall be elected by the
qualified voters of the town under the provisions of G.S. Chapter 160, Article
5.
   (B)   (1)   In the November 1989 election, the Mayor and two highest vote
getters of the Council would serve four-year terms; the next three Council
members with high votes would serve two-year terms in order to establish
staggered terms.
      (2)   Thereafter, all Council members and Mayor will be elected for four-
year terms.
(Prior Code, § 2.1.01)
§ 30.02 ELECTIVE OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   There shall also be elected by the Council in the month of November the
following named officers and employees, who shall hold their offices during the
pleasure of the Council and until their successors are elected and qualified,
to wit: an attorney and other officers and employees, as it deems necessary.
(Prior Code, § 2.1.02)
§ 30.03 VACANCIES.
   In cases of death, disability or resignation, or if vacancy is created by
any other means in the Council, a successor shall be elected by a majority vote
of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 2.1.03)
MEETINGS
§ 30.15 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   The Town Council shall hold its regular meetings on the first Tuesday of
each month at 7:00 p.m. EST or 7:30 p.m. EST in the meeting room at the Town
Hall.
(Prior Code, § 1.1.01)
§ 30.16 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   Special meetings of the Council may be called at any time by the
Mayor, the Mayor pro tem, Council or a majority of the Council members.
   (B)   All the Council members shall be notified when a meeting is called by
the Mayor; the remaining Council member(s) and the Mayor shall be notified when
a meeting is called by a majority of the Council members.
   (C)   Notice of any special meeting shall be given.
(Prior Code, § 1.1.02)
§ 30.17 ADJOURNED MEETINGS.
   (A)   If a quorum fails to attend, the meeting shall stand adjourned to a
day agreed upon by the majority of the members present.
   (B)   Any regular or special meeting may be adjourned to a date prior to the
next regular meeting date of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 1.1.03)
§ 30.18 MAYOR PRESIDES OVER MEETING.
   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the Council and shall vote only
in case of equal division therein.
(Prior Code, § 1.1.04)
§ 30.19 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   Except when the rule shall be suspended by unanimous consent, the order of
business at every regular meeting of the Town Council shall be as follows:
   (A)   Calling the roll of members;
   (B)   Reading the minutes of the last regular meeting;
   (C)   Presentation of claims and bills for payment; and
   (D)   New business.
(Prior Code, § 1.1.05)
§ 30.20 QUORUM.
   A majority of the Council shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of
business.
(Prior Code, § 1.1.06)
§ 30.21 RULES OF PROCEDURE.
   Except where otherwise provided by law or ordinances, the procedure of the
Council shall be governed by Roberts' Rules of Order.
(Prior Code, § 1.1.07)
§ 30.22 PUBLIC MEETINGS.
   All sessions of the Council, whether regular or special, shall be open to
the public.
(Prior Code, § 1.1.08)
§ 30.23 MINUTES.
   A complete and accurate account of all proceedings of the Council, shall be
kept by the Clerk/Finance Officer. Every resolution or order made or adopted by
the Council, and every petition submitted to it, which is not set out in full
in the minutes shall be filed in an exhibit book and by proper reference shall
be made part of the minutes. The minutes of each meeting shall be read at
subsequent meetings and, upon being approved by the Council, shall be signed by
the Mayor and Clerk/Finance Officer. The minutes shall be made public and shall
constitute one of the archives of the town.
(Prior Code, § 1.1.09)
CHAPTER 31: ORDINANCES
Section
   
31.01   Ordinances in writing
   
31.02   When effective
   
31.03   Notice of passage
   
31.04   Official copy
   
31.05   Ordinances to be confined to one subject
§ 31.01 ORDINANCES IN WRITING.
   All ordinances are to be submitted in writing and signed by the Council
member introducing same and approved as to form by the Town Attorney before the
Council shall take any action on same.
(Prior Code, § 1.2.01)
§ 31.02 WHEN EFFECTIVE.
   All ordinances passed by the Council shall be in force and take effect from
and after the ratification thereof, unless stated to the contrary.
(Prior Code, § 1.2.02)
§ 31.03 NOTICE OF PASSAGE.
   It shall be the duty of the Clerk/Finance Officer to give immediate notice
of the passage of every ordinance by publication at least once in a newspaper
with general circulation or by posting a copy of the same at three public
places in the town.
(Prior Code, § 1.2.03)
§ 31.04 OFFICIAL COPY.
   A true copy of any ordinance or resolution, which has been duly enacted by
the Council and has been signed by the Clerk/Finance Officer and the official
seal of the town attached thereto, shall be known and recognized as an official
copy of any ordinance or resolution of the town.
(Prior Code, § 1.2.04)
§ 31.05 ORDINANCES TO BE CONFINED TO ONE SUBJECT.
   All ordinances shall be confined to one subject, excepting ordinances for
appropriations, which shall be confined to the subject of appropriations, and
the substance of each ordinance shall be clearly expressed in the title.
(Prior Code, § 1.2.05)
CHAPTER 32: TOWN OFFICERS
Section
   
32.01   Town Clerk/Finance Officer
   
32.02   Chief of Police, Tax Collector, Superintendent of Public Works
   
32.03   Bonds
   
32.04   Officers serve at pleasure of Council
§ 32.01 TOWN CLERK/FINANCE OFFICER.
   The duties of the offices of Clerk and Finance Officer are hereby
consolidated and the officer in charge thereof shall be known as the Town
Clerk/Finance Officer.
(Prior Code, § 2.2.01)
§ 32.02 CHIEF OF POLICE, TAX COLLECTOR, SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC WORKS.
   (A)   Effective 10-4-1971, the duties of the Police Commissioner are
transferred to the Chief of Police and all complaints concerning the police and
their actions shall be presented to the Chief of Police.
   (B)   Furthermore, the Chief of Police is given authority to suspend any
officer at his or her discretion; the suspended officer may petition the Town
Manager to be reinstated, if he or she so desires.
(Prior Code, § 2.2.02)
Cross-reference:
   Police organization, see §
33.02
§ 32.03 BONDS.
   The Town Manager, before entering upon his or her duties of office, shall
give bond in amounts ordered by the Council members with a corporate surety
authorized to do business in the state, conditioned that he or she will each
serve faithfully and execute the duties of his or her office, and pay according
to law all moneys which shall go into his or her hands under virtue of his or
her office, and render a just and true account thereof to the Town Council when
required by law or by the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 2.2.03)
§ 32.04 OFFICERS SERVE AT PLEASURE OF COUNCIL.
   All officers and employees shall serve at the pleasure of the Council. They
shall also execute a bond with the sureties as shall be required and approved
by the Council and shall receive compensation as from time to time may be
prescribed by the Board.
(Prior Code, § 2.2.04)
CHAPTER 33: TOWN ORGANIZATIONS
Section
   
33.01   [Reserved]
   
33.02   Police organization
   
33.03   Parks and Recreation Advisory Committee
   
33.04   Fire Department
   
33.05   Planning Board
§ 33.01 [RESERVED].
§ 33.02 POLICE ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   Organization. The police organization of the town shall consist of a
Chief and as many police officers as the Council shall, from time to time,
determine and elect and as many special police officers as the Council may deem
necessary, in its judgment, to appoint for special purposes.
(Prior Code, § 12.1.01)
   (B)   Uniforms provided. The Chief of Police and other police officers shall
wear the uniforms as shall be prescribed by the Town Council and shall keep the
same in neat condition and, upon discharge or resignation or dismissal,
surrender the uniform when the same shall have been purchased by the town for
their use.
(Prior Code, § 12.1.02)
   (C)   Police to report condition of streets and sidewalks. It shall be the
duty of the police officers to report to the Town Manager all sidewalks or
streets on their beats or which come under their observation which are in bad
condition, the location of the sidewalk or street, the names of the owners or
their agents, and shall report all nuisances to the Town Manager.
(Prior Code, § 12.1.03)
   (D)   Auxiliary law enforcement personnel.
      (1)   The town provides for the organization of an auxiliary police
department made up of volunteer members.
      (2)   The town, by enactment of this section, may provide that, while
undergoing official training and while performing duties on behalf of the town
pursuant to orders or instructions of the Chief of Police of the town,
auxiliary law enforcement personnel shall be entitled to benefits under the
State Workers' Compensation Act, being G.S. §§ 97-1 et seq. and to any fringe
benefits for which the volunteer personnel qualify.
      (3)   Each member shall be appointed by the Chief of Police and shall
serve so long as the Chief of Police may determine. Members shall assist and
aid the regular police of the town.
      (4)   The auxiliary unit shall have full police powers while on duty or
under the control and direction of the Chief of Police.
      (5)   The Chief of Police shall prescribe rules and regulations for the
conduct, control and administration of the auxiliary unit. The town shall
provide uniforms and equipment as the Chief may deem necessary and proper.
      (6)   Each member of the auxiliary unit shall take the same oath as other
police officers and be covered by the same bond and have the same privileges
and immunities of regularly employed police officers, including, but not
limited to, benefits under the state workers' compensation.
(Prior Code, § 12.1.04)
Cross-reference:
   Chief of Police, Tax Collector, Superintendent of Public Works, see §
32.02
§ 33.03 PARKS AND RECREATION ADVISORY COMMITTEE.
   (A)   Committee formation. There is hereby created a committee composed of
five members to be known as the Town Parks and Recreation Advisory Committee.
(Prior Code, § 10.1.01)
   (B)   Committee powers and duties.
      (1)   The Parks and Recreation Committee shall serve as the advisory body
for the town. The Committee shall suggest policies to the Town Manager and the
Town Council within its powers and responsibilities as stated in this section.
The Committee serves as a liaison between the Town Manager, the Town Council
and citizens of the town. The Committee shall consult with and advise the Town
Manager and the Town Council in matters that affect park/recreation policies,
programs, personnel, finances, facilities and the acquisition and disposal of
lands and properties related to the total community recreation program, and to
its long-range projected program for parks and recreation.
      (2)   The Parks and Recreation Advisory Committee shall assume specific
duties and responsibilities for park/recreation purposes as follows:
         (a)   Make recommendations to the Town Manager and Town Council
concerning the operation of Floyd Crouse Memorial Park;
         (b)   Make recommendations to the Town Manager and Town Council for
the establishment of a supervised park/recreation system for the town;
         (c)   Review and pass judgment upon suggestions or recommendations on
parks, policies, procedures and programs coming from the Town Manager, Town
Council, town citizens or groups and organizations;
         (d)   Interpret the community park/recreation program and needs to
public officials and the general citizenship;
         (e)   Serve as a referral body on park/recreation matters coming
directly to the Town Manager and Town Council and make recommendations on these
items;
         (f)   Enlist favorable public opinion of and support for park and
recreation services through such means as community and neighborhood groups;
         (g)   Assist the Town Manager in developing cooperative arrangements
with other organizations and private groups when it will further the objective
of providing more and varied kinds of park and recreation programs for the
citizens of the community;
         (h)   Recruit voluntary leadership staff to work with the park and
recreation programs and activities;
         (i)   Recommend and advise on the acceptance of any grant, gift,
bequest, donation and any personal or real property made available for park/
recreation purposes;
         (j)   Assist in matters relating to the maintaining of the highest
standards in park operation and development, park/recreation leadership and in
the quality of the park program service;
         (k)   Assist in formulating plans for the future needs in terms of
parks, programs, areas, facilities, services, acquisitions and development and
advise the town on developing priorities for each of these;
         (l)   Advise and assist the Town Manager in preparation of a parks and
recreation budget by reviewing the financial needs for parks and recreation and
interpreting the needs to the Town Manager, Town Council and general public;
         (m)   Assist the Town Manager and Town Council in evaluating
recreation programs, facilities, policies and procedures; and
         (n)   Serve as a review committee and make recommendations to the Town
Manager concerning selection and hiring of any park and recreation personnel.
(Prior Code, § 10.1.02)
   (C)   Appointment of the Committee. Each member of the Committee shall be
appointed by the Town Council. The Town Council shall appoint two members for a
term of two years and three members for a term of three years. Upon the
expiration of their original terms, each succeeding term shall be for three
years and until their successors qualify for office. Members are eligible for
reappointment after expiration of their term. A Town Council member shall be
designated as an ex-officio member of the Committee. The ex-officio member will
not have a vote on items coming before the Parks and Recreation Advisory
Committee.
(Prior Code, § 10.1.03)
   (D)   Meetings. Committee meetings shall be held on a monthly basis unless
determined otherwise by the Committee. The Chairperson of the Committee or, in
his or her absence, the Vice Chairperson, may call a special meeting of the
Committee at any time by giving each member 24 hours' notice. Special meetings
will be scheduled upon request by four or more Committee members. A quorum of
the Committee shall be in attendance before action of an official nature can be
taken. A quorum is at least three of the appointed members.
(Prior Code, § 10.1.04)
   (E)   Attendance of members; vacancies. An appointed member who misses more
than three consecutive unexcused regular meetings loses his or her status as a
member of the Committee. Any vacancy in the membership of the Committee shall
be filled for the unexpired term by appointment by the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 10.1.05)
   (F)   Compensation. Committee members shall serve without monetary
compensation. Members shall be reimbursed for travel and subsistence to
professional recreation meetings, conferences and workshops with the
reimbursement being made in compliance with the general policies of the town.
(Prior Code, § 10.1.06)
   (G)   Officers.
      (1)   There shall be a Chairperson, Vice Chairperson and Secretary of the
Committee. The Town Council shall appoint the first Chairperson and Vice
Chairperson and the Committee shall elect the first Secretary. After the first
year, an annual election of the Chairperson, Vice Chairperson and Secretary
shall be held by the Committee members and shall occur at the regular monthly
meeting in June.
      (2)   Officers shall serve for one year from election with eligibility
for reelection. New officers shall take office at the subsequent regular
meeting in July. In the event an officer's appointment to the Committee is
terminated, a replacement to this office shall be elected by the Committee from
its membership at the meeting following the termination.
(Prior Code, § 10.1.07)
   (H)   Officers' duties.
      (1)   The Committee Chairperson shall plan an agenda for each regular
meeting, preside at all meetings, sign all documents and appoint all
subcommittees. At the regular monthly meeting in January, the Chairperson shall
hold an election to select a new Chairperson and Vice Chairperson from the
membership of the Committee.
      (2)   When the Chairperson is absent, the Vice Chairperson shall perform
duties of the Chairperson. When both the Chairperson and Vice Chairperson are
absent, a temporary Chairperson shall be selected by those members who are
present.
      (3)   The Secretary shall serve as Secretary to the Committee and be
responsible for the satisfactory accomplishment of the secretarial duties. The
Secretary shall mail copies of official reports and the official minutes of all
regular and special meetings to all members prior to the next scheduled
meeting.
(Prior Code, § 10.1.08)
   (I)   Committees.
      (1)   The Executive Committee shall consist of the Chairperson, Vice
Chairperson, Secretary and the designee from the Town Council.
      (2)   The Committee Chairperson is authorized to appoint subcommittees
if, in the opinion of the Committee, they are needed. Subcommittee suggestions
are:
         (a)   Program and activities;
         (b)   Areas and facilities;
         (c)   Budget and financing; and
         (d)   Policies and procedures.
      (3)   Temporary and project committees shall be appointed as needed.
(Prior Code, § 10.1.09)
   (J)   Bylaws. Operational policies and procedures may be incorporated into a
set of bylaws as developed and approved by the Committee in line with this
section and the policies of the town.
(Prior Code, § 10.1.10)
   (K)   Adoption. This section shall be in full force and effect from and
after the adoption.
(Prior Code, § 10.1.11)
§ 33.04 FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Duty of the Chief in case of fire. Whenever a fire shall occur in the
town, it shall be the duty of the Chief to report immediately to the place of
the fire and take active charge of the fighting thereof.
(Prior Code, § 6.1.01)
   (B)   Chief to investigate cause of every fire. Immediately after the
occurrence of any fire, the Chief shall investigate or shall cause to be
investigated the cause, origin and circumstances thereof, and, as far as
possible, shall determine whether the fire was the result of accident,
carelessness or design. If he or she has reason to believe that the fire was of
suspicious origin, he or she shall notify the proper authorities designated by
law to pursue the investigation of the matter and shall further cooperate with
the authorities in collecting of evidence and in the prosecution of the case
when properly instituted.
(Prior Code, § 6.1.02)
   (C)   Record of fires to be kept. The Chief shall keep, or shall cause to be
kept, an accurate record of all fires occurring in the town. For each fire, the
following information shall be secured and kept:
      (1)   Location of premises;
      (2)   Owner;
      (3)   Brief description of premises whether of brick, stone, concrete,
iron or wood;
      (4)   How occupied, whether as dwelling, storehouse, factory, workshop or
otherwise;
      (5)   Amount and nature of damages as to both real and personal property;
      (6)   Amount of insurance;
      (7)   Cause of fire; and
      (8)   Date.
(Prior Code, § 6.1.03)
   (D)   Inspection to be made. It shall be the duty of the Chief to inspect or
cause to be inspected, as often as may be necessary, but not less than four
times a year, all specially hazardous manufacturing processes, storage or
installations of acetylene or other gases, chemicals, oils, explosives and
inflammable materials, all interior fire alarms and automatic sprinkler systems
and other hazards or appliances, as may be necessary for the enforcement of the
law and ordinance governing the same and for the safeguarding of life and
property from fire. It shall also be the duty of the Chief to inspect or cause
to be inspected as often as may be necessary, but not less than twice a year in
outlying districts and four times a year in closely built portions of the town,
all buildings and premises, except the interiors of private dwellings, for the
purpose of ascertaining and causing to be corrected any conditions liable to
cause fire or any violation of the provisions or intent of any ordinance of the
town affecting fire hazards.
(Prior Code, § 6.1.04)
   (E)   Inspection to be made upon complaint. Whenever any person shall make
written complaint to the Chief that any business or premises constitutes a fire
hazard, it shall be the duty of the Chief to have same inspected immediately.
(Prior Code, § 6.1.05)
   (F)   Chief to order fire hazards remedied. Whenever the Chief shall find
that any building or any premises constitutes a fire hazard, for any reason, he
or she shall serve or cause to be served upon the owner and the occupant of the
building a written notice specifying the condition complained of, ordering the
same remedied promptly and indicating what is considered a reasonable time for
compliance with the order.
(Prior Code, § 6.1.06)
   (G)   Failure to comply with order unlawful. It shall be unlawful for any
occupant or owner of the building or premises to fail to comply within a
reasonable time after the service of any order with the requirements thereof.
(Prior Code, § 6.1.07)
   (H)   Power of members of Fire Department. Any member of the Fire Department
or any person acting under the orders of the Chief shall have the right to go
upon the premises of any person, and to enter any building or room and insert
the hose and turn on the water whenever, in the judgment of the Chief, it shall
be necessary.
(Prior Code, § 6.1.08)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Fire Prevention; Fire Districts, see
Ch. 91
§ 33.05 PLANNING BOARD.
   (A)   Planning Board creation. A Town Planning Board is hereby created under
the authority of the G.S. § 160-A-361.
(Prior Code, § 11.1.01)
   (B)   Composition and vacancies. The Planning Board, hereinafter referred to
as the "Board", will consist of eight members, citizens of the town who shall
be appointed by the Town Council. Two members shall be appointed for a term of
four years, two members shall be appointed for a term of three years. Two
members shall be appointed for a term of two years and two members shall be
appointed for a term of one year. As the terms of these members expire, new
appointments for terms of four years shall be made. Vacancies, occurring for
reasons other than expiration of terms, shall be filled as they occur by the
Town Council for the period of the unexpired term. Faithful attendance of the
meetings of the Board is considered a prerequisite for the maintenance of
membership on the Board.
(Prior Code, § 11.1.02)
   (C)   Organization, rules, meetings and records. Within 30 days after
appointment, the Board shall meet and elect a Chairperson and create and fill
offices as it may determine. The term of the Chairperson and other officers
shall be one year with eligibility for re-election. The Board shall adopt rules
for transaction of business and shall keep a record of its members' attendance
and of its resolutions, discussions, findings and recommendations, which record
shall be a public record. The Board shall hold at least one meeting monthly,
and all of its meetings shall be open to the public.
(Prior Code, § 11.1.03)
   (D)   Removal of members. Members of the Board may, after a public hearing,
be removed by the Town Council for inefficiency, neglect of duty or malfeasance
in office.
(Prior Code, § 11.1.04)
   (E)   Compensation. All members of the Board shall serve without
compensation.
(Prior Code, § 11.1.05)
   (F)   Expenditures, incurring indebtedness, donations. The expenditures of
the Board, exclusive of gifts or grants, shall be within the amounts
appropriated for the purpose by the Town Council and no indebtedness for which
the town shall be contracted or incurred by the Board unless an appropriation
is made by the Town Council for that purpose, as authorized by law, and then
only to the extent of the appropriation. The Board shall have the right to
accept grants and donations for the exercise of its functions and may expend
the money received from the gifts and donations in a manner, which, in the
judgment of the Board, is consistent with the best interest of the planning
program.
(Prior Code, § 11.1.06)
   (G)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   Studies. The Board shall make careful studies of present conditions
and the probable future development of the town and its environs. The studies
may include, but not be limited to, land use surveys; population studies;
economic base studies; school, park and recreation studies; traffic and parking
studies and urban renewal studies.
      (2)   Plans. The Board shall prepare and from time to time amend and
revise a Comprehensive Plan of the town and its environs for the purpose of
achieving a coordinated, adjusted and harmonious development of the
municipality which would promote, in accordance with present and future needs,
the safety, morals, order, convenience, prosperity and general welfare of its
citizens; efficiency and economy in the process of development, convenience of
traffic; safety from fire and other dangers; adequate light and air; healthful
and convenient distribution of population; provision of adequate open spaces;
good civic design and arrangement; wise and efficient expenditures of public
funds; adequate provision for public utilities; and for other matters
pertaining to the public requirements. The Board shall prepare and recommend to
the Town Council ordinances promoting orderly development along the lines
indicated in the Comprehensive Plan. The Comprehensive Plan shall consist of a
number of parts which may include, but not be limited to, the following: a land
use plan, a major thoroughfare plan, a utilities plan, a plan for economic
development, a recreation plan, a community facilities plan and school plan.
      (3)   Zoning. The Board is, also, hereby designated to do zoning planning
for the town and shall prepare a zoning ordinance to govern the use of
buildings and premises which ordinances shall be submitted to the Town Council
for its consideration and possible adoption. After the adoption of a zoning
ordinance by the Town Council, no change, alteration or amendment of the
ordinance shall be made until the change, alteration or amendment shall have
been submitted to the Board for its recommendation. A majority vote by not less
than four-fifths of the entire membership of the Town Council will be required
to overrule an unfavorable recommendation by the Planning Board. Failure of the
Board to act within 30 days after submission shall constitute approval of the
proposed change, alteration or amendment.
      (4)   Subdivision regulations. The Board may prepare subdivision
regulations governing the subdivision of land within the town and its environs
to be submitted to the Town Council for its consideration and possible
adoption. Upon adoption of the regulations, the Planning Board shall review and
make recommendations to the Town Council concerning all proposed plats of land
subdivision.
      (5)   Powers of review. The Board shall review and make recommendations
to the Town Council upon the extent, location and design of all public
structures and facilities, on the acquisition and disposal of public
properties, on the opening, abandonment, widening, extension, narrowing and
other change to streets and other public ways, on the construction, extension,
expansion or abandonment of utilities whether publicly or privately owned.
However, in the absence of a recommendation from the Board after the expiration
of 30 days from the date on which the question has been submitted in writing to
the Board, the Town Council may, if it deems wise, take final action.
      (6)   Annual report. The Board shall, not later than May 15 of each year,
submit in writing to the Town Council a written report of its activities,
analysis of the expenditures to date for the current fiscal year, proposed
planning program for the next fiscal year, for review and approval and a
proposed budget for the next fiscal year.
      (7)   Miscellaneous powers and duties. The Planning Board may conduct
public hearings as may be required to gather information necessary for the
drafting, establishment and maintenance of the Comprehensive Plan. Before
adopting any plan, it shall hold one public hearing thereon. Members or
employees of the Board, when duly authorized by the Planning Board may attend
planning conferences or meetings of planning institutes or hearings upon
pending planning legislation and the Planning Board may, by formal and
affirmative vote, pay, within the Board's budget, the reasonable traveling
expenses incident to the attendance.
(Prior Code, § 11.1.07)
CHAPTER 34: PURCHASING
Section
   
34.01   Purchasing
§ 34.01 PURCHASING.
   (A)   Before any order is given for items costing over $1,000 to be paid by
the town, or any purchase costing over $1,000 made by any town employee, a
purchase order must first be obtained from the Finance Officer.
   (B)   Any town employee purchasing goods without a purchase order will be
held responsible for the cost of the same.
   (C)   No expenditure over $1,000 shall be made without prior approval by the
Town Manager or Finance Officer.
(Ord. passed 10-7--)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      Chapter
         
50.   WATER AND SEWERS GENERALLY
         
51.   WASTEWATER DISCHARGE
         
52.   WATER SUPPLY
         
53.   WATER CONSERVATION
         
54.   CEMETERIES
CHAPTER 50: WATER AND SEWERS GENERALLY
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Pertinent provisions part of contracts
   
50.03   Laterals to be laid only to inside of curb
   
50.04   Extension of laterals
Connections; Meters
   
50.15   Connections to be made within 30 days after mains are ready for use
   
50.16   Connections to be made by town
   
50.17   Connections to be made only upon application
   
50.18   Application for connections
   
50.19   Connection fee schedule
   
50.20   Application approval
   
50.21   Construction of connections
   
50.22   Sewer connections to be made where opening provided
   
50.23   Separate connections required
   
50.24   Connections and meters to remain property of town
   
50.25   Maintenance of meters
   
50.26   Maintenance of connections
   
50.27   Connection to other than town water supply
Cross-reference:
   Health and Sanitation; Nuisances, see
Ch. 92
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   IMPROVED STREET. Any street having a wearing surface of concrete, asphalt,
brick, stone block, tar treatment or similar hard material.
   LATERAL. A pipe connecting a sanitary sewer or water main with the line of
adjacent property or extending from the main to the inside of the curb.
   MACADAM STREET. Any street with crushed stone surface, either water, asphalt
or tar bound.
   PERSON. Any person, firm or corporation.
   SEWER. Sanitary sewer.
   UNIMPROVED STREET. Any street having a dirt surface.
(Prior Code, § C.1.01)
§ 50.02 PERTINENT PROVISIONS PART OF CONTRACTS.
   All pertinent provisions of this chapter are hereby made a part of the terms
and conditions whereby the town furnishes sewer or water services to any person
or whereby the town makes any sewer or water connection or performs any work of
any kind in connection with the furnishing of sewer or water service.
(Prior Code, § C.1.02)
§ 50.03 LATERALS TO BE LAID ONLY TO INSIDE OF CURB.
   Water or sewer laterals laid as a part of any sewer or water main
improvement shall be laid only to the inside of the curb unless in the
resolution ordering the improvement the town specifically directs otherwise.
(Prior Code, § C.1.03)
§ 50.04 EXTENSION OF LATERALS.
   After the laterals are laid from water or sewer mains to the inside of the
curb, no lateral shall be extended to the property line until the owner or
occupant of the property to be served thereby applies therefor.
(Prior Code, § C.1.04)
CONNECTIONS; METERS
§ 50.15 CONNECTIONS TO BE MADE WITHIN 30 DAYS AFTER MAINS ARE READY FOR USE.
   Within 30 days after the time when any water main in any street is completed
and ready for use, the owner of every abutting lot whereon water is supplied
for any human use shall cause the lot to be connected with the water main; and
within 30 days after the time any sewer main in any street is completed and
ready for use, the owner of every abutting lot having improvements thereon
shall cause all water closets, bathtubs, lavatories sinks and drains upon the
lot to be connected with the sewer main.
(Prior Code, § C.1.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.16 CONNECTIONS TO BE MADE BY TOWN.
   The construction of laterals for the connection of sewer or water pipes or
any lot with sewer or water pipes in any street, and the necessary excavation
therefor, shall be done only by the town.
(Prior Code, § C.1.06)
§ 50.17 CONNECTIONS TO BE MADE ONLY UPON APPLICATION.
   No connection shall be made to any sewer or water main nor to any sewer or
water lateral, except after the written application therefor has been approved
by the Water and Sewer Engineer.
(Prior Code, § C.1.07) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.18 APPLICATION FOR CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Every application for a sewer or water connection shall state the name
of the owner of the lot; the name of the street on which the lot is situated;
the number of the house, if there is one on the lot or, if not, a description
of the location of the lot; the number and kind of connections desired; and the
character of surface of the abutting street. Every application shall be signed
by the person making the application, shall be accompanied by the proper fee
for making the connection applied for, and shall be filed with the Town Clerk/
Finance Officer.
   (B)   Outside water taps will not be made until street rights-of-way meet
the minimum specifications of the town; the town will have a written water and
sewer right-of-way through each individual's property; and in the future, plats
of the streets and water and sewer lines will be furnished to the town by the
developer prior to any outside water or sewer taps.
(Prior Code, § C.1.08)
§ 50.19 CONNECTION FEE SCHEDULE.
   Where laterals have been laid to inside of the curb, the fees for
connections shall be as established by the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § C.1.09)
§ 50.20 APPLICATION APPROVAL.
   Every application for a water or sewer connection to be made in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter shall be approved by the Sewer and Plumbing
Inspector unless the connection applied for is of a size or is so located that
it cannot be made without impairing the town's ordinary sewer and water
service.
(Prior Code, § C.1.10)
§ 50.21 CONSTRUCTION OF CONNECTIONS.
   Upon approval of any application for sewer or water connection, the town
shall do the excavating, lay the pipe, install a meter where necessary, make
the connection to the main, fill the excavation and replace the surface of the
street.
(Prior Code, § C.1.11)
§ 50.22 SEWER CONNECTIONS TO BE MADE WHERE OPENING PROVIDED.
   Every sewer connection made directly to a main shall be made by the town at
the "Y" provided for the lot to be served; but, if no "Y" has been provided for
the lot, then the connection may be made by the town directly to the main at
any convenient point.
(Prior Code, § C.1.12)
§ 50.23 SEPARATE CONNECTIONS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every house or building abutting any water or sewer main and requiring
a water or sewer connection shall be separately and independently connected,
except in those cases where laterals have already been laid in asphalt or
improved streets from the main, provision being made for the house or building,
in which case the connection may be made to an existing lateral.
   (B)   If the house or building is on an asphalt or improved street where
laterals have not been laid, the connection may be made to any convenient
lateral. When two or more houses or units are connected with the same water
lateral, a separate meter shall be provided for each house or unit.
(Prior Code, § C.1.13)
§ 50.24 CONNECTIONS AND METERS TO REMAIN PROPERTY OF TOWN.
   All meters, meter boxes, pipes and other equipment furnished and used by the
town in installing any water or sewer connection shall be and remain the
property of the town.
(Prior Code, § C.1.14)
§ 50.25 MAINTENANCE OF METERS.
   All meters, except such as are required to be furnished by particular users
of water, shall be kept in good repair and working order by the town and at the
expense of the town. Meters furnished by particular users of water shall be
kept in good repair and working order by the town, but the expense thereof
shall be borne by the users.
(Prior Code, § C.1.15)
§ 50.26 MAINTENANCE OF CONNECTIONS.
   For the purpose of this section, the word CONNECTION shall be construed to
be that portion of water or sewer pipe between main and property line. Water
connections shall be kept in repair by the town and at the expense of the town.
Necessary renewals of water connections shall be made by the town, but at the
expense of the property served. Every leak or break in sewer connection shall
be promptly repaired and every obstruction therein shall be promptly removed by
the owner or occupant of the property served by the connection.
(Prior Code, § C.1.16) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.27 CONNECTION TO OTHER THAN TOWN WATER SUPPLY.
   No part of the town's water system shall be connected to any source of water
supply other than the town's. The town may, in the discretion of its Town
Council, connect its source of water supply with the portable water supply of
an individual or corporation under conditions recommended by the State Board of
Health and other and further terms and conditions as may be agreed upon by the
Town Council and the individual and corporation.
(Prior Code, § C.1.17) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 51: WASTEWATER DISCHARGE
Section
General Provisions
   
51.001   Objectives
   
51.002   Definitions
   
51.003   Abbreviations
Sewer Usage; Disposal and Discharges
   
51.015   General discharge prohibitions
   
51.016   Use of public sewers required
   
51.017   Private sewage disposal
   
51.018   Prohibitions on discharges
   
51.019   Storm drainage and ground water
   
51.020   Unpolluted water
   
51.021   Radioactive wastes
   
51.022   Garbage grinders
   
51.023   Point of discharge limitations
   
51.024   Holding tank wastes
   
51.025   Wastewater strength limitations
   
51.026   Unacceptable waste disposal
   
51.027   Discharges to public sanitary sewers; special provisions
   
51.028   State requirements
   
51.029   Town's right of revision
   
51.030   Excessive discharge
   
51.031   Accidental discharges
Wastewater Volume Determination
   
51.045   Metered water supply
Reports, Permits and Administration
   
51.060   Wastewater discharges
   
51.061   Discharge reports
   
51.062   Wastewater discharge permits
   
51.063   Permit modifications
   
51.064   Monitoring facilities
   
51.065   Inspection and sampling
   
51.066   Pretreatment
   
51.067   Protection from accidental discharge
   
51.068   Control manhole
   
51.069   Flow control measuring equipment
   
51.070   Confidential information
Charges and Fees
   
51.085   Schedule of charges and fees
   
51.086   Types of charges and fees
   
51.087   Basis for determination of surcharges
   
51.088   Method of determining surcharges
   
51.089   Sampling procedures and analysis
   
51.090   Sampling, small industries
Administration and Enforcement
   
51.105   Duties of user upon unlawful discharge
 
   
51.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.001 OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for direct and indirect
contributors into the wastewater collection and treatment system for the town
and enables the town to comply with all applicable state and federal laws
required by the Clean Water Act of 1977, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq. and
the general pretreatment regulations (40 C.F.R. part 403). The objectives of
this chapter are:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipality
wastewater system which will interfere with the operation of the system or
contaminate the resulting sludge;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipal
wastewater system which will pass through the system, inadequately treated,
into receiving waters or the atmosphere or otherwise be incompatible with the
system;
      (3)   To improve the opportunity to recycle and reclaim wastewaters and
sludges from the system; and
      (4)   To provide for equitable distribution of the cost of the municipal
wastewater system.
   (B)   This chapter provides for the regulation of direct and indirect
contributors to the municipal wastewater system through the issuance of permits
to certain non-domestic users and through enforcement of general requirements
for the other users, authorizes monitoring and enforcement activities, requires
user reporting, assumes that existing customer's capacity will not be
preempted, and provides for the setting of fees for the equitable distribution
of costs resulting from the program established herein. Any contributors from
the adjacent unincorporated areas that enter into a contract or agreement with
the town shall comply with all requirements in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § C.2.00) (Ord. passed 12-10-1987)
§ 51.002 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACT or THE ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as
the Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
      APPROVING AUTHORITY. The Director of Water Resources of the town or his
or her appointed agents, or in their absence the Director of the State Division
of Natural Resources and Community Development, Environmental Management
Section.
      AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF INDUSTRIAL USER. An authorized
representative of an industrial user and may be:
         (a)   A principal executive officer of at least the level of vice-
president, if the industrial user is a corporation;
         (b)   A general partner or proprietor if the industrial user is a
partnership or proprietorship, respectively; and/or
         (c)   A duly authorized representative of the individual designated
above if the representative is responsible for the overall operation of the
facilities from which the indirect discharge originates.
      BENEFICIAL USES. Uses of the waters of the state that may be protected
against quality degradation including domestic, municipal, agricultural and
industrial supply, power generation, recreation, aesthetic enjoyment,
navigation and the preservation and enhancement of fish, wildlife and other
aquatic resource or reserves, and other uses, both tangible and intangible as
specified by federal or state law.
      BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or B.O.D. The empirical test run in accordance
with latest edition of Standard Methods for Analysis of Water and Wastewater,
published by American Public Health Association and Water Pollution Control
Federal, or Methods for the Analysis of Water and Wastes, published by the
E.P.A. to determine the relative oxygen requirements of wastewater's effluents
and polluted waters. B.O.D. is a measure of the oxygen required to oxidize the
organic matter in a sample, through the action of microorganisms in that
sample.
      BUILDING SEWER. A sewer conveying wastewater from the premises of a user
to a town sewer.
      CATEGORICAL STANDARDS. The national categorical pretreatment standards or
pretreatment standards.
      CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or C.O.D. The quantity of oxygen used in the
chemical oxidation or decomposition of organic substances in a sample.
      CITY. The Town of Sparta, North Carolina, or any authorized official(s)
acting on behalf of the town.
      COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Pollutants such as B.O.D., T.S.S., pH, oil and
grease, ammonia nitrogen (NH3-N) and fecal coliform bacteria, plus any
additional pollutants identified in the town's National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System (N.P.D.E.S.) permit, or any pollutants the town's treatment
works was designed to treat. The pollutants shall be amenable to the town's
biological waste treatment process; shall not cause town to use additional
chemicals, extra personnel or cause undue wear or operating expenses; shall not
cause town's waste water treatment plant to exceed effluent limitations as set
forth in N.P.D.E.S. permit.
      COOLING WATER. The water discharged from any use such as air
conditioning, cooling or refrigeration, or to which the only pollutant added is
heat.
      DIRECT DISCHARGE. The discharge of treated or untreated wastewater
directly to the waters of the state.
      DIRECTOR OF WATER RESOURCES. The Director of Water Resources of the town
or his or her authorized representative.
      DOMESTIC WASTES. The liquid wastes from bathrooms, toilet rooms, home
kitchens and home laundries.
      E.P.A. The federal agency named the Environmental Protection Agency.
      EXCESSIVE RADIATION DOSE. A dose of radiation in excess of the maximum
permissible dose. (MAXIMUM PERMISSIBLE DOSE shall mean a dose of radiation to
any part of the body, internal and external or both that, in the light of
current knowledge, is not expected to cause appreciable bodily injury to a
person at any time during his or her lifetime.) Application of this section
will conform to all federal and state regulations concerning the use of
radioactive materials.
      FEDERAL ACT. Pub. Law No. 92-500, the Federal Water Pollution Control Act
being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
      FILL. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in
grams per liter of solution.
      GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation,
cooking and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of
produce.
      GRAB SAMPLE. A sample which is taken from a waste stream on a one-time
basis with no regard to the flow in the waste stream and without consideration
of time.
      GREASE AND OILS. A group of substances with similar physical
characteristics including hydrocarbons, fatty acids, soaps, waxes, oils and any
other material that is extracted with a stated solvent from an actified sample
and that is not volatilized during the test.
      HOLDING TANK WASTE. Any waste from holding tanks such as vessels,
chemical toilets, campers, trailers, septic tanks and vacuum pump tank trucks.
      INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant which is not a "compatible
pollutant", as defined in this section.
      INDIRECT DISCHARGE. The discharge or the introduction of non-domestic
pollutants from any source regulated under § 307(b) or (c) of the Act, (33
U.S.C. § 1317), into the POTW (including holding tank waste discharged into the
system).
      INDUSTRIAL USER. A source of indirect discharge which does not constitute
a "discharge of pollutants" under regulations issued pursuant to § 402 of the
Act (33 U.S.C. § 1342).
      INDUSTRIAL WASTES. Liquid- or water-carried wastes from institutional,
commercial and industrial processes and operations, as distinguished from
domestic wastes.
      INDUSTRIAL WASTE SURCHARGE. A charge placed on all users who discharge
wastewaters having characteristics in excess of the limits set by this chapter
on compatible pollutants.
      INTERFERENCE. The inhibition or disruption of the POTW treatment
processes or operations which contributed to a violation of any requirement of
the town's N.P.D.E.S. permit. The term includes prevention of sewage sludge use
or disposal by the POTW in accordance with § 405 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1345)
or any criteria, guidelines or regulations developed pursuant to the Solid
Waste Disposal Act (SWDA) being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq., the Clean Air Act
being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq., the Toxic Substances Control Act being 15
U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq. or more stringent state criteria (including those
contained in any state sludge management plan prepared pursuant to Title IV of
SWDA) applicable to the method of disposal or use employed by the POTW.
      MASS EMISSION RATE. The weight of material discharged to the town sewer
system during a given time interval. Unless otherwise specified, the MASS
EMISSION RATE shall mean pounds per day of a particular constituent or
combination of constituents.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity or any other legal entity, or their legal representatives, agents or
assigns. The masculine gender shall include the feminine; the singular shall
include the plural, where indicated by the context.
      POLLUTANT. Any dredged soil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage,
garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, chemical wastes, biological materials,
radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discharged equipment, rock, sand,
cellar dirt and industrial, municipal and agricultural waste discharged into
water.
      POLLUTION. An alteration of the quality of the waters of the state by
waste to a degree which unreasonably affects the waters for beneficial use or
affects the facilities which serve beneficial uses. POLLUTION may include
contamination.
      POTW TREATMENT PLANT. The portion of the POTW designed to provide
treatment to wastewater.
      PREMISES. A parcel of real estate or portion thereof including any
improvements thereon which is determined by the town to be a single user for
purposes of receiving, using and paying for service.
      PRETREATMENT OR TREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the
elimination of pollutants or the alteration of the nature of pollutant
properties in wastewater to a less harmful state prior to or in lieu of
discharging or otherwise introducing such pollutants into a POTW. The reduction
or alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical or biological processes or
process changes other means, except as prohibited by 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(d).
      PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement
related to pretreatment, other than a national pretreatment standard imposed on
an industrial user,
      PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW). Treatment works, as defined by §
212 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1292), which is owned, in this instance, by the
town. This definition includes any sewers that convey wastewater to the POTW
treatment plant, but does not include pipes, sewers or other conveyances not
connected to a facility providing treatment. For the purposes of this chapter,
POTW shall also include any sewers that convey wastewaters to the POTW from
persons outside the town who are, by contract or agreement with the town, users
of the town's POTW.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER. Any industrial user of the town's wastewater
disposal system who:
         (a)   Has a discharge flow of 25,000 gallons or more per average work
day;
         (b)   Has a flow greater than 5% of the flow in the town's wastewater
treatment system;
         (c)   Has, in his or her wastes toxic pollutants, as defined pursuant
to § 307 of the Act of state statutes and rules; or
         (d)   Is found by the town, (state control agency) or the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency (E.P.A.) to have significant impact, either
singly or in combination with other contributing industries, on the wastewater
treatment system, the quality of sludge, the system's effluent quality, or air
emissions generated by the system.
      STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC). A classification pursuant to
the Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the Executive Office of
the President, Office of Management and Budget/1972.
      STATE. The State of North Carolina.
      STORM DRAIN or STORM SEWER. A sewer which carries storm or surface
waters, but not sewage or industrial wastes.
      STORM WATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting therefrom.
      SUPERINTENDENT. The person designated by the town to supervise the
operation of the publicly owned treatment works and who is charged with certain
duties and responsibilities by this chapter, or his or her duly authorized
representative.
      TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The measure of the solids that either float on
the surface or are held in suspension in wastes and which are removable from
the liquid by laboratory filtering.
      TOWN. The Town of Sparta, North Carolina.
      TOWN MANAGER. The Town Manager or, in the event of no Town Manager, the
Town Clerk/Finance Officer of the town.
      TOWN SEWER. A sewer owned and operated by the town, tributary to a
treatment facility operated by the town.
      TOXIC POLLUTANT. Any pollutant or combination of pollutants listed as
toxic in regulations promulgated by the Administrator of the Environmental
Protection Agency under the provision of CWA § 307(a) or other acts.
      TREATMENT WORKS OR PLANT. Any devices and systems used in the storage,
treatment, recycling and reclamation of municipal wastewater or industrial
wastes of a liquid nature, including interceptor sewers, outfall sewers,
wastewater collection systems, pumping, power and other equipment and
appurtenances, extensions, improvements, remodeling, additions and alterations,
extensions, improvements, remodeling, additions and alterations thereof;
elements essential to provide a reliable recycled supply such as standby
treatment units, and clearwell storage facilities, and any works, including
site acquisition of the land, that will be an integral part of the treatment
process or is used for ultimate disposal of residues resulting from the
treatment; or any other method or system for preventing, abating, reducing,
storing, treating, separating or disposing of municipal wastes, including storm
water run-off or industrial and sanitary sewer systems;
      USER. Any person who contributed, causes or permits the contribution of
wastewater into the town's POTW.
      USER CHARGE SYSTEMS. The charge that users are required to pay for the
right to discharge their type waters into the sewage system.
      WASTE. Sewage and all other waste substances, liquid, solid, gaseous or
radioactive, associated with human habitation, or of human or animal origin, or
from any reducing, manufacturing or processing operation of whatever nature,
including the waste placed within containers for whatever nature prior to, and
for purposes of disposal.
      WASTEWATER. Wastes and water, whether treated or untreated, discharged
into a town sewer.
      WASTEWATER CONSTITUENTS AND CHARACTERISTICS. The individual chemical
physical, bacteriological and radiological parameters, including volume and
flow rate and other parameters that serve to define, classify or measure the
contents, quality and strength of wastewater,
      WATERS OF THE STATE. All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, watercourses,
waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation systems, drainage
systems and all other bodies or accumulations of water, surface or underground,
natural or artificial, public or private, which are contained within, flow
through, or border upon the state or any portion thereof.
   (B)   (1)   Other terms used in this chapter, but not defined hereinabove,
shall have the meanings set forth in the latest edition of Standard Methods for
the Examination of Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public
Health Association (APHA), the American Waterworks Association (AWWA) and the
Water Pollution Control Federation (WPCF).
      (2)   Unless otherwise expressly stated in this chapter, waste
constituents and characteristics shall be measured by methods set forth in the
latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater
and/or Methods for Chemical Analysis of Waters and Wastes, published by the
Environmental Protection Agency (E.P.A.).
(Prior Code, § C.2.01)
§ 51.003 ABBREVIATIONS.
   The following abbreviations shall have the designated meanings.
   B.O.D. Biochemical oxygen demand.
   C.F.R. Code of Federal Regulations.
   C.O.D. Chemical oxygen demand.
   E.P.A. Environmental Protection Agency.
   l. Liter.
   mg. Milligrams.
   mg/l. Milligrams per liter.
   N.P.D.E.S. National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System.
   POTW. Publicly owned treatment works.
   SIC. Standard Industrial Classification.
   SWDA. Solid Waste Disposal Act, 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.
   T.S.S. Total suspended solids.
   U.S.C. United States Code.
(Prior Code, § C.2.02)
SEWER USAGE; DISPOSAL AND DISCHARGES
§ 51.015 GENERAL DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   (1)   No user shall contribute or cause to be contributed, directly or
indirectly, any pollutant or wastewater which will interfere with the operation
or performance of the POTW.
      (2)   These general prohibitions apply to all users of a POTW whether or
not the user is subject to national categorical pretreatment standards or any
other national, state or local pretreatment standards or requirements.
      (3)   A user may not contribute the following substances to any POTW:
         (a)   Any liquids, solids or gases which by reason of their nature or
quantity are, or may be, sufficient either alone or by interaction with other
substances to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the
POTW or to the operation of the POTW. At no time, shall two successive readings
on an explosion hazard meter, at the point of discharge into the system (or at
any point in the system) be more than 5%, nor any single reading over 10%, of
the lower explosive limit (LEL) of the meter. Prohibited materials include, but
are not limited to, gasoline, kerosene, naphtha, benzene, toluene, xylene,
ethers, alcohols, ketones, aldehydes, peroxides, chlorates, perchlorates,
bromates, carbides, hydrides and sulfides and any other substances which the
town, the state or E.P.A. has notified the user is a fire hazard or a hazard to
the system;
         (b)   Solid or viscous substances which may cause obstruction to the
flow in a sewer or other interference with the operation of the wastewater
treatment facilities such as, but not limited to, grease, garbage with
particles greater than one-half inch in any dimension, animal guts or tissues,
paunch manure, bones, hair, hides or fleshings, entrails, whole blood,
feathers, ashes, cinders, sand, spent lime, stone or marble dust, metal, glass,
straw, shavings, grass clippings, rags, spent grains, spent hops, waste paper,
wood, plastics, gas, tar, asphalt residues, residues from refining or
processing of fuel or lubricating oil, mud or glass grinding or polishing
wastes;
         (c)   Any wastewater having a pH less than 5.0, unless the POTW is
specifically designed to accommodate the wastewater, or wastewater having any
other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment and/or personnel of the POTW;
         (d)   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient
quantity, either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to injure or
interfere with any wastewater treatment, process, constitute a hazard to humans
or animals, create a toxic effect in the receiving waters of the POTW or to
exceed the limitation set forth in a categorical pretreatment standard. A toxic
pollutant shall include but not be limited to any pollutant identified pursuant
to § 307(a) of the Act;
         (e)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases or solids which either
singly or by interaction with other wastes are sufficient to create a public
nuisance or hazard to life or are sufficient to prevent entry into the sewers
for maintenance and repair;
         (f)   Any substance which may cause the POTW's effluent or any other
product of the POTW such as residues, sludges or scums, to be unsuitable for
reclamation and reuse or to interfere with the reclamation process. In no case,
shall a substance discharged to the POTW cause the POTW to be in non-compliance
with sludge use or disposal criteria, guidelines or regulations developed under
§ 405 of the Act; any criteria, guidelines or regulations affecting sludge use
or disposal developed pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act being 42 U.S.C.
§§ 6901 et seq., the Clean Air Act being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq., the Toxic
Substances Control Act being 15 U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq. or state criteria
applicable to the sludge management method being used;
         (g)   Any substance which will cause the POTW to violate its
N.P.D.E.S. and/or state disposal system permit or the receiving water quality
standards;
         (h)   Any wastewater with objectionable color not removed in the
treatment process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions;
         (i)   Any wastewater having a temperature which will inhibit
biological activity in the POTW treatment plant resulting in Interference, but
in no case wastewater with a temperature at the introduction into the POTW
which exceeds 40°C (104°F) unless the POTW treatment plant is designed to
accommodate the temperature;
         (j)   Any pollutants, including oxygen demanding pollutants (BOD and
the like) released at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration which a user
knows or has reason to know will cause interference to the POTW. In no case
shall a slug load have a flow rate or contain concentration or qualities of
pollutants that exceed for any time period longer than 15 minutes more than
five times the average 24-hour concentration, quantities or flow during normal
operation;
         (k)   Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes of
a half-life or concentration as may exceed limits established by the
Superintendent in compliance with applicable state or federal regulations; and/
or
         (l)   Any wastewater which causes a hazard to human life or creates a
public nuisance.
   (B)   When the Superintendent determines that a user(s) is contributing to
the POTW, any of the above enumerated substances in amounts as to interfere
with the operation of the POTW, the Superintendent shall:
      (1)   Advise the user(s) of the impact of the contribution on the POTW;
and
      (2)   Develop effluent limitation(s) for the user to correct the
interference with the POTW.
(Prior Code, § C.2.03)
§ 51.016 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in an unsanitary manner upon public or private property within the
town, or in any area under the jurisdiction of town, any human or animal
excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet with the town,
or in any area under the jurisdiction of the town, any sanitary sewage,
industrial wastes or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has
been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   (D)   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purpose, situated within the town
and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located
or may in the future be located a public sanitary sewer of the town, is hereby
required, at his or her expense, to install suitable toilet facilities therein,
and to connect the facilities directly with the proper public sewer in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within 90 days after date of
official notice to do so; provided that, the public sewer is within 200 feet of
the property line.
   (E)   All construction of or connections to the town sewer shall be in full
compliance with the State Building Code and the State Plumbing Code.
(Prior Code, § C.2.04) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.017 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of
§
51.016, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the County
Health Sanitarian. The application for the permit shall be made on a form
furnished by the county with a copy filed with the town, which the applicant
shall supplement by any plans, specifications and other information as are
deemed necessary by the Sanitarian.
   (C)   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
Sanitarian. He or she shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the
Sanitarian when the work is ready for final inspection and before any
underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within 48 hours
of the receipt of notice by the Sanitarian.
   (D)   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all recommendations of the State Department of Natural
Resources and Community Development, Divisions of Environmental Management and
the County Health Department. No permit shall be issued for any private sewage
disposal system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area
of the lot is less than 12,000 square feet. No septic tank or cesspool shall be
permitted to discharge to any public sewer or natural outlet.
   (E)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private sewage disposal system, as provided in §
51.016, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance
with this chapter at the first malfunction of the private system; and any
septic tanks, cesspools and similar private sewage disposal facilities shall be
abandoned and filled with suitable material.
   (F)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the town.
   (G)   All construction of or connections to town sewer shall be in full
compliance with the State Building Code and the State Plumbing Code.
   (H)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the County Sanitarian.
(Prior Code, § C.2.05) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.018 PROHIBITIONS ON DISCHARGES.
   No person shall discharge wastes to a town sanitary sewer which cause,
threaten to cause, or are capable of causing, either alone or by interaction
with other substances:
   (A)   A fire or explosion;
   (B)   Obstruction of flow or injury to the treatment works;
   (C)   Danger to life or safety of personnel;
   (D)   A strong offensive odor that inhibits the effective maintenance or
operation of the treatment work, or results in public complaints;
   (E)   Air pollution by the release of toxic or malodorous gases or noxious
gas-producing substances;
   (F)   Interference with the treatment process;
   (G)   The town's effluent or any other product of the treatment process,
residues, sludges or scums, to be unsuitable for reclamation and reuse or to
interfere with the reclamation process;
   (H)   A condition unacceptable to any public agency having regulatory
jurisdiction over the final discharge of the town's treatment works;
   (I)   Conditions at or near the town's treatment works which violate any
statute or any lawful rule, regulations, ordinance of any state or federal
agency having jurisdiction over the town; and/or
   (J)   The town's treatment works to be hydraulically overloaded or cause
physical damage or injury to collection system or treatment works.
(Prior Code, § C.2.06) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.019 STORM DRAINAGE AND GROUND WATER.
   (A)   Storm water, ground water, rain water, street drainage, subsurface
drainage or yard drainage shall not be discharged through direct or indirect
connection to a town sewer.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any storm drain, private or town,
any sanitary sewage, industrial wastes or other polluted waters. It shall be
allowed to discharge uncontaminated cooling water into the town's storm sewer
system.
(Prior Code, § C.2.07) (Ord. passed 12-10-1987) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.020 UNPOLLUTED WATER.
   Unpolluted water, included by way of illustration, but not limited to,
cooling water, process water or blow down water from cooling towers or
evaporative coolers shall not be discharged through direct or indirect
connection to a town sewer unless a permit is issued by the town.
(Prior Code, § C.2.08) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.021 RADIOACTIVE WASTES.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any radioactive waste
into a town sewer, except:
   (A)   When the person is authorized to use radioactive materials by the
State Department of Natural Resources and Community Development, Division of
Environmental Management, or other government agency empowered to regulate the
use of radioactive materials;
   (B)   When the waste is discharged in strict conformity with the current
State Radiation Control and Atomic Energy Commission (A.E.C.) regulations and
recommendations for safe disposal;
   (C)   When the person is in compliance with all lawful rules and regulations
of all other applicable regulatory agencies having jurisdiction; and/or
   (D)   When several users are discharging radioactive wastes or materials to
the public sewer, they shall, upon notification, cooperate in limiting the
release of the material and shall file with the town a statement of their
agreed pro-rated discharges. If this is not done within a reasonable time after
notifications, sewer use may be discontinued by the town.
(Prior Code, § C.2.09) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.022 GARBAGE GRINDERS.
   (A)   Waste from garbage shredders and grinders shall not be acceptable for
discharge into a town sewer, except as follows:
      (1)   Wastes generated in preparation of food normally consumed on
domestic premises; and/or
      (2)   Where the user has obtained a permit for that specific use from the
town, and agrees to undertake whatever self-monitoring is required to enable
the town to determine the waste constituents and characteristics and applicable
fees and charges.
   (B)   The grinders must shred the waste to a degree that all particles will
be carried freely under normal flow conditions prevailing in the town sewer.
Garbage grinders shall not be used for grinding plastic, paper products, inert
materials or garden refuse.
(Prior Code, § C.2.10) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.023 POINT OF DISCHARGE LIMITATIONS.
   No person shall discharge any substances directly into a manhole or other
opening in a town sewer other than through an approved building sewer, unless
he or she has been issued a permit by the town. If a permit is issued for a
direct discharge, the user shall pay the applicable charges and fees and shall
meet other conditions necessary to properly treat this discharge as required by
the town.
(Prior Code, § C.2.11) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.024 HOLDING TANK WASTES.
   (A)   No person shall discharge any holding tank waste, including by
definition, but not limited to, pumpings from septic tanks into a town sewer
unless he or she has been issued a permit by the town. Unless otherwise allowed
by the town under the terms and conditions of the permit, a separate permit
must be secured for each separate discharge. This permit will state the
specific location of discharge, the time of day the discharge is to occur, the
volume of the discharge and the wastewater constituents and characteristics. If
a permit is granted for discharge of a waste into a town sewer, the user shall
pay the applicable charges and fees and shall meet other conditions necessary
to properly treat this discharge as required by the town. An exception to the
above is that no permit will be required for discharge of domestic wastes from
recreational motor home holding tanks; provided that, the discharges are made
into a town approved facility designed to receive the wastes.
   (B)   Monitoring facilities for holding type wastes such as those described
herein shall be provided by the user when in the judgment of the approving
authority they are deemed necessary for monitoring purposes.
(Prior Code, § C.2.12) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.025 WASTEWATER STRENGTH LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   In order that the biological treatment process is not subjected to
unacceptable levels of toxic wastes and so that the process can function
properly to meet state and federal standards, it shall be unlawful for any
person to discharge into the town's wastewater collection system, waters (as
measured by any sample collected by the town), containing in excess of:
      (1)   Any of the following elements:
Maximum Permissible
Constituent Code Concentration
Maximum Permissible
Constituent    Code  Concentration
Aluminum       Al    5.00 mg/l
Arsenic        As    0.05 mg/l
Barium         Ba    0.50 mg/l
Boron          B     0.50 mg/l
Cadmium        Cd    0.50 mg/l
Cobalt         Co    0.50 mg/l
Copper         Cu    0.50 mg/l
Cyanide        Cn    0.10 mg/l
Iron           Fe    35.00 mg/l
Lead           Pb    0.50 mg/l
Manganese      Mn    0.50 mg/l
Mercury        Hg    0.10 mg/l
Nickel         Ni    0.50 mg/l
Silver         Ag    0.10 mg/l
Total Chromium Cr    0.50 mg/l
Vanadium       V     0.50 mg/l
Zinc           Zn    0.50 mg/l
Chloroform     ChC13 1.00 mg/l
Selenium       Se    0.50 mg/l
Sulfate        S04   500.00 mg/l
Sulfide        S=    2.00 mg/l
Free Acidity         0
Alkalinity           Town may require alkalinity addition up to 7.5 times the
                     NH3-N concentration of the discharge in question
 
      (2)   Except in cases where one or more of the above constituents are
found in the drinking water supply. In those cases, the limits shall be the
amounts listed, plus the amounts found in drinking water. The amount of
constituents in the drinking water supply shall be determined on samples caught
at the particular industry during a normal operating day. The sample will be
caught within the plant at a well used tap after running the tap a suitable
length of time to remove water that has been standing in the lines (15-minute
minimum);
      (3)   Having an ammonia nitrogen content of more than 40 mg/l;
      (4)   Having a five-day BOD of more than 600 mg/l;
      (5)   Having a T.S.S. content of more than 500 mg/l;
      (6)   Having a COD of more than 1,500 mg/l;
      (7)   Having a pH lower than 6.5;
      (8)   Having a pH higher than 9.0;
      (9)   Having a temperature higher than 120°F, 49°C;
      (10)   Containing more than 100 mg/l (total) of oil and grease of animal
or vegetable and of mineral or petroleum origin;
      (11)   Containing in excess of 0.02 mg/l total identifiable chlorinated
hydrocarbons;
      (12)   Containing 1.0 mg/l phenolic compounds which cannot be removed by
the town's treatment process;
      (13)   Containing any toxic substances or poisonous substances in
sufficient quantities to interfere with the biological processes used by the
town's treatment works;
      (14)   Containing strong iron pickling wastes or concentrated plating
solutions unless pretreated in a way as to comply with all other limitations of
§
51.018;
      (15)   Containing any solid or viscous substance including, but not being
limited to, ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
bones, feathers, slurry, lime residues, slops, whole blood, fleshings, chemical
residues, paint residues, waxes, asphalt, hair, tar, plastics, wood, paunch
manure, butchers' offal, animal viscera, lime or any solid or viscous
substances capable of causing obstructions of any kind in either the collection
system or at any point in the treatment plant. Also, any waste resulting from
process(es) involving textiles, fabrics, wood or other processes containing
inert fibrous materials shall undergo evaluation by the town. Since some of
these processes have been shown to be detrimental to the treatment of waste at
the existing waste plant, the evaluation procedure will be concerned with
residual fiber within the treatment plant and its discharges. Any process
determined by the town to be creating adverse conditions within the treatment
plant by the collection of fibrous or inert materials in its basins, clarifiers
or discharges, shall not be allowed to continue disposing of its waste into the
sanitary sewer collection system, but shall dispose of its waste by alternative
means;
      (16)   Containing any liquid waste or other substance that contains dyes
or other color of a character and quantity as to prevent removal by biological
processes employed at the treatment plant;
      (17)   Containing any liquid or other substances that after normal
treatment require excessive amounts of chlorine for pathogenic disinfection.
This excess chlorine demand exerted by the waste shall be determined by
comparing the chlorine demand of the waste to obtain a free residual of 0.5 mg/
l to 15 ppm, which shall be considered to be the maximum use rate for domestic
waste to obtain the same residual;
      (18)   Of the industrial variety with a volume that the peak hourly flow
exceeds a gallons per day rate of 200% of the total daily flow of the industry.
In these cases where a peak hourly flow of more than 200% is discharged, the
town may require the discharger to provide holding facilities of sufficient
capacity so as to discharge into the collection system at an assigned rate over
a specified period of time. Industrial dischargers which discharge hydraulic
volumes equal to or greater than 15% of the treatment works design capacity,
may be required to provide flow equalization facilities designed in accordance
with the current edition of E.P.A. Process Manual for Upgrading Existing
Wastewater Treatment Plants; and/or
      (19)   Of a nature than will cause contamination of the wastes in the
collection system, or which may contaminate the treatment plant, or the
receiving waters of the state, resulting in injury or harm to persons,
livestock or aquatic life. Users in industrial categories subject to effluent
guidelines issued under § 304(b) of the Federal Act which are discharging
incompatible pollutants to publicly owned treatment works, are required to
adopt best practicable control technology currently available, as defined by
the Administrator pursuant to § 304(b) of the Act. Where the town's treatment
works was designed to and does achieve substantial removal of pollutants other
than the four pollutants listed in the definition for compatible pollutants in
§
51.002 (B.O.D., T.S.S., pH and fecal coliform bacteria), the Director of Water
Resources may not require the user to achieve best practicable control
technology currently available, since this would lead to an uneconomical
duplication of treatment facilities. While the term "substantial removal" is
not subject to precise definition, it generally contemplates removals in the
order of 80% or greater, minor incidental removals in the order of 10% to 30%
are not considered "substantial". For some industrial categories it may be
necessary to define pretreatment guidelines for problems that may arise as a
result of the discharge into the town's treatment works. However, any
adjustments required for particular industrial categories should be considered
in connection with the town's requirements rather than in the national
pretreatment standard. And, in no case, shall any user be allowed to exceed the
limits stated in division (A)(1) above. Limitations on wastewater strength in
this chapter may be supplemented with more stringent limitations pursuant to §
51.062.
   (B)   If the town determines that the limitations herein may not be
sufficient to enable the town's treatment works to comply with water quality
standards or effluent limitations specified in the town's National Pollutant
Discharge Elimination System (N.P.D.E.S.) permit, or if national pretreatment
guidelines issued by E.P.A. in the future exhibit lower values than those
values listed herein or add a parameter to those values listed herein, the town
may require additional compliances by re-issuance of permits outlined in §
51.062.
(Prior Code, § C.2.13) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.026 UNACCEPTABLE WASTE DISPOSAL.
   Waste not permitted to be discharged into the town sewer must be transported
to a state approved disposal site.
(Prior Code, § C.2.14)
§ 51.027 DISCHARGES TO PUBLIC SANITARY SEWERS; SPECIAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes (discharged or proposed to be discharged to
the public sewers) contain the substances or possess the characteristics
enumerated herein and, which in the judgment of the approving authority, may
have a deleterious effect upon the wastewater treatment works, processes,
equipment or receiving waters, which create a hazard to life or constitute a
public nuisance, the approving authority may reject the wastes.
   (B)   The town may discontinue water service or sewer service, or both, to
any user who violates any provision of this subchapter, when, in the judgement
of the approving authority, the action is necessary to protect the wastewater
treatment works, processes, equipment or receiving waters from injury or
damage, or is necessary to protect life or health.
   (C)   Upon the promulgation of the federal categorical pretreatment
standards for a particular industrial subcategory, the federal standard, if
more stringent than limitations imposed under this chapter for sources in that
subcategory, shall immediately supersede the limitations imposed under this
chapter. The Superintendent shall notify all affected users of the applicable
reporting requirements under 40 C.F.R. § 403.12.
   (D)   Where the town's wastewater treatment system achieves consistent
removal of pollutants limited by Federal Pretreatment Standards, the town may
apply to the Approval Authority for modification of specific limits in the
Federal Pretreatment Standards. CONSISTENT REMOVAL shall mean reduction in the
amount of a pollutant or alteration of the nature of the pollutant by the
wastewater treatment system to a less toxic or harmless state in the effluent
which is achieved by the system 95% of the samples taken when measured
according to the procedures set forth in 40 C.F.R. § 403.7(c)(2), "General
Pretreatment Regulations for Existing and New Sources of Pollution",
promulgated pursuant to the Act. The town may then modify pollutant discharge
limits in the federal pretreatment standards if the requirements contained in
40 C.F.R. part 403, § 403.7, are fulfilled and prior approval from the approval
authority is obtained.
(Prior Code, § C.2.15) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.028 STATE REQUIREMENTS.
   State requirements and limitations on discharges shall apply in any case
where they are more stringent than federal requirements and limitations or
those in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § C.2.18)
§ 51.029 TOWN'S RIGHT OF REVISION.
   The town reserves the right to establish by ordinance more stringent
limitations or requirements on discharges to the wastewater disposal system if
deemed necessary to comply with the objectives presented in §
51.001.
(Prior Code, § C.2.19)
§ 51.030 EXCESSIVE DISCHARGE.
   (A)   No user shall ever increase the use of process water or, in any way,
attempt to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in the federal
categorical pretreatment standards, or in any other pollutant-specific
limitation developed by the town or state.
   (B)   Dilution may be an acceptable means of complying with some of the
prohibitions set forth in §
51.025; e.g., the pH prohibition.
(Prior Code, § C.2.20)
§ 51.031 ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Generally. Each user shall provide protection from accidental
discharge of prohibited materials or other substances regulated by this
chapter. Facilities to prevent accidental discharge of prohibited materials
shall be provided and maintained at the user by the user's own cost and
expense. Detailed plans showing facilities and operating procedures to provide
this protection shall be submitted to the town for review and shall be approved
by the town before construction of the facility. All existing users shall
complete a plan by 6-1-1988. No user who commences contribution to the POTW
after the effective date of this chapter shall be permitted to introduce
pollutants into the system until accidental discharge procedures have been
approved by the town. Review and approval of the plans and operating procedures
shall not relieve the industrial user from the responsibility to modify the
user's facility as necessary to meet the requirements of this chapter. In the
case of an accidental discharge, it is the responsibility of the user to
immediately telephone and notify the POTW of the incident. The notification
shall include location of discharge, type of waste, concentration and volume
and corrective actions.
   (B)   Written notice.
      (1)   Within five days following an accidental discharge, the user shall
submit to the Superintendent a detailed written report describing the cause of
the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user to prevent similar
future occurrences.
      (2)   The notification shall not relieve the user of any expense, loss,
damage or other liability which may be incurred as a result of damage to the
POTW, fish kills or any other damage to person or property; nor shall the
notification relieve the user of any fines, civil penalties or other liability
which may be imposed by this chapter or other applicable law.
   (C)   Notice to employees. A notice shall be permanently posted on the
user's bulletin board or other prominent places advising employees whom to call
in the event of a dangerous discharge. Employers shall ensure that all
employees who may cause or suffer a dangerous discharge to occur are advised of
the emergency notification procedure.
(Prior Code, § C.2.20)
WASTEWATER VOLUME DETERMINATION
§ 51.045 METERED WATER SUPPLY.
   (A)   When charges and fees are based upon the water usage, the charges and
fees shall be applied against the total amount of water used from all sources,
public and private, determined by means of the user and approved by the town,
adding private sources volume to the metered water consumption.
   (B)   When unpolluted water is prohibited as per §
51.020, charges and fees will be applied only against the total wastewater
discharged to the town's sanitary sewer. In that case, volume of wastewater
discharged shall be determined by a flow measuring and totalizing device
purchased, installed and maintained by the user. The location and type of the
devices must be approved by the Director of Water Resources of the town.
(Prior Code, § C.2.22)
REPORTS, PERMITS AND ADMINISTRATION
§ 51.060 WASTEWATER DISCHARGES.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge without a town permit to any natural
outlet within the town or, in any area, under the jurisdiction of the town and/
or to the POTW any wastewater, except as authorized by the Superintendent in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § C.2.23) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.061 DISCHARGE REPORTS.
   The town will require that any person discharging or proposing to discharge
wastewater of the industrial variety into a town sewer file a periodic
discharge report. The discharge report may include, but not be limited to,
nature of process, volume, rates of flow, mass emission rate, production
quantities, hours of operation, number and classification of employees or other
information which relates to the generation of waste including wastewater
discharge. The reports may also include the chemical constituents and quantity
of liquid or gaseous materials stored on-site even though they are not normally
discharged. In addition to discharge reports, the town will require information
in the form of wastewater discharge permit applications and self-monitoring
reports.
(Prior Code, § C.2.24)
§ 51.062 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITS.
   (A)   Mandatory permits. Each discharger of industrial wastewaters, if not
connected to a town sewer, must obtain a wastewater discharge permit before
connecting to or discharging into a town sewer. Each currently connecting
industry must obtain a wastewater discharge permit within 120 days after the
effective date of this chapter.
   (B)   Optional permits. The town may issue a wastewater discharge permit to
any user upon application, in accordance with the terms of this section in the
following category: any user whose wastewater contains no incompatible wastes
and whose compatible waste strength is less than the normal range for domestic
wastes because of pretreatment, process changes or other reasons.
   (C)   Permit application. Users required to obtain a wastewater contribution
permit shall complete and file with the town, an application in the form
prescribed by the town, and accompanied by a fee of $50. Existing users shall
apply for a wastewater contribution permit within 30 days after the effective
date of this chapter and proposed new users shall apply at least 60 days prior
to connecting to or contributing to the POTW. In support of the application,
the user shall submit, in units and terms appropriate for evaluation, the
following information:
      (1)   Name, address and Standard Industrial Classification number of
applicant;
      (2)   Volume of wastewater to be discharged;
      (3)   Wastewater constituents and characteristics including but not
limited to those mentioned in §
51.025, as determined by a laboratory approved by the town. The town will make
this determination available to industry for a fee;
      (4)   Time and duration of discharge;
      (5)   Average and 30-minute peak wastewater flow rates, including daily,
monthly and seasonal variations if any;
      (6)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans and details
to show all sewers and appurtenances by size, location and elevation;
      (7)   Description of activities, facilities and plant processes on the
premises including all materials, processes and types of materials which are or
could be discharged;
      (8)   Each product produced by type, amount and rate of production;
      (9)   Number and type of employees and hours of work;
      (10)   SIC number according to the Standard Industrial Classification
Manual, Bureau of the Budget, 1972, as amended;
      (11)   Where known, the nature and concentration of any pollutants in the
discharge which are limited by any town, state, or federal pretreatment
standards and a statement regarding whether or not the pretreatment standards
are being met on a consistent basis and if not, whether additional operation
and maintenance (O&M) and/or additional pretreatment is required for the user
to meet applicable pretreatment standards;
      (12)   If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will be required to meet the
pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the user will provide
additional pretreatment. The completion date in this schedule shall not be
later than the compliance date established for the applicable pretreatment
standard. The following conditions shall apply to this schedule:
         (a)   The schedule shall contain increments of progress in the form of
dates for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the
construction and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to
meet the applicable pretreatment standards (e.g., hiring an engineer,
completing preliminary plans, completing final plans, executing contract for
major components, commencing construction, completing construction and the
like);
         (b)   No increment referred to in division (C)(16) below shall exceed
nine months; and
         (c)   Not later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and
the final date for compliance, the user shall submit a progress report to the
Superintendent including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress, the reason for delay, and the steps being taken by the
user to return the construction to the schedule established. In no event shall
more than six months elapse between the progress reports to the Superintendent.
      (13)   Each product produced by type, amount, process or processes and
rate of production;
      (14)   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum
per day);
      (15)   Number and type of employees and hours of operation of plant and
proposed or actual hours of operation of pretreatment system; and
      (16)   Any other information as may be deemed by the town to be necessary
to evaluate the permit application.
(Prior Code, § C.2.25)
§ 51.063 PERMIT MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The wastewater contribution permit of each user subject to such
standards shall be reviewed yearly to ensure compliance with the national
categorical pretreatment standard, as revised. Where a user, subject to a
national categorical pretreatment standard, has not previously submitted an
application for a wastewater contribution permit as required by §
51.062, the user shall apply for a wastewater contribution permit within 180
days after the promulgation of the applicable national categorical pretreatment
standard.
   (B)   In addition, the user with an existing wastewater contribution permit
shall submit to the Superintendent within 180 days after the promulgation of an
applicable federal categorical pretreatment standard the information required
by §
51.062(C)(12) and (13).
      (1)   Permit conditions. Wastewater discharge permits shall be expressly
subject to all provisions of this chapter and all other ordinances,
regulations, charges and fees established by the town. The conditions of
wastewater discharge permits shall be uniformly enforced by the Town Manager
(Clerk/Finance Officer) in accordance with this chapter and applicable state
and federal regulations. Permits may contain the following information:
         (a)   The unit charge or schedule of charges and fees for the
wastewaters to be discharged to a town sewer;
         (b)   The average and maximum wastewater constituents and
characteristics;
         (c)   Limits on rate and time of discharge or requirements for flow
regulations and equalization;
         (d)   Requirements for installation of inspection and sampling
facilities;
         (e)   Pre-treatment requirements;
         (f)   Specifications for monitoring programs which may include
sampling locations, frequency and method of sampling, number, types and
standards for tests and reporting schedule; (see division (B)(m) below)
         (g)   Requirements for submission of technical reports or discharge
reports;
         (h)   Requirements for maintaining plant records relating to
wastewater discharges as specified by the town, and affording town access
thereto;
         (i)   Mean and maximum mass emission rates or other appropriate limits
when incompatible pollutants (as defined by §
51.025) are proposed or present in the user's wastewater discharge;
         (j)   Other conditions as may be reasonably deemed appropriate by the
town to ensure compliance with this chapter;
         (k)   Requirements for notification of the town or any new
introduction of wastewater constituents or any substantial change in the volume
or character of the wastewater constituents being introduced into the
wastewater treatment system;
         (l)   Requirements for notification of slug or accidental discharges
as per §
51.105; and
         (m)   Where the town has records of previous monitors of wastes of
existing industries, this information will be used to determine frequency and
methods of sampling, number, type and standards for test, reports and charges
will be set accordingly and included in the permit conditions. Also, where
pollutants are discharged which can be accepted, but are not surcharged and
cost of treatment can be determined, these charges will also be included in the
permit.
      (2)   Duration of permits. Wastewater discharge permits shall be issued
for a specified time period, not to exceed five years. A permit may be issued
for a period less than a year or may be stated to expire on a specific date. If
the user is not notified by the town, 60 days prior to the expiration of the
permit, the permit shall be extended one additional year. The terms and
conditions of the permit may be subject to modification and change by the town
during the life of the permit as limitations or requirements as identified in §
51.025 are modified and changed. The user shall be informed of any proposed
changes in his or her permit at least 60 days prior to the effective date of
change. Any changes or new conditions in the permit shall include a reasonable
time schedule for compliance.
      (3)   Transfer of a permit. Wastewater discharge permits are issued to a
specific user for a specific operation. A wastewater discharge permit shall not
be reassigned or transferred or sold to a new owner, new user, different
premises or another or changed operation.
         (a)   Compliance date report. Within 90 days following the date for
final compliance with applicable pretreatment standards or, in the case of a
new source, following commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the
POTW, any user subject to pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit
to the Superintendent a report indicating the nature and concentration of all
pollutants in the discharge from the regulated process which are limited by
pretreatment standards and requirements and the average and maximum daily flow
for these process units in the user facility which are limited by the
pretreatment standards or requirements. The report shall state whether the
applicable pretreatment standards or requirements are being met on a consistent
basis and, if not, what additional O&M and/or pretreatment is necessary to
bring the user into compliance with the applicable pretreatment standards or
requirements. This statement shall be signed by an authorized representative of
the industrial user and certified to by a qualified professional.
         (b)   Periodic compliance reports.
            1.   Any user subject to a pretreatment standard, after the
compliance date of the pretreatment standard, or, in the case of a new source,
after commencement of the discharge into the POTW, shall submit to the
Superintendent during the months of June and December, unless required more
frequently in the pretreatment standard or by the Superintendent, a report
indicating the nature and concentration, of pollutants in the effluent which
are limited by the pretreatment standards. In addition, this report shall
include a record of all daily flows which during the reporting period exceeded
the average daily flow reported in division (B)(3)(a) above. At the discretion
of the Superintendent and in consideration of such factors as local high or low
flow rates, holidays, budget cycles and the like, the Superintendent may agree
to alter the months during which the above reports are to be submitted.
            2.   The Superintendent may impose mass limitations on users which
are using dilution to meet applicable pretreatment standards or requirements,
or in other cases where the imposition of mass limitations are appropriate. In
these cases, the report required by division (B)(3)(b)1. above shall indicate
the mass of pollutants regulated by pretreatment standards in the effluent of
the user. These reports shall contain the results of sampling and analysis of
the discharge, including the flow and the nature and concentration, or
production and mass where requested by the Superintendent, of pollutants
contained therein which are limited by the applicable pretreatment standards.
The frequency of monitoring shall be prescribed in the applicable pretreatment
standard. All analysis shall be performed in accordance with procedures
established by the Administrator pursuant to § 304(g) of the Act and contained
in 40 C.F.R. part 136 and amendments thereto or with any other test procedures
approved by the Administrator. Sampling shall be performed in accordance with
the techniques approved by the Administrator. (Comment: Where 40 C.F.R. part
136 does not include a sampling or analytical technique for the pollutant in
question sampling and analysis shall be performed in accordance with the
procedures set forth in the E.P.A. publication, Sampling and Analysis
Procedures for Screening of Industrial Effluents for Priority Pollutant, April,
1977, and amendments thereto, or with any other sampling and analytical
procedures approved by the Administrator.)
      (4)   Suspension or revocation of permit. Any user who violates the
conditions of the wastewater discharge permit, and provisions of this chapter,
applicable state and federal regulations, or any of the following is subject to
having his or her permit suspended or revoked:
         (a)   Failure of a user to factually report the wastewater
constituents and characteristics of his or her discharge;
         (b)   Failure of the user to report significant changes in operations
or wastewater constituents and characteristics;
         (c)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user's premises for the
purpose of inspection or monitoring; and/or
         (d)   Failure to report a chemical spill or accidental discharge as in
§
51.105.
(Prior Code, § C.2.27)
§ 51.064 MONITORING FACILITIES.
   (A)   Users who propose to discharge, or who, in the judgment of the
approving authority, likely could discharge, wastewater with constituents and
characteristics different from that produced by a domestic premise, may be
required to install a monitoring facility.
   (B)   When more than one user can discharge into a common building sewer,
the approving authority may require installation of a separate monitoring
facility for each user. Also, when, in the judgment of the approving authority,
there is a significant difference in the wastewater constituents and
characteristics produced by different operations of a single user, the
approving authority may require that separate monitoring facilities be
installed for each separate discharge.
   (C)   Monitoring facilities that are required to be installed shall be
constructed, operated and maintained by the user at the user's expense. The
purpose of the facility is to enable inspection, sampling and flow measurement
of wastewater produced by a user. If sampling or metering equipment is required
by the town, it shall be provided, installed and operated at the user's
expense. The monitoring facility will normally be required to be located on the
user's premises outside of the building. The town may, however, when the
location would be impractical or cause undue hardship on the user, allow the
facility to be constructed in the public street or sidewalks area with the
approval of the public agency having jurisdiction over that street or sidewalk,
and located so that it will not be obstructed by landscaping or parked
vehicles.
   (D)   If the monitoring facility is inside the user's fence, there shall be
accommodations to allow safe and immediate access for town personnel, such as a
gate secured with a town lock. There will be ample room in or near the facility
to allow accurate sampling and compositing of samples for analysis. The entire
facility and the sampling and measuring equipment shall be supplied and
maintained by the user, at his or her expense.
   (E)   Whether constructed on public or private property, the monitoring
facilities shall be constructed in accordance with the town's requirements and
all applicable local town construction standards and specifications. When, in
the judgment of the town, an existing user is required to have a monitoring
facility, the user will be so notified in writing. Construction must be
completed within 90 days following a written notification unless a time
extension is otherwise granted by the town.
(Prior Code, § C.2.28) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.065 INSPECTION AND SAMPLING.
   The town may inspect the facilities of any user to ascertain whether the
purpose of this chapter is being met and all requirements are being complied
with. Persons or occupants of premises where wastewater is created or
discharged shall allow the town or its representatives ready access at all
reasonable times to all parts of the premises for purposes of inspection or
sampling or in performance of any of their duties. The town shall have the
right to set up on the user's property devices as are necessary to conduct
sampling or metering operations. Where a user has security measures in force
which would require proper identification and clearance before entry into their
premises, the user shall make necessary arrangements with their security guards
so that upon presentation of suitable identification, personnel from the town
will be permitted to enter without delay for the purposes of performing their
specific responsibilities.
(Prior Code, § C.2.29)
§ 51.066 PRETREATMENT.
   Users shall make wastewater acceptable under the limitations established
herein before discharging into any town sewer. Any facilities required to
pretreat wastewater to a level acceptable to the town shall be provided and
maintained at the user's expense. Pretreatment facilities shall be operated
continuously during periods of wastewater discharge to the town sewers in a
manner as to produce a pretreated discharge acceptable to the town, as defined
in §§
51.025,
51.045,
51.060 through
51.062. Detailed plans showing the pretreatment facility and operating
procedures shall be submitted to the town for review, and shall be approved by
the town before construction of the facility. The review and approval of the
plans and operating procedures will in no way relieve the user from the
responsibility of modifying the facility as necessary to produce an effluent
complying with the provisions of this chapter. Any subsequent changes in the
pretreatment facility of method or operation shall be reported to and be
approved by the approving authority.
(Prior Code, § C.2.30)
§ 51.067 PROTECTION FROM ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE.
   (A)   Each user shall provide protection from accidental discharge of
prohibited materials or other wastes regulated by this chapter. Facilities to
prevent accidental discharge of prohibited materials shall be provided and
maintained at the user's expense. Detailed plans showing facilities and
operating procedures to provide this protection shall be submitted to the town
for review and shall be approved by the town before construction of the
facility.
   (B)   The review and approval of plans and operating procedures will, in no
way, relieve the user from the responsibility of modifying the facility as
necessary to provide the protection necessary to meet the requirements of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § C.2.31)
§ 51.068 CONTROL MANHOLE.
   A control manhole shall be provided downstream from any building, treatment,
storage tank or any other approved works to facilitate monitoring of industrial
waste. The discharger shall provide and maintain the control manhole pursuant
to §
51.064. Any and all users may be required by the town to construct a control
manhole. The user who has constructed a monitoring facility, §
51.064, may be waived of the requirement of a control manhole by the approving
authority.
(Prior Code, § C.2.32) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.069 FLOW CONTROL MEASURING EQUIPMENT.
   Where preliminary treatment, flow-equalizing facilities or flow monitoring
facilities are provided for any water or wastes, they shall be maintained
continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the user at his or her
expense. All flow control equipment including, but not limited to, pumps,
nozzles, weirs, gates, valves and flumes shall be subject to the approval of
the approving authority.
(Prior Code, § C.2.33) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.070 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   Information and data on a user obtained from reports, questionnaires,
permit applications, permits and monitoring programs and from inspections shall
be available to the public or other governmental agency without restriction
unless the user specifically requests and is able to demonstrate to the
satisfaction of the town that the release of the information would divulge
information, processes or methods of production entitled to protection as trade
secrets of the user.
   (B)   When requested by the person furnishing a report, the portions of a
report which might disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made
available for inspection by the public, but shall be made available upon
written request to governmental agencies for uses related to this chapter, the
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (N.P.D.E.S.) permit, state
disposal system permit and/or the pretreatment programs; provided, however,
that, the portions of a report shall be available for use by the state or any
state agency in judicial review or enforcement proceedings involving the person
furnishing the report. Wastewater constituents and characteristics will not be
recognized as confidential information.
   (C)   Information accepted by the town as confidential shall not be
transmitted to any governmental agency or to the general public by the town
until and unless a ten-day notification is given to the user.
(Prior Code, § C.2.34)
CHARGES AND FEES
§ 51.085 SCHEDULE OF CHARGES AND FEES.
   A schedule of charges and fees shall be adopted by the town which will
enable it to comply with the revenue requirements of the State Clean Water
Grant Program, Pub. Law No. 660 and 92-500, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq. and
the charges and fees shall be determined in a manner consistent with the
regulations of the grant programs that have benefitted the town and its
industrial users. All industries using the town's treatment works are subject
to industrial waste surcharges on discharges whose characteristics exceed the
limits set out in §
51.087 for certain pollutants.
(Prior Code, § C.2.35)
§ 51.086 TYPES OF CHARGES AND FEES.
   (A)   The charges and fees as established in the town's schedules of charges
and fees, may include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   User classification charges;
      (2)   Fees for extra monitoring; i.e., that which requires costs above
the average cost of assessing an average or representative analysis;
      (3)   Fees for permit applications (include regular monitor charges on
permit);
      (4)   Appeal fees;
      (5)   Ad valorem tax;
      (6)   Industrial waste surcharges;
      (7)   Fees for reimbursement of costs of setting up and operating the
town's pretreatment program; and
      (8)   Fees for reviewing accidental discharge procedures and
construction.
   (B)   These fees relate solely to the matters covered by this chapter and
are separate from all other fees chargeable by the town.
(Prior Code, § C.2.36)
§ 51.087 BASIS FOR DETERMINATION OF SURCHARGES.
   (A)   Charges and fees shall be based upon a minimum basic charge for each
premise, computed on the basis of wastewater from a domestic premise with the
following characteristics:
 
B.O.D.                 250 mg/l
Oil and grease (total) 40 mg/l
Total suspended solids 250 mg/l
 
   (B)   The charges and fees established for permit users shall be based upon
the measured or estimated constituents and characteristics of the wastewater
discharge of that user which may include, but not be limited to, B.O.D., oil
and grease, chlorine demand and volume.
(Prior Code, § C.2.37)
§ 51.088 METHOD OF DETERMINING SURCHARGES.
   (A)   The charges for excesses of the constituents listed in §
51.087 will be based upon the "mass emission rate" of those constituents and
determined thusly:
Mass Emission Rate, MER () = MG x C x 8.34
   where:
—MER is the mass emission rate in pounds of a particular constituent;
—MG is the millions of gallons of wastewater discharged; and
—C is the concentration in mg/l of the particular constituent being charged for
(as an example) B.O.D., C.O.D. and the like and 8.34 is equal to the number of
pounds/one gallon of water.
   (B)   The amount of the charge in dollars will be calculated thusly:
Ao = R x MER ()
   where:
—Ao is equal to the amount of the charge in dollars;
—R is equal to the rate of charge per lb. of constituent; and
—MER () is equal to the lbs. of a constituent.
   (C)   An example of surcharge: Cannon's Corporation is a producer of canned
fruits. They discharged 1,000,000 gallons of wastewater in the month January.
Analysis found that the wastewater had the following characteristics: BOD = 400
mg/l; T.S.S. = 950 mg/l. There were no other limitations exceeded in this
example. There were 100 BOD(5) = $380 per 1,000 lbs. in excess of 250 mg/l,
T.S.S. = $330 per 1,000 lbs. in excess of 250 mg/l, total oil and grease = $100
per 1,000 lbs. in excess of 40 mg/l .
(Prior Code, § C.2.38)
§ 51.089 SAMPLING PROCEDURES AND ANALYSIS.
   (A)   All samples and determinations of wastewater characteristics shall be
as representative of the waste discharge as possible. The costs of regular
sampling and analysis will be included in the permit or class type. The town
may take additional samples after a significant process change which
significantly affects the quantity or strength of the wastewater discharged.
The frequency of sampling shall be as follows:
 
Daily Average Flow, Thousand Gallons Minimum Required Frequency of Tests for
Per Day                              Surcharge Parameters
0—20                               1 per month
20—30                              2 per month
30—40                              1 per year
40—50                              1 per six months
Over 50                              1 per three months
 
   (B)   More frequent sampling may be done at any time at the option of the
town or any industry where pretreatment is required or that has discharged
incompatible wastes in the past.
   (C)   Upon request by the person concerned, the town shall make available
split samples of the composite sample collected. If the person feels the
results are not representative of his or her wastes, the town may re-sample at
a cost to the user of $120 per day which will include sampling and analysis for
B.O.D., T.S.S., C.O.D., pH, chlorine demand and oil and grease. Heavy metals
analysis, if necessary, will be at an extra charge and shall be the owner's
direct costs times 1.20.
(Prior Code, § C.2.40)
§ 51.090 SAMPLING, SMALL INDUSTRIES.
   Small industries with inadequate sampling facilities may in the event that
waste characteristics do not vary more than 25%, be charged an estimated or
average surcharge for that industry.
(Prior Code, § C.2.41)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 51.105 DUTIES OF USER UPON UNLAWFUL DISCHARGE.
   (A)   The town may suspend the wastewater treatment service and/or a
wastewater permit when such suspension is necessary, in the opinion of the
town, in order to stop an actual or threatened discharge which presents or may
present an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of
persons, to the environment, causes interference to the POTW or causes the town
to violate any condition of its N.P.D.E.S. permit.
   (B)   Any user who discharges wastes in violation of this chapter shall,
upon discovery thereof, immediately notify the Director of Water Resources so
that the town may take necessary countermeasures to minimize the damage to the
town sewer, treatment facilities, treatment processes and receiving waters. The
user shall immediately correct the source of the violation. In addition, the
user shall, within 15 days of the occurrence, deliver to the Director of Water
Resources, a written detailed report describing the cause of the discharge and
the measures taken or to be taken to prevent a re-occurrence in the future.
   (C)   Any user who has an accidental discharge which violates this chapter
and who gives notice and report provided for in division (B) above shall be
relieved from any civil or criminal penalties unless the violations continue or
re-occur. In no case shall the user be relieved from liability to the town for
any expenses, loss or damage to the town's sewer system, treatment facility,
treatment processes or receiving waters, nor from liability for any fines
imposed upon the town by the State Department of Natural Resources and
Community Development, Division of Environmental Management, under provisions
of G.S. § 143-215.6A et seq.; or the Environmental Protection Agency, under any
applicable federal law or regulation, nor from termination of service,
suspension or revocation of any discharge permit or injunctive relief if the
measures taken or to be taken to prevent a re-occurrence are not adequate.
(Prior Code, § C.2.42)
§ 51.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Penalties and the like for violation of chapter.
      (1)   Any person (including any responsible officer or employee of a
corporate violator) who willfully or negligently violates any provisions of
this chapter, or falsifies any information or data in any application, report
or other document given to the town under this chapter, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor punishable by a fine or imprisonment, or both, as provided in G.S.
§ 14-4.
      (2)   Any person (including any corporation) who violates any provisions
of this chapter shall be subject to the imposition by the Town Council of a
civil penalty of not less than $200, nor more than $5,000, for each violation,
and, in addition, shall reimburse the town, upon demand for any expenses, loss
or damage actually sustained by the town to its sewer system, treatment plant,
treatment processes or receiving waters as a result of the violation, and for
the amount of any fine or penalty imposed upon the town by any state or federal
regulatory agency as a result of the violation. A civil penalty shall be
assessed only after the town shall have given the alleged violator notice of
contemplated Council action and a hearing, if requested. If the offender fails
to pay the civil penalty so assessed within 15 days after written notice of
final assessment thereof, then the penalty may be recovered by the town in a
civil action in the nature of debt.
(Prior Code, § C.2.43)
   (B)   Injunction and abatement. The violation of this chapter is hereby
declared to be a public nuisance, and this chapter may be enforced by
injunction and order of abatement in an action instituted in the General Court
of Justice, as provided in G.S. § 160A-175.
(Prior Code, § C.2.44)
   (C)   Termination of service; revocation of permits; issuance of cease and
desist orders. If any person violates any provisions of this chapter, the town
may:
      (1)   Terminate water or sewer service, or both, to the property in or
upon which the violation occurred;
      (2)   Suspend for a specified period of time or permanently revoke any
permit granted to the user under any provisions of this chapter; or
      (3)   Issue a cease and desist order directing the user to:
         (a)   Comply with this chapter forthwith;
         (b)   Comply with this chapter in accordance with a time schedule set
forth by the town;
         (c)   Take appropriate remedial or preventive action; or
         (d)   A combination of divisions (C)(3)(b) and (c) above.
(Prior Code, § C.2.45)
   (D)   Notification of violation. Whenever the town finds that any user has
violated or is violating this chapter, wastewater contribution permit, or any
prohibition, limitation of requirements contained herein, the town may serve
upon the person a written notice stating the nature of the violation. Within 30
days of the date of the notice, a plan for the satisfactory correction thereof
shall be submitted to the town by the user.
(Prior Code, § C.2.46)
   (E)   Show cause hearing. The town may order any user who causes or allows
an unauthorized discharge to enter the POTW to show cause before the Town
Council why the proposed enforcement action should not be taken. A notice shall
be served on the user specifying the time and place of a hearing to be held by
the Town Council regarding the violation, the reasons why the action is to be
taken, the proposed enforcement action and directing the user to show cause
before the Town Council why the proposed enforcement action should not be
taken. The notice of the hearing shall be served personally or by registered or
certified mail (return receipt requested) at least ten days before the hearing.
Service may be made on any agent or officer of a corporation. The Town Council
may itself conduct the hearing and take the evidence, or may designate any of
its members or any officer or employee of the (assigned department) to:
      (1)   Issue in the name of the Town Council notices of hearings
requesting the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of
evidence relevant to any matter involved in the hearings;
      (2)   Take the evidence; and
      (3)   Transmit a report of the evidence and hearing, including
transcripts and other evidence, together with recommendations to the Town
Council for action thereon.
(Prior Code, § C.2.47)
   (F)   Testimony. At any hearing held pursuant to this chapter, testimony
taken must be under oath and recorded stenographically. The transcript, so
recorded, will be made available to any member of the public or any party to
the hearing upon payment of the usual charges thereof.
(Prior Code, § C.2.48)
   (G)   Order. After the Town Council has reviewed the evidence, it may issue
an order to the user responsible for the discharge directing that, following a
specified time period, the sewer service be discontinued unless adequate
treatment facilities, devices or other related appurtenances shall have been
installed on existing treatment facilities, devices or other related
appurtenances are properly operated. Further orders and directives as are
necessary and appropriate may be issued.
(Prior Code, § C.2.49)
CHAPTER 52: WATER SUPPLY
Section
   
52.01   Classes of services
   
52.02   Schedule of water rates
   
52.03   Cutting on water after discontinuance
   
52.04   Water for consumers outside of town
   
52.05   Climbing water towers
   
52.06   Tampering with water or sewer system
   
52.07   Protection of water system
   
52.08   Town responsibility
   
52.09   Wells
§ 52.01 CLASSES OF SERVICE.
   Water shall be furnished to consumers at metered rates only.
(Prior Code, § C.3.01)
§ 52.02 SCHEDULE OF WATER RATES.
   The charges to be made by the town for delivered water to its customers
change from time to time and accordingly will be maintained by the Town
Manager.
(Prior Code, § C.3.02)
§ 52.03 CUTTING ON WATER AFTER DISCONTINUANCE.
   Any person who shall turn the water from the town water mains into a meter
or private connection, which connection has been cut off by the Town Clerk/
Finance Officer or other official, for the nonpayment of water bill, without
authority of the Town Clerk/Finance Officer or other official, shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § C.3.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.04 WATER FOR CONSUMERS OUTSIDE OF TOWN.
   The charge for water furnished to customers outside of the corporate limits
shall be fixed by the Town Council at rates not less than those provided in §
52.02, and all sections of this chapter pertaining to the administration of the
Water Department shall apply equally to any customer residing outside of the
corporate limits.
(Prior Code, § C.3.04)
§ 52.05 CLIMBING WATER TOWERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, without first obtaining written
authority from the Mayor or Town Council, to go or climb on or upon, or in any
manner ascend the town water tank or reservoir, its towers or supports or any
part thereof.
(Prior Code, § C.3.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.06 TAMPERING WITH WATER OR SEWER SYSTEM.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cut, break, obstruct, damage, change,
alter or otherwise interfere or tamper with, in any manner, any water pipe or
water main or hydrant or sewer pipe or water tank or any other thing being a
part of the water works or sewer system.
(Prior Code, § C.3.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.07 PROTECTION OF WATER SYSTEM.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw trash, rubbish, sticks, stones
or any other substance into the storage tank or reservoir or other water system
of the town and it shall be unlawful for any person to throw or place any
trash, rubbish or any other substance on the grounds around the walls of the
town or upon the grounds surrounding the buildings of any part of and
pertaining to the town water system and known as the pumping station lot.
(Prior Code, § C.3.07) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.08 TOWN RESPONSIBILITY.
   The town will not be responsible for any water leakage or damage when the
water is turned off at the request of the owner.
(Prior Code, § C.3.08)
§ 52.09 WELLS.
   It is unlawful to dig a well within the town limits without the approval of
the Town Council and Health Department. No well, dug, bored or drilled, or
spring, stream, creek, branch or any other water source, shall be used by any
citizen or corporation without prior consent of the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § C.3.09) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 53: WATER CONSERVATION
Section
   
53.01   Declaration of water shortage
   
53.02   Stage I water shortage condition
   
53.03   Stage II water shortage condition
   
53.04   Stage III water shortage condition
   
53.05   Lifting of restrictions imposed during a water shortage
   
53.06   Discontinuance of service
 
   
53.99   Penalty
§ 53.01 DECLARATION OF WATER SHORTAGE.
   In the event it appears that water demand on the town water system may
exceed supply and transmission capabilities, the Utilities Director may
recommend to the Town Manager that voluntary water conservation measures be
implemented. The Town Manager, following consultation with the Town Council,
may declare a Stage I water shortage condition advisory requesting voluntary
water conservation by consumers. In the event that voluntary conservation
measures fail to relieve the demand on the system, the town may advance to a
Stage II or Stage III water shortage condition. The Town Manager, following
consultation with the Town Council, may, with or without the recommendation of
the Utilities Director declare that a Stage II or Stage III water shortage
condition exists.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 53.02 STAGE I WATER SHORTAGE CONDITION.
   (A)   In the event a Stage I water shortage condition is declared, the
following guidelines shall apply:
      (1)   An extensive publicity campaign will be initiated using public
media and specialized methods to inform the public of an impending or existing
water shortage; and
      (2)   Conservation measures will be encouraged and recommended.
   (B)   In the event a Stage I water shortage condition is declared, the
following guidelines shall apply and the public shall be encouraged to adhere
to the following:
      (1)   Limit car washing to the minimum;
      (2)   Limit lawn and garden watering to that which is necessary for
plants to survive;
      (3)   Do not wash down outside areas such as sidewalks, patios, parking
lots, service bays or aprons and the like;
      (4)   Do not leave faucets running while shaving or rinsing dishes;
      (5)   Water shrubbery to the minimum required reusing household water
when possible;
      (6)   Limit use of clothes washers and dish washers and when used,
operate fully loaded;
      (7)   Use of showers for bathing, rather, than bathtub and limit showers
to no more than four minutes;
      (8)   Limit flushing of toilets by multiple usage;
      (9)   The use of disposable and biodegradable dishes is encouraged;
      (10)   The use of flow restrictive and water saving devices;
      (11)   Limit hours of operation of water cooled air conditioners; and
      (12)   All residents, businesses and institutions are requested to
temporarily delay new landscape work until the water shortage has ended.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.03 STAGE II WATER SHORTAGE CONDITION.
   (A)   In the event the Town Manager issues a declaration of a Stage II water
shortage condition, then it shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation, to use or permit the use of water from the town water system for
any purpose hereinafter set forth until the time as the declaration of water,
shortage has been rescinded. In exercising the authority for declaring a water
shortage condition, consideration shall be given to water storage levels and
available sources of supply, available usable storage on hand, drawdown rates,
the projected supply capability, outlook for precipitation, daily water use
patterns and availability of water from other sources.
   (B)   In the event a Stage II water shortage condition is declared, in
addition to the voluntary guidelines already in effect, it shall be unlawful to
use water supplied by the town water system in the following manner:
      (1)   To water lawns, grass, shrubbery, trees, flowers and vegetable
gardens, except in accordance with the following schedule set forth below for
specific areas of the town. The watering shall be done by hand-held hose or
container or drip irrigation system only;
      (2)   To fill newly constructed swimming and/or wading pools or refill
swimming and/or wading pools which have been drained;
      (3)   To wash automobiles, trucks, trailers, boats, airplanes or any
other type of mobile equipment, including commercial washing;
      (4)   To wash down outside areas such as streets, driveways, service
station aprons, parking lots, office buildings, exteriors of existing or newly
constructed homes or apartments, sidewalks or patios, or to use water for other
similar purposes;
      (5)   To use water from public or private fire hydrants for any purpose
other than fire suppression or other public emergency;
      (6)   To operate or induce water into any ornamental fountain, pool or
pond or other structure making similar use of water;
      (7)   To serve drinking water in restaurants, cafeterias or other food
establishments, except upon request;
      (8)   To operate water cooled air conditioners or other equipment that
does not recycle cooling water, except when health and safety are adversely
affected; and
      (9)   To use water for any unnecessary purpose or to intentionally waste
water.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.04 STAGE III WATER SHORTAGE CONDITION.
   (A)   In the event the Town Manager issues a declaration of Stage III water
shortage condition, then it shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to use or permit the use of water from the town water system for
any purpose hereinafter set forth until the time as the declaration of water
shortage has been rescinded. In exercising the authority for declaring a water
shortage condition, consideration shall be given to water storage levels and
available sources of supply, available usable storage on hand, drawdown rates,
the projected supply capability, outlook for precipitation, daily water use
patterns and availability of water from other sources.
   (B)   In the event a Stage III water shortage condition is declared, in
addition to the restrictions for Stage I and Stage II water shortage
conditions, the following restrictions shall also apply:
      (1)   To induce water into any pool;
      (2)   Use water outside a structure for any use other than an emergency
involving fire;
      (3)   Fire protection to be maintained by drafting of ponds, rivers and
the like, wherever possible;
      (4)   The use of throw away utensils and plates is encouraged and
recommended at all eating establishments; and
      (5)   To operate an evaporative air conditioner which recycles water,
except during operating hours of business.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.05 LIFTING OF RESTRICTIONS IMPOSED DURING A WATER SHORTAGE.
   (A)   Water shortage conditions will expire when the Town Manager, after
consultations with the Town Council and upon recommendation of the Utilities
Director, deems that the condition which caused the alert has abated.
   (B)   The expiration or cancellation of a water shortage declaration shall
be promptly and extensively publicized.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 53.06 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   Pursuant to the provisions of G.S. § 162A-88 and
Chapter 52 of this code of ordinances, service may be temporarily discontinued
for willful disregard of this chapter and a $55 reconnect fee may be imposed
before restoration of service. In the event of continued gross non-compliance
of this chapter, the removal of meter will be deemed proper and service will be
discontinued and all tap fees and deposits forfeited. Re-connection will only
be made by payment of current due amounts and new tap fees and deposits shall
be paid.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of the provisions of this chapter shall constitute a
misdemeanor, punishable upon conviction by a fine not to exceed $50 or
imprisonment not exceeding 30 days as provided by G.S. § 14-4; and, in addition
thereto, the violation may be enjoined and restrained as provided in G.S. §
153A-372.
(Ord. passed - -)
CHAPTER 54: CEMETERIES
Section
General Provisions
   
54.01   Purpose and policy
   
54.02   Philosophy of service
   
54.03   Application of rules and regulations
   
54.04   Authority to amend
   
54.05   Responsibility of Town Council
   
54.06   Responsibility of Town Manager
   
54.07   Perpetual care trust fund established
Sale of Lots
   
54.20   Purchase procedure
   
54.21   Lot sizes
   
54.22   Purchase of lots
   
54.23   Transfer of lots
   
54.24   Record keeping
Interments
   
54.35   Condition for burial
   
54.36   Burial depth
   
54.37   Rigid outer burial container
   
54.38   Preparation of grave
   
54.39   Town not responsible
   
54.40   Burial by outside agency
   
54.41   Burial of indigents
   
54.42   Entombment
   
54.43   Cremation
Monument and Marker Erection
   
54.55   Monument permit
   
54.56   Foundations
   
54.57   Survey markers
   
54.58   Mausoleum erections
   
54.59   Footmarkers
Cemetery Maintenance
   
54.70   Responsibility of town
   
54.71   Damages to monuments, mausoleums or markers
   
54.72   Monument or mausoleum in need of repair
   
54.73   Planting trees or shrubs prohibited
   
54.74   Veterans' flags
   
54.75   Grading and care of lots
   
54.76   Curbing and fencing
Regulations
   
54.90   General regulations
   
54.91   Conduct in cemeteries
   
54.92   Traffic regulations
 
   
54.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Rate sheet
   
Appendix B:   Sparta Cemetery monument/mausoleum permit
   
Appendix C:   Burial permit
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 54.01 PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   (A)   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for the operation,
maintenance and perpetual care of Sparta Cemetery.
   (B)   The objectives of this chapter are to:
      (1)   Define areas of responsibility;
      (2)   Provide guidelines for funding in perpetuity; and
      (3)   Provide for operations and upkeep.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 54.02 PHILOSOPHY OF SERVICE.
   Council recognizes that the municipal cemeteries are sacred grounds reserved
as a final resting place for the people of the town and desire to have the
cemeteries maintained in the best possible manner and firmly believe that these
rules and regulations are necessary for the protection of lot and grave owners,
and for the proper conduct and good order of the cemeteries.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 54.03 APPLICATION OF RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Applicability. These rules and regulations shall apply to any person,
firm, corporation, association, club, partnership, society, or any other form
of association or organization.
   (B)   Does not supercede. This chapter is not intended to amend or supercede
the "North Carolina Funeral Service and Cremation Laws and Regulations".
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 54.04 AUTHORITY TO AMEND.
   The Town Council upon its own motion, or upon recommendation of the Town
Manager, for good cause shown, may modify, suspend, repeal, or amend the
provisions of these rules and regulations in whole or in part. It is the intent
of the Council that if any portion of these rules and regulations are held to
be invalid or unconstitutional, such invalidity shall not affect the validity
of the remaining sections or parts.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 54.05 RESPONSIBILITY OF TOWN COUNCIL.
   (A)   Provide oversight and guidance for the administration of Sparta
Cemetery.
   (B)   Provide appropriate funding levels for the operation and maintenance
of Sparta Cemetery in perpetuity.
   (C)   Periodically review and update this chapter.
   (D)   Periodically review and update the purchase price of cemetery plots.
   (E)   Delegate the responsibility for management and day to day operation to
the Town Manager.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 54.06 RESPONSIBILITY OF TOWN MANAGER.
   (A)   Reporting requirements to the Town Council.
   (B)   Record keeping.
   (C)   Administration of the Perpetual Trust Fund.
   (D)   Provide for sound fiscal management and accounting principals.
   (E)   Provide periodic financial updates to the Town Council.
   (F)   Provide maintenance and upkeep.
   (G)   Provide improvements as necessary.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 54.07 PERPETUAL CARE TRUST FUND ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   A Perpetual Care Trust Fund is established for cemetery maintenance in
accordance with G.S. § 160A-347.
   (B)   The principal amount of this Fund will be held in perpetuity.
   (C)   Funds from the sale of all cemetery lots sold will go into the Trust
Fund.
   (D)   All interest earned on the account shall be used solely for the care
and maintenance of Sparta Cemetery or left in the Trust Fund to increase the
Trust Fund principal.
   (E)   The Trust Fund will be maintained in a separate account from other
town funds.
   (F)   Annual interest earnings will be transferred to the town operations
account for the purpose of paying bills.
   (G)   Maintenance and upkeep will be paid from the town operations account.
Improvements will be approved by the Town Council and paid for by special
allocation.
   (H)   Repairs to monuments and markers will be made at the owners expense.
   (I)   Funds collected from permits will be placed in the general fund and
used toward cemetery upkeep.
(Ord. passed - - )
SALE OF LOTS
§ 54.20 PURCHASE PROCEDURE.
   Lots may be selected and purchased from the town office, and payment for
lots purchased shall be made at the town office. Such purchases shall be
evidenced by a deed prepared by the town office recorded by the Register of
Deeds. Such deed shall state the name of the purchaser, purchase price, amount
paid, name of cemetery, lot number(s) and grave number(s). Perspective
purchasers with the immediate need for a grave space may, for the purchase of
that single grave, pay for it within a period of 90 days subject to approval by
the Town Manager.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 54.21 LOT SIZES.
   Each single grave: 40 inches x 10 feet.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 54.22 PURCHASE OF LOTS.
   (A)   The purchase price of lots is set by the Town Council. (See rate sheet
in
Appendix A for current prices.)
   (B)   Plots will be sold individually.
   (C)   The cost per plot will be reviewed periodically and the price adjusted
as necessary by the Town Council.
   (D)   Up to four adjacent plots may be purchased by a single individual.
   (E)   Additional plots may be purchased with permission of the Town Council.
   (F)   Each plot(s) will be deeded to the purchaser by the town and properly
recorded at the Register of Deeds.
   (G)   The town will provide maintenance and upkeep to the plot in
perpetuity.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 54.23 TRANSFER OF LOTS.
   No transfer or assignment of a lot shall be made by any owner without the
express approval of the Town Manager, and all transfers, upon approval, shall
be made by the town office and recorded in the cemetery records. The following
fee is required by the town to accommodate such deed transfers: see
Appendix A for fees.
(Ord. passed - - ) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.24 RECORD KEEPING.
   (A)   The keeping of records for the Sparta Cemetery shall be the
responsibility of the town office.
   (B)   All maps showing laid out sections of each cemetery, records of lot
ownership and burials shall be kept by the town office. Copies of the deeds
conveyed for lot purchases shall be recorded by the town office in both a book
provided for this purpose and on the town computer system.
(Ord. passed - - )
INTERMENTS
§ 54.35 CONDITION FOR BURIAL.
   No burial shall take place without a burial permit from the town office and
all conditions of laws and rules and regulations having been complied with. A
burial permit is required (see
Appendix C).
(Ord. passed - - ) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.36 BURIAL DEPTH.
   All graves shall be deep enough that the top of the burial vault is at a
minimum 18 inches below the surface.
(Prior Code, § C.4.01) (Ord. passed - - ) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.37 RIGID OUTER BURIAL CONTAINER.
   All interments must be in an approved rigid outer burial container.
(Ord. passed - - ) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.38 PREPARATION OF GRAVE.
   It shall be the responsibility of the funeral director to handle the funeral
and will include artificial grass, burial vaults and lowering device.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 54.39 TOWN NOT RESPONSIBLE.
   Neither the town, Town Manager nor the groundskeeper shall be responsible
for errors in location of graves on lots arising from improper instructions
from persons making arrangements. In all cases, orders for grave openings shall
be communicated to the Town Manager or town office via the burial permit.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 54.40 BURIAL BY OUTSIDE AGENCY.
   In matters pertaining to burials coming into the town from outside agencies,
a valid burial permit is required prior to interment. If a valid permit is not
available, the body will remain with the outside agency pending proper
arrangements and permits at the family's expense.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 54.41 BURIAL OF INDIGENTS.
   The town will provide space and maintenance of a section for single grave
lots for burial of indigents. However, no above ground monument will be allowed
until such lot has been paid in full.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 54.42 ENTOMBMENT.
   Burial and monument permits are required (§§
54.35 and
54.55). Arrangements must be made through a funeral director.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 54.43 CREMATION.
   Remains may be buried or stored above ground in a weather tight container.
Up to four cremated remains for each lot are permitted upon approval of the
Town Manager. Burial and monument permits apply (see §§
54.35 and
54.55).
(Ord. passed - - )
MONUMENT AND MARKER ERECTION
§ 54.55 MONUMENT PERMIT.
   Monument erection must be approved by the town. Submit specifications to the
town office for approval prior to erection. A permit is required, and a fee,
(see
Appendix A) will be assessed.
(Ord. passed - - ) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.56 FOUNDATIONS.
   Monuments and markers must be erected on a proper foundation. Guidelines are
included on permit at
Appendix B.
(Ord. passed - - ) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.57 SURVEY MARKERS.
   Survey markers may be used to designate burial plot boundaries but shall not
exceed a length of eight inches or a width of eight inches and must be placed
level with the surface of the ground at the owner's expense. Installation may
be performed by the town for a fee set by Council.
(Ord. passed - - ) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.58 MAUSOLEUM ERECTIONS.
   All mausoleums shall be constructed of polished stone or marble and must be
approved by the town. Submit specifications to the town office for approval
prior to erection. A permit is required and a fee will be assessed (see
Appendix A).
(Ord. passed - - ) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.59 FOOTMARKERS.
   One footmarker per grave may be permitted provided the footmarker does not
exceed 24 inches in length and 14 inches in width and is set level with the
ground surface.
(Ord. passed - - ) Penalty, see §
54.99
CEMETERY MAINTENANCE
§ 54.70 RESPONSIBILITY OF TOWN.
   The general maintenance of the cemeteries and grounds, designed to improve
and maintain their appearance and condition, shall be the responsibility of the
town. It shall include such items as the upkeep of drives, buildings, fences,
spring and fall cleanup, raking of leaves, and the general periodic mowing of
grass. Cemeteries will be cleared of all flowers, artificial or natural, on
April 1 and October 1, for a period of one month, each year. Any person wishing
to retain their plants, flowers or pots (cement pots excluded) shall remove
them prior to those dates.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 54.71 DAMAGES TO MONUMENTS, MAUSOLEUMS OR MARKERS.
   Damages that are clearly the result of negligence by the town or town
employees, will be paid for by the town. Repairs for all other damages,
including acts of nature or vandalism, will be done at the expense of the
owners, their heirs or assigns. Cleaning of individual grave monuments,
mausoleums or markers are also the responsibility of the owner, their heirs or
assigns.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 54.72 MONUMENT OR MAUSOLEUM IN NEED OF REPAIR.
   In the event that a monument, marker or mausoleum is in need of repair, the
Town Manager shall notify the lot owner, in writing, concerning the deficiency
and advise a date corrective action must be taken. If corrective action is not
completed by the assigned date, the deficiency will be corrected by the
groundskeeper, and the owner, their heirs or assigns will be billed at $50 an
hour.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 54.73 PLANTING TREES OR SHRUBS PROHIBITED.
   No trees or shrubs shall be planted in any lot in any municipal cemetery by
any person or persons, except the groundskeeper under the direction of the Town
Manager. Existing trees or shrubs may be removed by the groundskeeper if
detrimental to the maintenance of lots. All natural flowers and plants shall be
potted in containers readily movable for maintenance operations. Any plants or
flowers permanently planted may be removed and disposed of by the
groundskeeper. Flowers are to be set on one side of the monument (the side
where the family name is engraved) and 12 inches from the stone. Veterans flags
are to be set beside the monument only.
(Ord. passed - - ) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.74 VETERANS' FLAGS.
   The placement of flags on veterans' graves will be done from Memorial Day to
Veterans' Day and then removed.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 54.75 GRADING AND CARE OF LOTS.
   All grading of lots shall be done by the groundskeeper. No person shall do
any grading causing the surface of the ground to be raised above the existing
height of the surrounding area.
(Ord. passed - - ) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.76 CURBING AND FENCING.
   No curbs or fences shall be permitted around any individual lot or group of
lots.
(Ord. passed - - ) Penalty, see §
54.99
REGULATIONS
§ 54.90 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall remove the stakes from a burial plot, or any board,
gravestone or other monument which may have been erected at any grave, nor
deface, damage, or destroy any such board, gravestone or other monument in any
manner, except the owner thereof, or by the authority of the owner.
(Prior Code, § C.4.02)
   (B)   No person shall discharge firearms in the cemetery, ride or lead any
horse or other animal in the cemetery.
(Prior Code, § C.4.03)
   (C)   No person shall deposit, or cause to be deposited, any filth, trash,
garbage, or unclean or offensive substances in the cemetery.
(Prior Code, § C.4.04)
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use the cemetery, or any
graveyard, as a playground, or to make loud noises of any kind therein, or to
use profane or indecent language therein, or to make any indecent exposure of
the person, or to commit any indecent act therein.
(Prior Code, § C.4.05)
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to damage or deface in any way
whatsoever any well, pump, building, tombstone, monument, seat, bench, chair,
railing, enclosure, tree, shrub, vine, bulb, flower or other thing placed, or
put or growing in any cemetery, except that the owner thereof, or other person
with his or her authority, may make changes to his or her own lot.
(Prior Code, § C.4.06)
   (F)   Any opening and closing of graves must be approved by the Town
Manager.
(Ord. passed - - ) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.91 CONDUCT IN CEMETERIES.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Pick or mutilate any flowers, either wild or domestic, or disturb any
trees, shrubs, or other planted material;
   (B)   Use the cemeteries as picnic grounds, or consume alcoholic beverages
in a cemetery, or bring the same upon the premises;
   (C)   Use any forms of advertising on cemetery premises;
   (D)   Allow any dog or other domestic animal to run at large within the
cemetery; or
   (E)   Allow a child under the age of 12 years in any cemetery unless
accompanied by an adult.
(Ord. passed - - ) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.92 TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No persons shall operate or cause to operate any vehicle within a
cemetery except on roads designed for that purpose, and no vehicle shall be
driven at a speed in excess of five miles per hour upon any roads within
municipal cemeteries.
   (B)   No persons shall enter any cemetery with a loaded truck, except the
groundskeeper, unless permission has been received from the Town Manager.
   (C)   No person shall unload any stone, dirt or other material from trucks
in any cemetery, except the groundskeeper in the normal discharge of their
work.
(Ord. passed - - ) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.99 PENALTY.
   Unless otherwise provided by state law pertaining to cemeteries or burial of
the dead, a maximum fine of $100, plus court costs, plus restitution of damages
shall be imposed upon any person violating the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - - )
APPENDIX A: RATE SHEET
 
Single grave plot               $200
Deed registration               $25
Plot transfer                   $25
Monument application and permit $25
Burial permit                   $25
 
(Ord. passed - - )
APPENDIX B: SPARTA CEMETERY MONUMENT/MAUSOLEUM PERMIT
Applicant Name:                           
Mailing Address:                           
                                 
Phone #:                   
Cemetery Section:                              Plot #:      
Size: Width:                   Length:              Height:    
Planned Erection Date:                   
I certify, by my signature below, that the erection of the monument/mausoleum
authorized by this permit, will meet all specifications of the town code. (See
below)
Signature of Applicant:                            Date:       
Permit fee required: $25.00
FOR OFFICE USE ONLY
Permit Issued (date):                 Signature:          
Conditions and/or instructions:                      
                                 
                                 
   MONUMENT ERECTION GUIDELINES AND SPECIFICATIONS
MATERIALS: Only marble and granite are approved materials.
ORIENTATION: Align with adjacent monuments. Monuments/mausoleums misaligned
will be moved at owners expense.
FOUNDATION: Foundation will be poured of mixed concrete and gravel to a minimum
depth of 16 inches. Top will be level, smooth and at ground level. Size, at a
minimum, be equal to the resting footprint of the monument/mausoleum, but in
all cases, will be sufficient to permanently support the weight of the
monument.
(Ord. passed - - )
APPENDIX C: BURIAL PERMIT
Applicant Name:                           
Mailing Address:                           
                                 
Phone #:                   
                                          
Signature of applicant                            Date
Permit fee required: $25.00
Name of Deceased:                           
Cemetery Section:                            Plot #:         
Name of Funeral Agency:                        
Permit approved by:                           
                                          
Signature                                 Date
(Ord. passed - - )
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      Chapter
         
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
         
72.   PARKING RULES
         
73.   PUBLIC SKATE PARK FACILITIES
         
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
         
75.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
Obedience to Regulations and Police Officers
   
70.15   Required obedience to traffic code
   
70.16   Obedience to police
   
70.17   Authority of police in special cases
   
70.18   Public employees to obey traffic regulations
   
70.19   Authorized emergency vehicles; exemptions
   
70.20   Persons propelling pushcarts, bicycles or animals to obey
Obedience to Official Traffic Control Devices
   
70.35   Generally; placement of devices
   
70.36   No turn signals and turning markers
   
70.37   No parking zones and safety zone markers
   
70.38   Zone of quiet
   
70.39   School zones
   
70.40   Signal legend
   
70.41   Flashing signals
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this traffic code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Vehicles of the Fire Department, police
vehicles and ambulances designated or authorized by the Chief of Police.
   BLOCK. This term indicates the length of that portion of any street which is
located between two street intersections.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to a highway when 50% or more of
frontage thereon, for a distance of 300 feet or more, is occupied by buildings
which are in use for business purposes.
   CITY. This term is interchangeable with TOWN.
   CROSSWALK. The portion of a roadway which lies between the prolongation of
the lateral sidewalk or boundary lines over an intersection. Any portion of a
roadway distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossing, by lines or other
markings on the surface.
   DRIVER. Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
   INTERSECTION. The area embraced within the prolongations of the lateral curb
or boundary lines of two or more roadways or highways which join or join and
cross one another at an angle.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled including those
propelled by electric power obtained from overhead trolley wires, but not
operated upon rails.
   OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD. Whenever certain hours are named herein, they shall
mean standard time or daylight-saving time as may be in current use in the
town.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, markings and devices
not inconsistent with this traffic code, placed or erected by authority of the
governing body, or an official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of
regulation, warning or guiding traffic.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC SIGNALS. Any device, whether manually or automatically
operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and to proceed.
   PARK. The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, other than
temporarily for the purpose of loading or unloading.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person on foot.
   PERSON. Every natural person, firm, co-partnership, association or
corporation.
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer of the municipal Police Department or any
officer authorized to direct traffic or to make arrests for violations of
traffic regulations.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY. Every road or driveway not open to the use of the
public for purposes of vehicular travel.
   PUBLIC CONVEYANCE. Any vehicle which is engaged in the business of
transporting persons for fare.
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to a highway not comprising a
business district when the frontage of the highway, for a distance of 300 feet
or more, is mainly occupied by residential dwellings.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway not
inconsistent with regulations and conditions.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a street which has been improved and designed for,
or which is ordinarily used for, vehicular travel.
   SAFETY ZONE. The area officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians, which area is either protected or plainly marked
at all times while so set apart as a safety zone.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines exclusively intended for
the use of pedestrians.
   SIGNS. See TRAFFIC SIGNS.
   STANDING. Any stopping of a vehicle whether occupied or not.
   STOP. When required, means complete cessation of movement.
   STOP or STOPPING. When prohibited, means any stopping of a vehicle, except
when conflict with other traffic is imminent, or when otherwise directed by a
police officer.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire area between lateral property lines which is
open to the use of the public, as a matter of right, for purposes of vehicular
traffic.
   TOWN. This term is interchangeable with CITY.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, street cars and
other conveyances, either singly or together, while using any street for
purposes of travel.
   TRAFFIC SIGNS. Authorized signs or markers which are assumed to be
permanently or temporarily placed or erected or installed at certain places and
which purport to give notice of direction or to convey a prohibition or
warning; the presence of the signs, though not compulsory, is generally
dictated by necessity or common sense, with a view to furtherance of public
safety.
   VEHICLE. Every device in or upon which any person or property may be
transported; provided that, for the purpose of this traffic code, a bicycle or
a ridden animal shall also be deemed a VEHICLE.
(Prior Code, § 9.1.01)
OBEDIENCE TO REGULATIONS AND POLICE OFFICERS
§ 70.15 REQUIRED OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CODE.
   It is a misdemeanor for any person to do any act forbidden, or fail to
perform any act required, in this traffic code.
(Prior Code, § 9.2.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.16 OBEDIENCE TO POLICE.
   No person shall refuse to comply with any lawful order or direction of a
police officer.
(Prior Code, § 9.2.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.17 AUTHORITY OF POLICE IN SPECIAL CASES.
   In the event of a fire or other emergency or when it is necessary to
expedite traffic or to safeguard pedestrians, police officers may direct
traffic as conditions may require, notwithstanding the provisions of this
traffic code.
(Prior Code, § 9.2.03)
§ 70.18 PUBLIC EMPLOYEES TO OBEY TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   The provisions of this traffic code shall apply to the driver of any vehicle
owned by, or used in the service of, the United States Government, the state,
county or town, and it shall be unlawful for any driver to violate any of the
provisions of this traffic code or the state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 9.2.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.19 AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this traffic code regulating the operation, parking
and standing of vehicles shall also apply to authorized emergency vehicles, as
defined in this traffic code, except as follows. Unless otherwise directed by a
police officer, a driver when operating the vehicle in any emergency, may:
      (1)   Park or stand, notwithstanding the provisions of this traffic code;
      (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
      (3)   Exceed the prima facie speed limits so long as he or she does not
endanger life or property; and/or
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement, or turning
in specified directions, so long as he or she does not endanger life or
property.
   (B)   The foregoing exemptions shall not, however, protect the driver of any
vehicle from the consequences of his or her reckless disregard for the safety
of others.
(Prior Code, § 9.2.05)
§ 70.20 PERSONS PROPELLING PUSHCARTS, BICYCLES OR ANIMALS TO OBEY.
   Every person propelling any pushcart, or riding a bicycle or an animal, upon
a roadway, also every person driving any animal-drawn vehicle, shall be subject
to the provisions of this traffic code which are applicable to any driver of
any vehicle, except for those provisions of this traffic code which, by their
very nature, can have no application.
(Prior Code, § 9.2.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
OBEDIENCE TO OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.35 GENERALLY; PLACEMENT OF DEVICES.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the directions of any official
traffic control device placed in accordance with the traffic ordinances of the
town, subject to certain exemptions which are granted the driver of an
authorized emergency vehicle in §
70.19, unless either is otherwise directed by a police officer.
   (B)   No provision of this traffic code which provides for signs shall be
enforced against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the alleged
violations, the official sign is not in proper position or is insufficiently
legible to an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular ordinance
section does not stipulate signs, the section shall be effective without signs
being placed to give notice thereof.
(Prior Code, § 9.3.01)
§ 70.36 NO TURN SIGNALS AND TURNING MARKERS.
   Whenever authorized signs are placed which indicate that no "right" or
"left" or "U" turn is permitted, the driver of a vehicle shall obey the
directions of any sign and, when authorized markers, buttons or other
indications are placed within an intersection which indicate the course to be
traveled by vehicles traversing or turning, the driver of a vehicle shall obey
the directions of the indications.
(Prior Code, § 9.3.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.37 NO PARKING ZONES AND SAFETY ZONE MARKERS.
   Whenever authorized signs or markings are placed which indicate no parking
zones or safety zones, the driver of a vehicle shall obey the regulatory
indications.
(Prior Code, § 9.3.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.38 ZONE OF QUIET.
   Whenever authorized signs are placed indicating a zone of quiet, the person
operating a motor vehicle within the zone shall not sound the horn or any other
warning device, except in an emergency.
(Prior Code, § 9.3.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.39 SCHOOL ZONES.
   Whenever authorized signs are placed designating a school zone, any person
driving a vehicle through a zone (whenever school is in session and during the
designated time periods as depicted on the sign) shall conform to the posted
speed limit; all persons shall exercise the greatest care and vigilance because
of the proximity of children.
(Prior Code, § 9.3.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.40 SIGNAL LEGEND.
   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic control signals exhibiting the
words "go", "caution" or "stop", or exhibit differently colored lights,
successively, one at a time, the following colors only shall be used, and the
terms and lights shall indicate as follows.
   (A)   Green alone or "go".
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed straight through or
turn right or left unless a sign prohibits either turn. But vehicular traffic
shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles and to pedestrians who happen to
be lawfully within the intersections.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the roadway within
the crosswalk area, whether marked or not.
   (B)   Yellow alone or "caution", when shown following the green or "go"
signal.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at the intersection. If the stop cannot be made in safety, a
vehicle may be driven cautiously through the intersection.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing the signal are thereby warned that there will
not be sufficient time to safely cross a roadway, and any pedestrian then
starting to cross shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles.
   (C)   Red alone or "stop".
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection, or at other points as may be indicated by
a clearly visible line; unless expressly prohibited turning right on red or
"stop" is permitted. A vehicle proceeding straight ahead, however, shall remain
stationary until green or "go" is shown alone.
      (2)   No pedestrian facing the signal shall enter the roadway unless he
or she can do so without interfering with any vehicular traffic.
   (D)   Red with green arrow.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal may cautiously enter the
intersection and continue in the direction indicated by the arrow.
      (2)   No pedestrian facing the signal shall enter the roadway unless he
or she can do so without interfering with any vehicular traffic.
(Prior Code, § 9.3.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.41 FLASHING SIGNALS.
   Whenever flashing red or yellow signals are used, they shall require
obedience by vehicular traffic as follows.
   (A)   Flashing red (stop signal). When a red lens is illuminated by rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection, or at a limit line when marked, and the
right to proceed shall be subject to the rules of safety and non-interference
with other traffic.
   (B)   Flashing yellow (caution signal). When a yellow lens is illuminated by
rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past the signal only with caution.
(Prior Code, § 9.3.07) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Limitations on backing
   
71.02   Emerging from alley or private driveway
   
71.03   Vehicles shall not be driven on sidewalk
   
71.04   Clinging to motor vehicles
   
71.05   Riding on handlebars
   
71.06   Use of coasters, roller skates and similar devices restricted
   
71.07   Lights on parked vehicles
   
71.08   Moving cars from parked positions
   
71.09   Speed limits
   
71.10   Driving on roadways laned for traffic
   
71.11   Driving over fire hose
   
71.12   Boarding or alighting from public conveyances and the like
   
71.13   Unlawful riding
   
71.14   Entering, jumping on or riding vehicles without permission
   
71.15   Persons riding must stay inside vehicle
   
71.16   Not more than three persons permitted in front seat
   
71.17   Engine braking
§ 71.01 LIMITATIONS ON BACKING.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not back it into any intersection, or over a
crosswalk, nor shall he or she back it otherwise unless the movement can be
made in safety, and unless ample warning has been given by hand and horn or
other signals.
(Prior Code, § 9.5.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.02 EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR PRIVATE DRIVEWAY.
   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, driveway or building shall
stop the vehicle immediately prior to reaching the sidewalk, or the sidewalk
areas extending across any alleyway and, upon entering the roadway, he or she
shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 9.5.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.03 VEHICLES SHALL NOT BE DRIVEN ON SIDEWALK.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not drive within any sidewalk area, except at
a permanent or temporary driveway.
(Prior Code, § 9.5.03)
§ 71.04 CLINGING TO MOVING VEHICLES.
   Any person riding upon any bicycle, motorcycle, coaster, sled, roller skates
or any toy vehicle shall not attach the same, or himself or herself, to any
public conveyance or moving vehicle upon any roadway.
(Prior Code, § 9.5.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.05 RIDING ON HANDLEBARS.
   The operator of a motorcycle or bicycle, when upon a street, shall not carry
any person upon the handlebars, frame or tank of his or her vehicle, nor shall
any person so ride upon any vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 9.5.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.06 USE OF COASTERS, ROLLER SKATES AND SIMILAR DEVICES RESTRICTED.
   No person shall ride roller skates, skateboards, coasters, toy vehicle or
similar device on any street or highway, sidewalk or public vehicular area
unless specific written permission is provided to the Town Police Department
from the property owners.
(Prior Code, § 9.5.07) (Ord. passed 10-2-2007) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.07 LIGHTS ON PARKED VEHICLES.
   Parking lights upon a vehicle, when it is lawfully parked at night on a
street, in accordance with this traffic code, shall not be required, except
where specifically demanded by the town.
(Prior Code, § 9.5.08) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.08 MOVING CARS FROM PARKED POSITIONS.
   Parked cars shall move out in the direction headed or, if they are parked at
an angle with the curb, they shall back out at that angle until they have
cleared the other cars and shall then proceed in the direction in which they
are most nearly headed.
(Prior Code, § 9.5.09) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.09 SPEED LIMITS.
   Unless the governing body of the town stipulates specific speed limits for
vehicles, the provisions of the state law shall govern as follows.
   (A)   A vehicle may be operated on any street of the town, designated
elsewhere in this traffic code as a through highway, at a rate of speed not
exceeding 35 mph; provided, however, that, at no time shall the speed be
greater than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions then existing.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, or persons, to operate any motor
vehicle upon any street in the residential section of the town at a greater
rate of speed than 25 mph.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to operate any motor
vehicle upon any street in the Business District of the town at a greater rate
than 20 mph.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to operate any motor
vehicle, while in the town, across any street intersection or around any street
corner at a greater rate of speed than 15 mph.
(Prior Code, § 9.5.10) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Speed limits, see
Ch. 74, Sch. I
§ 71.10 DRIVING ON ROADWAYS LANED FOR TRAFFIC.
   All vehicles operated on any roadway, which has been clearly marked with
traffic lanes, shall be driven as nearly practical, entirely within a single
lane and shall not be moved out of the lane until the driver has first
ascertained that the movement can be made with safety.
(Prior Code, § 9.5.11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.11 DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   No vehicle shall be driven over any hose of the Fire Department, when it is
being used at any fire without the consent of the Fire Department official in
command.
(Prior Code, § 9.5.12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.12 BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM PUBLIC CONVEYANCES AND THE LIKE.
   No person shall board or alight from any public conveyance or other vehicle
while the conveyance or vehicle is in motion.
(Prior Code, § 9.7.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.13 UNLAWFUL RIDING.
   No person shall ride on any public conveyance or vehicle not designated or
intended for the use of passengers. This provision shall not apply to an
employee engaged in the necessary discharge of a duty nor to persons riding
within truck bodies in spaces intended for merchandise.
(Prior Code, § 9.7.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.14 ENTERING, JUMPING ON OR RIDING VEHICLES WITHOUT PERMISSION.
   No person shall enter, jump on or ride any automobile or other vehicle,
without the consent of the owner or driver.
(Prior Code, § 9.7.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.15 PERSONS RIDING MUST STAY INSIDE VEHICLE.
   No person shall allow any part of his or her body to protrude beyond the
limits of the vehicle in which he or she is riding, except to give signals as
are by law required, and no person shall hang on to any vehicle whatsoever.
(Prior Code, § 9.7.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.16 NOT MORE THAN THREE PERSONS PERMITTED IN FRONT SEAT.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver or the person in charge of any motor
vehicle to permit more than three persons (including driver) to ride in the
front or driver's seat.
(Prior Code, § 9.7.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.17 ENGINE BRAKING.
   (A)   Scope. This chapter applies to all streets and highways within the
incorporated municipal boundaries (i.e., "city limits").
   (B)   Definitions.
      (1)   General. Words and phrases used in the chapter shall have the
meanings set forth in this section. Terms that are not defined below, but are
defined elsewhere in the Code of Ordinances, shall be given the meanings set
forth in the code. Words and phrases not defined in the Code of Ordinance shall
be given their common, ordinary meaning unless the context clearly requires
otherwise. When not inconsistent with the contest, words used in the present
tense shall include the future tense; words in the plural number shall include
the singular number (and vice versa); and words in the masculine gender shall
include the feminine gender (and vice versa);. The word "shall" is always
mandatory, while the word "may" is merely directory. Headings and captions are
for reference purposes only.
      (2)   Specific. Town of Sparta, a municipality located in Alleghany
County, North Carolina.
      (3)   ENGINE BRAKING. Any method of slowing diesel trucks in a manner
that produces a loud noise, particularly by venting the cylinder of the diesel,
engine midway through its cycle causing the engine, instead of producing power,
to absorb power, thereby slowing the truck down dramatically. It shall also
include the production of excessive noise produced by engine retarders due to a
truck operating with improperly maintained, defective, or modified muffler
systems or the use of straight exhaust pipes with no mufflers.
      (4)   PERSON. Any human individual, corporation, company, sole
proprietorship, partnership, association, organization, or agency.
   (C)   Prohibition.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engine brake with the city
limits.
      (2)   No person shall engine brake within the city limits.
   (D)   Enforcement.
      (1)   Civil and criminal penalties. The town shall have the power to
administer and enforce the provisions of this section as may be required by
governing law. Any person violating any provision of this section is subject to
suit for injunctive relief as well as prosecution for criminal violations. Any
violation of this section is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
      (2)   Criminal prosecution. Any person violating any provision of this
section shall, upon conviction, be fined a sum not exceeding $500. Each day
that a provision of this section is violated shall constitute a separate
offense. An offense under this section is a misdemeanor.
      (3)   Civil remedies. Nothing in this section shall be construed as a
waiver of the town's right to bring a civil action to enforce the provisions of
this section and to seek remedies as allowed by law, including, but not limited
to the following:
         (a)   Injunctive relief to prevent specific conduct that violates this
section or to require specific conduct that is necessary for compliance with
this section; and
         (b)   A civil penalty up to $100 a day when it is shown that the
defendant was actually notified of the provisions of this section and after
receiving notice committed acts in violation of this section or failed to take
action necessary for compliance with this section; and other available relief.
(Ord. passed 2-5-2013)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING RULES
Section
   
72.01   Vehicles not to obstruct passage of other vehicles
   
72.02   Parking stands for buses, taxicabs and the like
   
72.03   Parking of taxicabs within the same block
   
72.04   Parking parallel to curb
   
72.05   Left side to curb not permitted in Business District
   
72.06   Parking within lines where provided
   
72.07   Unlawful parking
   
72.08   Stopping, standing or parking prohibited in specified places
   
72.09   Moving the vehicles of other operators into restricted areas
Cross-reference:
   Prohibited, restricted parking, see
Ch. 75, Sch. I
§ 72.01 VEHICLES NOT TO OBSTRUCT PASSAGE OF OTHER VEHICLES.
   No vehicle shall so stand on any street as to interrupt, or interfere with,
the passage of public conveyances or other vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 9.4.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.02 PARKING STANDS FOR BUSES, TAXICABS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Certain locations which shall be designated, and may from time to time
be changed, shall be reserved as stands for buses, taxicabs and law enforcement
officers; no automobile or other vehicle shall park at the designated stands.
   (B)   The stands shall be designated by yellow paint, and otherwise as
ordered.
(Prior Code, § 9.4.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.03 PARKING OF TAXICABS WITHIN THE SAME BLOCK.
   Not more than two taxicabs, owned by the same company, shall be parked in
one block at the same time, except if parked in established taxi stands as set
out in §
72.02.
(Prior Code, § 9.4.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.04 PARKING PARALLEL TO CURB.
   Where not otherwise indicated by this traffic code, all vehicles shall park
parallel to the curb and not more than 12 inches therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 9.4.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.05 LEFT SIDE TO CURB NOT PERMITTED IN BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   No vehicle shall stop with its left side to the curb in the Business
District.
(Prior Code, § 9.4.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.06 PARKING WITHIN LINES WHERE PROVIDED.
   On any street marked off with lines indicating the parking spaces for cars,
the same shall be parked between the lines.
(Prior Code, § 9.4.07) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.07 UNLAWFUL PARKING.
   No person shall stand, or park, a vehicle upon any street for the principal
purposes of:
   (A)   Displaying it for sale;
   (B)   Washing, greasing or repairing the vehicle, except repairs
necessitated by an emergency;
   (C)   Storage thereof by garages, dealers or other persons;
   (D)   Storage of any detached trailer or van when the towing unit has been
disconnected; and/or
   (E)   Transferring merchandise or freight from one vehicle to another.
(Prior Code, § 9.4.08) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.08 STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, except when conflict with
other traffic is imminent or when so directed by a police officer or traffic
control device in any of the following places:
   (A)   On a sidewalk;
   (B)   Within an intersection;
   (C)   On a crosswalk;
   (D)   Within 30 feet of any flashing beacon, stop sign or traffic control
signal located at the side of a street or roadway;
   (E)   Underpass approaches. No vehicle shall park on either side of any
street leading to an underpass, or an overhead bridge, within 50 feet in any
direction of the outer edge of the underpass or overhead bridge;
   (F)   Grade crossing approaches;
   (G)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction, if the
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
   (H)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure or within any underpass
structure;
   (I)   Within 15 feet in either direction of the entrance to a hotel,
theater, hospital, sanitarium or any public building;
   (J)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopping, standing or parking at
the edge or curb of a street;
   (K)   Within ten feet of any fire plug or hydrant;
   (L)   On private-premises or parking lots. No parking or loitering shall be
allowed between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. unless specific written
permission is obtained from the property owners or from the Police Department;
and/or
   (M)   Along Memorial Park Drive between Blue Ridge Street and Sunset Drive;
persons attending funerals will be exempt from this traffic code while the
services are being conducted.
(Prior Code, § 9.4.09) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.09 MOVING THE VEHICLES OF OTHER OPERATORS INTO RESTRICTED AREAS.
   No person shall move a vehicle not owned by the person into any prohibited
area or sufficiently away from a curb to make the distance unlawful.
(Prior Code, § 9.4.10) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 73: PUBLIC SKATE PARK FACILITIES
Section
   
73.01   Definitions
   
73.02   Designation; use regulations
   
73.03   Required riding equipment
   
73.04   Hazardous recreational activity
   
73.05   Sign posting
   
73.06   Administration
 
   
73.99   Penalty
§ 73.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BMX BIKE. (An acronym for BICYCLE MOTOCROSS).
      (1)   A form of cycling on specially designed bicycles which usually have
16- to 24-inch wheels (the norm being the 20-inch wheel).
      (2)   The sport includes racing on earthen tracks, known as BMX racing,
as well as the performance of tricks on the bikes, called Freestyle BMX.
   IN-LINE SKATE (also known as ROLLER BLADES). A footwear containing three or
more axles mounted in a straight line extending generally from or behind the
heel of the footwear to or in front of the toe of the footwear with a single
wheel attached to each axle.
   ROLLER SKATE. Any footwear or device which may be attached to the foot or
footwear to which wheels are attached and the wheels may be used by the wearer
in moving.
   SKATEBOARD. A board-like object, which has two axles, attached to the bottom
of the board-like object with one or two wheels attached to each axle and the
user rides or stands upon the board-like object and may include a handlebar.
(Ord. passed - -2008)
§ 73.02 DESIGNATION; USE REGULATIONS.
   The town may designate, maintain and/or operate a skate park facility, which
shall be open to the public for the purpose of riding skateboards, in-line
skates, roller skates and/or BMX type bikes. Any designated public skate park
may or may not be supervised and shall be for use by persons using skateboards,
in-line skates and/or BMX type bikes only. All other uses are prohibited.
(Ord. passed - -2008) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.03 REQUIRED RIDING EQUIPMENT.
   It is unlawful for a person to ride or use a skateboard, in-line skates,
roller skates or BMX bike in a designated public skate park facility unless a
person is wearing a helmet, elbow pads and knee pads.
(Ord. passed - -2008) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 HAZARDOUS RECREATIONAL ACTIVITY.
   Skateboarding, in-line skating, roller skating and/or BMX biking at a
designated public skate park facility represents a hazardous recreational
activity for participants and the town will not be liable for any injuries
incurred by persons participating in the hazardous recreational activity at a
designated public skate park facility owned and/or operated by the town.
(Ord. passed - -2008)
§ 73.05 SIGN POSTING.
   (A)   The Town Community Service Department shall cause a sign or signs to
be posted at designated public skate park facilities providing reasonable
notice of the requirements of §
71.06 and stating that any person failing to comply will be guilty of an
infraction and subject to citation.
   (B)   The signs shall at least afford reasonable notice of the following:
      (1)   Park hours of operation;
      (2)   Skateboarding, roller skating, in-line skating and BMX biking are
hazardous activities. Skate and bike at own risk;
      (3)   Skateboards, roller skates, in-line skates and BMX bike only; and
      (4)   Failure to wear helmets, kneepads and elbow pads will subject
persons to citation.
(Ord. passed - -2008)
§ 73.06 ADMINISTRATION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be administered by the Chief of Police
and his or her authorized representatives, except where expressly provided
otherwise. All other officers and employees of the town shall assist and
cooperate in the administrations and enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -2008)
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   Violations of the provisions of this chapter may constitute a misdemeanor,
punishable by a fine. The town reserves the right to revoke the use of the
skate park to individuals who violate the rules and regulations of the skate
park.
(Ord. passed - -2008)
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Speed limits
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
 
Location                                      Speed Limit Ord. No. Date Passed
N.C. 18 from the southern corporate limit, a
point 0.35 mile south of S.R. 1195, northward 45 mph      1        10-13-1986
to a point 0.10 mile north of S.R. 1184
 
CHAPTER 75: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Prohibited, restricted parking
SCHEDULE I. PROHIBITED, RESTRICTED PARKING.
   (A)   Two-hour parking.
      (1)   For the purpose of this division (A), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         OPERATOR. Every individual who shall operate a vehicle as the owner
thereof, or his agent, employee or permittee of the owner.
         PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership or corporation.
         STREET. Any public street, avenue, road, boulevard, highway or public
place located in the Town of Sparta and established for the use of vehicles.
         VEHICLE. Any device in, upon or by which any person's property is or
may be transported upon the highway, except a device upon rails or tracks.
(Prior Code, § 9.6.01)
      (2)   A two-hour limit is in effect 24 hours per day, seven days per
week.
(Prior Code, § 9.6.02)
      (3)   When any vehicle is parked on Main Street or Whitehead Street and
the operator allows same to exceed the two-hour limit shall constitute a breach
of this division (A) and subject each operator, upon conviction thereof, to a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not exceeding $50 or imprisoned not exceeding 30
days. If the vehicle shall remain parked in the parking space beyond the
parking time limits fixed, a marked tire shall indicate illegal parking and, in
that event, the vehicle shall be considered as parked overtime and a vehicle so
parked shall be in violation of this division (A).
(Prior Code, § 9.6.03)
      (4)   Nothing in this division (A) is to be construed as prohibiting the
town from establishing parking space for the parking of taxicabs, buses or for
providing parking spaces for lawfully constituted law enforcement officers
without requiring a charge be made for the parking if the above spaces shall
have been marked with appropriate signs for the use of the cabs, buses or law
enforcement officers.
(Prior Code, § 9.6.04)
      (5)   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to report:
         (a)   Each vehicle occupying the parking space and has been parking in
violation of this division (A);
         (b)   The state license number of the vehicle; and
         (c)   The time the violation was detected and the date, and any other
pertinent facts. Each officer shall attach a notice to the car instructing the
owner or operator to report to the town office within two days and pay $5 as a
penalty in full satisfaction of the violation. The failure of the violator to
make the $5 payment shall render the violator to the penalties herein before
set out, being a penalty of $10 after the two-day period, but within ten days.
(Prior Code, § 9.6.05)
      (6)   The two-hour parking limit shall be used to regulate and control
traffic in the town.
(Prior Code, § 9.6.06)
      (7)   This division (A) shall be in full force and effect from the day of
passage.
(Prior Code, § 9.6.08)
   (B)   Prohibited parking.
      (1)   No vehicle shall stop in any street, except for the purpose of
parking as prescribed herein, unless the stop is made necessary by the approach
of fire apparatus, by the approach of a funeral or other procession which is
given right-of-way, by the stopping of public conveyance, by being given
countermanding traffic signals, by the passing of some other vehicle or a
pedestrian or by some emergency; in all cases covered by these exceptions, the
vehicles shall stop so as not to obstruct any footway, pedestrian aisle, safety
zone crossing or street intersection if it can be avoided. In particular, it is
declared unlawful to:
         (a)   Park along Memorial Park Drive between Blue Ridge Street and
Sunset Drive; however, persons attending funerals shall be exempt from this
provision while funerals are being conducted;
         (b)   Park along West Whitehead Street on the north side from the
traffic light to Jones Street; and/or
         (c)   Park along East Doughton Street across from the Sparta Poolroom.
      (2)   In unusual circumstances and in cases of emergency, any police
officer of the town may authorize vehicles to stop in a street for the purpose
of loading and unloading for a certain period of time which in no event shall
exceed 15 minutes.
(Prior Code, § 9.4.01)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
90.   ANIMAL CONTROL
         
91.   FIRE PREVENTION; FIRE DISTRICTS
         
92.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
         
93.   STANDARDS FOR NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS AND PREMISES FITNESS
         
94.   SPECIAL EVENTS WITHIN THE TOWN LIMITS
         
95.   ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES
CHAPTER 90: ANIMAL CONTROL
Section
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Dog must wear rabies tag or other identification tag
   
90.03   Rabies vaccination and control
   
90.04   Dogs running at large prohibited
   
90.05   Vicious animals
   
90.06   Teasing or molesting animals prohibited
   
90.07   Acts resulting in injury or death of dogs
   
90.08   Impounding animals; redemption procedure
   
90.09   Interference
   
90.10   Records
   
90.11   Authority of police officers
   
90.12   Effective date
 
   
90.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Dead animals; removal, see §
92.11
   Fowls running at large, see §
92.25
Statutory reference:
   Dogs, see G.S. Ch. 67
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTS DEEMED PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any dog that habitually or repeatedly chases,
snaps at, attacks or barks at pedestrians, bicyclists or vehicles; turns over
garbage pails or damages ornamental gardens, plant beds or livestock; or a
female dog which runs at large during the erotic stage of estrus.
   ANIMAL. Any dog, cat or other domestic household pet.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any premises designated by the county for the purposes of
impounding and caring for all animals found running at large or otherwise
subject to impounding in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   AT LARGE. Any animal shall be deemed at large when the animal is off the
property of his or her owner and not under the control of a competent person.
   DAY. Each work day and shall include Saturday, Sunday and all legal
holidays.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any county employee appointed by the County
Commissioners to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   EXPOSED TO RABIES. An animal has been exposed to rabies within the meaning
of this chapter, if it has been bitten by, or been in the immediate area of any
animal known or suspected to have been infected with rabies.
   KENNEL DEALER. BREEDER OR PET SHOP. Any person, group of persons,
partnership or corporation engaged in buying, selling, breeding or boarding
animals.
   NEUTERED MALE. Any male which has been operated upon to prevent
reproduction.
   OWNER. Any person, group of persons, firm, partnership or corporation
owning, keeping, having charge of, sheltering, feeding harboring or taking care
of any animal. The OWNER is responsible for the care, actions and behavior of
his or her animal.
   RESTRAINT. An animal is under RESTRAINT within the meaning of this chapter
if the animal is controlled by means of a chain, leash or other like device;
or, is sufficiently near the owner or handler to be under his or her direct
control and is obedient to that person's commands; or, is within a secure
enclosure.
   SPAYED FEMALE. Any female which has been operated upon to prevent
conception.
   STRAY DOGS. Any dog within the county wandering at large or does not have an
owner or any dog within the county whose owner fails to have the dog vaccinated
against rabies by a veterinarian.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL. Any animal that has made an unprovoked attack on a human by
biting or in any manner causing abrasions or cuts of the skin; or, one who
habitually or repeatedly attacks farm stock or other pets.
(Prior Code, § 3.1.01)
§ 90.02 DOG MUST WEAR RABIES TAG OR OTHER IDENTIFICATION TAG.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any dog owner to fail to comply with the
state laws relating to the control of rabies and it shall be unlawful for any
dog owner to fail to provide any dog he or she owns with a suitable collar or
harness for the wearing of the rabies tag to be issued upon compliance with the
state law and to take actions as are necessary to see that the tag is worn by
the dog at all times, except as otherwise provided in this chapter. It is the
purpose of this chapter to supplement the state law by providing a procedure
for the enforcement of state laws relating to rabies control.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use for any dog a vaccination
tag issued for any other than originally issued.
   (C)   (1)   Collar or harness with attached tags must be worn at all times,
except when the dog is confined to an enclosure on the owner's premises or
during the time animals are performing at shows, obedience trials, tracking
tests, field trials, training schools or other events sanctioned and supervised
by a recognized organization.
      (2)   Dogs not wearing tags, as specified above, shall be impounded at
the animal shelter.
(Prior Code, § 3.1.02) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 RABIES VACCINATION AND CONTROL.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for an owner to fail to show proof of current
inoculation against rabies with an approved vaccine (hydrophobia) for his or
her dog. Should it be deemed necessary by the District Health Director, Board
of County Commissioners or the State Public Health Veterinarian that other
animals be vaccinated in order to prevent a threatened epidemic, or to control
a current inoculation against rabies for that animal, then the agencies and/or
boards may declare an emergency situation and order that all animals be
inoculated. This section may be taken by the Board or County Commissioners by
way of resolution adopted at a regular or special meeting.
      (2)   Any person failing to comply with this section shall be deemed in
violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Bites; confinement. Every animal which has bitten anyone or which
shows symptoms of rabies shall be confined immediately and shall be reported to
an enforcement officer by its owners or persons having the animal in charge
within 24 hours, and thereupon the animal shall be securely quarantined at the
direction of the enforcement officer for a period of ten days, and shall not be
released from the quarantine, except by written permission from an enforcement
officer. The biting animal, and its records of vaccination and registration,
shall be inspected by an enforcement officer who will then observe the
following policy.
      (1)   A properly vaccinated dog may be confined on the owner's premises;
provided, however, that, an enforcement officer determines that the owner has
an adequate means of confinement upon his or her own premises and the animal is
subject to observation by the officer at any time during the period of
confinement.
      (2)   A dog not properly vaccinated, belonging to an owner, shall
immediately be confined in a veterinary hospital or the animal shelter, in
which case the expense shall be borne by the owner for the period of
confinement. The dog shall not be vaccinated during confinement.
      (3)   A stray dog shall immediately be confined in the animal shelter for
not less that a ten-day period.
      (4)   If a dog, after due and diligent effort, cannot be apprehended then
it may be shot and the head submitted to the Health Department for shipment to
the State Laboratory of Hygiene.
   (C)   Surrender for quarantine required on demand. Except as provided in
division (A) above, it shall be unlawful for the owner to refuse an
investigation by an enforcement officer upon demand of any animal which has
bitten a human, for the purpose of supervised quarantine, the expense of which
shall be borne by the owner. If rabies does not develop within ten days, the
animal may be reclaimed upon payment of $2 per day for feeding and upon
compliance with other provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   Rabies diagnosed. If an animal dies while under observation for
rabies, then the head of the animal may be submitted to the District Health
Department for shipment to the State Laboratory of Hygiene for diagnosis.
   (E)   Emergency quarantine and procedures.
      (1)   When reports indicate a positive diagnosis of rabies, the District
Health Director shall order an area-wide quarantine for a period as he or she
deems necessary; and, upon invoking of the emergency quarantine by the Health
Director, no animal shall be taken into the streets, or permitted to be in the
streets during the period. During the quarantine, no animal may be taken or
shipped from the county without written permission of an enforcement officer
and an enforcement officer is hereby fully authorized during the emergency to
impound any animal found running at large in the county. During the quarantine
period, an enforcement officer or the local health authorities shall be
empowered to provide for a program of mass immunization by the establishment of
temporary rabies vaccination clinics strategically located throughout the
county.
      (2)   No animal which has been impounded by reason of its being stray or
unclaimed by its owner, is allowed to be adopted from the animal shelter during
the period of emergency rabies quarantine, except by special authorization of
the public health officials.
   (F)   Destruction. Animals bitten by a known rabid animal shall be
immediately destroyed by owner or an enforcement officer; provided that, any
dog which has been vaccinated at least three weeks before being bitten, but not
more than one year before, shall be closely confined in the animal shelter or
at a veterinary hospital for a period of 90 days.
   (G)   Extended quarantine. In the event there are additional positive cases
of rabies occurring during the period of quarantine, the period of quarantine
may be extended at the discretion of the District Health Director. During the
period of quarantine period, the District Health Director may require annual
vaccination of dogs against rabies.
   (H)   Release unlawful. It shall be unlawful for any person to kill or
release any animal under observation for rabies, any animal suspected of having
been exposed to rabies or any animal biting a human, or to remove the animal
from the county without written permission from an enforcement officer and the
District Health Director.
   (I)   Carcasses. The carcass of any dead animal exposed to rabies shall be
surrendered to an enforcement officer. The head of the animal from the county
shall be submitted to the District Health Department for shipment to the State
Laboratory of Hygiene for diagnosis.
   (J)   Failure to surrender. It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or
refuse to surrender any animal for quarantine or destruction, as required
herein, when demand is made by an enforcement officer.
(Prior Code, § 3.1.03) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner to permit his or her dog to run at
large if the animal is reported to be creating a public nuisance and an
enforcement officer determines after investigation that the reports are
supported by sufficient evidence to establish this fact.
   (B)   In those cases, and only in those cases, the owner must keep the dog
that has been found to be creating a public nuisance on his or her own property
at all times unless the dog is under restraint or control of a competent person
by means of a chain, leash or other device, or is sufficiently near his or her
handler to be under his or her direct control and is obedient to that person's
commands, or on or within a secure enclosure.
   (C)   If a dog is impounded for running at large in violation of this
section, and after having been found to be a public nuisance as set out above,
the owner may reclaim his or her dog by paying a fee of $10, plus board, and
upon compliance with the other provisions of this chapter and shall be subject
to other penalties as are prescribed for the violation.
(Prior Code, § 3.1.04) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 VICIOUS ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner to keep any vicious, fierce or dangerous
animal within the county unless it is securely muzzled and under restraint by a
competent person who, by means of a leash, chain or rope, has the animal firmly
under control at all times.
(Prior Code, § 3.1.05) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 TEASING OR MOLESTING ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to tease, molest, bait or, in any way,
bother any dog not belonging to him or her or legally under his or her control.
(Prior Code, § 3.1.06) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 ACTS RESULTING IN INJURY OR DEATH OF DOGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person injuring or killing a dog by running
over, or into same, or coming into contact with same, with automobile,
motorcycle, bicycle or other vehicle, to fail to notify immediately the owner
of the dog, the Police Department in the town or an enforcement officer if in
the county.
(Prior Code, § 3.1.07) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08 IMPOUNDING ANIMALS; REDEMPTION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any animal which appears to be stray, at large or unwanted, or which
is found to be not wearing a currently valid rabies vaccination tag, as
required by state law or this chapter, shall be confined in the animal shelter
in a humane manner for a period of five days for redemption by the owner.
      (1)   Sale or destruction. If an impounded animal is not redeemed by the
owner within the period, it may be offered for sale to any responsible adult
not associated with the shelter who is willing to comply with these animal
control laws or destroyed in a humane manner.
      (2)   Notifying owner. Immediately upon impounding an animal, an
enforcement officer shall make reasonable effort to notify the owner and inform
the owner of the conditions whereby the animal may be redeemed.
      (3)   Suspected rabies. Animals impounded which have been bitten by a
rabid animal or appear to be suffering from rabies shall not be redeemed or
sold, but shall be dealt with as provided in §
90.03.
      (4)   Unwanted animals.
         (a)   Owners wishing to surrender their animals shall be responsible
for bringing the animal to the shelter.
         (b)   If an animal is surrendered by the owner to the animal shelter,
it may be placed in a home without waiting five days or, it may be destroyed in
a humane manner without waiting five days.
      (5)   Badly diseased or injured animals.
         (a)   Any animal impounded which is badly wounded or diseased (not a
rabies suspect) and has no identification shall be destroyed immediately in a
humane manner.
         (b)   If the animal has identification, an enforcement officer shall
make a reasonable effort in attempting to notify the owner before disposing of
the animal; but if the owner cannot be reached readily, and the animal is
suffering, the enforcement officer may destroy the animal at his or her
discretion in a humane manner.
      (6)   Other diseased or injured animals.
         (a)   Any animal impounded which is wounded (not badly wounded) or
diseased (not badly diseased) and has no identification shall be destroyed in a
humane manner only after consultation by the enforcement officers with a
licensed veterinarian.
         (b)   If the animal has identification, an enforcement officer shall
attempt to notify the owner before disposing of the animal; but if the owner
cannot be reached readily, and the animal is suffering, the enforcement officer
may destroy the animal in a humane manner only after consultation with a
licensed veterinarian.
(Prior Code, § 3.1.08)
   (B)   When any animal has been impounded at the animal shelter, notice
thereof shall be given to the owner, if possible; or if the owner is unknown,
then notice thereof shall be posted for five days, or until the animal is
disposed of, on a bulletin board at the animal shelter, and the time and place
of taking the animal together with the time and date of posting the notice. The
time for redemption of the animal, as herein above provided, shall not begin to
run until the notice has been given or posted.
      (1)   The owner shall be entitled to resume possession of his or her
animal, except as already provided for certain animals, upon compliance with
the provisions of this chapter and the payment of shelter fees incurred.
         (a)   The shelter fees shall be as follows:
            1.   Redemption by owner: $10; and
            2.   Adoption fee: $10.
         (b)   If two or more violations occur within one year, the owner
redemption fee shall increase $20. In addition to the other fees set out
herein, a boarding fee at the rate of $2 per day must be paid before dogs may
be redeemed.
      (2)   If the dog has not been vaccinated against rabies, the owner will
be given a proof of rabies vaccination card at the time of the redemption or
adoption. This card will be stamped with a date stating the maximum time limit
allowed to take the dog to the veterinarian of his or her choice for rabies
vaccination. Time limit for dogs four months and older will be 48 hours with
Sundays and holidays excluded. For puppies under four months, the time limit
would vary according to their age.
      (3)   The card will be completed and signed by a veterinarian and
returned to the animal shelter within the time limit by the owner. If this card
is not returned to the animal shelter within the time limit a control officer
will be dispatched to retrieve the dog.
(Prior Code, § 3.1.09)
§ 90.09 INTERFERENCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, or obstruct or delay,
hinder or molest an enforcement officer or veterinarians in the performance of
any duty authorized by this chapter or seek to release any animal in the
custody of the officer or agents, except as herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 3.1.10) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.10 RECORDS.
   It shall be the duty of enforcement officers and employees of the animal
shelter to keep, or cause to be kept, accurate and detailed records of:
   (A)   Impoundment and disposition of all animals coming into the animal
shelter;
   (B)   Bite cases, violations and complaints investigations;
   (C)   All moneys belonging to county which were derived from impounding
fees, penalties and sales of animals; and
   (D)   All other records deemed necessary by the County Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 3.1.11)
§ 90.11 AUTHORITY OF POLICE OFFICERS.
   In addition to the authorities granted the local health department and
animal control officers by this chapter, officers of the Town Police Department
shall have equal authority to act under the authority of this chapter when, in
the discretion of the Town Manager, law enforcement action is necessary for the
protection of public safety. This shall include discretionary authority to slay
any animal which is deemed a threat to public safety.
(Prior Code, § 3.1.13)
§ 90.12 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become effective on 11-2-2004.
(Prior Code, § 3.1.15)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of this chapter shall constitute either a misdemeanor or at the
election of the town, shall subject the offender to a civil penalty upon the
issuance of a citation for said violation as hereinafter provided under §
10.99.
(Ord. passed 11-6-2012)
CHAPTER 91: FIRE PREVENTION; FIRE DISTRICTS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Citizens must keep out of way at fire
   
91.02   Interference with firefighters or fire apparatus
   
91.03   False fire alarms prohibited
   
91.04   Protection of fire hose
   
91.05   When fire alarm sounds vehicles must stop
   
91.06   Obstruction of hydrant
Fire Hazards
   
91.20   Burning trash within fire limits prohibited
   
91.21   Burning trash outside fire limits
   
91.22   Bonfires or outdoor fires
   
91.23   Ashes and matter liable to spontaneous combustion
   
91.24   Accumulation of rubbish
   
91.25   Chimneys
   
91.26   Exit signs in theaters and motion picture houses
   
91.27   Obstructions in tenement and apartment houses
   
91.28   Fire extinguishers
   
91.29   Dead wires to be removed
   
91.30   Steam engines in fire limits
Flammable Liquids and Explosives
   
91.45   Purpose
   
91.46   Definitions
   
91.47   Private residences
   
91.48   Dealers
   
91.49   Transit
   
91.50   General prohibitions
Fire District
   
91.65   Primary fire limits established
   
91.66   Kind of buildings
   
91.67   Erecting or repairing buildings
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 CITIZENS MUST KEEP OUT OF WAY AT FIRE.
   No person shall stand or be in any street, alley or square or near a fire
that is in progress, in a way as to interfere with the duties of the Fire
Department.
(Prior Code, § 6.1.10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.02 INTERFERENCE WITH FIREFIGHTERS OR FIRE APPARATUS.
   No person shall interfere with a firefighter in discharge of his or her duty
or hinder him or her in the performance of the duty; nor shall any person other
than members of the Fire Department loiter about any fire station, or change,
handle or meddle, in any manner, with any fire engine or any other fire
apparatus.
(Prior Code, § 6.1.11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.03 FALSE FIRE ALARMS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall give or cause to be given any false fire alarm by means of
the town fire alarm system, telephone or otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 6.1.12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.04 PROTECTION OF FIRE HOSE.
   It shall be unlawful to drive over or, in any way, damage or mutilate any
fire hose while in use at a fire or otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 6.1.13) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.05 WHEN FIRE ALARM SOUNDS VEHICLES MUST STOP.
   When the fire alarm sounds, every automobile, truck or other vehicle is
required to immediately come to a full stop at the curb until the fire truck
has passed, and pedestrians are required to clear the street at once.
(Prior Code, § 6.1.14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.06 OBSTRUCTION OF HYDRANT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct any hydrant or fire plug in
a manner as to interfere with the easy approach to, or the convenient use of,
the same by the Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 6.1.15) Penalty, see §
10.99
FIRE HAZARDS
§ 91.20 BURNING TRASH WITHIN FIRE LIMITS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall burn or cause to be burned any trash, refuse, shavings,
paper, leaves, litter or other materials of any kinds outside any house, or on
or in any street, sidewalk, alley, lot or yard within the fire limits.
(Prior Code, § 6.2.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.21 BURNING TRASH OUTSIDE FIRE LIMITS.
   Trash or rubbish shall not be burned on any private lot outside the fire
limits, except within a safely constructed enclosure made of wire mesh or in a
similar safety device.
(Prior Code, § 6.2.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.22 BONFIRES OR OUTDOOR FIRES.
   No person shall kindle or maintain any bonfire, or shall knowingly furnish
the material for any fire, or authorize any fire to be kindled or maintained on
or in any street, avenue, road, land or public ground or upon any private lot
within the limits of the town unless a written permit so to do shall have first
been secured from the Chief of the Fire Department. Nothing in this section
shall be construed to prohibit the burning of trash and rubbish on private lots
of residences without a permit when the burning is done in conformity with the
provisions of §
91.21.
(Prior Code, § 6.2.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.23 ASHES AND MATTER LIABLE TO SPONTANEOUS COMBUSTION.
   No person shall deposit ashes, smoldering coals or embers, grease or oily
substances or other matter liable to spontaneous ignition, within 15 feet of
any wooden or plastered wall, partitions, fence, floor, sidewalk, lumber, hay,
shavings, rubbish or other combustible material, except in metallic or other
non-combustible stands and, in every case, shall be kept at least two feet from
any wall or partition. Nothing in this section shall prevent the deposit of
cold or wet ashes or cinders for the improvement of any unpaved alley or
walkway.
(Prior Code, § 6.2.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.24 ACCUMULATION OF RUBBISH.
   No person shall permit any accumulation of waste, paper, weeds, litter or
combustible or inflammable waste or rubbish of any kind to remain upon any roof
or in any court yard, vacant lot or other open space. Every owner or occupant
of property shall cut down and remove therefrom all weeds, grass, vines and
other growth, which endangers the same or any other property which is likely to
be fired.
(Prior Code, § 6.2.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.25 CHIMNEYS.
   All chimneys, smokestacks or similar devices for conveying smoke or gases to
the outer air, and the stoves, furnaces, fire boxes or boilers to which they
are connected, shall be constructed in accordance with the building ordinances,
and shall be maintained in a manner as not to endanger adjacent property.
(Prior Code, § 6.2.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.26 EXIT SIGNS IN THEATERS AND MOTION PICTURE HOUSES.
   Every exit in any theater or motion picture house shall be plainly indicated
by a sign bearing the word "exit", which sign shall be kept lighted throughout
each performance.
(Prior Code, § 6.2.07) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.27 OBSTRUCTIONS IN TENEMENT AND APARTMENT HOUSES.
   No dangerous obstruction shall be permitted in the hallways of tenement or
apartment houses.
(Prior Code, § 6.2.08) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.28 FIRE EXTINGUISHERS.
   Hand or portable fire extinguishers shall be installed in every store,
factory, garage or other buildings where readily inflammable material is
stored, handled, kept or sold.
(Prior Code, § 6.2.09) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.29 DEAD WIRES TO BE REMOVED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any electric light, telegraph or telephone
company to permit any of their disconnected, dead or unused wires to hang or
remain on any pole, tree or house where same has been formerly connected and in
use, but all wires shall be taken down and removed immediately upon notice by
the Chief of Police.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Chief of the Fire Department to notify the
Chief of Police whenever he or she has knowledge of the existing condition.
(Prior Code, § 6.2.10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.30 STEAM ENGINE IN FIRE LIMITS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or cause to be erected any
steam engine, within the fire limits, without first obtaining the consent of
the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 6.2.11) Penalty, see §
10.99
FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS AND EXPLOSIVES
§ 91.45 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to regulate the storage and handling of
dangerous materials in accordance with safety methods as established by
experience and the findings of the National Board of Fire Underwriters and
other authorities.
(Prior Code, § 6.3.01)
§ 91.46 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EXPLOSIVES. The known explosive materials such as black powder, gunpowder,
blasting powder, dynamite, blasting caps, detonators and the like.
   FLAMMABLE FLUIDS. All liquids and gases of dangerous volatility and low
flashpoint such as gasoline, kerosene, fuel oil, acetylene and the like.
(Prior Code, § 6.3.02)
§ 91.47 PRIVATE RESIDENCES.
   (A)   Flammable fluids. Maximum quantity allowed is five gallons if kept in
approved metal containers.
   (B)   Oil burner installations. Maximum quantity of fuel oil allowed is 285
gallons if kept in approved metal tank on non-combustible supports. Larger
quantities must be stored in an underground tank with pump feed.
   (C)   Explosives. Maximum quantity allowed is five canisters of powder.
(Prior Code, § 6.3.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.48 DEALERS.
   (A)   Flammable fluids. Maximum quantity is 100 gallons if kept in approved
metal containers. Larger quantities must be stored in buildings constructed of
brick or stone, provided with iron roofs or arched roofs made of brick or
stone. There may be no openings in the structure, except fireproof doors
located in one end or side. The floor of the building must be at least three
feet below the lowest level of the ground immediately surrounding. For storage
in tanks, see §
91.50.
   (B)   Explosives. Maximum quantity allowed is 60 pounds of powder or 25
pounds of dynamite.
(Prior Code, § 6.3.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.49 TRANSIT.
   (A)   Flammable fluids. Vehicles carrying flammable fluids may not park
within the town limits and must follow the truck routes as may have been
established, except vehicles with a maximum capacity of 1,800 gallons
(separated in compartments holding no more than 600 gallons each) may park for
purposes of loading and unloading only.
   (B)   Explosives.
      (1)   Transportation of explosives in passenger conveyances. No person
shall transport or carry any explosives in any public conveyance which is
carrying passengers for hire.
      (2)   Marking of vehicle carrying explosives. Every vehicle, while
carrying explosives, shall have painted on its front, sides and back, in easily
legible white letters at least six inches high, on a red background, the
warning: "explosives-dangerous" in lieu thereof it shall display upon an erect
pole, fastened to the front end of the vehicle and at a height that it is
visible from all directions, a red flag with the word "danger" printed, stamped
or sewn thereon in white letters. The flag shall be at least 18 inches by 30
inches in size and the letters thereon shall be at least six inches high.
      (3)   Drivers of vehicles carrying explosives. No person in charge of a
vehicle containing explosives may smoke upon the vehicle, nor may he or she
drive the vehicle while intoxicated or drive or load the vehicle in a careless
or reckless manner.
      (4)   Certain articles not to be carried in vehicles carrying explosives.
No person shall carry in the bed or body of any vehicle containing explosives,
any metal tools or other pieces of metal, nor any exploders, detonators,
blasting caps, matches or other similar explosive material.
(Prior Code, § 6.3.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.50 GENERAL PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No person shall keep in any car or warehouse or on any platform any
cargo of gunpowder or blasting powder or other explosives for more than six
hours.
   (B)   Powder or dynamite must be kept in steel receptacles, preferably
cylindrical in shape, mounted on wheels and fitted with a lock. The receptacle
shall have conspicuously displayed on it the words "powder-danger" or
"dynamite-danger".
   (C)   Every person having any powder or dynamite on his or her premises
shall notify the Chief of the Fire Department, in writing, of the location of
the powder or dynamite and shall display conspicuously clear and legible a sign
bearing the words "powder-danger" or "dynamite-danger" at the place.
   (D)   Any person desiring to store powder or dynamite shall first secure
from the Town Manager a permit. It shall be the duty of the Town Manager on
issuing the permit to notify the Chief of Police and the Chief of the Fire
Department, giving the name of permittee and the location of the dynamite.
   (E)   Upon receipt of the information, it shall be the duty of the Chief of
the Fire Department and the Chief of Police to examine the premises and see
that the provisions of this subchapter are complied with. Upon report by the
Chief of the Fire Department, the Mayor shall have the right to cancel, for
good cause, any permit until conditions are made satisfactory to him or her or
the governing body.
   (F)   Should any person desire to handle percussion of dynamite caps, the
same may be stored only in a receptacle designed for powder. Under no condition
may the caps be stored in the same receptacle with dynamite.
   (G)   All persons handling dynamite, giant powder or other dangerous
explosives as articles of merchandise, before offering same for sale, shall
obtain from the Town Manager a sales permit upon written application which
states the contemplated time and place of sale of the above mentioned
explosives. They shall also keep a record of their sales, to whom sold, for
what purpose, the amount sold and the date of the sale.
(Prior Code, § 6.3.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
FIRE DISTRICT
§ 91.65 PRIMARY FIRE LIMITS ESTABLISHED.
      The primary fire limits shall be described as follows: beginning at the
centerline intersection of US Hwy 21 and NC Hwy 18 and running Southwest with
the center of NC Hwy 18 to the centerline intersection of NC Hwy 18 and
Evergreen Street; thence running Northwest with the center of Evergreen Street
to the centerline intersection of Evergreen Street and West Doughton Street;
thence running Northeast with the center of West Doughton Street to the
centerline intersection of US Hwy 21 and East Doughton Street; thence Northeast
with the center of East Doughton Street to the centerline intersection of East
Doughton Street and Alleghany Street; thence running Southeast with the center
of Alleghany Street to the centerline intersection of Alleghany Street and NC
Hwy 18; thence Southwest with the centerline of NC Hwy 18 to the beginning.
      Note: Excluded from the above described boundary description and not to
be a part of the primary fire district are those two parcels of land being
identified as parcel identification numbers 3070-69-4430 and 3070-69-4463 as
shown on the Alleghany County Tax Maps.
      Being those two parcels of land lying on the north side of US Hwy 21
south and located east from the centerline intersection of US Hwy 21 and NC Hwy
18 and being identified as: Parcel Identification Numbers 3070-69-7521 and
3070-69-8412.
      Note: Included in the above description and to be made a part of the
Primary Fire District is the building known as Edwards Body Shop which is
located on Parcel Identification Number 3070-69-9626. It is the intent to only
include that portion of the above mentioned building and not the entire Parcel.
      Being those eight parcels of land lying on the South side of US Hwy 21
South and located South from the centerline intersection of US Hwy 21 and NC
Hwy 18 and being identified as: (1) Parcel Identification Number 3070-69-5450,
(2) Parcel Identification Number 3070-69-5377, (3) Parcel Identification Number
3070-69-6305, (4) Parcel Identification Number 3070-69-6313, (5) Parcel
Identification Number 3070-69-6399, (6) Parcel Identification Number 3070-69-
6288, (7) Parcel Identification Number 3070-69-6119, and (8) Parcel
Identification Number 3070-69-6155 as shown on the Alleghany County Tax Maps.
      Being those five parcels of land lying on the west side of and adjoining
East Doughton Street and being identified as: (1) Parcel Identification Number
3071-60-3082, (2) Parcel Identification Number 3071-60-4015, (3) Parcel
Identification Number 3071-60-4037, (4) Parcel Identification Number 3071-60-
4069, (5) Parcel Identification Number 3071-60-4192 as shown on the Alleghany
County Tax Maps.
(Ord. passed 2-5-2013)
§ 91.66 KIND OF BUILDINGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or cause to be erected a
building other than brick, stone, concrete or other fireproof material with
metal or other fireproof roofing within the fire limits.
(Prior Code, § 6.4.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.67 ERECTING OR REPAIRING BUILDINGS.
   Within the primary fire limits of any city, as established and defined by
ordinance, no frame or wooden building or structure or addition thereto shall
hereafter be erected, altered, repaired, or moved (either into the limits or
from one place to another within the limits), except upon the permit of the
local inspection department approved by the City Council and by the
Commissioner of Insurance or his designee. The City Council may make additional
regulations for the prevention, extinguishment, or mitigation of fires within
the primary fire limits.
(Ord. passed 12-6-2016) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   G.S. 160A-436
CHAPTER 92: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Standing water
   
92.02   Camping
   
92.03   Slaughter houses; offensive materials
   
92.04   Garbage cans to be provided
   
92.05   Offensive matter
   
92.06   Pollution of streams
   
92.07   Sewer connections required
   
92.08   Privies prohibited
   
92.09   Future buildings to include toilet facilities
   
92.10   Septic tank; permit
   
92.11   Dead animals; removal
   
92.12   Second-hand clothiers
   
92.13   Burial of the dead
Public Nuisances
   
92.24   Nuisance conditions
   
92.25   Fowls running at large
   
92.26   Awnings and signs over sidewalks
   
92.27   Glass thrown or deposited on streets
   
92.28   Throwing trash in gutters or drains
   
92.29   Keeping lots and yards clean
   
92.30   Obstructing streets and sidewalks
   
92.31   Unnecessary noise
   
92.32   Outdoor display: display and sale of merchandise on sidewalks
Cross-reference:
   Animal Control, see
Ch. 90
   Disorderly Conduct, see
Ch. 130
   Public Skate Park Facilities, see
Ch. 73
Statutory reference:
   Abandoned and junked motor vehicles, see G.S. § 160A-303.2
   Public nuisances; taxes, see G.S. § 160A-193
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 STANDING WATER.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner, lessee, tenant or occupant of any
building or premises to keep or permit thereon any standing water to be or
remain in any pool or pond, or open vessel or to keep or permit thereon any
decaying animal or vegetable matter or any substance injurious to health.
(Prior Code, § 7.1.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.02 CAMPING.
   For the preservation of health and general improvement of sanitary
conditions, it shall be unlawful for any person or persons to camp or dwell in
tents, automobiles carts or wagons, on any vacant lot, part or plot of land
within the corporate limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 7.1.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.03 SLAUGHTER HOUSES; OFFENSIVE MATERIALS.
   No slaughter house facility or abattoirs shall be conducted within the
corporate limits of the town.
(Ord. passed 11-6-2012)
§ 92.04 GARBAGE CANS TO BE PROVIDED.
   The occupant of every building shall provide and keep in some convenient
place metal-covered or plastic-covered receptacles, (not larger than 30-gallon
capacity) provided with handles, and deposit in same all garbage liable to
decomposition. A separate can of suitable material shall be kept for other
refuse matter. All garbage shall be removed from the premises at least once
weekly.
(Prior Code, § 7.1.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.05 OFFENSIVE MATTER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to keep or maintain
on his, her or its premises any manure, or fish scrap, of a kind or nature as
to be a menace to the public health, or to fill any land with, or dump upon any
vacant lot, garbage, dead animals, decaying vegetable matter or any offensive
material, nor shall any of the aforementioned objectionable materials be buried
within the town.
(Prior Code, § 7.1.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.06 POLLUTION OF STREAMS.
   No person shall use any stream or water course, street, sidewalk or gutter
to carry off water from kitchen sinks, bathtubs or to carry off any fluid of an
offensive or dangerous nature.
(Prior Code, § 7.1.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.07 SEWER CONNECTIONS REQUIRED.
   Whenever any line of sewer is laid along any street, avenue or public alley
and the same is ready for use, it shall be the duty of the Health Officer to
notify the owner or agent, and the occupants of all houses, tenements and other
buildings situated on lots abutting upon, or accessible to the street, avenue
or public alley, along which the sewer is laid, to connect all closets,
privies, sinks, bathtubs, lavatories and urinals upon their respective lots
with the sewer line, so that the contents of the same may be made to empty into
the sewer, within 30 days after date of service of the notice.
(Prior Code, § 7.1.07) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.08 PRIVIES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to build, erect,
construct, keep or maintain any privy or surface closet on any lot or premises
within the town limits abutting any street, avenue or public alley or way along
which the town maintains a sewer line and water main; or upon any lot
accessible thereto. The above restrictions shall, in no way, apply to self-
contained toilets.
(Prior Code, § 7.1.08) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.09 FUTURE BUILDINGS TO INCLUDE TOILET FACILITIES.
   It shall be unlawful for any building to be occupied by one or more persons
without providing and maintaining for use of the occupants water closets
connected with the town sewer, so as to empty the contents thereof into the
sewer or without providing a septic tank as required by G.S. § 130A-335.
(Prior Code, § 7.1.09) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.10 SEPTIC TANK; PERMIT.
   It shall be unlawful to build any pit privy or septic tanks or cause the
same to be built or constructed on any lot or premises without having first
obtained a permit from the Health Officer. No permit shall be granted to build,
erect or construct or keep or maintain, any surface privy or dry closet on any
lot or premises abutting a street, avenue public alley or way, along which the
town maintains a sewer and water main or on a lot accessible thereto.
(Prior Code, § 7.1.10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.11 DEAD ANIMALS; REMOVAL.
   The bodies of dead sheep, goats, hogs, horses, mules and other animals, or
any part of any animal and dead fowl, shall be buried at a depth of not less
than two feet below the surface of the ground.
(Prior Code, § 7.1.11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.12 SECOND-HAND CLOTHIERS.
   It shall be unlawful to buy second-hand clothing in the town or to offer the
same for sale without special permission from the Health Officer.
(Prior Code, § 7.1.12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.13 BURIAL OF THE DEAD.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation may openly bury a dead person in any
grave in the town limits without installing a vault or liner in the grave.
   (B)   The offender of this section shall be responsible for the cost of
placing a vault or liner in the grave.
(Prior Code, § 7.1.13) Penalty, see §
10.99
PUBLIC NUISANCES
§ 92.24 NUISANCE CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Unlawful conditions enumerated. The following enumerated and described
conditions, or any combination thereof, are hereby found, deemed, and declared
to constitute a detriment, danger and hazard to the health, safety, morals and
general welfare of the inhabitants of the Town and are found, deemed and
declared to be public nuisances wherever the conditions may exist and the
creation, maintenance or failure to abate any nuisances is hereby declared
unlawful:
      (1)   Within an area of residential or business property, any weeds or
other vegetation having an overall height of more than 18 inches above the
surrounding ground, provided that the following shall not be considered to be a
part of this condition: trees and ornamental shrubs; cultured plants; natural
vegetation on undeveloped property that is not a threat to the character of
surrounding properties; vegetation which borders streams and rivers to a
distance of 25 feet from top of the streambank; income producing or farm-
related products, to include hay and Christmas trees; and flowers, and growing
and producing vegetable plants, to include community gardens;
      (2)   Any accumulation of trash and/or garbage which is the result of the
absence of trash or garbage containers, or overflowing or improperly closed
trash or garbage containers;
      (3)   Accumulation in an open place of hazardous or toxic materials and
chemicals. Toxic waste is waste material that can cause death, injury or birth
defects to living creatures. It spreads quite easily and can contaminate lakes
and rivers and atmosphere. The term is often used interchangeably with
“hazardous waste”, or discarded material that can pose a long-term risk to
health or environment;
      (4)   An open place of concentration of combustible items such as
mattresses, boxes, paper, automobile tires and tubes, garbage, trash, refuse,
brush, old clothes, rags, or any other combustible materials or objects of a
like nature;
      (5)   Any accumulation of garbage, rubbish, trash, or junk causing or
threatening to cause a fire hazard, or causing or threatening to cause the
accumulation of stagnant water, or causing or threatening to cause the
inhabitation therein of rats, mice, snakes, mosquitoes, or vermin prejudicial
to the public health;
      (6)   Any accumulation of animal or vegetable matter that is offensive by
virtue of odors or vapors or by the inhabitance therein of rats, mice, snakes,
or vermin of any kind which is or may be dangerous or prejudicial to the public
health;
      (7)   The open storage of any discarded ice box, furniture, refrigerator,
stove, glass, building materials, building rubbish or similar items;
      (8)   Any condition detrimental to the public health which violates the
rules and regulations of the Alleghany County Health Department, and/or
Appalachian District Health Departments;
      (9)   Any building or other structure which has been burned, partially
burned or otherwise partially destroyed and which is unsightly or hazardous to
the safety of any person, is a continuing fire hazard or which is structurally
unsound to the extent that the Town Manager or his designee can reasonably
determine that there is a likelihood of personal or property injury to any
person or property entering the premises;
      (10)   Any condition which blocks, hinders, or obstructs in any way the
natural flow of branches, streams, creeks, surface waters, ditches, or drains,
to the extent that the premises is not free from standing water; and
      (11)   The outside or outdoors use of any furniture originally designed
or intended for interior use such as, but not limited to, couches, sofas,
chairs, recliners or other like items.
   (B)   When any condition in violation of this section is found to exist,
such persons as may be designated by the Town Manager or the Town Council,
shall give notice to the owner of the premises to abate or remove such
conditions within ten days. Such notice shall be in writing, shall include a
description of the premises sufficient for identification and shall set forth
the violation and state that, if the violation is not corrected within ten
days, the town may proceed to correct the same as authorized by this section.
Service of such notice shall be by any of the following methods:
      (1)   By delivery to any owner personally or by leaving the notice at the
usual place of abode of the owner with a person who is over the age of 16 years
and a member of the family of the owner;
      (2)   By depositing the notice at the United States Post Office addressed
to the owner at his or her last known address with postage prepaid thereon; or
      (3)   By posting and keeping posted, for ten days, a copy of the notice,
in placard form, in a conspicuous place on the premises on which the violation
exists, when notice cannot be served by method (1) and (2).
   (C)   If the owner of any property fails to comply with a notice given
pursuant to this section, within ten days after the service of such notice, he
or she shall be subject to prosecution for violation of this section in
accordance with law and each day that such failure continues shall be a
separate offense. In addition, the Town Manager or designee may have the
condition described in the notice abated, removed or otherwise corrected and
all expenses incurred thereby shall be chargeable to and paid by the owner of
the property and shall be collected as taxes and levies are collected as set
forth in G.S. § 160A-193. All such expenses shall constitute a lien against the
property on which the work was done.
   (D)   The procedure set forth in this chapter shall be in addition to any
other remedies that may now or hereafter exist under law for the abatement of
public nuisances, and this chapter shall not prevent the town from proceeding
in a criminal action against any person, firm or corporation violating the
provisions of this chapter as provided in G.S. § 14-4.
   (E)   In accordance with the G.S. § 160A-175 and the Town of Sparta Code of
Ordinances, violation of this chapter shall subject the offender to the penalty
provisions of section § 10.99.
(Ord. passed 8-7-2012)
§ 92.25 FOWLS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow or permit his or her chickens
or other fowl to run at large or depreciate the premises of any other person,
or persons, without the permission of the occupant or owner of the premises.
All warrants under this section shall be founded on the complaint of injured
parties.
(Prior Code, § 5.2.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.26 AWNINGS AND SIGNS OVER SIDEWALKS.
   No person shall erect, project or suspend over the sidewalks of the town, or
any portion thereof, any sign, shed, awning or other structure, unless same
shall be erected under the supervision of the Building Inspector and shall be
securely fastened, and shall be not less than eight feet above the sidewalk,
and which shall not extend over beyond the width of the sidewalk; provided,
however, that, awnings of cloth or other similar material may be constructed
and suspended over the sidewalk; provided, the same are not less than eight
feet above sidewalks and are erected under the supervision and by permission of
the Building Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 5.2.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.27 GLASS THROWN OR DEPOSITED ON STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, place or cause to be thrown or
placed on the streets or alleys of the town, any glass, china or crockery ware
or other like substance.
(Prior Code, § 5.2.07) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.28 THROWING TRASH IN GUTTERS OR DRAINS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw or cause to be thrown, any
filth, rubbish or other refuse matter in the gutters or drains within the
corporate limits.
(Prior Code, § 5.2.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.29 KEEPING LOTS AND YARDS CLEAN.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who is the owner or occupant of any
property or vacant lot within the corporate limits, to fail, refuse or neglect
to keep grass, weeds, thistles or other undergrowth cut at least once each
month, beginning with April 1 to October 1 each year; and to remove and keep
removed from the premises or lots, the weeds, grass or other dangerous animal
and vegetable matter.
(Prior Code, § 5.2.07) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.30 OBSTRUCTING STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct any public street, alley or
sidewalk in the town by any means whatsoever; provided, however, that, nothing
contained in this section shall be construed to prohibit the Mayor from giving
permission for temporary obstruction of any street, alley or sidewalk in cases
as are reasonably necessary.
(Prior Code, § 5.2.08) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.31 UNNECESSARY NOISE.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of this section, the creation of any
unreasonably loud, disturbing and unnecessary noises is prohibited. Noise of a
character, intensity and duration as to be detrimental to the life or health of
any individual is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 5.2.09)
   (B)   The following acts, among others, are declared to be loud, disturbing
and unnecessary noises in violation of this section, but the enumeration shall
not be deemed to be exclusive, namely:
      (1)   The sounding of any horn or signal device on any automobile,
motorcycle, bus or other vehicle while not in motion, except as a danger signal
if another vehicle is approaching apparently out of control, or if in motion
only as a danger signal after or as brakes are being applied and deceleration
of the vehicle is intended; the creation by means of any signal device of any
unreasonably loud or harsh sound; and the sounding of the device for an
unnecessary and unreasonable period of time;
      (2)   The use of any gong or siren upon any vehicle other than police,
fire or other emergency vehicle;
      (3)   The playing of any radio, phonograph or other musical instruments
in a manner or with the volume, particularly during the hours between 11:00
p.m. and 7:00 a.m., as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of any
person or persons in any dwelling, hotel or other type of residence;
      (4)   The keeping of any animal or bird which by causing frequent or long
continued noise shall disturb the comfort and repose of any person in the
vicinity;
      (5)   The use of any automobile, motorcycle or other vehicle so out of
repair, so loaded or in a manner as to create loud or unnecessary grating,
grinding, rattling or other noise;
      (6)   The blowing of any steam whistle attached to any stationary boiler,
except to give notice of the time to begin or stop work or as a warning of
danger;
      (7)   The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any steam engine,
stationary internal combustion engine, motor vehicle or motor boat engine,
except through a muffler or other device which will effectively prevent loud or
explosive noises therefrom;
      (8)   The use of any mechanical device operated by compressed air unless
the noise created thereby is effectively muffled and reduced;
      (9)   The erection (including excavating), demolition, alteration or
repair of any building in a residential or business district other than between
the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on weekdays, except in the case of urgent
necessity in the interest of public safety and then only with a permit from the
Building Inspector, which permit may be renewed for a period of three days or
less while the emergency continues;
      (10)   The creation of any excessive noise on any street adjacent to any
school, institution of learning, or court while the same are in session, or
within 150 feet of any hospital, which unreasonably interferes with the working
of the institution; provided, conspicuous signs are displayed in the streets
indicating that the same is a school, court or hospital street;
      (11)   The creation of any excessive noise on Sundays on any street
adjacent to any church; provided, conspicuous signs are displayed in the
streets adjacent to churches indicating that the same is a church street;
      (12)   The creation of loud and excessive noise in connection with
loading or unloading any vehicle or the opening and destruction of bales,
boxes, crates and containers;
      (13)   The sounding of any bell or gong attached to any building or
premises which disturbs the quiet and peace of the neighborhood;
      (14)   The shouting and crying of peddlers, barkers, hawkers and vendors
which disturbs the quiet and peace of the neighborhood;
      (15)   The use of any drum, loudspeaker or other instrument or device for
the purpose of attracting attention by creation of noise to any performance,
show or sale or display of merchandise;
      (16)   The use of any mechanical loudspeakers or amplifiers on trucks or
other moving vehicles for the advertising or other purposes, except where
specific license is received from the Police Department;
      (17)   The conducting, operating or maintaining of any garage or filling
station in any residential district so as to cause loud or offensive noises to
be emitted therefrom between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.;
      (18)   The firing or discharging of a gun, squibs, firecrackers,
gunpowder or other combustible substance in the streets or elsewhere for the
purpose of making noise or disturbance, except by permit from the Police
Department; and/or
      (19)   It is unlawful to shoot an air rifle or BB gun on any property
within the town limits unless it be upon the property of residence.
(Prior Code, § 5.2.10)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.32 OUTDOOR DISPLAY: DISPLAY AND SALE OF MERCHANDISE ON SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Permission for sidewalk merchandise. The requirements of this section
shall apply to all areas within the Town of Sparta zoning jurisdiction.
Merchants lawfully conducting and operating a business from permanent physical
business facilities which front on and abut a city sidewalk may display and
sell goods, wares, and merchandise from the sidewalk so long as the
requirements contained herein are met.
   (B)   Application. Any merchant desiring to display and sell merchandise on
the city sidewalk shall prepare and file and application with the Code
Enforcement Officer, which shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the business desiring to
display or sell merchandise on the sidewalk.
      (2)   The name, address and telephone number of the business owner.
      (3)   The type of merchandise to be sold or displayed.
      (4)   The hours of operation of the business.
      (5)   A drawing or site plan showing the section of the sidewalk to be
used for the sale and display of merchandise.
      (6)   Evidence of adequate insurance or other forms of security to hold
the town and its taxpayers harmless from claims arising out of the sale and
display of merchandise.
      (7)   The business agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the town for all
actions, claims, proceedings, injuries, damages and expenses.
      (8)   A copy of all permits and licenses issued by the state or the city.
Such additional information as may be requested by the Code Enforcement Officer
to determine compliance with this section.
      (9)   A non-refundable check or money order made payable to the Town of
Sparta in the amount of $25 to cover the cost of review by the Code Enforcement
Officer.
   (C)   Issuance of permit. No permit for the sale and display of merchandise
on the sidewalk may be issued unless the application is complete and unless the
following are met:
      (1)   The sale and display of merchandise must occur under the same name
as the business and may not be opened or operated at anytime when the business
is closed.
      (2)   The placement of outdoor display merchandise shall be:
         (a)   Permitted adjacent to the primary façade (façade with principal
customer entrance) on either side and shall not exceed eight feet in height.
         (b)   At minimum, seven-foot width of clear space free of obstacles
shall be maintained on the sidewalk so that pedestrian traffic is not impeded.
         (c)   The seven-foot width shall begin at the face of the curbline in
front of the building.
         (d)   All merchandise located within an outdoor merchandise area shall
be placed so that the outdoor merchandise and the fixtures or devices on which
the merchandise is displayed are stable and not easily tipped, and shall not be
hazardous to the public.
         (e)   1.   All materials, tables, racks, or other items must be
removed from the sidewalk at the close of each business day, with the following
exception:
            2.   Tables and chairs used by a restaurant or coffee shop or other
business establishment serving food or non-alcoholic beverages may remain on
the sidewalk at all times, subject to the other provisions of this section,
unless the business owner is instructed to remove the tables and chairs by the
city. Such tables and chairs shall be for the exclusive use of patrons of the
business providing the tables and chairs, and in no case shall alcoholic
beverages be served to or consumed by any persons using the tables and chairs.
         (f)   In the event of a declared emergency or in a situation where
exigent circumstances arise, the business shall remove all articles from the
merchandise area when directed to do so by any law or Code Enforcement Officer,
fire official, or emergency medical personnel.
         (g)   The permit holder for the outdoor merchandise area shall be
responsible for maintenance, upkeep, and security of the display structure,
and/or fixtures or devices on which the merchandise is displayed.
         (h)   The permit holder for the outdoor merchandise area shall be
responsible for keeping the outdoor merchandise area clean of garbage, trash,
paper, cups, cans or litter associated with the operation of the outdoor
merchandise area.
         (i)   The permit holder for the outdoor merchandise area displaying or
selling merchandise on the sidewalk shall be responsible for repairing any
incidental damage to public sidewalks resulting from the display of
merchandise.
   (D)   Denial. A permit may be denied if it is found that the granting of the
permit would not be in the public interest. Any applicant denied a permit to
display or sell merchandise on the sidewalk shall receive a written statement,
outlining the grounds on which the denial is based. The applicant may appeal
the denial of the permit to the Town Council at the next scheduled Town Council
meeting following receipt of the written denial. The Town Council may take such
corrective action as it shall find necessary. The findings and determination of
the Town Council shall be final.
   (E)   Permit revocation. The town may revoke a permit issued pursuant to
this section, if it finds that the business owner has:
      (1)   Deliberately misrepresented or provided false information in the
permit application.
      (2)   Displayed or sold merchandise in such a manner as to create public
nuisance or to constitute a hazard to the public health, safety, or welfare;
specifically including failure to keep the area clean and free of refuse.
       (3)   Failed to maintain any health, business, or other permit or
license required by law for the operation of the business.
      (4)   Before the revocation of a permit, the Code Enforcement Officer
shall notify the permit holder of its intent to revoke the permit and the
reasons therefor, and shall afford the permit holder a reasonable opportunity
to appear and be heard on the question of such revocation. The Code Enforcement
Officer shall notify permit holder in writing of the decision and the reasons
therefor. A decision by the Code Enforcement Officer to revoke permit may be
appealed to the Town Council in accordance with the provisions of this section.
   (F)   All permits are automatically renewed each year if there are no
changes to the original application. Permits are not transferable or
assignable.
   (G)   This section shall not prohibit the Town Council from authorizing
sidewalk sales in the event of street fairs and festivals which allow vendors
and craftspeople to display wares in streets which are blocked off from
vehicular traffic.
(Ord. passed 11-17-2020)
CHAPTER 93: STANDARDS FOR NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS AND PREMISES FITNESS
Section
   
93.01   Purpose
   
93.02   Findings; authority
   
93.03   Scope; jurisdiction
   
93.04   Definitions
   
93.05   Duties and responsibilities
   
93.06   Standards
   
93.07   Procedures for enforcement
   
93.08   Administration
§ 93.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to provide a just, equitable and
practicable method whereby non-residential buildings and premises which from
any cause, endanger the life, limb, health, morals, property, safety or welfare
of the general public or their occupants, diminish property values or detract
excessively form he appropriate appearance of the area in which they are
located, may be required to be repaired, closed, vacated or demolished.
   (B)   The North Carolina State Building Code, current edition, shall serve
as the standard for all alterations, repairs, additions, removals, demolitions
and other acts of building made or required pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. passed 4-7-2015)
§ 93.02 FINDINGS; AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Pursuant to G.S. Chapter 160A-174, it is hereby found and declared
that there exists in the town nonresidential buildings and premises which are
unsafe and especially dangerous to life because of liability to fire or because
of bad conditions of walls, overloaded floors, defective construction, decay,
unsafe wiring or heating systems, inadequate means of egress and other causes.
   (B)   In addition, it is hereby found and declared, that there exists in the
town nonresidential buildings and premises which, although not meeting the
classification of unsafe and especially dangerous to life, fail to fully comply
with all the minimum standards for nonresidential buildings and premises
fitness as established herein and, therefore, have present one or more
conditions which are inimical to the public health, safety and general welfare.
Such conditions, if not corrected, can lead to deterioration and dilapidation
of nonresidential buildings and premises which render them unsafe and
especially dangerous to life.
(Ord. passed 4-7-2015)
§ 93.03 SCOPE; JURISDICTION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all existing nonresidential
buildings and premises and to all nonresidential buildings and premises
hereafter constructed within the town limits, as now or hereafter established.
(Ord. passed 4-7-2015)
§ 93.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter certain words, terms, or phrases used
herein are interpreted and defined as follows:
   (A)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future tense.
   (B)   Words used in the singular shall include the plural and words used in
the plural shall include the singular.
   (C)   The words "shall" and "will" always indicate mandatory, the words
"should" and "may" always indicate optional.
   (D)   The word "lot" includes the word "plot" and/or "parcel".
   (E)   The word "building" includes the word "structure".
   (F)   The word "person" includes a "firm, association, organization,
partnership, trust, company, corporation and/or individual".
   (G)   The word "use" includes the terms "arranged, designed, and/or
intended" for a use, activity and/or purpose.
   (H)   The term "Board of Adjustment" shall always indicate the Board of
Adjustment of the town as created and appointed by the Town Council of said
town.
   (I)   The term "Town Council" shall always indicate the Town Council.
      BUILDING. Any covered structure intended for shelter, housing or
enclosure of persons, animals, facilities, equipment or chattels; the term
"building" shall be construed to include the term "structure"; furthermore, it
shall be construed as if followed by the term or part thereof.
      BUILDING, ACCESSORY. A detached subordinate building located on a lot,
parcel or tract whose use is incidental to that of the principal building. A
building cannot be considered accessory unless it accompanies a principal
building on the same lot, parcel or tract.
      BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A building in which the principal use of the lot,
parcel or tract is conducted.
      BUILDING OF HISTORICAL VALUE. A building within the town which is listed
on the Nation Register, or constituting special significance to the general
citizenry of the town due to age, history, architectural design, human
occurrence, culture and possessing integrity of design, setting, materials,
feeling and association.
      BUILDING CODE. The North Carolina State Building Code.
      DETERIORATION. The condition of a building or part thereof, characterized
by holes, breaks, rot, crumbling, rusting, peeling paint, or other evidence of
physical decay of loss of structural integrity.
      FIRE HAZARD (see also NUISANCE). Any thing or act which increases, or may
cause an increase of, the hazard, likelihood or menace of fire to a greater
degree than reasonable for the conduct of the nonresidential use on the
premises, or which may unreasonably obstruct, delay, or hinder, or may
unreasonably become the cause of an obstruction, a delay, a hazard or an
unreasonable hindrance to the prevention, suppression or extinguishment of
fire.
      GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
      INFESTATION. The haunting or overrunning by rats, snakes, birds, insects
or other destructive vermin or animals that endanger the public health and
safety.
      NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDING MAINTENANCE STANDARDS INSPECTOR. The person
delegated as such by the Town Council. (Hereinafter referred to as "the
inspector".)
      NUISANCE.
         (a)   Any public nuisance known as common law or in equity
jurisprudence, or as provided by the statutes of the State of North Carolina,
or the ordinances of the town;
         (b)   Any condition including an attractive nuisance which may prove
detrimental to human health or safety whether in a building, on the premises of
a building, or part of a building or upon an occupied lot;
         (c)   Physical conditions dangerous to human life or detrimental to
health of persons in, on or near the premises where the condition exists;
         (d)   Unsanitary conditions or conditions that are dangerous to public
health, well-being or the general welfare; or
         (e)   Fire hazard or other safety hazards.
      OCCUPANT. Any person who has charge, care or control of a nonresidential
building and/or premises or a part thereof, whether with or without the
knowledge and consent of the owner, or any person, individually or jointly,
entitled to possession regardless of whether the building and/or premises are
actually occupied or not.
      OWNER. The holder of the title in fee simple and every mortgagee of
record of a property.
      PHYSICAL VALIDATION. The estimated cost to replace a building in kind.
      PLUMBING. All of the following supplies, facilities and equipment: gas
pipes, gas burning equipment, water pipes, water heaters, garbage disposal
units, waste pipes, water closets, sinks, installed dishwashers, lavatories,
bathtubs, shower baths, installed clothes washing machines, catch basins, vents
and other similar fixtures, together with all connections to water, sewer, or
gas lines, and water pipes and lines utilized in conjunction with HVAC
equipment.
      PREMISES. A lot, plot or parcel of land including the buildings or
structures thereon, under control by the same owner or occupant, devoted to or
zoned for nonresidential use.
      PUBLIC SANITARY SEWER. Any sanitary sewer owned, operated and maintained
by the town and available for public use for the disposal of sewage.
      RUBBISH. Combustible and noncombustible waste materials, except garbage
and ashes, including, but not limited to, paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood,
excelsior, rubber, leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin cans, metals,
mineral matter, glass crockery and dust.
      SEWAGE. Waste from flush toilet, bathtub, sink, lavatory, dishwashing or
laundry machine, or water-carried waste from any other fixture, equipment or
machine.
      STRUCTURALLY SOUND. Substantially free from flaw, defect, decay or
deterioration to the extent that such structure or structural member is capable
of adequately or safely accomplishing the purpose for which it was intended or
designed.
      SUPPLIED. Paid for, furnished or provided by, or under control of, the
owner or occupant.
(Ord. passed 4-7-2015)
§ 93.05 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Duties and responsibilities of the owner. It shall be the duty and
responsibility of the owner to maintain all nonresidential buildings and
premises in accordance with all standards for nonresidential buildings and
premises fitness as stated in §
93.06.
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities of the occupant. It shall be the duty and
responsibility of the occupant to ensure that:
      (1)   All parts of the premises under the control of the occupant shall
be kept in a safe, clean and sanitary condition consistent with the
nonresidential use and the occupant shall refrain from performing any acts
which would render any parts of the building or premises unsafe or unsanitary
or which would obstruct any adjacent owner/occupant from performing any duty
required, or from maintaining his building or premises in a safe and sanitary
condition.
      (2)   Every occupant shall be responsible for the elimination of
infestation in and on the premises, subject to his control.
      (3)   Every occupant shall maintain all supplied plumbing fixtures in a
safe and sanitary condition and shall be responsible for the exercise of
reasonable care in the proper use and operation of same.
      (4)   No garbage or solid waste shall be stored or allowed by the
occupant to accumulate on the premises unless contained in a trash receptacle
(s) which is in accordance with the Code of Ordinances of the Town of Sparta.
      (5)   Damage to public sidewalks and/or curb and gutter located in the
public right-of-way shall be repaired or replaced at no expense to the city
when such damage is caused by vehicles making deliveries to the nonresidential
use under the control of the occupant.
      (6)   Where the owner would not otherwise know of a defect of any
facility, utility or equipment required to be furnished hereunder and the same
is found to be defective or inoperable, the occupant affected thereby shall,
upon learning of such defect, provide notice to the owner.
   (C)   Relationship of duties and responsibilities to occupancy. The
provisions of this chapter that apply to the exterior or exterior components of
a structure or building or to the premises shall be complied with whether the
structure or building or premises is occupied or vacant. All unoccupied or
vacant structures or buildings shall be secured by their owners to prevent the
entry of unauthorized persons or the formation of nuisance conditions such as
infestation.
   (D)   Validity. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase of
this chapter is for any reason held to be invalid, such decision shall not
affect the validity of the remaining portions of this chapter. The Town Council
hereby declares that it would have passed this chapter and each section,
subsection, clause and phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or
more sections, subsections sentences, clauses or phrases be declared invalid.
   (E)   Conflict with other provisions. In the event any provision, standard
or requirement of this chapter is found to be in conflict with any provision of
any other ordinance or code of the city, the provision which establishes the
higher standard or more stringent requirement for the promotion and protection
of the health and safety of the residents of the jurisdiction shall prevail.
The North Carolina State Building Code, current edition, shall serve as the
standard for all alterations, repairs, additions, removals, demolitions and
other acts of building made or required pursuant to this chapter.
   (F)   Amendments. The Town Council may, from time to time amend, supplement,
or change the provisions and requirements of this chapter. Any such amendment
shall be by ordinance of the Town Council.
(Ord. passed 4-7-2015)
§ 93.06 STANDARDS FOR NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS AND PREMISES FITNESS.
   (A)   Unlawful to own unsafe buildings and structures.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any firm, person or corporation to own a
building or a structure situated in the jurisdiction of the town which is in
such a defective or hazardous condition that it is unsafe and especially
dangerous to life. The Town of Sparta Council has determined that unsafe and
especially dangerous buildings and structures are detrimental to the health,
safety and welfare of the citizens of Sparta, that such unsafe and especially
dangerous buildings and structures shall be condemned, and that the owners of
such unsafe and especially dangerous buildings and structures shall immediately
remedy the unsafe, dangerous, hazardous or unlawful conditions or demolish such
buildings or structures.
      (2)   A building or structure shall be found to be especially dangerous
to life and held unsafe if the Inspector finds that any one of the following
conditions exists in such building or structure:
         (a)   Interior walls or vertical studs which seriously list, lean or
buckle to an extent as to render the building unsafe.
         (b)   Supporting member or members which show 33% or more damage or
deterioration, or non-supporting, enclosing or outside walls or covering which
shows 50% or more of damage or deterioration.
         (c)   Floors or roofs which have improperly distributed loads, which
are overloaded or which have insufficient strength to be reasonably safe for
the purpose used.
         (d)   Such damage by fire, wind or other causes as to render the
building unsafe.
         (e)   Dilapidation, decay, unsanitary conditions or disrepair which is
dangerous to the health, safety or welfare of the occupants or other people of
the jurisdiction.
         (f)   Inadequate facilities for egress in case of fire or panic.
         (g)   Defects significantly increasing the hazards of fire, accident
or other calamities.
         (h)   Lack of adequate ventilation, light, heating or sanitary
facilities to such extent as to endanger the health, safety or general welfare
of the occupants or other residents of the jurisdiction.
         (i)   Lack of proper electrical, heating or plumbing facilities
required by this chapter which constitutes a health or a definite safety
hazard.
         (j)   For any building whose occupancy classification requires it,
lack of connection to a potable water supply and/or to the public sanitary
sewer or other approved sewage disposal system. For the purposes of this
standard, a building is not connected to a potable water supply if the water
supply has been "cut off" because of nonpayment of the water bill or otherwise
or if the system for any reason is not receiving a flow of potable water to the
tap.
         (k)   Any violation of the State Fire Prevention Code which
constitutes a condition which is unsafe and especially dangerous to life.
         (l)   Any abandoned nonresidential building which is found to be a
health or safety hazard by the Inspector as a result of the attraction of
insects or rodents, conditions creating a fire hazard, dangerous conditions
constituting a threat to children, or frequent use by vagrants as living
quarters in the absence of sanitary facilities.
      (3)   In addition to divisions (A)(2)(a) through (l) above, anyone of
which renders a building or structure unsafe, the inspector shall determine
that a nonresidential building or structure is unsafe if he finds that a
building or structure fails to fully comply with any five or more of the
following enumerated standards of building and premises fitness. Full
compliance with a standard means that if any part of the stated standard is not
complied with by a particular building and premises, then that building and
premises has failed to fully comply with the enumerated standards.
   (B)   General.
      (1)   Buildings and premises shall be kept clear of accumulations of
garbage, trash, or rubbish which create health and sanitation problems. All
garbage and solid waste shall be in approved containers or stored in a safe and
sanitary way.
      (2)   Flammable, combustible, explosive or other dangerous or hazardous
materials shall be stored in a manner approved for such materials and
consistent with the State Fire Prevention Code.
      (3)   Buildings and premises shall be kept free of loose and
insufficiently anchored overhanging objects which constitute a danger of
falling on persons or property.
      (4)   The premises shall be kept free of insufficiently protected holes,
excavations, breaks, projections, obstructions and other such dangerous
impediments on and around fences, walls, walks, driveways, parking lots and
other areas which are accessible to and generally used by persons on the
premises.
      (5)   Buildings and premises surfaces shall be kept clear of cracked or
broken glass, loose shingles, loose wood, crumbling stone or brick, loose or
broken plastic or other dangerous objects or similar hazardous conditions.
Exterior surfaces shall be maintained in such material or treated in such a
manner as to prevent deterioration.
      (6)   Buildings and premises shall be kept free of objects and elements
protruding from building walls, roof or premises which are unsafe or not
properly secured or which can create a hazard such as abandoned electrical
boxes and conduits, wires, sign brackets and other brackets, and similar
objects.
   (C)   Appurtenances.
      (1)   All chimneys, flues and vent attachments thereto shall be
maintained structurally sound. Chimneys, flues, gas vents or other draft-
producing equipment which are in use shall provide sufficient draft to develop
the rated output of the connected equipment, shall be structurally safe,
durable, smoke-tight and capable of withstanding the action of flue gases.
      (2)   All exterior porches, landings, balconies, stairs and fire escapes
shall be provided with banisters or railings properly designed and maintained
to minimize the hazard of falling, and the same shall be kept structurally
sound, in good repair, and free of defects.
      (3)   All cornices shall be made structurally sound. Rotten or weakened
portions shall be removed and/or replaced. All exposed wood shall be treated or
painted.
      (4)   Gutters and down spouts shall be replaced or repaired as necessary
and shall be appropriately located and securely installed so as not to cause a
hazard to pedestrians, vehicular traffic or property.
      (5)   Attached and unattached accessory structures shall be maintained in
a state of good repair.
      (6)   Advertising sign structures, attached or freestanding, awnings,
marquees and their supporting members and other similar attachments and
structures shall be maintained in good repair and shall not cause a nuisance or
safety hazard.
   (D)   Structural.
      (1)   Walls, partitions, supporting members, sills, joists, rafters or
other structural members shall not list, lean or buckle, shall not be rotted,
deteriorated or damaged, and shall not have holes or cracks which might admit
rodents.
      (2)   Floors or roofs shall have adequate supporting members and strength
to be reasonably safe for the purpose used.
      (3)   Foundations, foundation walls, piers or other foundation supports
shall not be deteriorated or damaged.
      (4)   Interior steps, railings, landings, porches or other parts or
appurtenances shall be maintained in such condition that they will not fall or
collapse.
      (5)   Where a wall of a building has become exposed as a result of
demolition of an adjacent building said wall must have all doors, windows,
vents or other similar openings closed with material of the type comprising the
wall unless such doors, windows, vents or other similar openings are to be
maintained in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. No protrusions or
loose material shall be in the wall. The exposed wall shall be painted,
stuccoed or bricked so as not to detract from the aesthetics and value of
adjacent property and weatherproofed if necessary to prevent deterioration of
the wall.
   (E)   Plumbing, electrical and supplied facilities.
      (1)   All plumbing fixtures and pipes shall meet the standards of the
State Plumbing Code and shall be maintained in a state of good repair and in
good working order.
      (2)   All electrical fixtures, receptacles, equipment and wiring shall be
maintained in a state of good repair, safe, capable of being used, and
installed in accordance with the State Electric Code.
      (3)   Every supplied facility, piece of equipment or utility which is
required under this chapter or the State Building Code for occupancy or use
shall be so constructed or installed that it will function safely and
effectively and shall be maintained in satisfactory working condition.
   (F)   Egress.
      (1)   Facilities for egress in case of fire or panic shall be adequate
and shall remain clear for such purposes.
      (2)   All windows must be tight-fitting and have sashes of proper size
and design and free from rotten wood, broken joints, or broken or loose
mullions.
      (3)   All windows shall be maintained free of broken glass that could be
dangerous to the public, invitees or third parties ordinarily expected to use
the premises, from falling or shattering.
      (4)   All openings originally designed as windows shall be maintained as
windows, unless specifically approved by the inspector for enclosure.
   (G)   Drainage.
      (1)   All yards and premises shall be properly graded and maintained so
as to obtain thorough drainage and so as to prevent the accumulation of
stagnant water.
      (2)   Buildings and premises not declared unsafe but which are not in
compliance with all standards.
      (3)   In any case where the Inspector determines that a nonresidential
building and/or premises fails to fully comply with one or more but less than
five of the standards of nonresidential buildings and premises fitness set
forth in §
93.06, such building and/or premises shall not be found to be unsafe and shall
not be subject to the procedures and remedies as provided for in this chapter
for unsafe buildings and premises. Each such failure of noncompliance, however,
shall constitute a violation of the terms of this chapter and shall subject the
violator to the penalties and enforcement procedures, civil or criminal or
both, of §
93.08(E). In such case the inspector shall notify the owner as provided for in
§
93.07(E).
(Ord. passed 4-7-2015)
§ 93.07 PROCEDURES FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Unsafe buildings shall be condemned by the inspector. If a building or
structure shall appear to the inspector to be especially dangerous to life and
unsafe under §
93.06 the inspector shall: (a) make a written finding that the building or
structure appears to be unsafe and is condemned; and (b) affix a condemned
notice of the dangerous character or conditions of the building or structure to
a conspicuous place on the exterior wall of such building or structure.
   (B)   Removal of condemnation notice unlawful. It shall be unlawful for any
person to remove a condemned notice from a building or structure after such
condemned notice has been affixed to it by the inspector pursuant to the
provisions of § division (A) above.
   (C)   Complaint and notice of hearing. If a building or structure has been
condemned by the Inspector as unsafe pursuant to this ordinance, the inspector
should serve the owner with a written complaint and notice of hearing which
notice shall state that:
      (1)   The building or structure is condemned due to its condition that
appears to constitute a fire or safety hazard or appears to be dangerous to
life, health or other property and that it is held to be unsafe;
      (2)   A hearing will be held before the Inspector at a designated place
and time, which time should be not less than ten days nor more than 30 days
after the date of such notice, and that at such hearing the owner shall be
entitled to be heard in person or by counsel and to present arguments and
evidence pertaining to the matter;
      (3)   Following the hearing, the Inspector may issue such order to
repair, close, vacate or demolish the building or structure as the Inspector
deems to be appropriate under the existing conditions; and
      (4)   Upon the issuance of a complaint and notice of hearing pursuant to
this chapter, the inspector may cause the filing of a notice of lis pendens,
with a copy of the complaint and notice of hearing attached thereto, in the
office of the Clerk of Superior Court of Alleghany County, as applicable, to be
indexed and cross-indexed in accordance with the indexing procedures of the
North Carolina General Statutes. The Inspector shall cause a copy of the notice
of lis pendens to be served upon the owner of the building or structure at the
time of filing in accordance with G.S. § 160A-428 as applicable. Upon
compliance with the requirements of any order issued based upon such complaint
and hearing, the inspector shall direct the Clerk of Superior Court to cancel
the notice of lis pendens.
   (D)   Order to take corrective action; contents; issuance.
      (1)   If, upon a hearing held pursuant to division (B) above, the
inspector shall find that the building or structure is in an unsafe condition
which constitutes a fire or safety hazard or renders it dangerous to life,
health or other property, the Inspector shall issue an order in writing,
directed to the owner or owners of such building or structure, directing the
owner or owners to remedy the defective condition by repairing, closing,
vacating or demolishing the building or structure or taking other necessary
steps within such a period as the Inspector may prescribe, which period may not
be less than 60 days from the service of the order, provided that, where the
Inspector finds that there is imminent danger to life, health or other
property, the order may require that corrective action be taken in such lesser
period as may be feasible.
      (2)   Buildings of historical value may be granted exemption from this
chapter by the Board of Adjustment. In granting an exemption the board must
make a finding that the building is a building of historical value to the city,
that the owner will repair the damage on a timely basis, with compliance not to
exceed six months, and that the building will be reconstructed and/or repaired
in such a way as to keep the historical character of the building.
   (E)   Service of written notice or order of inspector. In any case where
this chapter requires service of a written notice or order by the Inspector,
such notice or order shall be made in the following manner:
      (1)   The written notice or order shall be served upon each owner by
mailing the same by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, to
the owner's last known addressor by personal service of the notice or order
upon each owner.
      (2)   If the name or whereabouts of an owner are unknown and cannot after
due diligence be discovered, the notice or order shall be considered properly
and adequately served upon such owner if a copy thereof is posted on the
outside of the building or structure in question at least ten days prior to the
hearing, if a hearing is required, and a notice of the hearing published in a
newspaper having general circulation in the jurisdiction at least once not
later than one week prior to the hearing.
   (F)   Appeal of order of inspector; finality if not appealed. Any owner who
has received an order may appeal from the order to the Board of Adjustment by
giving notice of appeal in writing to the inspector and to the City Clerk
within ten days following issuance of the order. In the absence of an appeal to
the Board of Adjustment within the prescribed time, the order of the inspector
shall be final. the Board of Adjustment shall hear appeals within a reasonable
time after receipt of the notice of appeal and it may modify and affirm or
revoke the order.
   (G)   Failure to comply with order of inspector. It shall be unlawful for
the owner of a building or structure to fail to comply with an order issued
from which no appeal has been taken or fail to comply with an order of the
Board of Adjustment following an appeal, unless the owner shall, within ten
days following issuance of the order by the Board of Adjustment, appeal from
that order as by law provided.
   (H)   Remedies; lien for cost of demolition and removal.
      (1)   In the event of such failure to comply, in addition to the
penalties, remedies and enforcement procedures contained in §
10.99; continuing violations and §
93.08(E), the inspector may cause such building and premises to be repaired,
closed, vacated or demolished as appears appropriate.
      (2)   The inspector, however, shall not take such action until the Town
Council shall have by ordinance ordered the inspector to proceed with such
action with respect to the particular property or properties which the
Inspector shall have found to be unsafe or not in compliance with all standards
of nonresidential building and premises fitness and which property or
properties shall be described in the ordinance. No such ordinance shall be
adopted to require demolition of a building until the owner has first been
given a reasonable opportunity to bring it into conformity with this chapter.
The ordinance adopted pursuant to this chapter shall be recorded in the office
of the Register of Deeds of the Alleghany County and shall be indexed in the
name of the property owner or owners in the grantor index.
      (3)   The amount of the cost of repairs, alterations or improvements, or
vacating and closing, or removal or demolition by the Inspector shall be a lien
against the real property upon which the cost was incurred, which lien shall be
filed, have the same priority, and be collected as a lien for special
assessments provided in G.S. Chapter 160A, Art. 10. If the building is removed
or demolished by the Inspector, he shall sell the materials of the building,
and the personal property, fixtures or appurtenances found in or attached to
the building, and shall credit the proceeds of the sale against the cost of the
removal or demolition and any balance remaining shall be deposited in the
Superior Court by the Inspector, shall be secured in a manner directed by the
Court, and shall be disbursed by the court to the persons found to be entitled
thereto by final order of the decree of the court.
   (I)   Failure of occupant to comply with order to vacate. If any occupant
fails to comply with an order to vacate a building, the Inspector may file a
civil action in the name of the town to remove such occupant. The action to
vacate the building shall be in the nature of summary ejectment and shall be
commenced by filing a complaint naming as parties-defendant any persons
occupying such building. The Clerk of Superior Court shall issue a summons
requiring the defendant to appear before a magistrate at a certain time, date
and place not to exceed ten days from the issuance of the summons to answer the
complaint. The summons and complaint shall be served as provided in G.S. 42-29.
The summons shall be returned according to its tenor, and if on its return it
appears to have been duly served, and if at the hearing the inspector produces
a certified copy of an ordinance adopted by the Town Council pursuant to this
chapter authorizing the inspector to proceed to vacate the occupied building,
the magistrate shall enter judgement ordering that the premises be vacated and
that all persons be removed. The judgement ordering that the building be
vacated shall be enforced in the same manner as the judgement for summary
ejectment entered under G.S. 42-30. An appeal from any judgement entered
hereunder by the magistrate may be taken as provided in G.S. 7A-228, and the
execution of such judgement may be stayed as provided in G.S. 7A-227. An action
to remove an occupant of a building who is a tenant of the owner may not be in
the nature of a summary ejectment proceeding pursuant to this chapter unless
such occupant was served with notice at least 30 days before the filing of the
summary ejectment proceeding that the Town Council has ordered the inspector to
proceed to exercise his duties under this chapter to vacate and close or remove
and demolish the building.
   (J)   Demolition of nonresidential buildings by owner. Where a
nonresidential building is under the jurisdiction of this chapter, the building
may be demolished by the owner provided that the following requirements are
met:
      (1)   The owner obtain a demolition permit from the Inspections
Department of Alleghany County.
      (2)   All sewer, gas, water and similar taps or connections be properly
closed and disconnected.
      (3)   All debris from the building be removed from the site. This
requirement is for the removal of all debris that is above the street level of
the building.
      (4)   The lot be graded to a smooth, even, finished grade, free from
building material, debris, holes, and/or depressions. Where building debris
remains on the site below street level, the owner must back fill the lot with
12 inches of clean fill which shall be graded to a smooth, even finished grade.
      (5)   Where walls of adjacent buildings become exposed as a result of the
demolition, said walls must have all doors, windows, vents or other similar
openings closed with material of the type comprising the wall, unless such
doors, windows, vents, or other similar openings are to be maintained in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter. No protrusions or loose
material shall be in the wall. The exposed wall shall be painted, stuccoed or
bricked so as not to detract from the aesthetics and value of the adjacent
property and weatherproofed if necessary to prevent deterioration of the wall.
(Ord. passed 4-7-2015)
§ 93.08 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Office of Nonresidential Building Maintenance Standards Inspector
created; powers and duties.
      (1)   For the purposes of administering and enforcing the provisions of
this chapter the office of nonresidential building maintenance standards
Inspector, (herein called "Inspector"), is hereby created.
      (2)   The Inspector shall be appointed by the Town Council shall take and
subscribe to the oath of office administered by the Town Clerk, and shall have
such powers as may be necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the
purposes and provisions of this chapter, including without limiting the
generality of the foregoing, in addition to others herein granted, the
following powers:
         (a)   To investigate the nonresidential building conditions in the
jurisdiction in order to determine which buildings therein are unsafe; being
guided in such examinations of buildings by the requirements set forth in this
chapter, and for the purpose of carrying out the objectives of this chapter
with respect to such nonresidential buildings.
         (c)   To administer oaths and affirmations and to examine witnesses
and receive evidence.
         (d)   To enter upon and within premises and buildings for the purpose
of making examinations and investigations, provided, that such entries shall be
made at reasonable hours in such a manner as to cause the least possible
inconvenience to the persons in possession.
         (e)   To delegate any of his functions and powers under this chapter
to such officers and agents as he may designate.
   (B)   Inspections.
      (1)   For the purpose of carrying out the intent of this chapter, the
Inspector is hereby authorized to enter, examine and survey at all reasonable
times all nonresidential buildings and premises, including abandoned
structures. The owner or occupant of every nonresidential building or the
person in charge thereof, shall give the Inspector free access to such building
and its premises, at all reasonable times for the purposes of such inspection,
examination and survey. Every occupant of a nonresidential building shall give
the owner thereof, or his agent or employee, access to any part of such
building and its premises at all reasonable times for the purpose of making
such repairs or alterations as are necessary to effect compliance with the
provisions of this chapter or with any lawful order issued pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   The inspector may make periodic inspections for unsafe, unsanitary
or otherwise hazardous and unlawful conditions in nonresidential structures
within the jurisdiction. In addition, he may make inspections when he has
reason to believe that such conditions may exist in a particular structure or
premises.
   (C)   Defects in buildings to be corrected. When the inspector finds any
defects in a nonresidential building, or finds that a building has not been
constructed in accordance with applicable state and city laws, or that a
building because of its condition is dangerous or contains fire hazardous
conditions, it shall be his/her duty to notify the owner or occupant of the
building of its defects, hazardous conditions or failure to comply with law.
The owner or occupant shall each immediately remedy the defects, hazardous
conditions or violations of law in the property he owns. Failure to do so shall
constitute a violation of this chapter. Each day any violation of this chapter
shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
   (D)   Violations. In addition to the conditions, acts or failure to act that
constitute violations specified in this chapter, it shall be unlawful for the
owner of any building and premises to fail, neglect or refuse to repair, alter
or improve the same, or to vacate and close or vacate and remove or demolish
the same, upon order of the inspector duly made and served as herein provided,
within the time specified in such order. It shall be unlawful for the owner of
any building, with respect to which an order has been issued pursuant to §
93.07(E), to occupy or permit the occupancy of the same after the time
prescribed in such order for its repair, alteration or improvement or its
vacation and closing, or vacation and removal or demolition.
   (E)   Penalties for violations; alternative remedies. In addition to other
penalties and remedies provided by this chapter, violation of this chapter
shall constitute either a misdemeanor punishable by fine or imprisonment as
provided by G.S. § 14-4, as amended, or at the election of the town, shall
subject the offender to civil penalties, remedies, and enforcement procedures
contained in §
10.99; continuing violations of the town.
(Ord. passed 4-7-2015)
CHAPTER 94: SPECIAL EVENTS WITHIN THE TOWN LIMITS
Section
   
94.01   Special events
   
94.02   Approval required
   
94.03   Special event approval process
   
94.04   Costs incurred by the town
   
94.05   Staff review
   
94.06   Notice and public hearing
   
94.07   Standards for issuance of approval
   
94.08   Modification; alternate approval
   
94.09   Insurance
   
94.10   Town indemnified
   
94.11   Street closings
   
94.12   Person in charge/responsible planner and on-site manager
   
94.13   Prohibitions
   
94.14   Activity and conduct during special events
   
94.15   Revocation of permit
§ 94.01 SPECIAL EVENTS.
   (A)   This chapter applies to all street fairs, festivals, athletic events,
carnivals, parades, marches, rallies, or other similar activities or public
events not intended in whole or in part to exercise freedom protected under the
First Amendment of the United States Constitution, and that require the
temporary closing or obstruction of a street, sidewalk, or other public right-
of-way or any segment thereof, or that otherwise substantially hinder or
prevent the normal flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic along any street,
sidewalk, or other public right-of-way. Any such activity covered by this
chapter shall hereafter be referred to as a SPECIAL EVENT.
   (B)   This chapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   An activity occurring entirely on property owned by person, county
or another unit of government;
      (2)   Funeral processions;
      (3)   Students going to and from school or participating in an
educational activity where such activity is under the immediate supervision and
direction of proper school authorities;
      (4)   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions; or
      (5)   Special events substantially administered by the Town of Sparta, or
an authorized agent of the town, provided the special event is insured against
accidents and liabilities by the town or by the entity acting on behalf of the
town.
(Ord. passed 5-2-2021)
§ 94.02 APPROVAL REQUIRED.
   No person may run, operate, or sponsor any special event in any public
street, parking lot, sidewalk, or right-of-way without approval obtained from
the town in accordance with this chapter.
(Ord. passed 5-2-2021)
§ 94.03 SPECIAL EVENT APPROVAL PROCESS.
   (A)   A person seeking to obtain approval for a special event shall notify
the Town Manager, or his or her designee, no less than 30 days before the date
the special event activity will commence. The following information shall be
contained in the notification:
      (1)   The name, address, telephone number, and email address of the
person seeking to conduct the special event, and the name, address, telephone,
and email address of the organization with which the person is affiliated or on
whose behalf the person is applying to conduct the special event (collectively
"applicant");
      (2)   The name, address, telephone number, and email address for an
individual who shall be designated as the "person in charge" or "responsible
planner and on-site manager" of the special event;
      (3)   The requested date, time, place, and route (from starting point to
ending point) of the special event, including the location where and time when
the special event will assemble and disband, and any requested sidewalk or
street closings;
      (4)   The anticipated number of persons, vehicles, and things that will
constitute the special event (including the basis on which this estimate is
made), and a description of the vehicles and things that will be part of the
special event;
      (5)   A list of the number and type of animals that will be a part of the
special event;
      (6)   Any barriers or traffic control devices that will be erected;
location of proposed concession stands, booths, platforms, benches or
bleachers, toilet facilities and garbage facilities;
      (7)   A description of the extent to which the special event will occupy
all of a portion of any street or sidewalk;
      (8)   The approximate number of anticipated spectators of the special
event;
      (9)   A general description of the size and composition of any banners,
signs, flags, or other attention-getting devices to be used in connection with
the special event;
      (10)   A general description of the activities planned during the special
event, including whether any alcoholic beverages will be sold or consumed, and
a sketch map of where such beverages will be sold and consumed.
      (11)   Arrangements for additional police protection and/or liability
insurance.
   (B)   The sponsor of a special event that consists of a series of activities
spread over more than one day shall only be required to make one notification,
which will cover the entire duration of the special event. This division
applies only to special event activities lasting six months or less.
(Ord. passed 5-2-2021)
§ 94.04 COSTS INCURRED BY THE TOWN.
   If the town is required to provide additional police protection or any other
extraordinary services or equipment, or if the Town Manager otherwise
determines that such additional police or other extraordinary services or
equipment should be provided for reasons related to public health or safety,
the town may require the sponsor to provide additional police or to pay the
town a fee sufficient to reimburse the town for providing additional police or
for providing the costs of any extraordinary services or equipment provided by
the town.
(Ord. passed 5-2-2021)
§ 94.05 STAFF REVIEW.
   Under receipt of the event notification and applicable fees (if any are
required), the Town Manager, or designee when deemed appropriate, shall
circulate it to the Public Services Director, Chief of Police and any other
appropriate persons for their comment. The Town Manager may arrange to have a
conference on the application with the sponsor and/or applicant and one or more
of the department heads listed above.
(Ord. passed 5-2-2021)
§ 94.06 NOTICE AND PUBLIC HEARING.
   (A)   The Town Council shall consider all notifications for special event.
   (B)   Public hearings are not required for special events.
   (C)   The Town Council may hold a public hearing on any special event
request that it deems necessary. This hearing may be held at any regular
meeting of the Council.
(Ord. passed 5-2-2021)
§ 94.07 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF APPROVAL.
   (A)   The town shall authorize the requested special event activity unless
it finds that:
      (1)   The conduct of the activity will require the assignment of so many
police officers that the remainder of the town cannot adequately be protected;
      (2)   The activity will interfere with the movement of emergency vehicles
to such an extent that adequate police, fire, or other emergency services
cannot be adequately provided throughout the town;
      (3)   Allowing the activity to be held would constitute a clear and
present danger to the public health or safety;
      (4)   The activity, if held at the time or location proposed, will cause
an unreasonable and unwarranted disruption to vehicular or pedestrian traffic;
      (5)   The activity will work a severe hardship on property owners or
property occupants near the special event location as a result of the denial of
access to their properties or for other substantial reasons;
      (6)   The person in charge and/or the sponsor of the activity has failed
to obtain or does not intend to obtain any and all necessary permits or
licenses, or the application is otherwise in violation of any provision of the
Town of Sparta Code of Ordinances or other applicable law; or
      (7)   If permitted, the activity will conflict with any other activity
previously approved under this chapter by covering any part of substantially
the same area or route during substantially the same time frame as allotted to
the previously approved activity.
   (B)   The town may attach any reasonable conditions to the issuance of
approval; and any special event conducted pursuant to approval under this
chapter shall be conducted strictly in accordance with the terms of the
approval, including any conditions attached to the approval.
(Ord. passed 5-2-2021)
§ 94.08 MODIFICATION; ALTERNATE APPROVAL.
   (A)   If the town finds that it cannot approve the event for any reason
specified in §
94.07 of this chapter, it may request that the applicant modify its request to
remove the objection(s) to the issuance of approval, and the applicant may do
so without further notice or hearing.
   (B)   If the town finds that it cannot issue the permit for any reason
specified in §
94.07 of this chapter and if modification of the request does not appear
possible, the town may, in its discretion, issue approval specifying an
alternative, location, route or time for special event activity.
(Ord. passed 5-2-2021)
§ 94.09 INSURANCE.
   The town may require as a condition to the issuance of approval that the
sponsor obtain a comprehensive general liability insurance policy or comparable
liability insurance coverage that includes the entire area or route of the
special event activity. If such policy is required, the town shall be named as
an additional insured on the policy. The limits of such policy shall not be
less than the following, and the town may require higher limits if it finds
that the risks associated with the activity warrant such higher limits:
   (A)   Property damage: $50,000 for each occurrence.
   (B)   Bodily injury or death: $100,000 for each person, $300,000 for each
occurrence.
(Ord. passed 5-2-2021)
§ 94.10 TOWN INDEMNIFIED.
   Any sponsor obtaining event approval pursuant to this chapter agrees as a
condition of the event request and approval to indemnify the town and hold the
town harmless from any expenses, including but not limited to attorney's fees,
litigation costs and judgments incurred as a result of claims made for damages
arising out of the permitted activity.
(Ord. passed 5-2-2021)
§ 94.11 STREET CLOSINGS.
   (A)   The Town Council may close town-maintained streets in conjunction with
issuing approval for a special event.
   (B)   Streets maintained by the N.C. Dept. of Transportation shall be closed
as provide in G.S. § 20-169 "Powers of local authorities" and the "NCDOT
Parades Events Guidelines."
   (C)   No person may operate or park any vehicle contrary to the traffic
control devices installed in accordance with this section. In the event that
any such vehicle(s) remains in an otherwise closed area designated "no parking"
as a part of an approved special event, the Chief of Police may issue citations
or remove the vehicle(s) at the owner's expense.
   (D)   Within seven days prior to the start of any special event activity,
the Town Manager or his or her designee shall provide notice as is reasonably
possible to the occupants of each property abutting the street(s) to be closed
pursuant to the approval a special event.
(Ord. passed 5-2-2021)
§ 94.12 PERSON IN CHARGE/RESPONSIBLE PLANNER AND ON-SITE MANAGER.
   (A)   The person in charge shall be the person primarily responsible for
complying with the requirements of this chapter; for obtaining all required
permits and/or approvals prior to the start of the special event activity, and
for setting up, conducting, and cleaning up after the activity.
   (B)   The person in charge shall have all required permits or approvals
necessary for the activity, available at all times for inspection by town staff
during the special event activity.
   (C)   The person in charge shall be responsible for cleaning up any litter
caused by the special event activity; removing any temporary signs or
structures erected by the sponsor or other individuals or organizations
participating in the activity; and in returning the area where the activity
takes place to the condition that existed prior to the activity.
(Ord. passed 5-2-2021)
§ 94.13 PROHIBITIONS.
   The following prohibitions shall apply to all special events:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stage, present, or conduct any
special event without first having obtained approval under this chapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to participate in a special event
for which the person knows approval has not been granted.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any participant in a special event to
knowingly fail to comply with any conditions of the special event approval.
   (D)   All participants in any special event shall be subject to all other
applicable local, state and federal laws.
(Ord. passed 5-2-2021)
§ 94.14 ACTIVITY AND CONDUCT DURING SPECIAL EVENTS.
   (A)   No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede, or interfere
with any person, vehicle, animal, or thing participating or used in any special
event.
   (B)   As is specified in §
94.11(C), the Chief of Police shall have the authority, when reasonably
necessary, to prohibit or restrict the parking of vehicles along a street
constituting a part of the route of a special event.
   (C)   Except for sworn certified law enforcement personnel, the open-carry
of firearms in the public festival or special event area is prohibited. A valid
concealed handgun permittee issued by the State of North Carolina or reciprocal
state, may carry a handgun concealed in the public festival or special event
area in accordance with the North Carolina General Statutes.
   (D)   The sale and or consumption of alcoholic beverages at special events
is strictly prohibited without explicit approval of the Town Council at time of
event approval.
      (1)   At any event in which alcoholic beverages will be sold and
consumed, the person in charge of the event shall ensure that an area within
the special event area is designated for the sale and consumption of alcoholic
beverages. The perimeters of the area shall be clearly marked, and the entrance
to the area shall allow control of patrons, including the viewing of
identification to prevent underage persons from being permitted into the area.
      (2)   Any area designated for the sale and consumption of alcoholic
beverages as a part of a special event shall be located at least 150 feet from
any church, mosque, synagogue or other place of worship.
      (3)   No alcoholic beverages may be sold or consumed as a part of a
special event outside of the designated area for such sale or consumption.
      (4)   Prior to the beginning of the special event, the person in charge
shall ensure that all necessary state or other permits relating to the sale and
consumption of alcoholic beverages have been secured.
      (5)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the Town Council from
prohibiting the sale and/or consumption of alcoholic beverages at any special
event if the Council determines that such sale or consumption is not in the
best interests of the health, safety and welfare of the town.
(Ord. passed 5-2-2021)
§ 94.15 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The Town Council, the Town Manager, or the Chief of Police shall have
the authority to revoke a special event approval instantly upon a violation of
any conditions of the approval or when a public emergency arises where the
police resources required for that emergency are so great that deployment of
police services for the special event would have an immediate and adverse
effect upon the health or safety of persons or property.
   (B)   After a permit is revoked under division (A) of this section, the Town
Manager, or his or her designee, shall notify the applicant of the reasons for
the revocation in writing by mailing a copy of the revocation to the applicant
by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, which mailing shall
be posted no later than the first business day after the revocation.
(Ord. passed 5-2-2021)
CHAPTER 95: ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES
Section
   
95.01   Definitions
   
95.02   Administration
   
95.03   Abandoned vehicle unlawful; removal authorized
   
95.04   Hazardous vehicle unlawful; removal authorized
   
95.05   Junked motor vehicle unlawful; removal authorized
   
95.06   Pre-towing notice required
   
95.07   Removal of vehicles; post-towing notice
   
95.08   Probable-cause hearing prior to disposition
   
95.09   Conditions on removal of vehicles from private property
   
95.10   Redemption of removed vehicle
   
95.11   Sale and disposition of unclaimed vehicle
   
95.12   Immunity from criminal and civil action
   
95.13   Exceptions
   
95.14   Unlawful removal of impounded vehicle
§ 95.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE. As authorized and defined in G.S. § 160A-303, one
that is left:
      (1)   Upon a street or highway in violation of a law or ordinance
prohibiting parking; or
      (2)   On property owned or operated by the town for longer than 24 hours;
or
      (3)   On private property for longer than two hours without the written
consent of the owner, occupant or lessee of the property; or
      (4)   On any public street of highway for longer than seven days or is
determined by law enforcement to be a hazard to the motoring public.
   HAZARDOUS MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle on public or private property that is
determined and declared to be a health or safety hazard, a public nuisance and
unlawful, including a vehicle found to be:
      (1)   A breeding ground or harbor for mosquitoes, other insects, snakes,
rats or other pests;
      (2)   A point of heavy growth of weeds or other noxious vegetation over
18 inches in height;
      (3)   A point of collection of pools or ponds of water;
      (4)   A point of concentration of quantities of gasoline, oil or other
flammable or explosive materials;
      (5)   One that has areas of confinement that cannot be opened from the
inside, such as trunks, hoods and the like;
      (6)   So situated or located that there is a danger of it falling or
turning over;
      (7)   A point of collection of garbage, food waste, animal waste or any
other rotten or putrescible matter of any kind;
      (8)   One that has sharp parts that are jagged or contain sharp edges of
metal, glass or other rigid materials; or
      (9)   One that creates any circumstances that expose the general public
to a safety or health hazard.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE. As authorized and defined in G.S. § 160A-303.2, one
that:
      (1)   Is partially dismantled or wrecked; or
      (2)   Cannot be self-propelled or moved in the manner in which it
originally was intended to move; or
      (3)   Is more than five years old and appears to be worth less than $500;
or
      (4)   Does not display a current license plate.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any machine designed or intended to travel over land or water
by self-propulsion or while attached to a self-propelled vehicle.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. All of that property as described and set out in an
owner’s deed, including, but not limited to, yards, grounds, driveways,
entrances or passageways, parking areas, storage areas, vacant land, bodies of
water, including sidewalks, grass strips, curbs or rights-of-way up to the edge
of the pavement of any public street.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. All that property, except private property as herein
defined, including, but not limited to, highways, streets, alleys, parks,
recreation areas, sidewalks, grass strips, medians, curbs or rights-of-way up
to the edge of the pavement of any public street or body of water.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. Land that is dedicated or otherwise legally established
for public use.
(Ord. passed 1-9-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Abatement of public health nuisances, see G.S. § 160A-193
§ 95.02 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The town police and Code Enforcement Officer shall be responsible for
the administration and enforcement of this chapter. The Police Department shall
be responsible for administering the removal of vehicles determined to be
abandoned on public property, including streets and parking lots within the
town limits. The Code Enforcement Officer shall be responsible for
administering the removal of abandoned, junked and hazardous vehicles located
on private property within the town.
   (B)   The town may contract with private towing operators to remove, store
and dispose of abandoned, junked and hazardous vehicles in compliance with all
state and local laws. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to limit the
legal authority and powers of the town police officer in enforcing other laws
or in otherwise carrying out their duties.
(Ord. passed 1-9-2024)
§ 95.03 ABANDONED VEHICLE UNLAWFUL; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a vehicle to cause or allow it to be abandoned as the term is
defined herein.
   (B)   Upon investigation, proper authorizing officials of the town may
determine that a vehicle is an abandoned vehicle and order it removed.
(Ord. passed 1-9-2024)
§ 95.04 HAZARDOUS VEHICLE UNLAWFUL; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee or occupant of the real
property upon which the vehicle is located, to leave or allow the vehicle to
remain on the property after it has been declared a hazardous vehicle.
   (B)   Upon investigation, the proper authorizing official of the town may
determine and declare that a vehicle is a hazardous vehicle and order it
removed.
(Ord. passed 1-9-2024)
§ 95.05 JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE UNLAWFUL; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
the possession of a junked motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee or occupant
of the real property upon which a junked motor vehicle is located, to leave or
allow the vehicle to remain on the property after it has been ordered removed.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, person entitled to the possession
of a junked motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee or occupant of the real
property upon which a junked motor vehicle is located, to fail to comply with
the locational or concealment requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   Subject to the provisions of division (D) below, upon investigation,
the Code Enforcement Officer may order the removal of a junked motor vehicle as
defined in this chapter after finding, in writing, that the aesthetic benefits
of removing the vehicle outweigh the burdens imposed on the private property
owner. The finding shall be based on a balancing of the monetary loss of the
apparent owner against the corresponding gain to the public by promoting or
enhancing community, neighborhood or area appearance. The following among other
relevant factors may be considered:
      (1)   Protection of property values;
      (2)   Promotion of tourism and other economic development opportunities;
      (3)   Indirect protection of public health and safety;
      (4)   Preservation of the character and integrity of the community; and
      (5)   Promotion of the comfort, happiness and emotional stability of area
residents.
   (D)   Permitted concealment or enclosure.
      (1)   One junked motor vehicle, in its entirety, can be located in the
rear yard (as defined by the town’s zoning ordinance) of any property being
lawfully used for one- or two-family residential purposes, if the vehicle is
entirely concealed from public view from a public street and from abutting
premises by an acceptable covering. The covering shall be kept in good repair
and shall not be allowed to deteriorate. The Code Enforcement Officer is
authorized to determine whether any junked motor vehicle is adequately
concealed by an acceptable covering as required by this provision.
       (2)   Any other junked motor vehicle(s) must be kept in a garage or
building structure that provides a complete enclosure so that the junked motor
vehicles(s) cannot be seen from a public street or abutting property. A GARAGE
OR BUILDING STRUCTURE means either a lawful, nonconforming use or garage or
building structure erected pursuant to the lawful issuance of a building
permit, and which has been constructed in accordance with all zoning and
building code regulations.
(Ord. passed 1-9-2024)
§ 95.06 PRE-TOWING NOTICE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Except as set forth in division (C) below, an abandoned, hazardous or
junked vehicle that is to be removed shall be towed only after notice has been
given to the registered owner or to the person entitled to possession of the
vehicle. In the case of a junked or hazardous vehicle, if the names and mailing
addresses of the registered owner or person entitled to possession of the
vehicle, or the owner, lessee or occupant of the real property upon which the
vehicle is located, can be ascertained in the exercise of reasonable diligence,
the notice shall be sent by first class mail. The person who mails the notice
(s) shall retain a written record to show the name(s) and address(es) to which
it was mailed, and the date it was mailed. If the information cannot be so
ascertained, or if the vehicle to be removed is abandoned, notice shall be
affixed to the vehicle in a conspicuous place on the vehicle a notice
indicating that the vehicle will be removed by the town on a specified date (no
sooner than seven days after the notice is affixed). The notice shall state
that the vehicle will be removed by the town on a specified date, no sooner
than seven days after the notice is affixed or mailed, unless the vehicle is
moved by the owner or legal possessor prior to that time.
   (B)   With respect to abandoned vehicles on private property, hazardous
vehicles and junked motor vehicles to which notice is required to be given, if
the registered owner or person entitled to possession does not remove the
vehicle, but chooses to appeal the determination that the vehicle is abandoned,
a nuisance vehicle or in the case of a junked motor vehicle that the aesthetic
benefits of removing the vehicle outweigh the burdens, he or she may submit a
written request of appeal to the Code Enforcement Officer before the seven-day
period has expired. The appeal shall be heard by the Town Council at its next
regularly scheduled meeting, and further proceedings to remove the vehicle
shall be stayed until the appeal is heard and decided.
   (C)   The requirement that notice be given prior to the removal of an
abandoned, junked or hazardous vehicle may, as determined by the authorizing
official, be omitted in those circumstances where there is a special need for a
prompt action to eliminate traffic obstruction or to otherwise maintain and
protect the public safety and welfare. By way of illustration and not of
limitation, these circumstances include vehicles blocking or obstructing
ingress or egress to businesses and residences, vehicles parked in a location
or manner as to pose a traffic hazard, vehicles parked in a fire zone or other
no-stopping or standing zone, and vehicles causing damage to public or private
property. The findings shall, in all cases, be entered by the authorizing
official in the appropriate daily records.
(Ord. passed 1-9-2024)
§ 95.07 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES; POST-TOWING NOTICE.
   (A)   The town may have vehicles removed under this chapter by private
towing operators. Any abandoned, junked or hazardous vehicle that has been
ordered removed may be removed to a storage area by the tow truck operator or
towing business contracting to perform those services for the town.
   (B)   Whenever a vehicle is removed, the authorizing official shall
immediately notify the last-known registered owner of the vehicle. The notice
shall include the following information:
      (1)   The description of the removed vehicle;
      (2)   The location where the vehicle is stored;
      (3)   The violation with which the owner is charged, if any;
      (4)   The procedure the owner must follow to redeem the vehicle; and
      (5)   The procedure the owner must follow to request a probable-cause
hearing.
   (C)   If the vehicle is registered in this state, notice shall be given
within 24 hours from removal of the vehicle. Otherwise, notice shall be given
to the registered owner within 72 hours from removal of the vehicle. This
notice shall, if feasible, be given by telephone. Regardless of whether the
owner is reached by phone, notice shall be sent to the owner at his or her
last-known address unless he or she, or his or her agent, waives this notice in
writing.
   (D)   Whenever an abandoned, junked or hazardous vehicle is removed and the
vehicle has no valid registration or registration plate, the authorizing
official shall make reasonable efforts, including checking the vehicle
identification number, to determine the last-known registered owner and to
notify the owner of the information listed in division (B) above.
(Ord. passed 1-9-2024)
§ 95.08 PROBABLE-CAUSE HEARING PRIOR TO DISPOSITION.
    After the removal of an abandoned vehicle, nuisance vehicle, or junked
motor vehicle, the owner or any other person entitled to possession is entitled
to a hearing for the purpose of determining if probable cause existed for
removing the vehicle. A request for hearing must be filed in writing with the
county magistrate designated in G.S. § 20-219.11(c) to receive the hearing
requests. The magistrate will set the hearing within 72 hours of receipt of the
request, and the hearing will be conducted in accordance with the provisions of
G.S. § 20-219.11 as amended.
(Ord. passed 1-9-2024)
§ 95.09 CONDITIONS ON REMOVAL OF VEHICLES FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   The town will not remove a vehicle from private property if the owner,
occupant or lessee could have the vehicle removed under applicable state law
procedures.
   (B)   Unless determined by the Administrator to be hazardous or junked motor
vehicle, no vehicle shall be ordered removed by the town without prior written
request from the owner, occupant or lessee.
   (C)   The town may require any person requesting the removal of a junked,
abandoned or hazardous vehicle from private property to indemnify the town
against any loss, expense or liability incurred because of the removal, storage
or sale of the vehicle.
(Ord. passed 1-9-2024)
§ 95.10 REDEMPTION OF REMOVED VEHICLE.
   At any stage in the proceedings, including before the probable-cause
hearing, the owner may obtain possession of the removed vehicle by paying the
towing fee, including any storage charges, or by posting a bond for double the
amount of the fees and charges to the tow truck operator or towing business
having custody of the removed vehicle. Upon regaining possession of a vehicle,
the owner or person entitled to the possession of the vehicle shall not allow
or engage in further violations of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 1-9-2024)
§ 95.11 SALE AND DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLE.
   Any abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle that is not claimed by the
owner or other party entitled to possession will be disposed of by the tow
truck operator or towing business having custody of the vehicle. Disposition of
a vehicle shall be carried out in coordination with the city and in accordance
with G.S. Ch. 44A, Art. 1.
(Ord. passed 1-9-2024)
§ 95.12 IMMUNITY FROM CRIMINAL AND CIVIL ACTION.
   No person shall be held to answer in any criminal or civil action to any
owner or other person legally entitled to possession of any junked, abandoned
or hazardous motor vehicle for disposing of the vehicle as provided in this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 1-9-2024)
§ 95.13 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter shall apply to any vehicle that is:
      (1)   Located in a bona fide “automobile graveyard” or “junkyard” as
defined in G.S. § 136-143, in accordance with the Junkyard Control Act, G.S. §
136-141;
      (2)   In an enclosed building;
      (3)   On the premises of a business enterprise being operated in a lawful
place and manner if the vehicle is necessary to the operation of the
enterprise;
      (4)   Used regularly for personal use; or
      (5)   In an appropriate storage place or depository maintained in a
lawful place and manner by the town or a private towing operator contracting
with the town for removal of vehicles.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      A VEHICLE IS NECESSARY TO THE OPERATION OF THE ENTERPRISE. Shall mean,
but not be limited to, the clear, active use or involvement of the vehicle in
the operation of the business enterprise. Mere storage or idle standing of a
vehicle does not constitute A VEHICLE NECESSARY TO THE OPERATION OF THE
BUSINESS.
      LAWFUL PLACE AND MANNER. Includes, but is not limited to, strict
compliance with the town’s zoning ordinance.
(Ord. passed 1-9-2024)
§ 95.14 UNLAWFUL REMOVAL OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or attempt to remove from any
storage facility designated by the city, any vehicle that has been impounded
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, unless and until all towing and
impoundment fees that are due, or a bond in lieu of the fees, have been paid.
(Ord. passed 1-9-2024)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
110.   PRIVILEGE AND LICENSE TAXES
         
111.   TAXICABS AND VEHICLES FOR HIRE
         
112.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
CHAPTER 110: PRIVILEGE AND LICENSE TAXES
Section
   
110.01   Taxes under chapter
   
110.02   License issued for a period of 12 months
   
110.03   Penalty for false statement in application for license
   
110.04   Itinerants
   
110.05   License to be kept; posted
   
110.06   License for each line of business or profession engaged in by one
person
   
110.07   Schedule of license taxes
   
110.08   Electronic gaming operations
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 TAXES UNDER CHAPTER.
   Taxes in this chapter or schedule shall be imposed as a license tax for the
privilege, or doing the act named, and nothing in this chapter shall be
construed to relieve any person, firm or corporation from the payment of the
tax prescribed in this chapter or schedule.
(Prior Code, § 8.1.01)
§ 110.02 LICENSE ISSUED FOR PERIOD OF 12 MONTHS.
   Every license issued under this chapter or schedule shall be for 12 months
unless otherwise specifically provided in any section imposing a tax; shall be
issued by the Tax Collector of the town; and shall expire on June 30 each year;
provided that, where the licensee begins the business or exercises the
privilege after January 1 and prior to June 30 each year, then the licensee
shall be required to pay one-half of the tax prescribed for the conducting of
the business or the exercising of the privilege to and including June 30, next
following.
(Prior Code, § 8.1.02) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03 PENALTY FOR FALSE STATEMENT IN APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   Any person who shall willfully make any false statement in any application
for a license under any section of this chapter or schedule shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined and/or imprisoned in the
discretion of the court, which fine shall not be less than the amount of tax
specified under the section and shall be in addition to the amount of the tax.
(Prior Code, § 8.1.03)
§ 110.04 ITINERANTS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, any person that does not list a poll or
property for taxation in the town shall be deemed an itinerant and shall be
subject to the taxes levied herein on itinerants; and, if no tax is specified
for itinerants, the tax shall be double the rate herein provided, unless the
double rate exceeds the tax permitted under the State Revenue Act being G.S. §§
105-1 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 8.1.04)
§ 110.05 LICENSE TO BE KEPT; POSTED.
   Every person required to pay a license tax under the provisions of this
chapter shall post and keep posted his or her license conspicuously in the
place where he or she conducts his or her business.
(Prior Code, § 8.1.05) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.06 LICENSE FOR EACH LINE OF BUSINESS OR PROFESSION ENGAGED IN BY ONE
PERSON.
   Any person dealing in two or more of the articles or engaged in two or more
of the businesses, callings or vocations in this chapter, and for which a
license is required for each, shall, unless it is otherwise provided herein,
pay for and take out a license for each line of business, vocation, calling or
profession. A separate license shall be required for each and every place of
business.
(Prior Code, § 8.1.06) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.07 SCHEDULE OF LICENSE TAXES.
   The schedule of license taxes shall be on file with the Town Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 8.1.08)
§ 110.08 ELECTRONIC GAMING OPERATIONS.
   (A)   The applicant for an electronic gaming operation privilege license
shall provide the town the serial number or other identifying number of each
electronic gaming machine used or stored as part of the operation. These
numbers shall be written on the privilege license, and only those machines for
which the serial number or other identifying number has been reported to the
town may be used or stored by the electronic gaming operation. If the
electronic gaming operation purchases, leases or otherwise acquires new
machines or replaces existing machines with other machines, the business
operator shall, within 14 days of acquisition, report the serial numbers or
other identifying numbers of the acquired machines to the town so that the
appropriate privilege license tax may be levied on the machines.
   (B)   No electronic gaming machine may be used or stored on the premises of
an electronic gaming operation without the appropriate annual privilege license
tax having been first paid.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
110.99
Cross-reference:
   Electronic gaming, see
Chapter 156
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
110.05 shall be subject to a fine or penalty of not less than $20 for each and
every part of a day of the failure to post and keep posted.
(Prior Code, § 8.1.05)
   (C)   If any person shall engage in the first instance or continue the
business, trade, employment or profession or to do the act, after the
expiration of a license previously issued, without obtaining a new license,
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon the conviction, shall be fined and/
or imprisoned in the discretion of the court, but the fine shall not be less
than 20% of the tax in addition to the tax and cost, and if the failure to
apply for and obtain a new license be continued, the person shall pay
additional tax of 5% of the amount of the town tax which was due and payable on
May 31 of the current year, in addition to the state tax imposed by this
division (C), for each and every 30 days that the town license tax remains
unpaid from the date that same was due and payable, and the additional tax
shall be assessed by the Tax Collector and paid with the town license tax, and
shall become a part of the license tax.
(Prior Code, § 8.1.07)
CHAPTER 111: TAXICABS AND VEHICLES FOR HIRE
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Purpose
   
111.03   Compliance with chapter
   
111.04   Proof of financial responsibility
   
111.05   General prohibited practices
   
111.06   Rates and charges
   
111.07   Hours of operation
   
111.08   Taxi stand designation
   
111.09   Taxi service permit required
   
111.10   Driver's permit required
   
111.11   Suspension or revocation of permits
   
111.12   Fees
   
111.13   Taxi inspection and approval
   
111.14   Daily manifest
 
   
111.99   Penalties
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   COUNCIL. The Town Council of the Town of Sparta.
   CHIEF. The Chief of Police of the town and his or her designee(s). The chief
is responsible for the administration of this chapter.
   DAILY MANIFEST. A written accounting of each trip, including the following
information: (i) place of origin of trip; (ii) place of destination of trip ;
(iii) odometer mileage reading at start of trip; (iv) odometer mileage reading
at end of trip; (v) time at start of trip; (vi) time at end of trip; (vii)
number of passengers carried; and (vi) fare charged.
   DRIVER. Any person who actually drives a taxicab on the streets of the town
for hire. "Drive" or "driving a taxicab" means driving a taxicab for hire on
such streets.
   DRIVER'S PERMIT. The permit issued by the chief under which a person may
drive a taxicab for hire.
   PROOF OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY. A certificate of any insurance carrier
duly authorized to do business in the State of North Carolina certifying that
there is in effect a policy of liability insurance insuring the owner and
driver of the taxicab, his or her agents and employees, while in the
performance of their duties, against loss from any liability imposed by law for
damages including damages for care and loss of services because of bodily
injury to or death of any person and injury to or destruction of property
caused by accident and arising out of the ownership, use or operation,
including driving, of such taxicab or taxicabs in and amount equal to the
greater of:
      (1)   One-hundred thousand dollars because of bodily injury to or death
of one person in any one accident and, subject to said limit for one person,
$300,000 because of bodily injury to or death of two or more persons in any one
accident, and $50,000 because of injury to or destruction of property of others
in any one accident; or
      (2)   The limits required by state law (G. S. 20-280(b), as amended from
time to time.
   TAXI or TAXICAB. A passenger motor vehicle plying for hire for which public
patronage is accepted or solicited and which is so designed as to seat
comfortably not more than nine persons but shall not include motor vehicles or
motor vehicle carriers as defined in G. S. Ch. 20, Art. 17.
   TAXICAB SERVICE. Any person, business, company, corporation or other legal
entity who owns one or more taxicabs or who engages in the operation of one or
more taxicabs under a trade or service name.
(Ord. passed 2-5-2013)
§ 111.02 PURPOSE.
   For the better protection of the public interest, health, safety, welfare or
convenience, the following rules and regulations are hereby adopted setting
forth the conditions, requirements and limitations under which an owner may
operate a taxi service and engage in the business of providing taxi service
within the town.
(Ord. passed 2-5-2013)
§ 111.03 COMPLIANCE WITH CHAPTER.
   It is unlawful for any person to engage in the business of operating one or
more taxicabs, or to drive any taxicab within the corporate limits of the town
or within one mile beyond the corporate limits in every direction, unless such
person shall have complied, and shall continue to comply, with the provisions
of this chapter. Notwithstanding the preceding, taxicab drivers and operators
who are duly licensed in another jurisdiction may come into the town to pick up
or deliver persons if their services were requested by the passenger, provided
they do not solicit fares within town limits. The term "solicit fares" shall
include directing advertisement of their services toward town residents, such
as advertising in the town phone directory.
(Ord. passed 2-5-2013)
§ 111.04 PROOF OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   The owner and driver of every taxicab shall furnish and keep in effect for
each taxicab proof of financial responsibility. The insurance policy shall
contain a clause obligating the insurance company to give 15 days' written
notice to the chief prior to the cancellation of coverage or reduction in
coverage or other material change in the policy of such insurance on any
taxicab. The operating permit for any taxicab shall be automatically revoked
upon the lapse, cancellation or termination of the insurance on that vehicle
unless the same has been renewed or replaced and a new certificate filed with
the chief.
(Ord. passed 2-5-2013)
§ 111.05 GENERAL PROHIBITED PRACTICES.
   In addition to the practices prohibited elsewhere in this chapter, it shall
be unlawful:
   (A)   Illegal rates. For a driver to charge or attempt to charge a passenger
a greater rate of fare than that which is posted in the vehicle as required by
this chapter.
   (B)   Deviating from direct route. For a driver to fail, refuse or neglect
to proceed with all reasonable dispatch by the nearest practicable route to the
destination of the first person applying to him for transportation unless the
person has granted permission to take on or wait for additional passengers.
   (C)   Illegal use of a cab. For a driver, on or off duty, to knowingly
permit a taxicab to be used for any illegal act or to acquire and transport in
a taxicab any alcoholic beverage for another, or to transport any person to any
place where alcoholic beverages or drugs are illegally dispensed or stored.
(Ord. passed 2-5-2013)
§ 111.06 RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   The rates of fares to be charged for taxicab services by any person
owning, operating or controlling any taxicab shall not be in excess of the
rates established by resolution of the Council from time to time. The schedule
of rates of fares for taxicabs shall be maintained on file in the office of the
Town Clerk. Until provided otherwise by resolution of the Council, the
following rates shall continue in effect:
      (1)   Mileage: Not greater than $2 per mile, which may be measured in
increments of 1/10 mile at the rate of $0.20 per 1/10 mile.
      (2)   Waiting time: Not greater than $ 12 per hour.
      (3)   Hand baggage/groceries and other bulky items: A maximum amount of
$1 per person per trip may be charged.
      (4)   Maximum initial fee upon entering taxi: $2.
   (B)   A sign setting forth these maximum rates shall be posted inside the
taxicab at a conspicuous place where it will be visible to passengers.
(Ord. passed 2-5-2013)
§ 111.07 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   The Sparta Town Council may establish by resolution minimum hours of
operation by taxi cabs which shall be on file in the office of the Town Clerk.
(Ord. passed 2-5-2013)
§ 111.08 TAXI STAND DESIGNATION.
   The Council may from time to time designate stands for taxicabs throughout
the town.
(Ord. passed 2-5-2013)
§ 111.09 TAXI SERVICE PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall engage in or otherwise participate in the operation of
any taxi service within the town unless such person shall have first obtained a
permit granted pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Any person seeking issuance of a taxi service permit shall file a
written application with the chief on a form supplied by the town. Submission
of any false or misleading information to obtain or renew a Permit shall be
grounds for denial, suspension or revocation of such permit. At a minimum, the
application shall include:
      (1)   A list of all motor vehicles that applicant proposes to use in the
taxi service; and
      (2)   A list of all drivers whom applicant proposes to use in the taxi
service.
   (C)   The chief will conduct an investigation to determine applicant's
qualifications. Submission of an application for a taxi service permit shall
constitute a waiver of any privileges and rights of privacy with respect to any
document in existence reasonably related to the determination of the
applicant's qualifications and shall serve as an authorization to the chief to
make inquiry of any person or entity, and to receive any oral or written
reports from any person or entity, regarding any facts, evidence or information
reasonably related to the determination of the applicant's qualifications. If
needed, the applicant shall sign a separate written authorization for the
release of documents or information concerning the applicant.
   (D)   No taxi service permit will be issued unless the applicant meets the
following requirements:
      (1)   The applicant is at least 18 years of age or is otherwise legally
emancipated and is a U.S. citizen or possesses documentation of eligibility to
work in the United States;
      (2)   The applicant has not has been convicted within the last ten years
of any of the following:
         (a)   Any felony against the state or any offense against another
state which would have been a felony if committed in North Carolina;
         (b)   Any federal or state law relating to the use, possession, or
sale of alcoholic beverages or narcotic or barbiturate drugs; and
         (c)   Any federal or state law relating to prostitution;
   (E)   The chief upon completion of a permit investigation, shall make a
report with recommendations to the Council regarding approval or denial of a
permit or a renewal based on an investigation.
   (F)   A permit shall be nonexclusive and shall be granted for a term of
three years from effective date of the permit. The permit may be renewed for
terms of three years. Renewal requests must be forwarded to the chief at least
30 days prior to permit expiration.
   (G)   A permit shall not be sold, transferred, leased, assigned, or disposed
of, in whole or in part, either by voluntary, involuntary, or forced sale, or
by merger or consolidation or otherwise.
   (H)   If the permit holder, for any reason, is no longer able to provide the
taxi service as applied for, the taxi service permit shall immediately
terminate.
   (I)   All taxicabs operating within the corporate limits shall be
prominently marked as such.
(Ord. passed 2-5-2013)
§ 111.10 DRIVER'S PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every person who transports passengers for a taxi service shall obtain
a driver's permit from the chief. The chief will conduct an investigation to
determine applicant's qualifications. Submission of an application for a
driver's permit shall constitute a waiver of any privileges and rights of
privacy with respect to any document in existence reasonably related to the
determination of the applicant's qualifications and shall serve as an
authorization to the chief to make inquiry of any person or entity, and to
receive any oral or written reports from any person or entity, regarding any
facts, evidence or information reasonably related to the determination of the
applicant's qualifications. If needed, the applicant shall sign a separate
written authorization for the release of documents or information concerning
the applicant.
   (B)   No driver's permit shall be issued unless the applicant meets the
following criteria:
      (1)   The applicant is at least 18 years of age or is otherwise legally
emancipated and is a U.S. citizen or possesses documentation of eligibility to
work in the United States;
      (2)   The applicant has not been convicted within the last ten years of
any of the following:
         (a)   Any felony against the state or any offense against another
state which would have been a felony if committed in North Carolina; and
         (b)   Any federal or state law relating to the use, possession, or
sale of alcoholic beverages or narcotic or barbiturate drugs.
      (3)   The applicant has not been convicted within the last seven years of
any of the following:
         (a)   Operation of a motor vehicle under the influence of intoxicants
or narcotics or operating a motor vehicle after license has been suspended or
revoked and before reinstatement.
         (b)   Violation of any of the provisions of G.S. § 14-204 in regard to
prostitution or assignation.
         (c)   Assault with an automobile.
         (d)   Any three convictions of violating any traffic laws or
regulations.
   (C)   If at any time a driver is criminally charged with any traffic or
criminal violation, the driver shall notify chief within ten days of such
violations.
   (D)   The driver's permit and driver's photograph shall be displayed in such
a manner as to be in full view of all passengers at all times while the driver
is on duty.
   (E)   Driver's permits are not transferable from one person to another.
Driver's permits shall expire on June 30 of each year. Requests for renewal
shall be made at least 30 days prior to the expiration date.
(Ord. passed 2-5-2013)
§ 111.11 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   The chief may suspend or revoke any permit previously granted upon a showing
that the taxi service or driver has violated any provision of this chapter. The
chief shall notify the permittee in writing that a permit is suspended or
revoked. Upon receipt of such notice, the permittee shall immediately suspend
operations allowed under the permit. The permittee shall have ten days from the
receipt of such notice to appeal the determination. Appeal will be filed with
Town Manager. The Board shall conduct a hearing on the suspension and shall
have final authority on suspension or revocation.
(Ord. passed 2-5-2013)
§ 111.12 FEES.
   (A)   Each taxi service and every driver shall pay to the town an annual fee
in an amount as set from time to time by the board in its annual budget, said
fees to be set in the schedule of fees adopted in conjunction with the annual
budget ordinance.
   (B)   By resolution, the board shall establish fees for applications for
taxi service permits and driver permits.
   (C)   Until changed by adoption of a new annual budget ordinance or by
resolution of the board, the following fees shall be in effect:
      (1)   Taxi service application fee: $50
      (2)   Taxi service annual fee (privilege license): $15 per taxicab
      (3)   Taxicab driver permit application fee (exclusive of drivers listed
on taxi service application: $25
      (4)   Taxicab driver permit annual fee: $3 per driver
(Ord. passed 2-5-2013)
§ 111.13 TAXI INSPECTION AND APPROVAL.
   All vehicles must pass the annual safety inspection required by the North
Carolina Department of Motor Vehicles and be maintained in a manner that would
meet the requirements established by that inspection. In addition, at any time,
the chief shall have the right to inspect, approve or disapprove the various
taxicabs and all equipment thereon operated in connection with the taxi
service, and such inspections shall not be limited to the requirements of the
annual Department of Motor Vehicles inspections. The chief shall have the right
to order removal from service of any vehicle reasonably deemed to be a safety
hazard.
(Ord. passed 2-5-2013)
§ 111.14 DAILY MANIFEST.
   (A)   The taxi service shall require every driver to maintain a daily
manifest. All such manifests shall be returned to the taxi service by the
driver at the conclusion of his daily tour of duty. The forms for such records
shall be of a character either approved or furnished by the town.
   (B)   The daily manifests shall be maintained for inspection by the town and
shall be retained and preserved in a safe place for at least 90 days.
(Ord. passed 2-5-2013)
§ 111.99 PENALTIES
   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punished for each offense by a fine
not exceeding $500. Each day such violation continues shall be deemed a
separate offense.
(Ord. passed 2-5-2013)
CHAPTER 112: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
112.01   Sunday sales
§ 112.01 SUNDAY SALES.
   Pursuant to the authority granted by S.L. 2017-87, any establishment located
in the corporate limits of the Town of Sparta and holding an ABC permit issued
pursuant to G.S. § 18B-1001 is permitted to sell beverages allowed by its
permit beginning at 10:00 a.m. on Sundays.
(Ord. passed 3-2-2021)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      Chapter
         
130.   DISORDERLY CONDUCT
CHAPTER 130: DISORDERLY CONDUCT
Section
   
130.01   Shooting firearms
   
130.02   Disturbing public meetings
   
130.03   Damage to flowers and the like
   
130.04   Defacing public property
   
130.05   Depositing foreign matter in reservoir
   
130.06   Public display of intoxicating liquor
   
130.07   Placing trash or refuse on streets or parking lots
   
130.08   Prohibited automotive practices
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 SHOOTING FIREARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to fire a pistol, gun or other firearm
within the town for sport or amusement.
(Prior Code, § 5.1.01) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 DISTURBING PUBLIC MEETINGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to disturb any public meeting or
exhibition, whether held in a house or out of doors, in any manner whatsoever.
(Prior Code, § 5.1.02) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 DAMAGE TO FLOWERS AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to pluck, cut or break, in any manner,
any flowers or other things kept for ornament in any park, private yard (except
with the owner's permission) or public square.
(Prior Code, § 5.1.03) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 DEFACING PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to mark or deface the walls of any
public building, waiting room of the bus terminal or the paved sidewalk or
public square.
(Prior Code, § 5.1.04) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05 DEPOSITING FOREIGN MATTER IN RESERVOIR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to spit, pour any liquid or other
substance into or to throw any missile or other thing whatsoever into the town
reservoir.
(Prior Code, § 5.1.05) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.06 PUBLIC DISPLAY OF INTOXICATING LIQUOR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drink or to have open any
intoxicating beverage on any public street, road, parking lot or public place,
and to make public display of any intoxicating liquor at any athletic contest
or on school property. Intoxicating liquors include alcohol, brandy, whiskey,
rum, gin, beer, ale, port wine and, in addition thereto, any spirituous vinous,
malt or fermented beverages, liquids and compounds, whether medicated,
proprietary, potented or not, and by whatever name called, containing 0.5% or
more of alcohol by volume, which are fit for use for beverage purposes.
(Prior Code, § 5.1.06) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.07 PLACING TRASH OR REFUSE ON STREETS OR PARKING LOTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, organization or private
corporation to place or leave or cause to be placed or left, temporarily or
permanently, any trash, refuse, garbage, paper, glass or cans on any street,
highway or parking lot, except that which is placed in a designated location or
container for removal by a specific garbage or trash service collector, within
the corporate limits of the town. The placing or leaving of the articles or
matter forbidden by this section shall, for each day or portion thereof that
the articles or matter are placed or left, constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 5.1.07) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.08 PROHIBITED AUTOMOTIVE PRACTICES.
   (A)   No person shall move a vehicle which is stopped, standing or parked
unless and until the movement can be made with reasonable safety.
   (B)   No person shall cause the tires on a vehicle to squeal, or spin gravel
or other roadway substances, while starting from a stopped position or while
the vehicle is moving upon the roadways or public vehicular area of the town,
except while attempting to come to an abrupt stop to avoid an accident or
object in the roadway or public vehicular area, or the unintentional spinning
of tires due to ice or snow on the roadway or public vehicular areas.
   (C)   No person shall place upon the roadways or public vehicular areas of
the town any tire impressions or black tire marks while starting from a stopped
position, while in the act of turning or while the vehicle is in motion, except
when the driver is coming to an abrupt stop or sudden turn to prevent an
accident or to avoid striking an object.
   (D)   This section shall be enforced by any law enforcement officer having
authority and territorial jurisdiction to make an arrest while in the town
limits.
(Prior Code, § 5.1.08) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Violation of §
130.06 shall constitute a misdemeanor and shall be punishable by a fine not to
exceed $50.
(Prior Code, § 5.1.06)
   (C)   A violation of §
130.07 shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $50.
(Prior Code, § 5.1.07)
   (D)   Any person violating the provisions of §
130.08 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and is punishable by a fine of up to
$500 or imprisonment of up to 30 days or both.
(Prior Code, § 5.1.08)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      Chapter
         
150.   PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
         
151.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
         
152.   FLOODS
         
153.   TOWERS
         
154.   SUBDIVISIONS
         
155.   SUBDIVISION ROADS
         
156.   ZONING
         
157.   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 150: PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
Section
   
150.01   Purpose
   
150.02   Authority
   
150.03   Legal description
   
150.04   Conflicts of interest
   
150.05   Effective date
§ 150.01 PURPOSE.
   The town is a growing part of the county and its citizens want to ensure
that their community grows in an orderly manner. Realizing that future growth
will occur not only within the present corporate limits, but adjoining areas,
the town proposes to regulate development in these growth areas.
(Ord. passed 5-2-1989)
§ 150.02 AUTHORITY.
   In accordance with the authority under G.S. § 160A-360, the town chooses to
exercise its planning authority in its one-mile extraterritorial planning area.
(Ord. passed 5-2-1989)
§ 150.03 LEGAL DESCRIPTION.
   (A)   At the southwest corner of the Tarn Gambill property, travel in an
easterly, then southerly direction to the intersection of Little River.
Continue across the river along the Gambill property to a point on the Little
River as it curves again towards the highway.
   (B)   Follow the Little River to a point in the bend of the river across
from the Duncan Farm property. Then, follow a straight line to a point on
Highway 21, at the intersection of Highway 21 and S.R. 1426.
   (C)   The boundary then runs 400 feet off the right-of-way of the southern
edge of Highway 21, towards the town limits to the intersection of Highway 21
and S.R. 1121.
   (D)   The line runs down the centerline of S.R. 1121, beyond the
intersection of S.R. 1114 to a farm road on the opposite side of S.R. 1121 from
S.R. 1114.
   (E)   From the intersection of this farm road and S.R. 1121, travel in a
southwest direction across the Little River and the southern edges of parcels
#63, #61 and between parcels #47 and #54, to S.R. 1172.
   (F)   Travel south on S.R. 1172 for approximately 400 feet and then
southwest along the southern edge of parcels #55 and #56 to the Little River.
   (G)   Travel north, then west on the Little River to the intersection of the
river with an unnamed tributary.
   (H)   Follow the unnamed tributary in a westerly direction to the southwest
corner of parcel #81.
   (I)   Travel northwest along the eastern boundary of parcel #75; east along
parcel #76; then, north along the eastern boundary of parcels #87, #86, #64 and
#56 to S.R. 1135.
   (J)   Follow S.R. 1135 in a northeasterly direction to a point 400 feet from
the right-of-way at Highway 21.
   (K)   From this point travel northwest, 400 feet from the right-of-way, to
the intersection of Highway 21 and the southeast corner of parcel #37. Then,
north along the edge or parcel #37 to its northeast corner.
   (L)   Travel in easterly direction along the northern edge of parcel #49,
and across the Maxell property to a point on S.R. 1487; north to the southwest
corner of parcel #23; then, east to S.R. 1403, along the southern boundary of
parcels #23 and #12.
   (M)   Travel south across S.R. 1418, to a point approximately 400 feet below
the intersection of S.R. 1418 and S.R. 1403, then east along the northern edge
of parcel #10A and #26 and through the middle of parcel #31 to S.R. 1424.
   (N)   Finally, travel south along S.R. 1424 to the starting point at the
northwest corner of the Tarn Gabill property.
(Ord. passed 5-2-1989)
§ 150.04 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   Members of the Town Council, Planning Board, Board of Adjustment,
administrative staff, and any member participating on any board exercising
quasi-judicial functions shall adhere to North Carolina G.S. § 160D-109,
"Conflicts of Interest," with regard to development regulation.
(Ord. passed 12-7-2021)
§ 150.05 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect and be in force from and after its passage
and adoption.
(Ord. passed 5-2-1989; Ord. passed 12-7-2021)
CHAPTER 151: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
   
151.01   Compliance
   
151.02   Deputy Inspectors
   
151.03   Building permits
   
151.04   Material used in construction of walls
   
151.05   Frame buildings within fire limits
§ 151.01 COMPLIANCE.
   All buildings in the town shall be constructed to comply with the State
Building Codes and any applicable town building codes or zoning ordinances and
all construction in the town shall be inspected by the Town or County Building
Inspector, whichever is applicable. Town water and sewer shall not be connected
in the town limits until inspected by the Building Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 4.1.01)
§ 151.02 DEPUTY INSPECTORS.
   All duties imposed by this chapter upon the Building Inspector may be
performed by a deputy appointed by the Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 4.1.02)
§ 151.03 BUILDING PERMITS.
   Before a building is begun, the owner of the property shall apply to the
Inspector for a permit to build. This permit shall be given in writing and
shall contain a provision that the building shall be constructed according to
the requirements of the building law, a copy of which shall accompany the
permit. As the building progresses, the Inspector shall make as many
inspections as may be necessary to satisfy him or her that the building is
being constructed according to the provisions of this law. As soon as the
building is completed the owner shall notify the Inspector who shall proceed at
once to inspect the building and determine whether or not the flues and the
buildings are properly constructed in accordance with the building law. If the
building meets the requirements of the building law, the Inspector shall then
issue to the owner of the building a certificate which shall state that he or
she has complied with the requirements of the building law as to that
particular building, giving the description and locality and street number, if
numbered. The Inspector shall keep his or her record so that it will show
readily by reference all buildings as are approved. The Inspector shall report
to the Insurance Commissioner every person neglecting to secure the permit and
certificate and also bring the matter before the Mayor, Recorder or Municipal
Court for their attention and action.
(Prior Code, § 4.1.03)
§ 151.04 MATERIAL USED IN CONSTRUCTION OF WALLS.
   The walls of all buildings, other than frame or wooden buildings, shall be
constructed of brick, iron or other hard, incombustible material. All rules,
regulations and requirements contained in the Building Code shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 4.1.04)
§ 151.05 FRAME BUILDINGS WITHIN FIRE LIMITS.
   Within the fire limits of the town, as established and defined, no frame or
wooden building shall be hereafter erected, altered, repaired or moved except
upon the permit of the Building Inspector, approved by the Insurance
Commissioner.
(Prior Code, § 4.1.05)
Cross-reference:
   Fire District, see §§
91.65 et seq.
CHAPTER 152: FLOODS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Statutory authority
   
152.02   Finding of facts
   
152.03   Statement of purpose
   
152.04   Objectives
   
152.05   Definitions
   
152.06   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
152.07   Basis for establishing the special flood hazard areas
   
152.08   Establishment of floodplain development permit
   
152.09   Compliance
   
152.10   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
152.11   Interpretation
   
152.12   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
152.13   Effect on rights and liabilities under the existing flood damage
prevention ordinance
   
152.14   Effect upon outstanding floodplain development permits
   
152.15   Effective date
Administration
   
152.30   Designation of Floodplain Administrator
   
152.31   Floodplain development application permit and certification
requirements
   
152.32   Duties and responsibilities of Floodplain Administrator
   
152.33   Corrective procedures
   
152.34   Variance procedures
Flood Hazard Reduction
   
152.50   General standards
   
152.51   Specific standards
   
152.52   Standards for floodplains without established base flood elevations
   
152.53   Standard for riverine floodplains with base flood elevations but
without established floodways or non-encroachments areas
   
152.54   Floodways and non-encroachment areas
 
   
152.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 STATUTORY AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The legislature of the state has, in G.S. Part 6, Art. 21 of Ch. 143;
G.S. Parts 3, 5 and 8 of Art. 19 of Ch. 160A; and G.S. Art. 8 of Ch. 160A,
delegated to local governmental units the responsibility to adopt regulations
designed to promote the public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   Therefore, the Town Council does ordain as follows.
(Ord. passed 8-24-2009)
§ 152.02 FINDING OF FACTS.
   (A)   The flood prone areas within the jurisdiction of the town are subject
to periodic inundation which results in loss of life, property, health and
safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary
public expenditures of flood protection and relief and impairment of the tax
base, all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general
welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities and by the
occupancy in flood prone areas of uses vulnerable to floods or other hazards.
(Ord. passed 8-24-2009)
§ 152.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions within flood prone areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety and
property due to water or erosion hazards or that result in damaging increases
in erosion, flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities that
serve the uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging and all other development that may
increase erosion or flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers that will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(Ord. passed 8-24-2009)
§ 152.04 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are to:
   (A)   Protect human life, safety and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business losses and interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities (i.e., water and
gas mains, electric, telephone, cable and sewer lines, streets and bridges)
that are located in flood prone areas;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas; and
   (G)   Ensure that potential buyers are aware that property is in a special
flood hazard area.
(Ord. passed 8-24-2009)
§ 152.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure located on the same
parcel of property as the principal structure, is detached from the principle
structure and the use of which is incidental to the use of the principal
structure. Garages, carports and storage sheds are common urban ACCESSORY
STRUCTURES. Pole barns, hay sheds and the like qualify as ACCESSORY STRUCTURES
on farms and may or may not be located on the same parcel as the farm dwelling
or shop building.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING BUILDING). An extension or increase in the floor
area or height of a building or structure.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator's
interpretation of any provision of this chapter.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. See SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA).
   BASE FLOOD. Flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). A determination of the water surface elevations
of the base flood as published in the Flood Insurance Study. When the BFE has
not been provided in a special flood hazard area, it may be obtained from
engineering studies available from a federal, state or other source using FEMA
approved engineering methodologies. This elevation, when combined with the
freeboard, establishes the regulatory flood protection elevation.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   CHEMICAL STORAGE FACILITY. A building, portion of a building or exterior
area adjacent to a building used for the storage of any chemical or chemically
reactive products.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   DISPOSAL. As defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(6), the discharge, deposit,
injection, dumping, spilling, leaking or placing of any solid waste into or on
any land or water so that the solid waste or any constituent part of the solid
waste may enter the environment or be emitted into the air or discharged into
any waters, including ground waters.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. A non-basement building which has its lowest elevated
floor raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear walls, posts, piers,
pilings or columns.
   ENCROACHMENT. The advance or infringement of uses, fill, excavation,
buildings, structures or development into a floodplain, which may impede or
alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. A
manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities
for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) was
completed before the initial effective date of the floodplain management
regulations adopted by the community.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). An official map of a community,
issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, on which the special flood
hazard areas and the floodways are delineated. This official map is a
supplement to and shall be used in conjunction with the Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM).
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). An official map of a community, issued by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency, where the boundaries of the special
flood hazard areas have been defined as Zone A.
   FLOOD INSURANCE. The insurance coverage provided under the National Flood
Insurance Program.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, issued by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency, on which both the special flood hazard
areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community are delineated.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). An examination, evaluation and determination of
flood hazards, corresponding water surface elevations (if appropriate), flood
hazard risk zones and other flood data in a community issued by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY report includes Flood
Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMs) and Flood Boundary and Floodway Maps (FBFMs), if
published.
   FLOOD PRONE AREA. See FLOODPLAIN.
   FLOOD ZONE. A geographical area shown on a Flood Hazard Boundary Map or
Flood Insurance Rate Map that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the
area.
   FLOODPLAIN. Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any
source.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The individual appointed to administer and enforce
the floodplain management regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. Any type of permit that is required in
conformance with the provisions of this chapter, prior to the commencement of
any development activity.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including, but not limited
to, emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances, and other applications of police power. This term describes
federal, state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide
standards for preventing and reducing flood loss and damage.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitation facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   FREEBOARD. The height added to the base flood elevation (BFE) to account for
the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than
the height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such
as wave action, blockage of bridge openings and the hydrological effect of
urbanization of the watershed. The base flood elevation (BFE), plus the
FREEBOARD establishes the regulatory flood protection elevation.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT FACILITY. A facility which cannot be used for its
intended purpose unless it is located in close proximity to water, limited to a
docking or port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or
passengers, shipbuilding or ship repair. The term does not include long-term
storage, manufacture, sales or service facilities.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT FACILITY. As defined in G.S. Ch. 130A, Art. 9, a
facility for the collection, storage, processing, treatment, recycling,
recovery or disposal of hazardous waste.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE (HAG). The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface, prior to construction, immediately next to the proposed walls of the
structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the U.S. Department of Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of Interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic landmarks in
communities with a certified local government (CLG) program; or
      (4)   Certified as contributing to the historical significance of a
historic district designated by a community with a certified local government
(CLG) program. Certified local government (CLG) programs are approved by the
U.S. Department of the Interior in cooperation with the State Department of
Cultural Resources through the State Historic Preservation Officer as having
met the requirements of the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, as
amended in 1980 being 16 U.S.C. §§ 470 et seq.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE (LAG). The elevation of the ground, sidewalk or patio
slab immediately next to the building, or deck support, after completion of the
building.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or limited storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided that, such
an enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a recreational vehicle.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MARKET VALUE. The building value, not including the land value and that of
any accessory structures or other improvements on the lot. MARKET VALUE may be
established by independent certified appraisal; replacement cost depreciated
for age of building and quality of construction (actual cash value); or
adjusted tax assessed values.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. For purposes of this chapter, the National Geodetic Vertical
Datum (NGVD) as corrected in 1929, the North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) as
corrected in 1988, or other vertical control datum used as a reference for
establishing varying elevations within the floodplain, to which base flood
elevations (BFEs) shown on a FIRM are referenced. Refer to each FIRM panel to
determine datum used.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the "start of construction" commenced
on or after the effective date of the initial floodplain management regulations
and includes any subsequent improvements to the structures.
   NON-ENCROACHMENT AREA. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot
as designated in the Flood Insurance Study report.
   POST-FIRM. Construction or other development for which the "start of
construction" occurred on or after the effective date of the initial Flood
Insurance Rate Map.
   PRE-FIRM. Construction or other development for which the "start of
construction" occurred before the effective date of the initial Flood Insurance
Rate Map.
   PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND. At least 51% of the actual cash value of the
structure is above ground.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND/OR NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to the safety or
health of an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of
persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV). A vehicle, which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REFERENCE LEVEL. The top of the lowest floor for structures within special
flood hazard areas designated as Zone A1-A30, AE, A, A99 or AO.
   REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION. The base flood elevation, plus the
freeboard. In special flood hazard areas where base flood elevations (BFEs)
have been determined, this elevation shall be the BFE, plus two feet of
freeboard.
   REMEDY A VIOLATION. To bring the structure or other development into
compliance with state and community floodplain management regulations, or, if
this is not possible, to reduce the impacts of its noncompliance. Ways that
impacts may be reduced include protecting the structure or other affected
development from flood damages, implementing the enforcement provisions of this
chapter or otherwise deterring future similar violations or reducing federal
financial exposure with regard to the structure or other development.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook and the like.
   SALVAGE YARD. Any non-residential property used for the storage, collection
and/or recycling of any type of equipment, and including, but not limited to,
vehicles, appliances and related machinery.
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITY. Any facility involved in the disposal of
solid waste, as defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(35).
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL SITE. As defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(36), any place
at which solid wastes are disposed of by incineration, sanitary landfill or any
other method.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). The land in the floodplain subject to a 1%
or greater chance of being flooded in any given year, as determined in §
152.07.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement or other improvement
was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual START means either the first
placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the
pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the
installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a
basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of temporary forms;
nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings,
such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION
means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part
of the building, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions
of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, a manufactured home or a gas,
liquid or liquefied gas storage tank that is principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure during any
one-year period whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before
damaged condition would equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the
structure before the damage occurred. See definition of "substantial
improvement". SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE also means flood-related damage sustained by a
structure on two separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost
of repairs at the time of each flood event, on the average, equals or exceeds
25% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any combination of repairs, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition or other improvement of a structure, taking place
during any one-year period for which the cost equals or exceeds 50% of the
market value of the structure before the "start of construction" of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred "substantial
damage", regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
      (1)   Any correction of existing violations of state or community Health,
Sanitary or Safety Code specifications which have been identified by the
community code enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a historic structure; provided that, the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
historic structure.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications or
other evidence of compliance required in §§
152.30 through
152.34 and
152.50 through
152.54 is presumed to be in violation until the time as that documentation is
provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION (WSE). The height, in relation to mean sea level, of
floods of various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of riverine
areas.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
(Ord. passed 8-24-2009)
§ 152.06 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all special flood hazard areas within the
jurisdiction, including extra-territorial jurisdictions (ETJs), of the town and
within the jurisdiction of any other community whose governing body agrees, by
resolution, to the applicability.
(Ord. passed 8-24-2009)
§ 152.07 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   (A)   The special flood hazard areas are those identified under the
cooperating technical state (CTS) agreement between the state and FEMA in its
Flood Insurance Study (FIS) and its accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps
(FIRM), for the county dated 9-2-2009, which are adopted by reference and
declared to be a part of this chapter.
   (B)   The initial Flood Insurance Rate Maps are as follows for the
jurisdictional areas at the initial date: county unincorporated area: dated 2-
1-2004; town: dated 7-3-1986.
(Ord. passed 8-24-2009)
§ 152.08 ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities within special flood hazard areas determined in accordance with the
provisions of §
152.07.
(Ord. passed 8-24-2009)
§ 152.09 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted,
altered or developed, in any way, without full compliance with the terms of
this chapter and other applicable regulations.
(Ord. passed 8-24-2009)
§ 152.10 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions
shall prevail.
(Ord. passed 8-24-2009)
§ 152.11 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. passed 8-24-2009)
§ 152.12 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
consideration. Larger floods can and will occur. Actual flood heights may be
increased by human-made or natural causes. This chapter does not imply that
land outside the special flood hazard areas or uses permitted within the areas
will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create
liability on the part of the town or by any officer or employee thereof for any
flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. passed 8-24-2009)
§ 152.13 EFFECT ON RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES UNDER THE EXISTING FLOOD DAMAGE
PREVENTION ORDINANCE.
   This chapter in part comes forward by re-enactment of some of the provisions
of the flood damage prevention ordinance, enacted 5-3-1988 as amended, and it
is not the intention to repeal, but rather to re-enact and continue to enforce
without interruption of the existing provisions, so that all rights and
liabilities that have accrued thereunder are reserved and may be enforced. The
enactment of this chapter shall not affect any action, suit or proceeding
instituted or pending. All provisions of the flood damage prevention ordinance
of the town, enacted on 5-3-1988, as amended, which are not reenacted herein
are repealed.
(Ord. passed 8-24-2009)
§ 152.14 EFFECT UPON OUTSTANDING FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMITS.
   Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the plans,
construction, size or designated use of any development or any part thereof for
which a floodplain development permit has been granted by the Floodplain
Administrator or his or her authorized agents before the time of passage of
this chapter; provided, however, that, when construction is not begun under the
outstanding permit within a period of six months subsequent to the date of
issuance of the outstanding permit, construction or use shall be in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 8-24-2009)
§ 152.15 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become effective 8-24-2009.
(Ord. passed 8-24-2009)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 152.30 DESIGNATION OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Town Manager and/or the Town Planner, hereinafter referred to as the
"Floodplain Administrator", is hereby appointed to administer and implement the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 8-24-2009)
§ 152.31 FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT APPLICATION PERMIT AND CERTIFICATION
REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Application requirements. Application for a floodplain development
permit shall be made to the Floodplain Administrator prior to any development
activities located within special flood hazard areas. The following items shall
be presented to the Floodplain Administrator to apply for a floodplain
development permit:
      (1)   A plot plan drawn to scale which shall include, but shall not be
limited to, the following specific details of the proposed floodplain
development:
         (a)   The nature, location, dimensions and elevations of the area of
development/disturbance; existing and proposed structures, utility systems,
grading/pavement areas, fill materials, storage areas, drainage facilities and
other development;
         (b)   The boundary of the special flood hazard area as delineated on
the FIRM or other flood map as determined in §
152.07, or a statement that the entire lot is within the special flood hazard
area;
         (c)   Flood zone(s) designation of the proposed development area as
determined on the FIRM or other flood map as determined in §
152.07;
         (d)   The boundary of the floodway(s) or non-encroachment area(s) as
determined in §
152.07;
         (e)   The base flood elevation (BFE) where provided as set forth in §§
152.07,
152.32 or
152.52;
         (f)   The old and new location of any watercourse that will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development; and
         (g)   The certification of the plot plan by a registered land surveyor
or professional engineer.
      (2)   Proposed elevation, and method thereof, of all development within a
special flood hazard area including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the proposed
reference level (including basement) of all structures;
         (b)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any non-
residential structure in Zone AE or A will be floodproofed; and
         (c)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any proposed
utility systems will be elevated or floodproofed.
      (3)   If floodproofing, a floodproofing certificate (FEMA Form 81-65)
with supporting data, an operational plan and an inspection and maintenance
plan that include, but are not limited to, installation, exercise and
maintenance of floodproofing measures;
      (4)   A foundation plan, drawn to scale, which shall include details of
the proposed foundation system to ensure all provisions of this chapter are
met. These details include, but are not limited to:
         (a)   The proposed method of elevation, if applicable (i.e., fill,
solid foundation perimeter wall, solid backfilled foundation, open foundation
on columns/posts/piers/piles/shear walls); and
         (b)   Openings to facilitate automatic equalization of hydrostatic
flood forces on walls in accordance with §
152.51(D)(3) when solid foundation perimeter walls are used in Zones A, AE and
A1-30.
      (5)   Usage details of any enclosed areas below the lowest floor;
      (6)   Plans and/or details for the protection of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems to be located and
constructed to minimize flood damage;
      (7)   Certification that all other local, state and federal permits
required prior to floodplain development permit issuance have been received;
      (8)   Documentation for placement of recreational vehicles and/or
temporary structures, when applicable, to ensure that the provisions of §
152.51(F) and (G) are met; and
      (9)   A description of proposed watercourse alteration or relocation,
when applicable, including an engineering report on the effects of the proposed
project on the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the effects to
properties located both upstream and downstream; and a map (if not shown on
plot plan) showing the location of the proposed watercourse alteration or
relocation.
   (B)   Permit requirements. The floodplain development permit shall include,
but not be limited to:
      (1)   A description of the development to be permitted under the
floodplain development permit;
      (2)   The special flood hazard area determination for the proposed
development in accordance with available data specified in §
152.07;
      (3)   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the
reference level and all attendant utilities;
      (4)   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the
protection of all public utilities;
      (5)   All certification submittal requirements with timelines;
      (6)   A statement that no fill material or other development shall
encroach into the floodway or non-encroachment area of any watercourse, as
applicable;
      (7)   The flood openings requirements, if in Zones A, AE or A1-30; and
      (8)   Limitations of below BFE enclosure uses (if applicable) (i.e.,
parking, building access and limited storage only).
   (C)   Certification requirements.
      (1)   A final as-built elevation certificate (FEMA Form 81-31) is
required after construction is completed and prior to certificate of
compliance/occupancy issuance. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of final as-built
construction of the elevation of the reference level and all attendant
utilities. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data
submitted. Deficiencies detected by the review shall be corrected by the permit
holder immediately and prior to certificate of compliance/occupancy issuance.
In some instances, another certification may be required to certify corrected
as-built construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure to make
required corrections shall be cause to withhold the issuance of a certificate
of compliance/occupancy.
      (2)   If non-residential floodproofing is used to meet the regulatory
flood protection elevation requirements, a floodproofing certificate (FEMA Form
81-65), with supporting data, an operational plan and an inspection and
maintenance plan are required prior to the actual start of any new
construction. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to the
Floodplain Administrator a certification of the floodproofed design elevation
of the reference level and all attendant utilities, in relation to mean sea
level. Floodproofing certification shall be prepared by or under the direct
supervision of a professional engineer or architect and certified by same. The
Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data, the operational
plan, and the inspection and maintenance plan. Deficiencies detected by the
review shall be corrected by the applicant prior to permit approval. Failure to
submit the certification or failure to make required corrections shall be cause
to deny a floodplain development permit. Failure to construct in accordance
with the certified design shall be cause to withhold the issuance of a
certificate of compliance/occupancy.
      (3)   If a manufactured home is placed within Zone A, AE or A1-30 and the
elevation of the chassis is more than 36 inches in height above grade, an
engineered foundation certification is required in accordance with the
provisions of §
152.51(C)(2).
      (4)   If a watercourse is to be altered or relocated, a description of
the extent of watercourse alteration or relocation; a professional engineer's
certified report on the effects of the proposed project on the flood-carrying
capacity of the watercourse and the effects to properties located both upstream
and downstream; and a map showing the location of the proposed watercourse
alteration or relocation shall all be submitted by the permit applicant prior
to issuance of a floodplain development permit.
      (5)   The following structures, if located within Zone A, AE or A1-30,
are exempt from the elevation/floodproofing certification requirements
specified in divisions (C)(1) and (2) above:
         (a)   Recreational vehicles meeting requirements of §
152.51(F)(1);
         (b)   Temporary structures meeting requirements of §
152.51(G); and
         (c)   Accessory structures less than 150 square feet meeting
requirements of §
152.51(H).
(Ord. passed 8-24-2009)
§ 152.32 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Floodplain Administrator shall perform, but not be limited to, the
following duties:
   (A)   Review all floodplain development applications and issue permits for
all proposed development within special flood hazard areas to assure that the
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
   (B)   Review all proposed development within special flood hazard areas to
assure that all necessary local, state and federal permits have been received;
   (C)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Department of Crime Control
and Public Safety, Division of Emergency Management, State Coordinator for the
National Flood Insurance Program prior to any alteration or relocation of a
watercourse, and submit evidence of the notification to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA);
   (D)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of the watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is maintained;
   (E)   Prevent encroachments into floodways and non-encroachment areas unless
the certification and flood hazard reduction provisions of §
152.54 are met;
   (F)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the
reference level (including basement) and all attendant utilities of all new and
substantially improved structures, in accordance with the provisions of §
152.31(C);
   (G)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which all
new and substantially improved structures and utilities have been floodproofed,
in accordance with the provisions of §
152.31(C);
   (H)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of all public
utilities in accordance with the provisions of §
152.31(C);
   (I)   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, obtain
certifications from a registered professional engineer or architect in
accordance with the provisions of §§
152.31(C) and
152.51(B);
   (J)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of boundaries
of the special flood hazard areas, floodways or non-encroachment areas (for
example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and
actual field conditions), make the necessary interpretation. The person
contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity
to appeal the interpretation as provided herein;
   (K)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data has not been provided in
accordance with the provisions of §
152.07, obtain, review and reasonably utilize any BFE data, along with floodway
data or non-encroachment area data available from a federal, state or other
source, including data developed pursuant to §
152.52, in order to administer the provisions of this chapter;
   (L)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is provided but no floodway or
non-encroachment area data has been provided in accordance with the provisions
of §
152.07, obtain, review and reasonably utilize any floodway data or non-
encroachment area data available from a federal, state or other source in order
to administer the provisions of this chapter;
   (M)   When the lowest floor and the lowest adjacent grade of a structure or
the lowest ground elevation of a parcel in a special flood hazard area is above
the base flood elevation (BFE), advise the property owner of the option to
apply for a letter of map amendment (LOMA) from FEMA. Maintain a copy of the
LOMA issued by FEMA in the floodplain development permit file;
   (N)   Permanently maintain all records that pertain to the administration of
this chapter and make these records available for public inspection,
recognizing that the information may be subject to the Privacy Act of 1974, as
amended being 5 U.S.C. §§ 552a et seq.;
   (O)   Make on-site inspections of work in progress. As the work pursuant to
a floodplain development permit progresses, the Floodplain Administrator shall
make as many inspections of the work as may be necessary to ensure that the
work is being done according to the provisions of the local ordinance and the
terms of the permit. In exercising this power, the Floodplain Administrator has
a right, upon presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises
within the jurisdiction of the community at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action;
   (P)   Issue stop-work orders as required. Whenever a building or part
thereof is being constructed, reconstructed, altered or repaired in violation
of this chapter, the Floodplain Administrator may order the work to be
immediately stopped. The stop-work order shall be in writing and directed to
the person doing or in charge of the work. The stop-work order shall state the
specific work to be stopped, the specific reason(s) for the stoppage and the
condition(s) under which the work may be resumed. Violation of a stop-work
order constitutes a misdemeanor;
   (Q)   Revoke floodplain development permits as required. The Floodplain
Administrator may revoke and require the return of the floodplain development
permit by notifying the permit holder in writing stating the reason(s) for the
revocation. Permits shall be revoked for any substantial departure from the
approved application, plans and specifications; for refusal or failure to
comply with the requirements of state or local laws; or for false statements or
misrepresentations made in securing the permit. Any floodplain development
permit mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable state or local law may
also be revoked;
   (R)   Make periodic inspections throughout the special flood hazard areas
within the jurisdiction of the community. The Floodplain Administrator and each
member of his or her inspections department shall have a right, upon
presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises within the
territorial jurisdiction of the department at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action;
   (S)   Follow through with corrective procedures of §
152.33;
   (T)   Review, provide input and make recommendations for variance requests;
   (U)   Maintain a current map repository to include, but not limited to, the
FIS Report, FIRM and other official flood maps and studies adopted in
accordance with the provisions of §
152.07, including any revisions thereto including letters of map change issued
by FEMA. Notify state and FEMA of mapping needs; and
   (V)   Coordinate revisions to FIS reports and FIRMs, including letters of
map revision based on fill (LOMR-Fs) and letters of map revision (LOMRs).
(Ord. passed 8-24-2009)
§ 152.33 CORRECTIVE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Violations to be corrected. When the Floodplain Administrator finds
violations of applicable state and local laws, it shall be his or her duty to
notify the owner or occupant of the building of the violation. The owner or
occupant shall immediately remedy each of the violations of law cited in the
notification.
   (B)   Actions in event of failure to take corrective action.
      (1)   If the owner of a building or property shall fail to take prompt
corrective action, the Floodplain Administrator shall give the owner written
notice, by certified or registered mail to the owner's last known address or by
personal service, stating the building or property is in violation of the
floodplain management regulations.
      (2)   A hearing will be held before the Floodplain Administrator at a
designated place and time, not later than ten days after the date of the
notice, at which time the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or by
counsel and to present arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter.
      (2)   Following the hearing, the Floodplain Administrator may issue an
order to alter, vacate or demolish the building; or to remove fill as
applicable.
   (C)   Order to take corrective action.
      (1)   If, upon a hearing held pursuant to the notice prescribed above,
the Floodplain Administrator shall find that the building or development is in
violation of this chapter, he or she shall issue an order in writing to the
owner, requiring the owner to remedy the violation within a specified time
period, not less than 60 calendar days, nor more than 180 calendar days.
      (2)   Where the Floodplain Administrator finds that there is imminent
danger to life or other property, he or she may order that corrective action be
taken in a lesser period as may be feasible.
   (D)   Appeal. Any owner who has received an order to take corrective action
may appeal the order to the local elected governing body by giving notice of
appeal in writing to the Floodplain Administrator and the Clerk/Finance Officer
within ten days following issuance of the final order. In the absence of an
appeal, the order of the Floodplain Administrator shall be final. The local
governing body shall hear an appeal within a reasonable time and may affirm,
modify and affirm or revoke the order.
   (E)   Failure to comply with order. If the owner of a building or property
fails to comply with an order to take corrective action for which no appeal has
been made or fails to comply with an order of the governing body following an
appeal, the owner shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished at the
discretion of the court.
(Ord. passed 8-24-2009) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.34 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Town Council, hereinafter referred to as the "Appeal Board", shall
hear and decide requests for variances from the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board may appeal
the decision to the Court, as provided in G.S. Ch. 7A.
   (C)   Variances may be issued for:
      (1)   The repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon the
determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the
structure's continued designation as a historic structure and that the variance
is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the
structure;
      (2)   Functionally dependent facilities if determined to meet the
definition as stated in §
152.05; provided, provisions of divisions (I)(2), (3) and (5) below have been
satisfied and the facilities are protected by methods that minimize flood
damages during the base flood and create no additional threats to public
safety; or
      (3)   Any other type of development, provided it meets the requirements
of this section.
   (D)   In passing upon variances, the Appeal Board shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other
sections of this chapter, and:
      (1)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (2)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of the damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location as defined
under §
152.05 as a functionally dependent facility, where applicable;
      (6)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (10)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and/or
      (11)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems and streets and
bridges.
   (E)   A written report addressing each of the above factors shall be
submitted with the application for a variance.
   (F)   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of
this chapter, the Appeal Board may attach conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes and objectives of this
chapter.
   (G)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation (BFE) and the
elevation to which the structure is to be built and that the construction below
the BFE increases risks to life and property, and that the issuance of a
variance to construct a structure below the BFE will result in increased
premium rates for flood insurance up to $25 per $100 of insurance coverage. The
notification shall be maintained with a record of all variance actions,
including justification for their issuance.
   (H)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency and
the state upon request.
   (I)   (1)   Variances shall not be issued when the variance will make the
structure in violation of other federal, state or local laws, regulations or
ordinances.
      (2)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway or
non-encroachment area if the variance would result in any increase in flood
levels during the base flood discharge.
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (4)   Variances shall only be issued prior to development permit
approval.
      (5)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship; and/or
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety or
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
   (J)   A variance may be issued for solid waste disposal facilities or sites,
hazardous waste management facilities, salvage yards and chemical storage
facilities that are located in special flood hazard areas; provided that, all
of the following conditions are met.
      (1)   The use serves a critical need in the community.
      (2)   No feasible location exists for the use outside the special flood
hazard area.
      (3)   The reference level of any structure is elevated or floodproofed to
at least the regulatory flood protection elevation.
      (4)   The use complies with all other applicable federal, state and local
laws.
      (5)   The town has notified the Secretary of the State Department of
Crime Control and Public Safety of its intention to grant a variance at least
30 calendar days prior to granting the variance.
(Ord. passed 8-24-2009)
FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 152.50 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be designed
(or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse and
lateral movement of the structure.
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
   (C)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (D)   (1)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as
to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components during
conditions of flooding to the regulatory flood protection elevation.
      (2)   These include, but are not limited to, HVAC equipment, water
softener units, bath/kitchen fixtures, ductwork, electric/gas meter panels/
boxes, utility/cable boxes, hot water heaters and electric outlets/switches.
   (E)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
   (F)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters.
   (G)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (H)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements to a structure,
which is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, shall meet the
requirements of "new construction", as contained in this chapter.
   (I)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the repair, reconstruction or
replacement of a building or structure existing on the effective date of this
chapter and located totally or partially within the floodway, non-encroachment
area or stream setback; provided, there is no additional encroachment below the
regulatory flood protection elevation in the floodway, non-encroachment area or
stream setback; and, provided that, the repair, reconstruction or replacement
meets all of the other requirements of this chapter.
   (J)   New solid waste disposal facilities and sites, hazardous waste
management facilities, salvage yards and chemical storage facilities shall not
be permitted, except by variance as specified in §
152.53. A structure or tank for chemical or fuel storage incidental to an
allowed use or to the operation of a water treatment plant or wastewater
treatment facility may be located in a special flood hazard area only if the
structure or tank is either elevated or floodproofed to at least the regulatory
flood protection elevation and certified in accordance with the provisions of §
152.51(C).
   (K)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall be
consistent with the need to minimize flood damage.
   (L)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water
systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage.
   (M)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (N)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
received all necessary permits from those governmental agencies for which
approval is required by federal or state law, including § 404 of the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. § 1334.
   (O)   When a structure is partially located in a special flood hazard area,
the entire structure shall meet the requirements for new construction and
substantial improvements.
   (P)   When a structure is located in multiple flood hazard zones or in a
flood hazard risk zone with multiple base flood elevations, the provisions for
the more restrictive flood hazard risk zone and the highest base flood
elevation (BFE) shall apply.
(Ord. passed 8-24-2009)
§ 152.51 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas where base flood elevation (BFE) data has
been provided, as set forth in §§
152.07 or
152.52, the following provisions, in addition to the provisions of §
152.50, are required.
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure (including manufactured homes) shall have the
reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the regulatory
flood protection elevation, as defined in §
152.05.
   (B)   Non-residential construction. New construction and substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or other non-residential structure
shall have the reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the
regulatory flood protection elevation, as defined in §
152.05. Structures located in A, AE and A1-30 Zones may be floodproofed to the
regulatory flood protection elevation in lieu of elevation; provided that, all
areas of the structure, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, below the regulatory flood protection elevation are watertight with
walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water, using structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads and the effect of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer or
architect shall certify that the floodproofing standards of this division are
satisfied. The certification shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator
as set forth in §
152.31(C), along with the operational plan and the inspection and maintenance
plan.
   (C)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   New and replacement manufactured homes shall be elevated so that
the reference level of the manufactured home is no lower than the regulatory
flood protection elevation, as defined in §
152.05.
      (2)   Manufactured homes shall be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement, either
by certified engineered foundation system, or in accordance with the most
current edition of the state regulations for manufactured homes adopted by the
Commissioner of Insurance pursuant to G.S. § 143-143.15. Additionally, when the
elevation would be met by an elevation of the chassis 36 inches or less above
the grade at the site, the chassis shall be supported by reinforced piers or
engineered foundation. When the elevation of the chassis is above 36 inches in
height, an engineering certification is required.
      (3)   All enclosures or skirting below the lowest floor shall meet the
requirements of division (D) below.
      (4)   An evacuation plan must be developed for evacuation of all
residents of all new, substantially improved or substantially damaged
manufactured home parks or subdivisions located within flood prone areas. This
plan shall be filed with and approved by the Floodplain Administrator and the
local Emergency Management Coordinator.
   (D)   Elevated buildings. Fully enclosed area, of new construction and
substantially improved structures, which is below the lowest floor:
      (1)   Shall not be designed or used for human habitation, but shall only
be used for parking of vehicles, building access or limited storage of
maintenance equipment used in connection with the premises. Access to the
enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow for parking of vehicles
(garage door) or limited storage of maintenance equipment (standard exterior
door), or entry to the living area (stairway or elevator). The interior portion
of such enclosed area shall not be finished or partitioned into separate rooms,
except to enclose storage areas;
      (2)   Shall be constructed entirely of flood resistant materials at least
to the regulatory flood protection elevation; and
      (3)   Shall include, in Zones A, AE and A1-30, flood openings to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on walls by allowing for the
entry and exit of floodwaters. To meet this requirement, the openings must
either be certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed
the following minimum design criteria:
         (a)   A minimum of two flood openings on different sides of each
enclosed area subject to flooding;
         (b)   The total net area of all flood openings must be at least one
square inch for each square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding;
         (c)   If a building has more than one enclosed area, each enclosed
area must have flood openings to allow floodwaters to automatically enter and
exit;
         (d)   The bottom of all required flood openings shall be no higher
than one foot above the adjacent grade;
         (e)   Flood openings may be equipped with screens, louvers or other
coverings or devices; provided, they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters
in both directions; and
         (f)   Enclosures made of flexible skirting are not considered
enclosures for regulatory purposes, and, therefore, do not require flood
openings. Masonry or wood underpinning, regardless of structural status, is
considered an enclosure and requires flood openings as outlined above.
   (E)   Additions/improvements.
      (1)   Additions and/or improvements to pre-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
         (a)   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or improvements
must be designed to minimize flood damages and must not be any more
nonconforming than the existing structure; and
         (b)   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and the
addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
      (2)   Additions to post-FIRM structures with no modifications to the
existing structure other than a standard door in the common wall shall require
only the addition to comply with the standards for new construction.
      (3)   Additions and/or improvements to post-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
         (a)   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or improvements
only must comply with the standards for new construction; and
         (b)   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and the
addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
   (F)   Recreational vehicles. Recreational vehicles shall either:
      (1)   Be on site for fewer than 180 consecutive days and be fully
licensed and ready for highway use (a recreational vehicle is ready for highway
use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by
quick disconnect type utilities and has no permanently attached additions); or
      (2)   Meet all the requirements for new construction.
   (G)   Temporary non-residential structures. Prior to the issuance of a
floodplain development permit for a temporary structure, the applicant must
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a plan for the removal of the structure
(s) in the event of a hurricane, flash flood or other type of flood warning
notification. The following information shall be submitted in writing to the
Floodplain Administrator for review and written approval:
      (1)   A specified time period for which the temporary use will be
permitted. Time specified may not exceed three months, renewable up to one
year;
      (2)   The name, address and phone number of the individual responsible
for the removal of the temporary structure;
      (3)   The time frame prior to the event at which a structure will be
removed (i.e., minimum of 72 hours before landfall of a hurricane or
immediately upon flood warning notification);
      (4)   A copy of the contract or other suitable instrument with the entity
responsible for physical removal of the structure; and
      (5)   Designation, accompanied by documentation, of a location outside
the special flood hazard area, to which the temporary structure will be moved.
   (H)   Accessory structures.
      (1)   When accessory structures (sheds, detached garages and the like)
are to be placed within a special flood hazard area, the following criteria
shall be met:
         (a)   Accessory structures shall not be used for human habitation
(including working, sleeping, living, cooking or restroom areas);
         (b)   Accessory structures shall not be temperature-controlled;
         (c)   Accessory structures shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential;
         (d)   Accessory structures shall be constructed and placed on the
building site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
         (e)   Accessory structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance with
the provisions of §
152.50(A);
         (f)   All service facilities such as electrical shall be installed in
accordance with the provisions of §
152.50(D); and
         (g)   Flood openings to facilitate automatic equalization of
hydrostatic flood forces shall be provided below regulatory flood protection
elevation in conformance with the provisions of division (D)(3) above.
      (2)   An accessory structure with a footprint less than 150 square feet
that satisfies the criteria outlined above does not require an elevation or
floodproofing certificate. Elevation or floodproofing certifications are
required for all other accessory structures in accordance with §
152.31(C).
(Ord. passed 8-24-2009)
§ 152.52 STANDARDS FOR FLOODPLAINS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS.
   There are no special flood hazard areas designated as approximate Zone A, as
established in §
152.07 within the jurisdiction of the town.
(Ord. passed 8-24-2009)
§ 152.53 STANDARD FOR RIVERINE FLOODPLAINS WITH BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS BUT
WITHOUT ESTABLISHED FLOODWAYS OR NON-ENCROACHMENT AREAS.
   Along rivers and streams where base flood elevation (BFE) data is provided
by FEMA or is available from another source, but neither floodway nor non-
encroachment areas are identified for a special flood hazard area on the FIRM
or in the FIS report, the following requirements shall apply to all development
within the areas:
   (A)   Standards of §§
152.50 and
152.51; and
   (B)   Until a regulatory floodway or non-encroachment area is designated, no
encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial improvements or
other development, shall be permitted unless certification with supporting
technical data by a registered professional engineer is provided demonstrating
that the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined with all
other existing and anticipated development, will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point within the
community.
(Ord. passed 8-24-2009)
§ 152.54 FLOODWAYS AND NON-ENCROACHMENT AREAS.
   Areas designated as floodways or non-encroachment areas are located within
the special flood hazard areas established in §
152.07. The floodways and non-encroachment areas are extremely hazardous areas
due to the velocity of floodwaters that have erosion potential and carry debris
and potential projectiles. The following provisions, in addition to standards
outlined in §§
152.50 and
152.51, shall apply to all development within these areas.
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements and other developments shall be permitted unless:
      (1)   It is demonstrated that the proposed encroachment would not result
in any increase in the flood levels during the occurrence of the base flood,
based on hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with
standard engineering practice and presented to the Floodplain Administrator
prior to issuance of floodplain development permit; or
      (2)   A conditional letter of map revision (CLOMR) has been approved by
FEMA. A letter of map revision (LOMR) must also be obtained upon completion of
the proposed encroachment.
   (B)   If division (A) above is satisfied, all development shall comply with
all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   No manufactured homes shall be permitted, except replacement
manufactured homes in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision;
provided, the following provisions are met:
      (1)   The anchoring and the elevation standards of §
152.51(C); and
      (2)   The no encroachment standard of division (A) above.
(Ord. passed 8-24-2009)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with grants of variance or special exceptions, shall constitute a
misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any
of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than $50
or imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both. Each day violation continues
shall be considered a separate offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent
the town from taking other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy
any violation.
(Ord. passed 8-24-2009)
CHAPTER 153: TOWERS
Section
   
153.01   Title
   
153.02   Authority
   
153.03   Jurisdiction
   
153.04   Purpose
   
153.05   Definitions
   
153.06   Development application and site plan review
   
153.07   Special use permit review process
   
153.08   Development standards
   
153.09   Appeals and variances
   
153.10   Tower removal
   
153.11   Existing communication towers
 
   
153.99   Penalty
§ 153.01 TITLE.
   The title of these regulations is the "Wireless Communication Tower
Ordinance for the Town of Sparta and Alleghany County, North Carolina".
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.02 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is adopted under the authority and provisions of G.S. Ch. 153A-
121, Art. 6, 153A-122, 153A-123 and 153A-340 and the authority granted by § 704
of the Federal Telecommunication Act of 1966 being 47 U.S.C. § 332(c).
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.03 JURISDICTION.
   (A)   This chapter shall apply to all areas of the unincorporated county,
which are not included in the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the town; and
within the town, including the extraterritorial jurisdiction.
   (B)   The Town Council adopts this chapter by resolution pursuant to G.S. §
153A-122.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.04 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The town and county wish to accommodate the orderly development of the
wireless communication industry, while at the same time preserving the area's
natural beauty and distinctive character.
   (B)   Furthermore, the chapter is intended to promote and protect the public
health, welfare and safety by regulating existing and proposed wireless
communication towers by:
      (1)   Restricting tower height so as to not detract from the ridgelines
and beautiful vistas of the county and to provide for the safety of low-flying
private, government and medical aircraft;
      (2)   To provide for adequate fall-zones to protect from falling ice and
debris and potential tower failure;
      (3)   To encourage antenna collocation so as to reduce the number of new
towers constructed in the county and the town; and
      (4)   To require the use of camouflage or stealth technology for towers
constructed within the viewshed of the Blue Ridge Parkway, Stone Mountain State
Park, the New River or the New River State Park.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANTENNA. A conductor, usually located at the top of a wireless communication
tower, by which electromagnetic waves are transmitted and/or received.
   BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS. The County Board of Commissioners.
   EXISTING COMMUNICATION TOWER. Any communication tower existing or permitted
in the county, that was placed, built, erected or permitted before 3-5-2001;
the date of the county moratorium on communication tower construction.
   EXISTING VEGETATIVE CANOPY. The existing vegetative plants, trees or shrubs
at the site-specific location which is within a 100-foot radius from the
proposed communication tower's base, that will provide natural camouflage,
concealment or otherwise "hide" the communication tower after its construction.
This VEGETATIVE CANOPY shall also be used to determine the allowable combined
height of the proposed communication tower.
   FALL ZONE. An area around the base of a telecommunication tower required to
be kept clear of buildings, other than equipment enclosures associated with the
wireless telecommunication facility, to contain debris in the event of a tower
structure failure.
   MAJOR MOUNTAIN RIDGE. A major mountain ridge is any ridge that is 3,000 feet
or greater in elevation or an elevation 500 feet or greater above the adjacent
valley floor.
   ORDINANCE ADMINISTRATOR. The County Planner or other person designated by
the Board of Commissioners to oversee and administer this chapter.
   RIDGE. The elongated crest or series of crest at the apex or uppermost point
of intersection between two opposite slopes or sides of a mountain, and
includes all land within 100 feet below the elevation of any portion of the
line or surface along the crest.
   SETBACK. The required distance between the wireless communication tower and
the property line or right-of-way line to allow for a fall zone.
   STEALTH TECHNOLOGY. Human-made trees, steeples, silos, light poles and other
similar alternative-design mounting structures that camouflage or conceal the
presence of antennas or towers of wireless communication facilities.
   TOWER HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the natural lay of the
land or ground to the upper most point of a freestanding or guyed
telecommunication tower to include any antenna, beacon, light or other
structure(s) attached to the communication tower.
   TOWER SITE. The real property which an applicant(s) is required to have
ownership or leasehold of, interest in, easement over or any combination of the
aforementioned to locate a communication tower and any approved auxiliary
buildings.
   VIEWSHED. An unobstructed sight of, or the range of one's sight while
traveling, visiting, driving, boating or otherwise using the natural or human-
made resources of the Blue Ridge Parkway, Stone Mountain State Park, the New
River or the New River State Park. For the purposes of this chapter, the
maximum VIEWSHED distance is one mile from the outer most boundaries.
   WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITY. Any unstaffed facility for the transmission
and/or reception of wireless telecommunications services, usually consisting of
an antenna array, connection cables, an equipment facility and a support
structure to achieve the necessary elevation.
   WIRELESS COMMUNICATION TOWER. Any tower or structure, natural or human-made,
existing or erected, for the purpose of supporting; including, but not limited
to, one or more antennas designed to transmit and/or receive television, AM/FM
radio, digital, microwave, cellular, analog telephone, mobile radio, paging or
any similar forms of electric communication.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.06 DEVELOPMENT APPLICATION AND SITE PLAN REVIEW.
   (A)   Special use permit required. It shall be unlawful for any person to
place, construct or modify any wireless telecommunication facility within the
jurisdiction of this chapter without first obtaining a wireless
telecommunication facility special use permit. Facilities requiring permit
include any residential tower greater than 40 feet in height or any commercial
tower greater than 40 feet in height. Should any tower or antenna be on or
fixed to, or otherwise off the ground, such as attached to a pole, building or
tree, the structure's height shall be added to the tower's height and if the
combined height exceeds 40 feet, a permit is required. Any commercial tower
less than 40 feet in height shall be registered with the County Planning
Office. All appropriate building permits pertain, despite tower height. At a
minimum, the following information shall accompany a request for a wireless
telecommunication facility special use permit:
      (1)   The name, form of entity (individual, corporation and the like),
address, telephone and facsimile machine number for the applicant;
      (2)   Identification of all possible alternatives considered within the
service area for the proposed tower and an explanation why existing towers or
structures cannot accommodate the proposed antennas;
      (3)   If different, the name, address, telephone and facsimile machine
number of the owner of the property on which the wireless communication
facility is to be located, constructed, installed or modified;
      (4)   Copy of deed showing ownership of property, book and page number
that the deed is recorded with the County Register of Deeds;
      (5)   Copy of any written instrument (lease, sublease, memorandum and the
like) by which the applicant has secured the property owner's permission to use
the property for a wireless communication facility;
      (6)   Full sheet(s) of the County Tax Map showing the development
property and its boundaries;
      (7)   Copy of any recorded easements necessary to reach the tower site.
Any easement shall not be less than 20 feet in width, with a road base not less
than ten feet in width;
      (8)   The names and addresses of adjoining property owners;
      (9)   The location of existing streets, buildings, transmission lines,
sewer, bridges, culverts, drainpipes and easements, to the extent that these
may be ascertained from a field inspection of the property;
      (10)   Name of the fire district serving the property;
      (11)   The general geographic information about the site including
topography, proximity to surface waters, susceptibility to flooding, soil
characteristics and other characteristics which might impose restrictions on
the development of the site;
      (12)   Boundary survey. The applicant shall have prepared, by a
registered land surveyor, a boundary survey, which shall meet all requirements
for recordation in the office of the Register of Deeds;
      (13)   Detailed development plans. A detailed development plan not less
than 18 inches by 24 inches drawn at a scale of sufficient size to accurately
and clearly show all required information with a certifying signature, seal and
date of a state registered professional engineer;
      (14)   If applicable, a sedimentation control plan approved by the State
Department of Environmental and Natural Resources;
      (15)   Certification from the designing state registered professional
engineer regarding the proposed towers' ability to accommodate antennas from
other wireless communication providers; and
      (16)   Documentation of contact from the Blue Ridge Parkway (BRP)
Community Planner. If the tower site is within the viewshed of the BRP, written
documentation referencing the consultation from the BRP Community Planner about
the location, size and type of the proposed tower shall be included with the
review package. The BRP Community Planner has 60 days to respond to the
applicant's request for consultation.
   (B)   Applicant's burden. The applicant for a wireless communication tower
shall bear the burden of demonstrating by substantial evidence in a written
record that a bona fide need exists for the proposed tower and that no
reasonable combination of locations, techniques or technologies will obviate
the need for, or mitigate the height or visual impact of, the proposed
telecommunications tower.
   (C)   Permit expiration. A wireless telecommunication facility special use
permit issued pursuant to this chapter expires six months after the date of
issuance if the work authorized has not commenced. If after commencement, the
work is discontinued for a period of 12 months, the permit therefor immediately
expires. No work authorized by a permit that has expired may thereafter be
performed until a new permit has been secured.
   (D)   Application fee. A non-refundable application fee payment of $500
shall accompany each wireless communication tower special use permit request.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.07 SPECIAL USE PERMIT REVIEW PROCESS.
   (A)   General. Upon receipt of a completed application for a wireless
communication tower special use permit, the County Planner will have 60 days to
review the content of the application and prepare a written recommendation
regarding the application to the County Board of Commissioners. A copy of the
recommendation will be mailed to the applicant prior to Board of Commissioner's
review. The permit application will be placed on the Board of Commissioner's
agenda within 21 days after completion of the County Planner's written
recommendation. At the discretion of the County Planner, experts may be
contracted to assist with the review at an expense passed on to the applicant
not to exceed $5,000. The applicant will be notified in writing within seven
days after the Board of Commissioner's decision regarding its application.
   (B)   Balloon testing. The applicant may be required to provide balloon
testing with photographic evidence during the application process. The County
Planner or representative must be present during the balloon test.
   (C)   Collocation. Additional users' equipment, which does not add to the
tower height, may be added without approval from the respective review board
(s). No application or fee is required. All appropriate building permits
pertain.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.08 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Facility height.
      (1)   No wireless communication facility, antenna or tower shall exceed
the following maximum tower height.
         (a)   Wireless communication towers shall not exceed 125 feet above
the ground level at the point of their foundation.
         (b)   Attached wireless communication facilities shall not add more
than 25 feet to the existing building or structure to which they are attached.
      (2)   Antennas attached to existing communication towers shall not
increase the height of tower above the maximum allowed.
         (a)   Towers sited on major mountain ridges shall not exceed the
adjacent existing vegetative canopy by more that 25 feet.
         (b)   Towers sited within the view-shed of the Blue Ridge Parkway,
Stone Mountain State Park, the New River or the New River State Park shall not
exceed the adjacent existing vegetative canopy by more than 25 feet.
         (c)   Towers that are designed to accommodate more than one provider's
antennas may increase their tower height by 15 feet above the maximum allowable
height for their site, but not greater than 125 feet.
   (B)   Setback. In order to allow for a fall zone, the wireless communication
facility's support tower shall be setback from the site boundary 100% of the
tower's height or 100% of the tower's engineered breakaway section height as
certified by a state registered professional engineer. The Board of
Commissioners may waive this requirement upon submission of a written
instrument signed by all adjoining property owners and duly notarized agreeing
to the modification or waiver. Setback requirements are waived if the tower is
mounted on an existing structure.
   (C)   Security fence. A minimum of an eight-foot chain link fence with three
strands of barbed wire at its top must surround the wireless communication
facility. The security fence must be locked when the facility is unattended.
   (D)   Landscaping. Landscaping shall be provided and maintained by the
wireless communication facility operator. A minimum of ten feet of camouflaging
landscaping must be provided outside of the wireless communication facility's
security fence. Minimum landscaping includes a row of evergreens with a minimum
height equal to the height of the security fence and a maximum separation of 20
feet. Additionally, evergreen shrubs capable of creating a continuous hedge and
obtaining a height of at least five feet with a maximum spacing of five feet
and at least 24 inches in height at the time of planting shall be part of the
landscaping.
   (E)   Major mountain ridge. Locating a tower on a major mountain ridge
should be a last resort. Justifying documentation shall be provided.
   (F)   Collocation. The applicant should first consider collocation on
existing structures (i.e., water towers, power poles, other communication
towers and the like). Not siting on existing structures that are within one
mile of the proposed site requires justifying documentation. Proposed towers
should be designed for collocation for at least one other provider's
communication antennas.
   (G)   Signage. New and existing wireless communication towers shall be
marked with a sign that does not exceed 15 square feet in size. The sign shall
include the name of the facility's owner as well as the user's name and
emergency contact telephone number. The sign shall be placed in a clearly
visible location.
   (H)   Ice and wind. A state registered professional engineer shall provide
certification that the proposed tower, at a minimum, will withstand the 100-
year return wind speed for the site and one-half inch of solid radial ice.
   (I)   Camouflage. Stealth or camouflage technology must be used when the
proposed tower is within the viewshed of the Blue Ridge Parkway, Stone Mountain
State Park, the New River/or the New River State Park. Wooden poles may be
considered camouflage technology.
   (J)   Land form preservation. Existing mature tree growth and natural land
on the site shall be preserved to the extent feasible; provided that,
vegetation which causes interference with the antennas or inhibits access to
the equipment facility may be trimmed or removed.
   (K)   Facility color. The tower, equipment facility and fence shall be earth
tone or natural colors that blend with the surrounding area, except when
specific colors or color patterns are required by state or federal regulations.
   (L)   Lighting. Wireless communication facilities shall not be artificially
illuminated, directly or indirectly, except as follows:
      (1)   Security and safety lighting of equipment facilities is permitted
if the lighting is appropriately down shielded to keep light within the
boundaries of the site; and
      (2)   Lighting that is required by state or federal regulations.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.09 APPEALS AND VARIANCES.
   (A)   Appeals of the ordinance administrator's decision. The applicant may
make an appeal for review of any order, requirement, decision or determination
made by the Ordinance Administrator to the Board of Commissioners. The appeal
shall be submitted in writing to the Board of Commissioners within ten days of
receipt of notice of order, requirement, decision or determination. The Board
of Commissioners shall decide the appeal based upon its findings of fact and
the intent of the chapter within 60 days. The effect of this decision shall not
be to vary the terms of this chapter, but rather to interpret it.
   (B)   Variance request. A request for a variance may be submitted in writing
to the Ordinance Administrator along with an application for a wireless
communication tower special use permit or a request for a variance may be
submitted by the applicant in writing to the Ordinance Administrator and Board
of Commissioners within ten days of receipt of notice of an adverse decision by
the Ordinance Administrator or Board of Commissioners. The request shall
identify any variance(s) to the chapter, the reason(s) for seeking the variance
(s) and any measures that are proposed to mitigate possible adverse effects of
the proposed chapter. The Board of Commissioners shall decide on the variance
request within 60 days.
   (C)   Variance conditions. The Board of Commissioners may grant a variance
upon finding that the following conditions exist:
      (1)   Extraordinary and exceptional conditions pertaining to the
particular place or property in question because of its size, shape, topography
or requirement for towers that are not applicable to other tower sites governed
by this chapter;
      (2)   The variance will not confer upon the applicant any special
privileges that are, or would be, denied to other operators of towers governed
by this chapter;
      (3)   This chapter would deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed
by other operators of towers governed by this chapter;
      (4)   The variance will not seriously deter from the purpose and intent
of this chapter and will not be injurious to the neighborhood or to the general
welfare;
      (5)   The special circumstances causing the need for variance(s) are not
the fault of the applicant; and
      (6)   The variance is necessary for the applicant to achieve operational
objectives.
   (D)   Mitigating factor(s). Collocation of facilities and/or stealth
technology shall be considered a mitigating factor to a variance request and
may justify the request.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.10 TOWER REMOVAL.
   The wireless communication provider shall notify the County Planning Office
after 30 consecutive days of non-use. Any wireless communication tower in the
jurisdiction of this chapter shall be removed within 180 days upon which it
ceases to be in active use, or upon notice from the Ordinance Administrator,
whichever is more favorable to the tower owner. Should the tower owner not be
found, the landowner will be responsible for removal of the unused tower.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.11 EXISTING COMMUNICATION TOWERS.
   Communication towers that are in existence at the adoption of this chapter
are "grandfathered", with the following exceptions.
   (A)   All commercial wireless communication towers and private wireless
communication towers greater than 40 feet must be registered with the County
Planning Office within 90 days of the adoption of this chapter.
   (B)   Should the existing tower be unused for 30 consecutive days, the
removal requirement applies, as per §
153.10.
   (C)   Any addition, alteration or modification of greater than 50% of an
existing tower, or increase in height to an existing tower will void its
"grandfather" status, and all elements of this chapter will apply.
   (D)   All existing commercial wireless communication towers shall be brought
into compliance with the signage (§
153.08(G)) and security fence (§
153.08(C)) requirements of this chapter within 90 days of adoption.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor and shall be subject to punishment as provided by G.S. § 14.4.
This chapter may be enforced by equitable remedies provided by G.S. § 153A-123,
including, but not limited to, injunction and abatement. Every day there is a
violation of this chapter, it shall be considered a unique and separate
offense.
   (B)   In lieu of, or in addition to the criminal penalties, the County Board
of Commissioners may impose civil penalties of up to $500 a day for each and
every day there is a violation of this chapter. The County Planning Office
shall assess no penalty prior to notification. If the violator does not pay the
penalty within 30 days, the county may recover it in a civil action in the
nature of a debt. The violator may contest the penalty in the court of
appropriate jurisdiction.
(Ord. passed - -)
CHAPTER 154: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
154.01   Short title
   
154.02   Purpose
   
154.03   Authority and jurisdiction
   
154.04   Legal provisions
   
154.05   Definitions
   
154.06   Procedure for approval of plats for subdivisions
   
154.07   General requirements and minimum standards of design
   
154.08   Improvements required prior to approval of final plats
Specifications
   
154.20   Specifications for preliminary plat
   
154.21   Specifications for final plat
   
154.22   Specifications for minor subdivision plat
   
154.23   Approval of water supply and waste treatment systems
   
154.24   Required certifications
 
   
154.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the "Subdivision Ordinance
of Sparta, North Carolina".
(Ord. passed 1-2-1990)
§ 154.02 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to promote the public health, safety
and general welfare by providing for the orderly subdivision of land in the
community.
   (B)   Among other reasons, this chapter is deemed necessary to:
      (1)   Assure the appropriate layout and use of the land;
      (2)   Provide safe, convenient and economic circulation of vehicular
traffic;
      (3)   Provide for the dedication of reservation of street right-of-way,
utility easements and public facility;
      (4)   Assure the proper installation of streets and utilities;
      (5)   Avoid undue concentrations of populations; and
      (6)   Ensure proper description, identification monumentation and
recordation of property boundaries.
(Ord. passed 1-2-1990)
§ 154.03 AUTHORITY AND JURISDICTION.
   (A)   Authority. The enactment of this chapter is authorized under
provisions pursuant to G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 18.
   (B)   Jurisdiction. This chapter shall govern the platting and recording of
any subdivision of land lying within the town and its extraterritorial planning
jurisdiction.
(Ord. passed 1-2-1990)
§ 154.04 LEGAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Application of chapter.
      (1)   This chapter is applicable to all divisions of a tract or parcel of
land into two or more lots, building sites or other divisions, for the purpose,
whether immediate or future, of sale, or building development, and shall
include all divisions of land involving the dedication of a new street or a
change in existing streets.
      (2)   No lot or plat (except as provided by division (B) below) within
the town's subdivision jurisdiction shall be transferred, nor shall a plat of
record thereof be recorded by the County Register of Deeds until a final plat
of the subdivision has been submitted to and approved by the Planning Board.
The approval shall be indicated on the fact of the plat and signed by the
Planning Board Chairperson. (See §
154.24 for certification form.)
      (3)   The Register of Deeds shall not file a plat of record of any
subdivision of land within the town's jurisdiction nor shall the Clerk of
Superior Court order the recording without the required certification and
signature of the Planning Board Chairperson.
   (B)   Exceptions.
      (1)   The following shall not be included nor be subject to the
regulations prescribed by this chapter:
         (a)   The combination or recombination of portions of previously
platted lots where the total number of lots is not increased and the resultant
lots are equal to or exceed the standards of the town as described herein;
         (b)   The division of land into parcels greater than ten acres where
no street right-of-way dedication is involved;
         (c)   The public acquisition by purchase of strips of land for the
widening or opening of streets;
         (d)   The division of a tract in single ownership the entire area of
which is no greater than two acres into not more than three lots, where no
street right-of-way dedication is involved, and where the resultant lots are
equal to or exceed the standards of this chapter; and/or
         (e)   The division of property among heirs for the sole purpose of
settling an estate.
      (2)   Plats not subject to the provision of this chapter, may be recorded
provided the owner desiring to record the plats shall obtain certification of
exemption (see §
154.24) from the Planning Board Chairperson and shall present the certification
to the Register of Deeds as proof that one of the conditions of exception noted
above is present.
   (C)   Plat approval not to constitute acceptance of street or public
utility. The approval of a plat pursuant to this chapter shall not be deemed to
constitute or affect the acceptance by the town or the public of the dedication
of any street or other ground, public utility line or other public facility
shown on the plat.
   (D)   Approval required for building permit. No building permit shall be
issued for the erection of any building on any lot within a subdivision unless
a final plat of the subdivision has been approved as required by this chapter
or a certificate of exemption obtained; provided that, this shall not apply to
any subdivision recorded by the Register of Deeds prior to the effective date
of this chapter.
   (E)   Variances due to site conditions. Where the subdivider can show that a
provision of these requirements would cause unnecessary hardship, if strictly
adhered to due to topographical or other conditions peculiar to the site, the
Board may approve a variance when it finds that the variance may be granted
without destroying the intent of this chapter. Any variance thus recommended by
the Board shall be noted in the minutes of the meeting at which the variance is
granted and the notation shall include the reasons for the variance.
   (F)   Effective date. This chapter shall take effect and be in force from
and after 1-2-1990 and as subsequently amended by the Town Council.
   (G)   Amendment procedure. This chapter may be amended or revised from time
to time by the Town Board as provided by G.S. Ch. 160A, but no amendment shall
become effective unless it shall have been proposed by or shall have been
submitted to the Planning Board for review and recommendation. If the Planning
Board fails to provide a recommendation within 45 days of submission to the
Board, it shall be deemed to have favorably recommended the amendment.
   (H)   State platting and disclosure statement requirement. All subdividers
planning to sell lots not plated and recorded prior to (effective date) are
advised to consult G.S. § 136-102.6, "Compliance of Subdivision Streets with
Minimum Standards of the Board of Transportation", which requires that all new
streets, whether public or private, and all changes in streets be platted. G.S.
§ 136-102.6 also requires the subdivider to furnish to each lot purchaser a
subdivision streets disclosure statement revealing the status of new streets,
whether or not they are constructed to State Department of Transportation
standards, and who will bear maintenance responsibility for the streets. No
provision of this chapter or of any other local ordinance shall exempt a
division of land from the provision of G.S. § 136-102.6.
(Ord. passed 1-2-1990)
§ 154.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BUILDING SETBACK LINE. A line parallel to the front property line in
front of which no structure shall be erected.
      DEDICATION. A gift, by the owner, of his or her property to another party
without any consideration being given for the transfer. Since a transfer of
property is involved, the dedication is made by written instrument and is
completed with an acceptance.
      DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOT. A continuous (through) lot which is accessible from
both streets upon which it fronts.
      EASEMENT. A grant by the property owner of a strip of land for a
specified purpose and use by the public, a corporation or persons.
      LOT. A portion of a subdivision, or any other parcel of land, intended as
a unit for transfer of ownership or for development or both.
      OFFICIAL MAPS OR PLANS. Any maps or plans officially adopted by the Town
Council as a guide to the development of the town.
      OPEN SPACE. An area (land and/or water) generally lacking in human-made
structures and reserved for enjoyment in its unaltered state.
      PLAT. A map or plan of a parcel of land which is to be, or has been,
subdivided.
      PUBLIC SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. A system serving two or more dwelling
units. Package treatment plants are included in this definition.
      PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY. Any water supply furnishing potable water to two or
more residences or businesses or a combination of residences or businesses.
      RESERVATION. A reservation of land does not involve any transfer of
property rights. It simply constitutes an obligation to keep property free from
development for a stated period of time.
      SINGLE-TIER LOT. A lot which backs upon a limited access highway, a
railroad, a physical barrier or another type of land use and to which access
from the rear is usually prohibited.
      STREET.
         (a)   A dedication and accepted public right-of-way for vehicular
traffic. The following classifications shall apply.
            1.   LOCAL ROAD. A local road serves primarily to provide access to
adjacent land and for travel over relatively short distances.
            2.   MAJOR COLLECTOR. A road which serves major inter-county travel
corridors and traffic generators and provides access to the arterial system.
            3.   MINOR ARTERIAL. A rural link in a network joining cities and
larger towns and providing intrastate and intercounty service at relatively
high (55 mph) overall travel speeds with minimum interference to through
movement. This network would primarily serve through traffic.
            4.   MINOR COLLECTOR. A road which provides service to small local
communities and links the locally important traffic generators with their rural
hinterland.
            5.   PRINCIPAL ARTERIAL. A rural link in a network of continuous
routes serving corridor movements having trip length and travel density
characteristics indicative of substantial statewide or interstate travel and
existing solely to serve traffic. This network would consist of interstate
routes and other routes designated as PRINCIPAL ARTERIALS.
         (b)   Specific type of streets.
            1.   CUL-DE-SAC. A cul-de-sac is a short street having but one end
open to traffic and the other end being permanently terminated and a vehicular
turn around provided.
            2.   FRONTAGE STREET. A local street or road that is parallel to a
full or partial access controlled facility and functions to provide access to
adjacent land.
      SUBDIVIDER. Any person, firm or corporation who subdivides or develops
any land deemed to be a subdivision, as herein defined.
      SUBDIVISION. All divisions of a tract or parcel of land into two or more
lots, building sites or other divisions for the purpose of sale or building
development (whether immediate or future) and shall include all division of
land involving the dedication of a new street or a change in existing streets,
but the following shall not be included within this definition, nor be subject
to the regulations established herein:
         (a)   The combination or recombination of portions of previously-
platted lots where the total number of lots is not increased and the resultant
lots are equal to or exceed the standards of the municipality as shown in its
subdivision regulations;
         (b)   The division of land into parcels greater than ten acres where
no street right-of-way dedication is involved;
         (c)   The public acquisition by purchase of strips of land for the
widening or opening of streets;
         (d)   The division of a tract in single ownership whose entire area is
no greater than two acres into not more than three lots, where no street right-
of-way dedication is involved and where the resultant lots are equal to or
exceed the standards of
Chapter 156 of this code; and
         (e)   The division of property among heirs for the sole purpose of
settling an estate.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, certain words shall be interpreted as
follows.
      (1)   The word "may" is permissive.
      (2)   The words "shall" and "will" are mandatory.
      (3)   The present tense includes the future tense and the future tense
includes the present tense.
      (4)   The singular includes the plural and the plural includes the
singular.
(Ord. passed 1-2-1990)
§ 154.06 PROCEDURE FOR APPROVAL OF PLATS FOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Preapplication; sketch plan.
      (1)   It is recommended that the developer of a major subdivision meet
with members of the Town Planning Board in a preapplication conference. The
developer should prepare a sketch plan to show general plans for the
subdivision. No specific size or scale is required for the sketch plan. The
sketch plan should contain:
         (a)   A sketch vicinity map showing the location of the subdivision in
relation to neighboring tracts and roads;
         (b)   Boundaries of the tract and portion to be subdivided;
         (c)   Total acres to be subdivided;
         (d)   Proposed general street and lot layout;
         (e)   Zoning classification of tract and adjacent properties; and
         (f)   Name, address and telephone number of owner.
      (2)   The Planning Board will review the sketch plan and recommend
changes, if necessary, prior to the development of a preliminary plat.
   (B)   Preliminary plat, major subdivisions.
      (1)   Submission requirements.
         (a)   A preliminary plat of a proposed major subdivision (a
subdivision involving development or extension of a public road) shall be
prepared by the developer. Specifications for preliminary plats are contained
in §
154.20.
         (b)   Five copies of the preliminary plat, along with any proposed
deed restrictions shall be submitted to the Planning Board at least 20 days
before the Planning Board meeting at which it is to be considered.
         (c)   The Town Manager shall send a copy of the plat to the
Appalachian District Health Director for review. He or she may also advise the
appropriate school superintendent in writing of proposed new residential
subdivisions.
         (d)   The Town Manager shall also notify in writing all adjoining
property owners. The notice shall state the date of the Planning Board meeting
when the preliminary plat will be considered and shall be mailed in sufficient
time to provide adequate notice.
      (2)   Planning Board action. Following a review of the preliminary plat
and other submitted material and, if necessary, a conference with the
subdivider regarding changes deemed advisable and the kind and extent of
improvements to be made by him or her, the Planning Board shall act on the plat
as submitted or modified. If approved, the Planning Board shall state the
condition of the approval, if any, or if disapproved, shall express its
disapproval and its reasons.
   (C)   Final plat, major subdivisions.
      (1)   Submission requirements. When the requirements of this chapter have
been complied with, the subdivider shall submit six copies of the final
subdivision plat and any deed restriction to the Town Manager for the Planning
Board to determine that the final plat conforms to the preliminary plat and
other requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   Improvements and certifications. No final plat shall be approved
until all improvements are installed or their execution guaranteed as set forth
in this chapter and all certificates required for final plats by this chapter
or approvals by state law have been properly completed and signed.
      (3)   Disagreement. In any case of disagreement between the Planning
Board and a developer and/or engineer or surveyor, the aggrieved party may
appeal to the Town Council for relief and/or a decision.
      (4)   Recordation. The approval of the final plat by the Planning Board
shall be on condition that the plat be recorded in the office of Register of
Deeds within 60 days after approval.
   (D)   Minor subdivisions. The developer of a minor subdivision (a
subdivision not involving development or extension of a new public street with
all lots having access to an existing state maintained road) may apply for
final approval of any minor subdivision through the procedures set forth in
this section.
      (1)   Submission requirements.
         (a)   Two copies of a plat, prepared according to specification in §
154.22, shall be presented to the Planning Board for all minor subdivisions.
         (b)   Plat for minor subdivisions must be accompanied by a certificate
of survey and accuracy as specified in §
154.24 by a registered land surveyor or professional engineer licensed and
registered to practice in the state.
      (2)   Review procedure. The Planning Board shall review each minor
subdivision and shall find that it either does or does not meet the
requirements of this chapter. Based on these findings, the Planning Board shall
either approve, disapprove or approve conditionally the proposed minor
subdivision within 30 days of its submission. The decision of the Planning
Board is subject to appeal by the subdivider to the Town Council, which must
act on any appeal within 30 days.
      (3)   Certificate of approval for recording. If the proposed minor
subdivision is approved by the Planning Board, or by the Town Council upon
appeal, the approval shall be shown by a certificate of approval for recording
(§
154.24).
(Ord. passed 1-2-1990)
§ 154.07 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS AND MINIMUM STANDARDS OF DESIGN.
   (A)   General. Land shall be subdivided in accordance with good land
planning practices, including adequate consideration of the natural topography
and drainage features and the type of development proposed.
   (B)   Compliance with official plans and ordinances. Land shall be
subdivided in compliance with
Chapter 156 of this code of ordinances and other pertinent official development
plans and ordinances.
   (C)   Road frontage. All lots in a subdivision must front on a public paved
road. There shall be no reserve strips controlling access to streets, except
where cause can be shown that the control would best serve the purpose of this
chapter.
   (D)   Streets and roads.
      (1)   Road design standards. The design of all public streets and roads
within the town's authority shall conform to the minimum standards set forth in
the most recent edition of Minimum Construction Standards for Subdivision Road,
as published by the State Department of Transportation, Division of Highways.
      (2)   Disclosure statement. Disclosure and approval by the Division of
Highways shall comply with G.S. § 136-102.6.
      (3)   Street names. All streets shall be named and signs conforming to
municipal standards, or county standards in the extraterritorial planning area,
shall be posted at intersections showing the name of every street. New streets
which are obviously in alignment with others already existing and named shall
bear the names of the existing streets.
      (4)   Subdivision names. All subdivision requiring the development of new
public roads must be named. A sign clearly indicating the name of the
subdivision shall be posted at each entrance to the subdivision.
      (5)   Access to adjoining property. Means of ingress and egress for
adjoining properties within the subdivision shall be provided.
      (6)   Cul-de-sacs. Cul-de-sacs or other dead end street designed to be
permanently closed shall be provided at the closed end with sufficient right-
of-way for vehicular turnarounds. Circular rights-of-way at the closed end
shall have a minimum radius of 50 feet and the surfacing shall have a minimum
radius of 35 feet.
   (E)   Blocks. Blocks shall be laid out with due consideration given to
traffic circulation patterns and contemplated use.
      (1)   Length. Blocks shall be not less than 400, nor more than 1,600,
feet in length, except as considered necessary to secure efficient use of land
or desired features of street pattern by the Planning Board.
      (2)   Widths. Blocks shall be wide enough to allow two tiers of lots of
minimum depth (reference Table of Area and Yard Requirements,
Chapter 156 of this code), except where fronting on major streets or prevented
by topographic conditions, in which case a single tier of lots may be approved.
   (F)   Lots. Lots shall be designed in shape, size and location with due
regard to topographic conditions, features of the surrounding area,
contemplated use and official plans and ordinances.
      (1)   Marginal land. Land subject to flooding, land with slopes greater
than 25% and land uninhabitable for other reasons shall not be considered
platted for occupancy and shall not be considered in determining the minimum
lot area.
      (2)   Frontage on a public street. Every lot shall front or abut on a
public street.
      (3)   Double and reverse frontage. Double frontage and reverse frontage
lots shall be avoided, except where required in unusual circumstances
specifically approved by the Planning Board.
      (4)   Side lot lines. Side lot lines shall be substantially at right
angles to straight street lines or radial to curved street lines.
      (5)   Area and dimensions of lots. All lots shall conform to the minimal
dimensional requirements for each zoning district as prescribed in
Chapter 156 of this code. However, the Appalachian Regional Health Department
may require a larger lot to accommodate a septic tank system.
   (G)   Water and sewer facilities serving lots.
      (1)   Inside corporate limits. All new subdivisions within the town shall
connect to the municipal water and sewer systems, when feasible.
      (2)   Extraterritorial planning jurisdiction. Each subdivision in the
extraterritorial area of the town may be connected, at the subdivider's
expense, to the municipal water and sanitary sewer if approved by the town. All
lots in subdivisions not connected to the town's water and/or sanitary sewer
systems shall have a suitable source of water supply and sanitary sewage
disposal.
      (3)   Compliance with health and environmental laws. Water supply and
sewage facilities shall comply with applicable state and county health and
environmental laws and regulations. (See §
154.23 for water and waste disposal approval requirements.)
      (4)   Verification of an approved system to Planning Board, municipal
systems/sanitary districts. If the systems are connected to the facilities
owned and operated by the town or any sanitary facility, not constructed by the
municipality, the preliminary plan shall be accompanied by a letter of approval
from the proper official representing the owner of the existing system. After
preliminary approval, but prior to the installation of a public water or sewer
system, the developer shall present the Planning Board plans for the proposed
system, prepared by a registered engineer and approved by the proper officials
representing the existing system, the State Department of Health, Division of
Health Services, and/or the State Department of Environment, Health and Natural
Resources, Division of Environmental Management.
      (5)   Community water/sewer systems. Where community water/sewer systems
are proposed, the preliminary plat shall be accompanied by a letter of approval
from the State Department of Environment, Health and Natural Resources, the
State Department of Health, Division of Health Services, or the Appalachian
District Health Department, whichever is applicable. The developer shall note
the type of system to be utilized on the preliminary and final plat.
      (6)   Individual wells/septic systems. Where public water and sewer
facilities are not available and individual water supplies or individual sewage
disposal systems are planned, the subdivider, at his or her own expense, shall
have the site investigated by the Appalachian District Health Department to
determine whether or not the individual facilities are feasible. Proof shall be
presented to the Planning Board that the water or sewage disposal systems has
been approved by the Appalachian District Health Department for individual
water supplies and/or sewage disposal systems. The Health Department shall
approve the general acceptability of the subdivision for septic tank systems.
As each lot is developed, the Sanitarian shall approve the septic tank system
for that property owner.
   (H)   Easements.
      (1)   Utility easement. Easements for underground or above ground
utilities shall be provided across lots where necessary and shall be centered
on rear or side lot lines where practicable and shall be at least ten feet in
width.
      (2)   Drainage easement. Where a subdivision is traversed by a stream or
drainage way, an easement shall be provided conforming with the lines of the
stream and of sufficient width as will be adequate for the purpose as
determined by the best available floodplain maps.
   (I)   Recreation areas and sites for public facilities. Where a school site
is shown on a publicly approved plan, which plan shall have been recorded with
the Register of Deeds, and requested by the local Board of Education, the site
shall either be dedicated for the public purposes at the option of the property
owner or reserved for acquisition by the appropriate public body for a period
not exceeding 18 months from the date of approval of the preliminary
subdivision plan.
   (J)   Storm water drainage. As part of the preliminary plat, the subdivider
shall present a storm water drainage plan for his or her proposed subdivision
to the Planning Board for its review and approval. This plan shall incorporate
the following basic design elements.
      (1)   No surface water shall be channeled or directed into a sanitary
sewer.
      (2)   Where feasible, the subdivider shall connect to an existing storm
drainage system.
      (3)   Where an existing storm drainage system cannot feasibly be extended
to the subdivision, a surface drainage system shall be designed to protect the
proposed development from water damage as well as other development downstream
from project.
      (4)   Surface drainage courses shall have side slopes of at least two
feet of horizontal distance for each one foot of vertical distance and courses
shall be of sufficient size to accommodate the drainage area without flooding.
      (5)   The minimum grade along the bottom of a surface drainage course
shall be a vertical fall of at least one foot in each 300 feet of horizontal
distance.
   (K)   Buffer strips; streams.
      (1)   A subdivision including within its boundaries a perennial stream
shall provide for a 50-foot buffer of vegetation on both sides of the stream to
retard rapid water runoff and soil erosion. Perennial streams are identified as
the solid blue lines on U.S. Geological Survey Maps.
      (2)   Streets, roadway, railroads and driveways are permitted in the
stream buffer, but shall be constructed to cross the buffer as near to
perpendicular as possible. Utility lines, greenways and greenway type
recreation facilities are permitted within the buffer, but shall be designed to
have minimal impact. If the vegetative cover must be removed or disturbed, it
shall be restored as soon as possible.
      (3)   The 50-foot buffer shall be measured on a horizontal plane from the
bank of the stream. The buffer zone may be included in calculating the lot
size.
(Ord. passed 1-2-1990)
§ 154.08 IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED PRIOR TO APPROVAL OF FINAL PLATS.
   (A)   Installation of improvements. No subdivision plats shall be granted
final approval until the required improvements have been made in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Guarantee of improvements. Grading and base construction for streets
must be installed prior to submission of the plat for final approval. Where
other required improvements have not been completed, the approval of the plat
shall be subject to the subdivider guaranteeing the installation of the
improvements in one of the following methods:
      (1)   Personal notes of owners upon proof of satisfactory net worth;
      (2)   Savings account with any properly insured financial institution;
      (3)   Cash or certified check;
      (4)   Performance of surety bond executed by a company duly licensed to
do business in the state; or
      (5)   Presentation of a feasibility study indicating the method of
financing the subdivision.
   (C)   Submission requirements. Data demonstrating compliance with the
improvement requirements must be prepared and submitted along with the final
plat for the meeting of the Planning Board at which final approval is sought.
Six copies of the final plat and all plans, profiles, specifications and other
required information shall be required. Specifications for final plats are
listed in §
154.21.
   (D)   Required improvements. The following improvement requirements shall be
fulfilled or guaranteed before a final plat shall be approved by the Planning
Board for recording:
      (1)   Public streets. Streets and all associated improvements, to include
storm drains, grading, base and paving, shall be constructed by the subdivider
in accordance with the specifications and standards of the State Department of
Transportation, Division of Highways, and shall be approved by the District
Highway Engineer.
      (2)   Permanent reference points. Prior to filing the final plat,
permanent reference points shall have been placed in accordance with 21
N.C.A.C. 56, §§ 1601 et seq., which provide regulations for surveyors for the
mapping of subdivisions.
      (3)   Utilities.
         (a)   Water mains and sanitary sewers shall be installed by the
subdivider. If the installation is made, the subdivider shall comply with all
rules and regulations prescribed by the State Department of Human Resources,
the State Department of Environment, Health and Natural Resources, and the
Appalachian Health Regional Office; and with all regulations and construction
specifications of any municipality to whose utility system the water mains and/
or sanitary sewers may eventually be connected.
         (b)   Electrical utilities and communication lines shall be installed
with arrangements made by the subdivider with the utility company or
cooperative authorized to serve the area of the subdivision. Installation shall
be in keeping with the latest accepted design standards and procedures along
lot lines. Utilities which encroach upon the state highway system shall require
an encroachment contract executed by the person or firm responsible for
maintenance.
      (4)   Water supply and sewage disposal on individual lots. The size,
location, soil conditions and drainage of all lots in the subdivision shall be
approved by the Appalachian Regional Health Office relative to individual water
supply and sewage disposal systems. Water supply and waste treatment approval
requirements are noted in §
154.23.
      (5)   Erosion control.
         (a)   The subdivider shall mulch, seed, sod or otherwise protect all
grading, excavations, open cuts, side slopes and other land surface
disturbances.
         (b)   It is also the subdivider's responsibility to comply with the
State Sedimentation and Pollution Control Act being G.S. §§ 113A-50 et seq. The
Planning Board Chairperson will advise the developer to contact the State
Department of Health, Environment and Natural Resources Development, Land
Quality Section, which agency provides technical assistance and enforcement of
the Sedimentation and Pollution Control Act.
      (6)   Removal of rubbish. The subdivider shall remove or bury (provided
it is not buried within 100 feet of a house site on the same lot) all cut or
fallen trees, stumps or rubbish from the subdivision.
(Ord. passed 1-2-1990)
SPECIFICATIONS
§ 154.20 SPECIFICATIONS FOR PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   The preliminary plat shall be submitted (five copies on 18-inch by 24-inch
sheets drawn to a scale of not less than 200 feet to the inch) and shall
contain the following information.
   (A)   Title data.
      (1)   Date of submission;
      (2)   Name and address of owner(s);
      (3)   Name of subdivision (Subdivision names shall not duplicate or
approximate, phonetically, existing subdivision names.);
      (4)   Location designation (township, county, state) and location map
showing the property to be subdivided and surrounding area;
      (5)   Name and address of designer;
      (6)   Scale in figures and bar graph;
      (7)   North arrow;
      (8)   "Preliminary plan" notation; and
      (9)   Proposed use of property to be subdivided.
   (B)   Existing conditions (on property to be subdivided and within 500 feet
of property being subdivided).
      (1)   Street rights-of-way, width of pavement and names;
      (2)   Location and size of community utilities including sewer, water,
electricity and telephone facilities;
      (3)   Location and size of bridges, culverts and other storm drainage
facilities;
      (4)   Location, width and purpose of all easement;
      (5)   Bearing and distances of property boundary;
      (6)   Surrounding property lines, property owners and subdivisions;
      (7)   Boundaries and identification of political subdivisions;
      (8)   Boundaries and identification of zoning districts;
      (9)   Buildings;
      (10)   Topography including water courses, wooden areas and contours at
five-foot intervals or less;
      (11)   Location, extent and identification of floodplain, watershed,
water critical area or other restricted land;
      (12)   Driveways and road (in use or abandoned) leading to other
property;
      (13)   Other natural or human-made conditions affecting site development;
and
      (14)   At the request of the Planning Board, a list of restrictive
covenants (deed restrictions) to be applied to any or all lots in the
subdivision.
   (C)   Proposed plans. Where the preliminary plat submitted covers only a
part of the subdivided tract, a sketch shall be submitted showing the
prospective future street system and other features for ultimate development of
the entire tract.
      (1)   Street alignments, rights-of-way, names of streets;
      (2)   Community utilities, including sewer, water, electricity, gas and
telephone facilities, with connections to existing system shown;
      (3)   Location and size of bridges, culverts and other storm drainage
facilities;
      (4)   Location, width and purpose of all easements;
      (5)   Lines, numbers and approximate dimensions of lots and blocks;
      (6)   Minimum building setback lines;
      (7)   Public use sites; and
      (8)   Site data:
         (a)   Acreage of property to be subdivided;
         (b)   Acreage of public use sites;
         (c)   Number of lots;
         (d)   Average lot size;
         (e)   Square feet of each irregularly shaped lot; and
         (f)   Lineal feet of streets.
(Ord. passed 1-2-1990)
§ 154.21 SPECIFICATIONS FOR FINAL PLAT.
   The final plat (five copies, one Mylar) shall be submitted on 18-inch by 24-
inch sheets to a scale of not less than 200 feet to the inch. If more than two
sheets are required, an index sheet of the same dimensions shall be provided.
The final plat shall contain the following information:
   (A)   Title data.
      (1)   Date of submission;
      (2)   Name and address of owner(s);
      (3)   Name of subdivision;
      (4)   Location designation (township, county, school district, state);
      (5)   Name and address of engineer or surveyor;
      (6)   Scale in figures and bar graph;
      (7)   North arrow;
      (8)   "Final plat" notation; and
      (9)   Certificates (reference §
154.24).
   (B)   Surrounding properties information.
      (1)   Property lines, property owners and subdivisions; and
      (2)   Rights-of-way, easements, reservations and public use sites located
and identified within 500 feet of property being subdivided
   (C)   Property being subdivided.
      (1)   Street rights-of-way, widths of pavements and names of streets as
posted on site;
      (2)   Property boundary lines including bearings and distances as
determined by survey;
      (3)   Block and lot line with dimensions, block and lot numbers;
      (4)   Minimum building setback lines;
      (5)   Identification and dimensions of easements, reservations and
dedicated area;
      (6)   Location, extent and identification of floodplain, water, water
critical area and other restricted land; and
      (7)   Sufficient data of monuments and markers to determine readily and
reproduce on the ground, the location, bearing and length of all the above
items.
(Ord. passed 1-2-1990)
§ 154.22 SPECIFICATIONS FOR MINOR SUBDIVISION PLAT.
   (A)   Two copies of a minor subdivision plat shall be submitted on 18-inch
by 24-inch sheets to a scale of not less than 200 feet to the inch.
   (B)   The following information shall be included:
      (1)   Date of submission;
      (2)   Name and address of owners;
      (3)   Location designation (township, county, zoning district);
      (4)   Name and address of surveyor;
      (5)   Scale;
      (6)   North arrow;
      (7)   Property lines, property owners and subdivisions of surrounding
property owners;
      (8)   Surveyed lots with all dimensions, easements, reservations and the
like; and
      (9)   Sufficient data of monuments and markers to determine readily and
reproduce on the ground the location, bearing and length of all above items.
(Ord. passed 1-2-1990)
§ 154.23 APPROVAL OF WATER SUPPLY AND WASTE TREATMENT SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Water supply systems.
      (1)   Water supply systems planned to serve 15 or more connections or at
least 25 permanent residents are classified as community public water supplies
by the state. Plan and specifications for the systems must be prepared by a
professional engineer registered in the state and submitted for approval to the
Public Water Supply Branch (Regional Office) Department of Human Resources.
      (2)   Water supply systems planned to serve 14 or fewer connections or
less than 25 permanent residents are regulated by the Appalachian District
Health Department for approval.
      (3)   Individual water supplies (wells) are regulated by the Appalachian
District Health Department and should be located, constructed and operated in
accordance with county and state regulations administered through the
Appalachian District Health Department.
   (B)   Waste treatment.
      (1)   Any subdivision sewer system connecting to the town's sewer system
shall be built to municipal standards and approved by the town.
      (2)   (a)   All point discharging systems and commercial and industrial
septic tank systems shall be approved by the State Department of Environment,
Health and Natural Resources, Division of Environmental Management. The number
of hook ups and the level of treatment are determined by the Division of
Environmental Management.
         (b)   All private sewage treatment plants are required to be enclosed
with a chain-link fence a minimum of seven feet in height and locked when the
plant is unattended. This requirement is applicable to all existing and new
private sewage treatment plants.
      (3)   Non-discharging domestic septic tanks will be approved by the
Appalachian Health District with regard to location, lot size and installation
regulations.
(Ord. passed 1-2-1990)
§ 154.24 REQUIRED CERTIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Certificate of exemption (subdivision not subject to regulations of
this chapter).
I (we) hereby certify that I am (we are) the owner(s) of the property shown and
described hereon, which was conveyed to me (us) by deed recorded in Book
          , Page          , and that the subdivision of the property shown on
this plat is an exception to §
154.04 (B).
                                          
      Owner(s)                         Date
                                          
      Planning Board Chairperson                   Date
   (B)   Certificate of approval for recording, minor subdivision.
I hereby certify that the subdivision plat shown hereon has been found to
comply with the Subdivision Regulations for Sparta, North Carolina, and that
such plat has been approved according to the procedure for approval of minor
subdivisions.
                                          
      Date                      Sparta Planning Board Chairperson
   (C)   Certificate of ownership and dedication.
I hereby certify that I (we) am (are) the owner(s) of the property shown and
described hereon, which is located in the subdivision jurisdiction of Sparta
and that I hereby adopt this plan of subdivision with my (our) free consent,
establish minimum building setback lines, and dedicate all streets, alleys,
walks, parks, and other sites and easements to public or private use as noted.
                                          
      Date                      Owner(s)
      North Carolina
                  
      County
   (D)   Certificate of accuracy.
I,                                                         certify that under
my direction and supervision this map was drawn from an actual field land
survey; that the Error of Closure is calculated by latitudes and departures is
1:            ; that the boundaries not surveyed are shown as broken lines
plotted from information in book             , page             ; that this map
was prepared in accordance with G.S. § 47-30 as amended.
      WITNESS my hand and Seal this              day of                   ,
20      .
   (E)   Certificate of approval, major subdivision.
This subdivision plat has been found to comply with the provision of the
Subdivision Ordinance of Sparta and provided that it is recorded in the Office
of the Register of Deeds within 60 days of final approval by the Planning
Board.
                                          
      Sparta Planning Board Chairperson          Date of Approval by Planning
Board
(Ord. passed 1-2-1990)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any persons who, being the owner or agent of the owner of any land
located within the jurisdiction of the town who subdivides the land in
violation of this chapter or transfers or sells any part of the land by
reference to, exhibition of or any other use of a plat showing a subdivision of
land before the plat has been properly approved under the provisions of this
chapter and recorded in the office of the County Register of Deeds, shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   This chapter may also be enforced by injunction, order of abatement or
other equitable remedy upon application to the general court of justice.
(Ord. passed 1-2-1990)
CHAPTER 155: SUBDIVISION ROADS
Section
General Provisions
   
155.001   Division of Highways Division Engineers
   
155.002   Division of Highways District Offices
   
155.003   Application requirements
Specific Regulations
   
155.015   Subdivision roads
   
155.016   Utility requirements
   
155.017   State law; G.S. § 136-102.6
   
155.018   Petition for road addition
   
155.019   Highway obstructions interfering with traffic maintenance
   
155.020   Verification of compliance with Department of Environment and Natural
Resources
   
155.021   Street and driveway access permit application
   
155.022   Standard pipe sizing chart
Minimum Design and Construction Criteria
   
155.035   Drainage
   
155.036   Bridges and dams
   
155.037   Curb and gutter and sidewalk
   
155.038   Wheel chair ramps
   
155.039   Pavement designs
   
155.040   Traffic control
   
155.041   Guardrail
   
155.042   Road intersections
   
155.043   Islands or short medians at subdivision entrances
   
155.044   Subdivision name markers
   
155.045   Local residential subdivision roads
   
155.046   Residential collector roads
   
155.047   Thoroughfare Plan roads
   
155.048   Industrial access or commercial complex roads
Figures
   
155.060   Figure 1: Cross-section: Shoulder Section
   
155.061   Figure 2: Cross-section: Curb and Gutter Section
   
155.062   Figure 3: Recommended Road Connection: New Local Residential Road or
Residential Collector Road with Curb and Gutter and Existing State Maintained
Road with Shoulder Section
   
155.063   Figure 4: Recommended Road Connection: New Local Residential Road or
Residential Collector Road and Existing State Maintained Road without Curb and
Gutter Stop Connection
   
155.064   Figure 5: Recommended Roadway Connection with Curb and Gutter
   
155.065   Figure 6: Driveway Turnout Grades
   
155.066   Figure 7: Symmetrical Cul-de-sac with Curb and Gutter
   
155.067   Figure 8: Symmetrical Cul-de-sac with No Curb and Gutter
   
155.068   Figure 9: Examples of Minor Residential Cul-de-sac Designs
   
155.069   Figure 10: Symmetrical Cul-de-sac with 2'-0" Valley Gutter
   
155.070   Figure 11: Offset Cul-de-sac Design
   
155.071   Figure 12: Detail Section View of Interior Island and Sign
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.001 DIVISION OF HIGHWAYS DIVISION ENGINEERS.
   The contact information for the Division Engineers is available at the Town
Clerk/Finance Officer's office.
§ 155.002 DIVISION OF HIGHWAYS DISTRICT OFFICES.
   The contact information for the district officers is available at the Town
Clerk/Finance Officer's office.
§ 155.003 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any person or corporation desiring to construct a new subdivision road
which is to be dedicated as public must submit the following information to the
District Engineer for proper evaluation in order to obtain a certificate of
approval as required by G.S. § 136-102.6. (See §
155.017.)
   (B)   If the new subdivision road (to be dedicated as public or private)
will connect to a state system road, a driveway permit/encroachment agreement
authorizing construction on state right-of-way must be obtained from the
Division of Highways before beginning any construction. Applications should be
made to the District Engineer having jurisdiction in the area.
   (C)   The appropriate District Engineer's Office can be determined from the
listing referenced in §
155.001.
      (1)   Three complete site layouts with vicinity map, including any future
expansions anticipated. Additional copies may be required by the District
Engineer's Office.
      (2)   Horizontal alignment indicating general curve data on site layout
plan.
      (3)   Vertical alignment indicated by percent grade, P.I. station,
vertical curve length and k-value, on site layout plan. Existing ground profile
along centerline should also be included.
      (4)   Typical section indicating the pavement design and width of
pavement. All slopes shown in accordance with drawings of §§
155.060 and
155.061.
      (5)   Submission of hydraulics plans and drainage calculations are
required. A copy of U.S. Geodetic Survey or other contour mapping showing
drainage areas are also required. (NOTE: A sample standard pipe sizing chart is
shown in §
155.022 or any generally accepted industry standard containing the same
information as shown in the example may be used.)
      (6)   Four copies of the recorded plat are to be furnished to the
District Engineer after certification or upon application for state
maintenance.
   (D)   (1)   On new subdivision roads lot lines should not extend beyond the
right-of-way.
      (2)   See State Transportation and Highway Laws, G.S. Ch. 136, Art. 7, §
136-102.6 for additional information on right-of-way width and lot lines. (See
§
155.017.)
   (E)   When property is subdivided along existing state maintained roads the
lot lines may extend beyond the right-of-way subject to the property owner's
discretion.
   (F)   A minimum of four separate site plans for driveway permits will be
required prior to construction within NCDOT right-of-way. (See §
155.021.)
   (G)   Copy of erosion control plans and permit, approved by Department of
Environment and Natural Resources or local government, may be required by the
District Engineer. (See §
155.020.)
   (H)   Utility encroachment agreements required prior to addition of road to
state system. (For agreement forms, please contact District Engineer.)
(Ord. passed 1-1-2000)
SPECIFIC REGULATIONS
§ 155.015 SUBDIVISION ROADS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   A subdivision road is one that serves a parcel or tract of land
that is subdivided into two or more lots, building sites or other divisions for
sale or building development for residential purposes where the subdivisions
include a new road or change in an existing road.
      (2)   Subdivision roads shall be designated public or private. Public
designations shall be built to minimum construction standards of the State
Department of Transportation as required under G.S. § 136-102.6. (See §
155.017.) Private roads need not meet minimum construction requirements, but
must meet minimum construction requirements before ever becoming a part of the
state maintained system.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      LOCAL RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISION ROAD. Either cul-de-sacs, loop roads, roads
that do not connect thoroughfares or serve major traffic generators.
         (a)   CUL-DE-SACS. These are very short roads, open at one end only,
with a special provision for turning around. They have a "bulb" end design with
a specific turning radii and a limited number of lots.
         (b)   DEAD END ROADS. These are roads less than 2,500 feet in length,
open at one end only without special provisions for turning around and have no
collector characteristics.
         (c)   LOOP ROADS. A road that has its beginning and ending points on
the same route. It is less than one mile in length and has no collector
characteristics.
         (d)   OTHER ROADS. These roads do not connect thoroughfares or serve
major traffic generators and do not have "collector" characteristics.
         (e)   SHORT CONNECTING ROADS. These roads are normally one block long
or extend on a block-by-block basis and have no collector characteristics.
      RESIDENTIAL COLLECTOR ROADS. A road which serves as the connecting street
between local residential roads and the thoroughfare system.
         (a)   CONNECTING ROADS. The roads which serve as the connecting road
system between other roads within the subdivision and the thoroughfare system.
         (b)   DEAD END ROADS. These roads are more than 2,500 feet in length,
open at one end only without special provisions for turning around, and have
collector characteristics.
         (c)   LOOP ROADS. A road that has its beginning and ending points on
the same route. It is more than one mile in length and has collector
characteristics.
         (d)   OTHER ROADS. These are other roads having a "collector" type
function in the thoroughfare system.
         (e)   SUBDIVISION ACCESS ROAD. This is a road built through vacant
property to provide access to the property being developed. This road would not
have lots platted along it.
   (C)   Requirements for addition of subdivision roads to the system.
      (1)   The minimum construction standards and other requirements in this
chapter must be a part of the proposal to be reviewed for approval prior to
development in order for a plat to be recorded by the County Register of Deeds.
      (2)   A petition for addition (DOT Form SR-1) is required from the
developer and/or property owners. (See §
155.018.)
      (3)   Developers or property owners must dedicate the right-of-way, as
indicated in the minimum design and construction criteria section of this
chapter, free of charge and clear of all encumbrances.
      (4)   Utility adjustments or relocation to conform to Division of
Highways' requirements (see Policy and Procedures for Accommodating Utility on
Highway Rights-of-Way) shall be made at no expense to the Division of Highways.
Existing and/or relocated utilities may remain within the right-of-way of any
subdivision road added to the secondary road system; provided, the location of
same meets Division of Highways' approval and further provided the utility
owner executes an encroachment agreement on forms furnished by the Division of
Highways. As per G.S. § 136-102.6, "Utilities are defined as electric power,
telephone, television, telegraph, water, sewage, gas, oil, petroleum products,
steam, chemicals, drainage, irrigation and similar lines". G.S. § 136-102.6
dictates further that "The right of any utility placed or located on a proposed
or existing subdivision public road right-of-way shall be subordinate to the
road right-of-way, and the utility shall be subject to regulation by the Board
of Transportation". NOTE: The developer and/or owners will be required to
submit encroachment agreements for all utilities within a subdivision as
dictated by G.S. § 136-102.6. (See §
155.017.)
      (5)   At least 20% of the lots bordering the road must be individually
owned.
      (6)   There must be at least two occupied residences for each one-tenth
of a mile. A minimum of four occupied homes is required for the addition of
roads less than two-tenths of a mile in length. If four occupied homes are not
served, it will be treated as a private drive. An exception may be made if the
cul-de-sac is fully developed, serves at least four platted lots, and has four
occupied homes that abut the road. A minimum of two homes must have primary
access to the cul-de-sacs.
      (7)   Subdivision access roads must provide ingress and egress for at
least five occupied residences for roads less than one mile in length and an
average of five occupied residences per mile for roads over one mile in length.
      (8)   The number of platted lots on each road will be reviewed to ensure
that the minimum occupied housing requirements in this chapter are served.
      (9)   Connecting roads with less than the required occupied homes for the
length involved may be reviewed as to traffic usage for addition purposes.
Traffic usage equivalent to the traffic that would be generated by the correct
number of occupied homes will be acceptable.
      (10)   Any subdivision road with a right-of-way dedicated, recorded, or
that has preliminary approval from a county planning board dated after 9-30-
1975, will not be added to the state system unless the road is built to the
minimum construction standards of the Division of Highways for subdivision
roads.
      (11)   All subdivision roads shall have an acceptable permanent
vegetative cover established and other acceptable permanent erosion control
measures installed in accordance with Division of Highways' specifications,
prior to addition to the state maintained system.
      (12)   Subdivision roads shall meet the minimum design and construction
criteria contained herein prior to addition to the state system and shall be in
an acceptable state of maintenance prior to addition to the state maintained
road system.
      (13)   All pipe culverts, storm sewers and appurtenances shall be free of
all debris and silt build-up and shall be structurally and hydraulically sound,
and functioning in a normal manner. All drainage ditches shall be of such a
width and depth and with such a slope as to carry the anticipated discharges.
Paved ditches or rip rap shall be required where necessary.
      (14)   Where extenuating circumstances exist, the Division Engineer has
the authority to allow deviations from this chapter which are reasonable, and
limited only to safety, environmental and maintenance factors. No deviation
will be allowed from the typical section requirements, except by written
approval from the Chief Engineer-Operations.
      (15)   Within a municipal extra territorial jurisdiction or within
counties having local ordinances affecting subdivisions, the more restrictive
ordinance shall apply.
      (16)   Design concepts using traffic calming devices and walkable
community concepts shall be reviewed by the Chief Engineer-Operations.
      (17)   For the policy on roadway bridges and dams, see §
155.036.
      (18)   Roads being considered for addition that have highway obstructions
as defined in 19A N.C.A.C. § 2E.0404 will not be considered without prior
approval of the Division Engineer. (See §
155.019.)
      (19)   The Division of Highways will consider the addition of streets
that serve developments with large lots or parcels that are of the size that
the occupied housing requirement of two homes per tenth of a mile cannot be
met. The number of occupied homes needed shall be a judgment factor based upon
the length and the number of lots or parcels involved. The minimum requirement
shall be four occupied homes.
(Ord. passed 1-1-2000)
§ 155.016 UTILITY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   Poles and other aboveground utilities which are to remain inside
the right-of-way under encroachment agreement shall be located at or as near as
practical to the right-of-way line. As a minimum aboveground utilities shall be
located outside the clear roadside area for the highway section involved.
      (2)   Where there are curbed sections, aboveground utilities should be
located as far as practical behind sidewalks. There is no single minimum
dimension for setback of poles, fire hydrants and the like, behind curbs;
however, where there are curbed sections and no sidewalks, six feet will be
used as a design safety concept guide.
   (B)   Minimum depth of cover for pipe lines and other utilities:
 
Crossings under ditches                                          2 feet
Crossings under roadways                                         3 feet
Longitudinal electric power secondary and trenched communication 2 feet
lines
Longitudinal pipe lines and electric power primary               3 feet
Plowed-in communication lines                                    18 inches
 
   (C)   For residential subdivision streets and residential collector streets,
underground utilities may cross under or run longitudinally under the pavement
provided future utility stubouts are installed prior to paving. For all other
streets and highways, underground utilities may cross under but not run
longitudinally under the pavement, except in unusual situations approved by the
Division Engineer.
   (D)   Acceptable materials for pipeline with utilities within the rights-of-
way: materials not listed shall be referred to the Design Services Unit-
Utilities Section.
      (1)   Smooth wall steel pipe meeting API 5L Grade B specifications;
      (2)   Spiral welded steel pipe meeting ASTM specification A-211;
      (3)   Circular black steel pipe meeting ASTM specification A-120 or A-
589;
      (4)   Galvanized steel pipe meeting ASTM A-120 specifications;
      (5)   Ductile iron pipe - class 50 minimum strength;
      (6)   Concrete sewer pipe - plain and reinforced pipe meeting Department
of Transportation standard with rubber gasket joints;
      (7)   Reinforced concrete pressure pipe, steel cylinder type for water
and other liquids meeting AWWA specifications C-300, C-301 and C-303;
      (8)   ABS (acrylonitrile - butadiene - styrene) composite sewer pipe
shall meet ASTM D-2680 specifications for pipe sizes eight inches through 15
inches and ASTM D-2751 for pipe sizes four inches and six inches for laterals.
ABS sewer pipe shall be used for domestic sewage only; also, P.V.C. truss pipe
meeting ASTM D-2321 which has to be specified by registered professional
engineer;
      (9)   P.V.C. (Polyvinyl chloride) water pipe (pressure only) - SDR 14 (C-
900); SDR 18 (C-900) and SDR 21;
      (10)   P.V.C. (Polyvinyl chloride) sewer pipe (force main) SDR 14 (C-
900), SDR 18 (C-900) and SDR 21;
      (11)   P.V.C. (polyvinyl chloride) pipe (gravity sewer) SDR 14 (C-900),
SDR 18 (C-900), SDR 21, SDR 26, SDR 35, ASTM F 794, ASTM F 949 (A-2000) and
schedule 40 and 80;
      (12)   V.C. (vitrified clay) sewer pipe, extra strength meeting ASTM
specifications C-700 with factory fabricated joints meeting ASTM specifications
C-425;
      (13)   P.E. (Polyethylene) plastic pipe - SDR 7 meeting ASTM
specifications D-2239 and plastic tubing - SDR 9 meeting ASTM specification D-
2737 for sizes three-fourths inch through two inches only;
      (14)   Polyethylene plastic pipe (high molecular weight) and (medium
molecular weight) SDR 11 meeting plastic pipe institute material designation PE
3408 and PE 2406 in sizes up to 6.625" O.D. for gas with maximum operating
pressure of 60 PSIG; and
      (15)   Type K copper pipe meeting ASTM specification B-88 for sizes
three-fourths inch through two inches.
   (E)   Any utility to be installed within the right-of-way of a state
maintained road will require an encroachment agreement with the State Board of
Transportation in accordance with its publication entitled Policies and
Procedures for Accommodating Utilities on Highway Rights-of-Way.
   (F)   All non ferrous pipe lines shall be installed with a locating tape.
   (G)   All utility structures (i.e., vaults, manholes and boxes) shall be
load rated for the appropriate dead load, plus an HS 20 live load. The
structures shall be designed and certified by a licensed professional engineer.
   (H)   Electrical power and communication facilities should conform to the
currently applicable National Electrical Safety Code, except vertical
clearances shall be no less than 18 feet in any case.
(Ord. passed 1-1-2000)
§ 155.017 STATE LAW; G.S. § 136-102.6.
Transportation and Highway Laws of North Carolina
G.S. § 136-102.6, Compliance of subdivision streets with minimum standards of
the Board of Transportation required of developers
(a)   The owner of a tract or parcel of land which is subdivided from and after
October 1, 1975, into two or more lots, building sites, or other divisions for
sale or building development for residents purposes, where such subdivision
includes a new street or the changing of an existing street, shall record a map
or plat of the subdivision with the Register of Deeds of the county in which
the land is located. The map or plat shall be recorded prior to any conveyance
of a portion of said land, by reference to said map or plat.
(b)   The right-of-way of any new street or change in an existing street shall
be delineated upon the map or plat with particularity and such streets shall be
designated to be either public or private. A street designated on the plat or
map as public shall be conclusively presumed to be an offer of dedication to
the public of such street.
(c)   The right-of-way and design of streets designated as public shall be in
accordance with the minimum right-of-way and construction standards established
by the Board of Transportation for acceptance on the State highway system. If a
municipal or county subdivision control ordinance is in effect in the area
proposed for subdivision, the map or plat required by this section shall not be
recorded by the Register of Deeds until after it has received final plat
approval by the municipality or county, an until after it has received a
certificate of approval by the Division of Highways as herein provided as to
those streets regulated in subsection (g). The certificate of approval may be
issued by a District Engineer of the Division of Highways of the Department of
Transportation.
(d)   The right-of-way and construction plans for such public streets in
residential subdivisions, including plans for street drainage, shall be
submitted to the Division of Highways for review and approval prior to the
recording of the subdivision plat in the office of the Register of Deeds. The
plat or map required by this section shall not be recorded by the Register of
Deeds without a certificate of approval by the Division of Highways of the
plans for the public street as being in accordance with the minimum standards
of the Board of Transportation for acceptance of the subdivision street on the
State highway system for maintenance. The certificate of approval shall not be
deemed as acceptance of the dedication of such streets on the subdivision plat
or map. Final acceptance by the Division of Highways of such public streets and
placing them on the State highway system for maintenance shall be conclusive
proof that the streets have been constructed according to the minimum standards
of the Board of Transportation.
(e)   No person or firm shall place or erect any utility in, over, or upon the
existing or proposed right-of way of any street in a subdivision to which this
section applies, except in accordance with the Division of Highway's policies
and procedures for accommodating utilities on highway rights-of way, until the
Division of Highways has given written approval of the location of such
utilities. Written approval may be in the form of exchange of correspondence
until such times as it is requested to add the street or streets to the State
system, at which time an encroachment agreement furnished by the Division of
Highways must be executed between the owner of the utility and the Division of
Highways.
The right of any utility placed or located on a proposed or existing
subdivision public street right-of way shall be subordinate to the street
right-of-way, and the utility shall be subject to regulation by the Department
of Transportation. Utilities are defined as electric power, telephone,
television, telegraph, water, sewage, gas, oil, petroleum products, steam,
chemicals, drainage, irrigation, and similar lines. Any utility installed in a
subdivision street not in accordance with the Division of Highways,
accommodation policy, and without prior approval by the Division of Highways,
shall be removed or relocated at no expense to the Division of Highways.
(f)   Prior to entering any agreement or any conveyance with any prospective
buyer, the developer ant seller shall prepare and sign, and the buyer of the
subject real estate shall receive and sign an acknowledgment of receipt of a
separate instrument known as the subdivision streets disclosure statement
(hereinafter referred to as disclosure statement.) Said disclosure statement
shall fully and completely disclose the status (whether public or private) of
the street upon which the house or lot fronts. If the street is designated by
the developer and seller as a public street, the developer and seller shall
certify that the right-of-way and design of the street has been approved by the
Division of Highways, and that the street has been or will be constructed by
the developer and seller in accordance with the standards for subdivision
streets adopted by the Board of Transportation for acceptance on the highway
system. If the street is designated by the developer and seller as a private
street, the developer and seller shall include in the disclosure statement an
explanation of the consequences and responsibility as to maintenance of a
private street, and shall fully and accurately disclose the party or parties
upon whom responsibility for construction and maintenance of such street or
streets shall rest, and shall further disclose that the street or streets will
not be constructed to minimum standards, sufficient to allow their inclusion on
the State highway system for maintenance. The disclosure statement shall
contain a duplicate original which shall be given to the buyer. Written
acknowledgment of receipt of the disclosure statement by the buyer shall be
conclusive proof of the delivery thereof.
(g)   The provisions of this section shall apply to all subdivisions located
outside municipal corporate limits. As to subdivisions inside municipalities,
this section shall apply to all proposed streets or changes in existing streets
on the State highway system as shown on the comprehensive plan for the future
development of the street system made pursuant to G.S. § 136-66.2, and in
effect at the date of approval of the map or plat.
(h)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any subdivision that
consists only of lots located on Lakes Hickory, Norman, Mountain Island and
Wylie which are lakes formed by the Catawba River which lots are leased upon
October 1, 1975. No roads in any such subdivision shall be added to the State
maintained road system without first having been brought up to standards
established by the Board of Transportation for inclusion of roads in the
system, without expense to the State. Prior to entering any agreement or any
conveyance with any prospective buyer of a lot in any such subdivision, the
seller shall prepare and sign, and the buyer shall receive and sign an
acknowledgment of receipt of a statement fully and completely disclosing the
status of and the responsibility for construction and maintenance of the road
upon which such lot is located.
(i)   The purpose of this section is to insure that new subdivision streets
described herein to be dedicated to the public will comply with the State
standards for placing subdivision streets on the State highway system for
maintenance, or that full and accurate disclosure of the responsibility for
construction and maintenance of private streets be made. This section shall be
construed and applied in a manner which shall not inhibit the ability of public
utilities to satisfy service requirements of subdivisions to which this section
applies.
(j)   The Division of Highways and District Engineers of the Division of
Highways of the Department of Transportation shall issue a certificate of
approval for any subdivision affected by a roadway corridor official map
established by the Board of Transportation only if the subdivision conforms to
Article 2E of this Chapter or conforms to any variance issued in accordance
with that Article.
(k)   A willful violation of any of the provisions of this section shall be a
Class I misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 1-1-2000)
§ 155.018 PETITION FOR ROAD ADDITION.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ffa650709c8aea37a671b248fd2909f7ba384d22/
IMAGES/0-0-0-999.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ffa650709c8aea37a671b248fd2909f7ba384d22/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1001.jpg]
 
(Ord. passed 1-1-2000)
§ 155.019 HIGHWAY OBSTRUCTIONS INTERFERING WITH TRAFFIC MAINTENANCE.
Highway obstructions include driveway headwalls, fences, rural mailboxes,
newspaper delivery boxes and other roadside obstructions interfering with
traffic or maintenance.
(1)   It shall be unlawful to place any highway obstruction, including a
driveway headwall, fence, rural mailbox, newspaper delivery box or other
roadside obstruction, so as to interfere with the traffic or maintenance of the
roads and highways of the state highway system.
(2)   If the department determines, that any highway obstruction, including a
driveway headwall, fence, rural mailbox, newspaper delivery box, its supports
or other roadside obstruction, constitutes an unreasonable roadside collision
hazard, the highway obstruction shall be removed by the person responsible for
placing the obstruction within the right-of-way within 30 days of receipt of a
written notice from the department to the person responsible for placing the
obstruction within the right-of way.
(3)   Only mailboxes or newspaper delivery boxes with non-rigid type posts,
such as a 4" x 4" wooden of a small diameter metal type, are permitted on road
additions made to the state highway system after May 3, 1990. The location
within the right-of-way of an addition to the system of any brick columns
mailboxes or newspaper delivery boxes on rigid stands such as block, stone or
any other type determined to be a traffic hazard is prohibited.
(4)   The failure of the person responsible for placing the unlawful
obstruction within the right-of-way, to remove the obstruction within 30 days
after written notice by the Department of Transportation shall constitute a
misdemeanor. Failure to remove or make safe any mailbox or newspaper delivery
it supports or any other obstruction within the specified 30 days of this Rule
shall be cause for the Department's Division Engineer to take action to remove
the unacceptable mailbox or newspaper delivery box, its supports or other
obstruction installation and also bill the responsible party for the expense of
removal if appropriate. (See page 15, No. 18.)
(Ord. passed 1-1-2000)
§ 155.020 VERIFICATION OF COMPLIANCE WITH DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENT AND NATURAL
RESOURCES.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ffa650709c8aea37a671b248fd2909f7ba384d22/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1003.jpg]
 
(Ord. passed 1-1-2000)
§ 155.021 STREET AND DRIVEWAY ACCESS PERMIT APPLICATION.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ffa650709c8aea37a671b248fd2909f7ba384d22/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1005.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ffa650709c8aea37a671b248fd2909f7ba384d22/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1007.jpg]
 
(Ord. passed 1-1-2000)
§ 155.022 STANDARD PIPE SIZING CHART.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ffa650709c8aea37a671b248fd2909f7ba384d22/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1009.jpg]
 
(Ord. passed 1-1-2000)
MINIMUM DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION CRITERIA
§ 155.035 DRAINAGE.
   (A)   The Division of Highways shall review all drainage prior to acceptance
of any facility to the state system. Drainage, utility or public easements, are
not considered a portion of the highway facility.
   (B)   All storm drainage shall be adequate so that the road may be
maintained without excessive cost and not cause flooding on private property
from storm runoff of the design frequency. Permanent drainage easements may be
established by the designer; however, the NCDOT does not accept maintenance
responsibility for the easement outside of the roadway right-of-way. The
minimum design frequency shall be as follows but may be increased at the
recommendation of the State Hydraulics Engineer.
 
Cross drainage for secondary routes       25 years
Cross drainage on primary and N.C. routes 50 years
Minimum cross pipe diameter               18"
Minimum driveway pipes diameter           15"
Storm sewer collector                     10 years
All drainage shall be consistent with criteria found in NCDOT's Guidelines for
Drainage Studies and Hydraulic Design. (Contact Special Services Section (919)
250-4128.)
 
   (C)   In areas where ditch grades or quantities of flow deem it
impracticable to establish and maintain vegetation, an erosive resistant lining
such as paving, matting or rip rap may be required.
   (D)   Subsurface drainage shall be adequate to maintain a stable subgrade.
   (E)   When road crossings are within areas designated as flood hazard areas
under the Federal Flood Insurance Program, the design must be approved by the
responsible local governing agency for its consistency with local flood zoning
ordinances. Retention/detention basin shall be located outside the right-of-way
and shown on plans where possible. The DOT assumes no responsibility for
maintenance nor liability of the basins.
(Ord. passed 1-1-2000)
§ 155.036 BRIDGES AND DAMS.
   (A)   Bridges. Minimum criteria for bridges to be built by private interest
for future acceptance by the Division of Highways.
      (1)   Structures which are to span streams shall be designed for
hydraulic requirements in accordance with Division of Highways criteria and
plans shall be submitted to the Hydraulics Unit for review and approval. Rip
rap will be required as recommended by the Hydraulics Unit.
      (2)   Structures shall be designed for minimum live load of HS-20 as
specified in the Standard Specifications for Highway and Bridges of the
American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials, and plans
shall be submitted for review and approval by the Structure Design Unit.
      (3)   Bridge deck widths and clearances shall be in accordance with the
State Department of Transportation "Bridge Policy". For bridges with curb and
gutter approaches, the clear bridge width shall be the same as the curb to curb
approach width, except where bikeways or sidewalks are carried across the
structure. Curb and gutter will be transitioned out in 50 feet to line up the
face of curb and bridge rail. For shoulder section roadways, the bridge width
should be a minimum of 24 feet.
      (4)   The following materials are acceptable for bridge construction:
         (a)   For substructures: reinforced concrete, structural steel, pre-
stressed concrete, or steel piles or combination of these materials;
         (b)   For superstructures: pre-stressed concrete, reinforced concrete
deck slab structural steel I-beams with reinforced concrete deck or corrugated
metal deck with asphaltic wearing surface; and
         (c)   The type and design of bridge rails shall be as approved by the
Structure Design Unit of the Division of Highways.
      (5)   Guardrails shall be installed at the bridge approaches where
required.
      (6)   All material and workmanship used in construction of the structure
shall be in accordance with State Standard Specifications for Roads and
Structures.
   (B)   Roadway dams.
      (1)   It is the policy of the Division of Highways to discourage the
location of roadways on dams. In those cases, where a definite advantage may be
gained or a substantial savings in funds may be realized, the utilization of a
dam for a roadway may be favorably considered.
      (2)   Where it is determined that a dam will be utilized as a roadway,
the following criteria must be met.
         (a)   When applicable, the dam must have certification from the State
Department of Natural Resources and Community Development pursuant to the "Dam
Safety Law of 1967", (as amended by the General Assembly of 1977) being G.S. §§
143-215.23 et seq.
         (b)   All pertinent data regarding the design of the embankment as an
impoundment structure must be presented to the Division of Highways for review.
         (c)   The top cross section dimension must be the roadway width
required (from shoulder point to shoulder point) for the facility plus a
minimum of four feet.
         (d)   Guardrails will be provided on the impoundment side of the
roadway. For safety, the District Engineer may require guardrail on both sides
of the roadway.
         (e)   Spillways will be designed to provide two feet of freeboard at
the shoulder for an estimated 50-year design frequency outflow as a minimum.
         (f)   A means of draining the lake completely will be provided.
      (3)   Design acceptance or approval by the Division of Highways is
limited to the use of the dam as a roadway and is, in no way, intended as
approval of the embankment as an impoundment structure.
      (4)   Responsibility incurred by the Division of Highways when a section
of roadway crossing a dam is accepted as a part of the state maintenance system
is limited to maintenance of the roadway for highway purposes from shoulder
point to shoulder point only. Responsibility for the impoundment, any damage
that may result therefrom, and maintenance of the dam or appurtenances as may
be required to preserve its integrity as a water impoundment structure, shall
remain with the owner of the impoundment. Any maintenance work will be subject
to the provisions of G.S. § 136-93.
      (5)   Impoundment of water on highway right-of-way may be allowed under
the following criteria:
         (a)   The impoundment does not adversely affect the right-of-way for
highway purpose; and/or
         (b)   Adjustment, as required, flattening slopes, installing rip rap,
and any others, shall be the responsibility of the developer.
      (6)   Structures under, over and/or on dams shall be designed and plans
prepared under the supervision of a licensed professional engineer.
(Ord. passed 1-1-2000)
§ 155.037 CURB AND GUTTER AND SIDEWALK.
   (A)   All curb and gutter and sidewalk sections shall meet Division of
Highways standards.
   (B)   The standard two-inch to six-inch concrete curb and gutter is the
preferred type to be used.
   (C)   The concrete valley gutter is an allowable type.
   (D)   Any other types of curb and gutter shall be subject to the approval of
the District Engineer.
   (E)   Curb inlet spacing and storm system design shall be consistent with
criteria found in NCDOT's Guidelines for Drainage Studies and Hydraulic Design.
(Contact Special Services Section (919) 250-4128.)
   (F)   NCDOT will allow sidewalks by encroachment and will not accept
responsibility for maintenance. All sidewalks shall meet requirements of the
Americans with Disabilities Act being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq.
(Ord. passed 1-1-2000)
§ 155.038 WHEEL CHAIR RAMPS.
   (A)   In accordance with G.S. § 136-44.14, all street curbs in the state
being constructed or reconstructed for maintenance procedures, traffic
operations, repairs, correction of utilities or altered for any reason after 9-
1-1973, shall provide wheel chair ramps for the physically disabled at all
intersections where curb and gutter is provided and at other major points of
pedestrian flow.
   (B)   Wheel chair ramps and depressed curbs shall be constructed in
accordance with details contained in the Department of Transportation, Division
of Highways' publication entitled, Guidelines, Curb Cuts and Ramps for
Handicapped Persons.
(Ord. passed 1-1-2000)
§ 155.039 PAVEMENT DESIGNS.
   (A)   Shown below are minimum thicknesses of base and surface course to be
used. Design should be chosen from Group I or Group II depending on subgrade
soil type. The District Engineer may require a subgrade soil test to determine
the soil classification type. Heavier pavement designs may be required based on
traffic, truck volumes and the like.
Group I
Good to Excellent Subgrade Soil Types Base Course Pavement Surface
Group I
Good to Excellent Subgrade Soil Base Course            Pavement Surface
Types
A-l-a, A-l-b, A-3               7" STBC, Type A or C   2" I-1 or I-2
                                9" STBC, Type A or C   1-1/2" I-1 or I-2
                                8" ABC or STBC, Type B AST, 1" SA or I-1 or I-2
A-2-4, A-2-5, A-2-6, A-2-7      6" ABC or STBC, Type B 1-1/2" I-1 or I-2
                                3" ACBC, Type HB       1-1/2" I-1 or I-2
                                3-1/2" ACBC, Type HB   1" SA or I-1 or I-2
                                4" ACBC                5" jointed concrete
 
Group II
Poor to Fair Subgrade Soil Types Base Course Pavement Surface
Group II
Poor to Fair Subgrade Soil Base Course             Pavement Surface
Types
                           9" STBC, Type A or C    2" I-1 or I-2
                           8" ABC or STBC, Type B  1-1/2" I-1 or I-2
A4, A-5, A-6, A-7-5, A-7-6 10" ABC or STBC, Type B AST, 1" S A or I-1 or I-2
                           4" ACBC, Type HB        1-1/2" I-1 or I-2
                           3" ACBC, Type HB        2" I-1 or I-2
                           4" ABC                  6" jointed concrete
 
   (B)   Any other pavement design must be reviewed by the Division Engineer on
an individual basis and approval will be based upon sound engineering
principles. Decorative pavers may be permitted by encroachment. Maintenance of
decorative pavers will not be performed by NCDOT.
   (C)   Note:
      (1)   Subgrade: no base course shall be placed on muck, pipe clay,
organic matter or other unsuitable material;
      (2)   ABC aggregate base course, No. 7 stone;
      (3)   STBC soil type base course;
      (4)   AST asphalt surface treatment;
      (5)   SA asphalt concrete surface course, Type F-l (sand asphalt);
      (6)   I-2 asphalt concrete surface course, Type I-2;
      (7)   I-1 asphalt concrete surface course, Type I-1;
      (8)   ACBC asphalt concrete base course, Type HB (black base); and
      (9)   Other base courses such as various cement-treated materials may be
used in lieu of those shown above. These materials shall be of sufficient
thickness to provide equivalent strength. However, any design other than those
shown above must also be approved prior to use by the Division Engineer.
   (D)   All materials shall meet the requirements set forth in the latest
edition of the state's Standard Specifications for Roads and Structures.
(Ord. passed 1-1-2000)
§ 155.040 TRAFFIC CONTROL.
   The construction of all subdivision road intersections including those with
existing state maintained roadways shall be constructed using traffic control
standards as designated in the Manuals on Uniform Traffic Control Devices,
state supplement to the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices and the North
Carolina Highway Design Branch Roadway Standard Drawings, prior to formal
addition to the system. See G.S. § 136-30.
(Ord. passed 1-1-2000)
§ 155.041 GUARDRAIL.
   The placement of guardrail may be required by the Division of Highways prior
to formal addition to the system, in the event the terrain adjacent to the
roadway is felt to warrant guardrail from a safety standpoint.
(Ord. passed 1-1-2000)
§ 155.042 ROAD INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   See §§
155.062 and
155.063.
   (B)   The most desirable intersections are those with angles of 75 to 90
degrees. Intersections with angles from 60 to 75 degrees are acceptable under
extreme conditions.
   (C)   Minimum sight triangle for stop condition when connecting new local
residential roads or residential collector roads to existing state maintained
roads is 70 feet along the existing road right-of- way and ten feet along the
new road right-of-way.
   (D)   All internal intersections shall have minimum 25-foot radii.
   (E)   Unusual designs such as "bubble type" configurations to allow for more
lots will not be allowed.
(Ord. passed 1-1-2000)
§ 155.043 ISLANDS OR SHORT MEDIANS AT SUBDIVISION ENTRANCES.
   The Division of Highways will review requests for the allowance of islands
or short medians desired for aesthetics on state highway system secondary roads
at the entrance to a subdivision. Approval will be with the following
understanding.
   (A)   The Division of Highways will not maintain the island or the median
section.
   (B)   The island or the median section will be removed if not properly
maintained by someone involved with the subdivision (i.e., developer,
homeowners and the like).
   (C)   The District Engineer may allow the island or median sections after
review on an individual basis. This shall include all plantings.
   (D)   The minimum lane width at the entrances, excluding curb and gutter
will be 14 feet. (See §
155.071 for detail.)
(Ord. passed 1-1-2000)
§ 155.044 SUBDIVISION NAME MARKERS.
   (A)   The Division of Highways will review requests to erect subdivision
name markers on an individual basis. The name markers may be allowed to be
located within the state highway system secondary road rights-of-way at the
beginning of a subdivision road provided the location of such is outside the
line of sight and the normal maintenance limits. The name markers may be
approved only at locations which will not sacrifice safety to the general
traveling public.
   (B)   Approval to erect subdivision name markers will be with the following
understandings. (See §
155.071 for typical dimensions associated with marker installation.)
      (1)   All costs will be the responsibility of the requester.
      (2)   The Division of Highways will not maintain the marker or the area
around the marker.
      (3)   The markers may be removed if not properly maintained.
      (4)   The Division Engineer may allow the subdivision name markers on
secondary road rights-of-way after review on an individual basis.
      (5)   If non-breakaway design, a 30-foot recommended recovery area is
desirable.
(Ord. passed 1-1-2000)
§ 155.045 LOCAL RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISION ROADS.
   (A)   Cul-de-sacs;
   (B)   Dead end roads: less than 2,500 feet in length;
   (C)   Short connecting roads: one block long or that extend on a block by
block basis;
   (D)   Loop roads: less than one mile in length; and
   (E)   Other roads that do not connect thoroughfares or serve major traffic
generators. These roads do not have "collector" characteristics.
Terrain        Level (Cross Slope Rolling (Cross Slope  Hilly (Cross Slope
Classification Range of 0% to 8%) Range of 8.1% to 15%) over 15%)
                                                                                Level  Rolling Hilly
                                                                                (Cross (Cross  (Cross
Terrain Classification                                                          Slope  Slope   Slope
                                                                                Range  Range   over
                                                                                of 0%  of 8.1% 15%)
                                                                                to 8%) to 15%)
Right-of-Way Width
   Curb and gutter section                                                   40'    40'     40'
   Shoulder section                                                          45'    45'     45'
Pavement Width
   Curb and gutter section                                                   *26'   *26' G- *26'
                                                                                G-G    G       G-G
   Shoulder section                                                          18'    18'     18'
   G-G refers to face to face of standard curb and gutter section, bottom of
the "V" to the bottom of the "V" for the valley types section. Other types will
be reviewed by the District Engineer with the GG limits applicable
Minimum Shoulder Width
   Shoulder section, shoulder width between 4' to 6' shall be approved by the6'     4' to   4' to
District Engineer considering adjacent land characteristics                            6'      6'
Maximum Cut and Fill Slopes                                                     2:1    2:1     1-1/2:
                                                                                               1
Design Speed                                                                    30 mph 25 mph  20 mph
Minimum Sight Distance
   Vertical curves                                                           200'   150'    110'
Minimum Centerline Radius                                                       230'   150'    90'
Minimum Superelevation Rate for Minimum Radius                                  .06    .04 ft/ .02
                                                                                ft/ft  ft      ft/ft
Maximum Grade, grades for 100' each way from intersection exceeding 5% may be
reviewed by District Engineer for consideration. Grades less than 0.5% should   9%     12%     18%
not be used unless reviewed individually by the District Engineer to determine
potential maintenance problems
K = Rate of Vertical Curvature for Minimum Sight Distance
   CREST                                                                     30     20      10
   SAG                                                                       30     20      10
   STOP                                                                      14     9       5
   Formula for determination of length of vertical curve required to provide minimum site distance.
[L = KA]
L = Length of vertical curve in feet
K = Rate of vertical curvature in feet per percent of A
A = Algebraic difference in grades in percent
Minimum Cul-De-Sac Radius Right-of-Way
   Curb and gutter section                                                   45'    45'     45'
   Shoulder section                                                          50'    50'     50'
Minimum Cul -De-Sac Radius
   Curb and gutter section                                                   37' to 37' to  37' to
                                                                                G      G       G
   Shoulder section * (see §                                                35'    35'     35'
155.046)
NOTES TO TABLE:
* - On cul-de-sacs, a maximum of two-tenths of a mile in length, 18 feet of pavement will be allowed
(not including gutter). (See §§
155.061,
155.066 and
155.069.) Cul-de-sac designs other than the "bulb" end design will be subject to the approval of th
Division Engineer after review on an individual basis. See §
155.068 for several examples of minor residential cul-de-sac designs.
** - The minimum superelevation rates shown for the varying design speeds are for the minimum radii
shown. For radii different from these, use the appropriate table from the 1994 Edition of AASHTO's
Policy on Geometric Design of Highways and Streets for a desirable design. For a minimum design, the
superelevation rate can be calculated from the simplified curve formula:
e =  (v2)  -f
(15R)
where
e = superelevation rate in foot per foot
V = design speed in miles per hour
R = radius of curve in feet
f = side friction factor (See page 143 of the 1994 Policy on Geometric Design of Highways and
Streets)
Short cul-de-sacs and dead end streets 1,500 feet or less in length may be accepted without
superelevation.
 
(Ord. passed 1-1-2000)
§ 155.046 RESIDENTIAL COLLECTOR ROADS.
   (A)   Dead end roads: more than 2,500 feet in length;
   (B)   Connecting roads between the local residential subdivision roads and
the thoroughfare system;
   (C)   Loop roads: more than one mile in length; and
   (D)   Other roads having a "collector" type function in the thoroughfare
system.
Terrain        Level (Cross Slope Rolling (Cross Slope  Hilly (Cross Slope
Classification Range of 0% to 8%) Range of 8.1% to 15%) over 15%)
                                                                                Level  Rolling Hilly
                                                                                (Cross (Cross  (Cross
Terrain Classification                                                          Slope  Slope   Slope
                                                                                Range  Range   over
                                                                                of 0%  of 8.1% 15%)
                                                                                to 8%) to 15%)
Right-of-Way Width
   Curb and gutter section                                                   50'    50'     50'
   Shoulder section                                                          50'    50'     50'
Pavement Width
   Curb and gutter section                                                   34' G- 34' G-G 34' G-
                                                                                G              G
   Shoulder section                                                          20'    20'     20'
   G-G refers to face to face of standard curb and gutter section, bottom of
the "V to the bottom of the "V" for the valley types section. Other types will
be reviewed by the Division Engineer with the G-G limits applicable
Minimum Shoulder Width
   Shoulder section                                                          6'     6'      6'
Maximum Cut and Fill Slopes                                                     2:1    2:1     2:1
Design Speed                                                                    35 mph 30 mph  25 mph
Minimum Sight Distance on Vertical Curves                                       250'   200'    150'
Minimum Centerline Radius                                                       310'   230'    150'
Minimum Superelevation Rate
   Minimum radius                                                            .08    .06 ft/ .04
                                                                                ft/ft  ft      ft/ft
Maximum Grade, Grades for 100' each way from intersection exceeding 5% may be
reviewed by District Engineers for consideration. Grades less than 0.5% should  6%     9%      12%
not be used unless reviewed individually by the District Engineer to determine
potential maintenance problems
K = Rate of Vertical Curvature for minimum sight distance
   CREST                                                                     45     30      20
   SAG                                                                       30     20
   STOP                                                                      20     14      9
Formula for determination of length of vertical curve required to provide minimum sight distance.
[L = KA]
L = Length of vertical curve in feet
K = Rate of vertical curvature in feet per percent of A
A = Algebraic difference in grades in percent
NOTES TO TABLE:
* - On cul-de-sacs, a maximum of two-tenths of a mile in length, 18 feet of pavement will be allowed
(not including gutter). (See §§
155.061,
155.066 and
155.069.) Cul-de-sac designs other than the "bulb" end design will be subject to the approval of th
Division Engineer after review on an individual basis. See §
155.068 for several examples of minor residential cul-de-sac designs.
** - The minimum superelevation rates shown for the varying design speeds are for the minimum radii
shown. For radii different from these, use the appropriate table from the 1994 Edition of AASHTO's
Policy on Geometric Design of Highways and Streets for a desirable design. For a minimum design, the
superelevation rate can be calculated from the simplified curve formula:
e =  (v2)  -f
(15R)
where
e = superelevation rate in foot per foot
V = design speed in miles per hour
R = radius of curve in feet
f = side friction factor (See page 143 of the 1994 Policy on Geometric Design of Highways and
Streets)
Short cul-de-sacs and dead end streets 1500 feet or less in length may be accepted without
superelevation.
 
(Ord. passed 1-1-2000)
§ 155.047 THOROUGHFARE PLAN ROADS.
   For subdivision developments resulting in the construction of a Thoroughfare
Plan route by the developer, the subdivision plan will be forwarded through the
District Engineer, to the Traffic Engineering Branch for review by appropriate
personnel of the Division of Highways in Raleigh, North Carolina.
(Ord. passed 1-1-2000)
§ 155.048 INDUSTRIAL ACCESS OR COMMERCIAL COMPLEX ROADS.
   (A)   The minimum construction standards for industrial access road requests
or for commercial centers and apartment complexes will be reviewed
individually.
   (B)   The construction standards for pavement design will be in line with
expected usage.
   (C)   Final pavement design will be approved by the District Engineer.
(Ord. passed 1-1-2000)
FIGURES
§ 155.060 FIGURE 1: CROSS-SECTION: SHOULDER SECTION.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ffa650709c8aea37a671b248fd2909f7ba384d22/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1011.jpg]
 
(Ord. passed 1-1-2000)
§ 155.061 FIGURE 2: CROSS-SECTION: CURB AND GUTTER SECTION.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ffa650709c8aea37a671b248fd2909f7ba384d22/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1013.jpg]
 
(Ord. passed 1-1-2000)
§ 155.062 FIGURE 3: RECOMMENDED ROAD CONNECTION: NEW LOCAL RESIDENTIAL ROAD OR
RESIDENTIAL COLLECTOR ROAD WITH CURB AND GUTTER AND EXISTING STATE MAINTAINED
ROAD WITH SHOULDER SECTION.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ffa650709c8aea37a671b248fd2909f7ba384d22/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1015.jpg]
 
(Ord. passed 1-1-2000)
§ 155.063 FIGURE 4: RECOMMENDED ROAD CONNECTION: NEW LOCAL RESIDENTIAL ROAD OR
RESIDENTIAL COLLECTOR ROAD AND EXISTING STATE MAINTAINED ROAD WITHOUT CURB AND
GUTTER STOP CONNECTION.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ffa650709c8aea37a671b248fd2909f7ba384d22/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1017.jpg]
 
(Ord. passed 1-1-2000)
§ 155.064 FIGURE 5: RECOMMENDED ROADWAY CONNECTION WITH CURB AND GUTTER.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ffa650709c8aea37a671b248fd2909f7ba384d22/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1019.jpg]
 
(Ord. passed 1-1-2000)
§ 155.065 FIGURE 6: DRIVEWAY TURNOUT GRADES.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ffa650709c8aea37a671b248fd2909f7ba384d22/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1021.jpg]
 
(Ord. passed 1-1-2000)
§ 155.066 FIGURE 7: SYMMETRICAL CUL-DE-SAC WITH CURB AND GUTTER.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ffa650709c8aea37a671b248fd2909f7ba384d22/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1023.jpg]
 
(Ord. passed 1-1-2000)
§ 155.067 FIGURE 8: SYMMETRICAL CUL-DE-SAC WITH NO CURB AND GUTTER.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ffa650709c8aea37a671b248fd2909f7ba384d22/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1025.jpg]
 
(Ord. passed 1-1-2000)
§ 155.068 FIGURE 9: EXAMPLES OF MINOR RESIDENTIAL CUL-DE-SAC DESIGNS.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ffa650709c8aea37a671b248fd2909f7ba384d22/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1027.jpg]
 
(Ord. passed 1-1-2000)
§ 155.069 FIGURE 10: SYMMETRICAL CUL-DE-SAC WITH 2'-0" VALLEY GUTTER.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ffa650709c8aea37a671b248fd2909f7ba384d22/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1029.jpg]
 
(Ord. passed 1-1-2000)
§ 155.070 FIGURE 11: OFFSET CUL-DE-SAC DESIGN.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ffa650709c8aea37a671b248fd2909f7ba384d22/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1031.jpg]
 
(Ord. passed 1-1-2000)
§ 155.071 FIGURE 12: DETAIL SECTION VIEW OF INTERIOR ISLAND AND SIGN.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ffa650709c8aea37a671b248fd2909f7ba384d22/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1033.jpg]
 
(Ord. passed 1-1-2000)
CHAPTER 156: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
156.001   Authority and enactment clause
   
156.002   Short title
   
156.003   Extraterritorial jurisdiction
   
156.004   Bona fide farms exempt
   
156.005   Definitions
   
156.006   Interpretation, purpose and conflict
   
156.007   Reenactment and repeal of existing zoning ordinance
Establishment of Zoning Districts
   
156.020   Zoning use districts named
   
156.021   District boundaries shown on zoning map
   
156.022   Rules governing boundaries
Use Requirements by District
   
156.035   In general
   
156.036   RA Residential-Agricultural District
   
156.037   R-20 Single-Family Residential District
   
156.038   R-12 Residential District
   
156.039   R-8 Residential District
   
156.040   R-MF Residential District
   
156.041   OI Office and Institutional District
   
156.042   CB Central Business District
   
156.043   NB Neighborhood Business District
   
156.044   LI Light Industrial District
Parking, Development and Design Standards
   
156.055   Off-street parking and loading
   
156.056   Buffer strips and landscape screening
   
156.057   Development standards for multiple-family projects and group
developments
   
156.058   Development standards for mobile home parks
   
156.059   Provisions for mobile homes on single lots
   
156.060   Customary home occupations
   
156.061   Development standards for seasonal agricultural worker developments
   
156.062   Development standards for planned developments
Area, Yard and Height Requirements
   
156.075   Neighborhood-Business District yard setback
   
156.076   Area, yard and height requirement specified
General Regulations
   
156.090   Application
   
156.091   Reduction of lot and yard areas prohibited
   
156.092   Relationship of building to lot
   
156.093   Nonconforming uses
   
156.094   Signs and structures
   
156.095   Electronic gaming operations
Exceptions and Modifications
   
156.105   Lot of record
   
156.106   Front yard for dwelling
   
156.107   Height limitations
   
156.108   Visibility at intersections
Administration and Enforcement
   
156.120   Zoning Enforcement Officer
   
156.121   Zoning permit required
   
156.122   Application for zoning permit
   
156.123   Certificate of occupancy required
   
156.124   Remedies available
Board of Adjustment
   
156.135   Creation
   
156.136   Proceedings
   
156.137   Decisions
   
156.138   Appeals; hearing and notice
   
156.139   Stay of proceedings
   
156.140   Powers and duties
   
156.141   Legal provisions
   
156.142   Reenactment and repeal of existing zoning ordinance
Amendments and Changes
   
156.150   Motion to amend
   
156.151   Protest against amendment
   
156.152   Planning Board action
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 156.001 AUTHORITY AND ENACTMENT CLAUSE.
   The Town Council, in pursuance of the authority granted by the General
Statutes of the state, particularly G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 19, hereby ordains and
enacts into law the following.
(Ord. passed 9-10-1984)
§ 156.002 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the "Zoning Ordinance of the
Town of Sparta, North Carolina".
(Ord. passed 9-10-1984)
§ 156.003 EXTRATERRITORIAL JURISDICTION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply within the corporate limits of
the town. At the time that the Town Council members so decide, and with proper
public notice, hearings and representation, the provisions of this chapter
shall apply within the territory beyond the corporate limits as now or
hereafter fixed, from geographic boundaries for a distance not to exceed one
mile.
(Ord. passed 9-10-1984)
§ 156.004 BONA FIDE FARMS EXEMPT.
   This chapter shall, in no way, regulate, restrict, prohibit or otherwise
deter a bona fide farm and its related uses within the one mile area, as
defined in §
156.001, except that any use of the property for non-farm purposes shall be
subject to the regulations.
(Ord. passed 9-10-1984)
§ 156.005 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Words used in the present tense include the future tense.
      (2)   Words used in the singular number include the plural and words used
in the plural number include the singular, unless the natural construction of
the wording indicates otherwise.
      (3)   The word “person” includes a firm, association, corporation, trust
and company as well as an individual.
      (4)   The words “used for” shall include the meaning “designed for”.
      (5)   The word “structure” shall include the word “building”.
      (6)   The word “lot” shall include the words “plot”, “parcel” or “tract”.
      (7)   The word “shall” is always mandatory and not merely directory.
      (8)   The word “conditional” shall include the word “special”.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACCESSORY USE. A use customarily incidental and subordinate to the
principal use or building and located on the same lot with the principal use or
building.
      ALLEY. A public or private thoroughfare which affords only a secondary
means of access to abutting property and not intended for general traffic
circulation.
      AUTO HOBBYIST. One who collects, repairs, restores or alters automobiles
to which he or she holds title, for enjoyment and not for commercial purposes,
as an incidental use of the premises on which he or she resides. No open
storage of automobiles or parts is allowed. All vehicles must be garaged or
screened from adjacent property. No more than 15% of the property may be used
for the auto hobby; provided that, the front yard may not be used. All
requirements of §
156.060 must be met.
      BASEMENT. A portion of a building constructed wholly or partly below
ground level. The part of the basement extending above the ground level of the
lot shall be considered as part of the building height.
      BILLBOARD. Outdoor structure or display, pictorial or otherwise, either
freestanding or attached to a building, which advertises or attracts attention
to a business, commodity, service or other activity conducted, sold or offered
elsewhere than on the premises on which the sign is located.
      BREWERY/DISTILLERY. A manufacturing operation engaged in the production
of malt and distilled beverages, which has all operations contained within a
fully enclosed building, and is not classified in these definitions as a
microbrewery or a brewpub.
      BREWPUB. A restaurant which includes a manufacturing operation engaged in
the production of malt, distilled beverages, and wine, with an annual
production less than 15,000 US beer barrels (1,800,000 L). A BREWPUB may
include areas for demonstration, tasting, and other uses permitted in the
district in accordance with state and local laws.
      BUFFER STRIP. A planted strip at least ten feet in width, composed of
deciduous or evergreen trees or a mixture of each, spaced not more than 15 feet
apart and not less than one row of dense shrubs spaced not more than five feet
apart and five feet in height after one growing season. In some instances, a
fence may be required by the Planning Board. Fence specifications shall be
determined by the Planning Board.
      BUILDING. Any structure enclosed and isolated by exterior walls or
columns constructed or used for residence, business, industry or other public
or private purposes, or accessory thereto. The term BUILDING shall be construed
as if followed by the words “or parts thereof”.
      BUILDING ACCESSORY. A building subordinate to the main building on a lot
and used for purposes customarily incidental to the main or principal building
and located on the same lot therewith.
      BUILDING, HEIGHT OF. The vertical distance measured from the lowest grade
at the structure to the highest point of the coping of a flat roof; to the deck
line of a mansard roof; or to the mean height level between the eaves and ridge
of a gable, hip or gambrel roof.
      BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A building in which is conducted the principal use
of the lot on which the building is situated.
      BUILDING SETBACK LINE. A line establishing the minimum allowable distance
between the nearest portion of any building, excluding up to three feet of any
uncovered porches, steps, eaves, gutters and similar fixtures, and the street
right-of-way line when measured perpendicularly thereto.
      COMMUNITY CENTER. A detached accessory structure expressly used for non-
profit, non-commercial leisure time activities and meetings. The structure
shall be specifically for residents of the neighborhood in which it is located
and shall conform to all regulations of the district.
      CUSTOMARY HOME OCCUPATION. Any use conducted for gain entirely within the
dwelling and carried on by the occupants thereof, which use is clearly
incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling for residential purposes
and does not change the character thereof, and in connection with which there
is no display of materials for sale on the premises. No mechanical equipment
shall be installed or used, except such as is normally used for domestic or
professional purposes; and not over 25% of the total floor space shall be used
for home occupations.
      DENSITY. The number of families residing on or the number of dwelling
units located on an acre of land, which land area excludes all but the land
devoted to living facilities, the accessory uses thereon and the required open
space thereon.
      DISTRICT, ZONING. Any section of the town or its extraterritorial
jurisdiction in which zoning regulations are uniform.
      DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY. A building or portion thereof used or designed as
a residence for three or more families living independently of each other,
including apartment houses, apartment hotels and group housing projects.
      DWELLING UNIT. A building or portion thereof, providing complete and
permanent living facilities for one family. The term DWELLING shall not be
deemed to include a motel, hotel, tourist home, mobile home or other structure
designed for transient residence.
      DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY DETACHED. A building arranged or designed to be
occupied by one family located on an individual lot.
      DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY ATTACHED. A building arranged or designed to be
owned and occupied by one family and joined at one or more common side walls
with other similar units, including row houses or cluster homes.
      DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building arranged or designed to be occupied by
two families living independently of each other.
      ELECTRONIC GAMING OPERATIONS. Any business enterprise, whether as a
principal or accessory use, where persons utilize electronic machines,
including but not limited to computer and gaming terminals, to conduct games of
chance, including sweepstakes, and where cash, merchandise or other items of
value are redeemed or otherwise distributed, whether or not the value of such
distribution is determined by electronic games played or by predetermined odds.
Electronic gaming operations may include, but are not limited to, internet
cafes, internet sweepstakes, electronic gaming machines/ operations, or
cybercafes. This does not include any lottery approved by the state or any
nonprofit operation that is otherwise lawful under state law (for example,
church or civic organization fund raisers).
      FAMILY. One or more persons related by blood, marriage or adoption,
living together as a single non-profit housekeeping unit, including servants or
foster children; provided that, a group of more than three persons who are not
so related shall not be deemed to constitute a family.
      FAMILY CARE HOME. A dwelling licensed by the State Department of Human
Resources, Division of Facility Services, for two and not more than six adults
or children, who, because of a temporary or chronic physical or mental
disability, need a substitute home and who are not related by blood or marriage
to the owner or lessee when a charge is made for their care; provided that,
persons within any of the following categories shall not be eligible for
admission to a family care home:
         (a)   Persons suffering from acute mental illness;
         (b)   Persons addicted to narcotics or alcohol;
         (c)   Persons with contagious or infectious diseases;
         (d)   Persons requiring maternity care;
         (e)   Persons requiring professional nursing care under continuous
medical supervision;
         (f)   Transients; and
         (g)   Criminal offenders.
      FARM. Any parcel of land containing at least three acres which is used in
the raising of agriculture, dairy or forest products, livestock, poultry or fur
bearing animals.
      GROSS FLOOR AREA. The total area of all buildings in the project
including basements, mezzanines and upper floors, exclusive of stairways and
elevator shafts. It excludes separate service facilities outside the main
building such as boiler rooms and maintenance shops.
      GROUP PROJECT. A group of two or more principal structures built on a
single lot, tract or parcel of land not subdivided into the customary streets
and lots and which will not be so subdivided; and designed for occupancy by
separate families, businesses or other enterprises. Examples would be cluster
type subdivisions, row houses, apartment courts, housing projects, school and
hospital campuses, shopping centers and industrial parks.
      LIVESTOCK. Cattle, horses, mules, burros, sheep, swine, llamas and goats,
regardless of use, and any animals, except dogs and cats, that are used for
working purposes on a farm or ranch and any other animal designated by the
State Agricultural Commissioner, which animal is raised for food, fiber, or
commercial production.
      LIVESTOCK ANIMAL VETERINARY CLINIC/HOSPITAL. Any facility used for the
diagnosis, treatment and/or hospitalization of livestock.
      LOT. A parcel of land occupied or capable of being occupied by a building
or group of buildings devoted to a common use, together with the customary
accessory buildings and open spaces belonging to the same.
      LOT, CORNER. A lot fronting on two or more streets at their intersection.
The street line forming the least frontage shall be deemed the front of the
lot, except where the two street lines are equal, in which case the owner shall
be required to specify which is the front when requesting a zoning permit.
      LOT, DEPTH. The mean horizontal distance between the front and rear lot
lines.
      LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is part of a subdivision, a plat of which has
been recorded in the office of the Register of Deeds, or a lot described by
metes and bounds, the description of which has been so recorded on or before
the effective date of this chapter.
      LOT WIDTH. The distance between side lot lines measured at the building
setback line.
      MICROBREWERY. A manufacturing operation engaged in the production of malt
and distilled beverages, with an annual production less than 15,000 US beer
barrels (1,800,000 L). A MICROBREWERY may include areas for demonstration,
tasting, and other uses permitted in the district in accordance with state and
local laws.
      MOBILE HOME. A portable, manufactured housing unit designed for
transportation on its own chassis and placement on a temporary, semi-permanent
or permanent foundation and including structural additions to the unit,
including double wide mobile homes which are two or more portable manufacturing
housing units designed for transportation on their own chassis. The units
constructed according to the Uniform Standards Code for Mobile Homes Act, being
G.S. §§ 143-144 et seq. shall be defined as MOBILE HOMES. In addition, “on
frame” modular homes whose characteristics are those of a mobile home will be
defined as MOBILE HOMES. These definitions do not include camping type trailers
that are parked and unoccupied or other vehicles primarily designed for the
transportation of goods.
      MOBILE HOME PARK. Any place or tract of land maintained, offered or used
for the parking of two or more mobile homes or trailer houses used or intended
to be used for living or sleeping purposes, not including mobile home sales
lots.
      MODULAR HOME. A factory fabricated transportable building designed and
built at a point other than the building site and transported to the building
site by means other than its own chassis. The term modular is intended to apply
to major assemblies, not including prefabricated panels, trusses, plumbing
trees and other pre-manufactured sub-elements, which are to be incorporated
into a structure at the site. In addition to other requirements of this
definition, MODULAR UNITS must meet all structural, electrical, mechanical,
plumbing, heating and other provisions of the State Building Code or amendments
and additionally the characteristics of the structure will conform to the
characteristics of the conventional site-built home.
      NONCONFORMING USE. Any use of a building or land which does not conform
to the use regulations of this chapter for the district in which it is located,
either at the effective date of this chapter or as a result of subsequent
amendments which may be incorporated into this chapter.
      OPEN STORAGE. Unroofed storage area, whether fenced or not.
      PARKING SPACE. A storage space of not less than nine feet by 18 feet for
one automobile, plus the necessary access space. It shall always be located
outside the dedicated street right-of-way.
      PET ANIMAL. Dogs, cats, rabbits, guinea pigs, hamsters, mice, ferrets,
birds, fish, reptiles, amphibians, pygmy goats, pot belly pigs, chickens, and
invertebrates or any other species of wild or domestic or hybrid animal, except
livestock, sold, transferred or retained for the purposes of being kept as a
household pet.
      PET ANIMAL VETERINARY CLINIC/HOSPITAL. Any facility used for the purpose
of giving licensed medical treatment to pet animals and any other customarily
incidental treatment of the animals, such as grooming, boarding, or selling of
pet supplies, provided the facility does not include outdoor kennels.
      PLANNED DEVELOPMENT. A planned development is a conditional use
incorporating a single type or a variety of residential and related uses which
are planned and developed as a unit. Such development may consist of individual
lots or common building sites. Open space must be an element of the plan
related to affecting the long-term value of the entire development.
      SEASONAL AGRICULTURAL WORKER DEVELOPMENT. A residential use of property
for the purpose of seasonally housing workers hired to provide assistance in
agricultural operations.
      SETBACK. The distance or lot area needed to meet the area, lot, front,
side or rear yard requirements of this chapter, measured from the perimeter
property line or street right-of-way, whichever is the most restrictive.
      SEWERAGE SYSTEM, INDIVIDUAL. A septic tank arrangement of sewage
disposal. INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS must be installed and maintained
in accordance with the State Board of Health Rules and Regulations Governing
the Disposal of Sewage from any Residence, Place of Business, or Place of
Public Assembly in North Carolina, and regulations of the County Board of
Health. State Board of Health Bulletin No. 519, Residential Sewage Disposal
Plants, contains helpful information.
      SEWERAGE SYSTEM, PUBLIC. A system serving two or more connections. Plans
for public and community sewer systems must be approved by the Office of Water
and Air Resources, State Department of Natural Resources and Community
Development.
      SIGN AREA. Measured by the smallest square, rectangle, triangle, circle
or combination thereof, which will encompass the entire advertising copy area,
excluding architectural trim and structural members. In computing area, only
one side of a double-faced sign shall be considered.
      SIGNS, ANNOUNCEMENT or SIGNS, BUSINESS. Any outdoor notice containing
words, letters, figures, numerals, emblems, devices, trademarks or trade names
or combinations thereof, by which anything is made known such as the
designation of a firm, corporation, profession, business, commodity or product
located or available on the premises.
      STABLE. An accessory building designed for horses or other domestic
livestock.
      STREET or ROAD. A dedicated and accepted public right-of-way for
vehicular traffic which affords the principal means of access to abutting
properties.
      STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
more or less permanent location on the ground or which is attached to something
having more or less permanent location on the ground.
      TOURIST HOME or GUEST HOME. Any dwelling occupied by the owner in which
rooms are rented for guests or travelers for compensation.
      WATER SYSTEM, INDIVIDUAL. A drilled well which serves a single
connection. INDIVIDUAL WATER SUPPLY SYSTEMS should be located, constructed and
operated in accordance with State Board of Health Bulletin No. 476, Protection
of Private Water Supplies.
      WATER SYSTEM, PUBLIC. Water supply systems serving 15 or more connections
are classified as a public water supply by state law. Plans and specifications
must be approved by the Sanitary Engineering Division, State Board of Health,
State Department of Human Resources.
      WATER SYSTEM, SEMIPUBLIC. Water supply systems serving from two to 14
connections, inclusive. This system may be regulated by the County Board of
Health and plans should be approved by the Appalachian District Health
Department.
      YARD. An open space on the same lot with a principal building, unoccupied
and unobstructed from the ground upwards.
      YARD, FRONT. An open space on the same lot with a principal building,
between the front line of the building (exclusive of steps) and the front
property or street right-of-way line and extending across the full width of the
lot.
      YARD, REAR. An open, unoccupied space extending the full width of the lot
and situated between the rear line of the lot and the rear line of the building
projected to the side lines of the lot.
      YARD, SIDE. An open, unoccupied space situated between the side line of
the building and the adjacent side line of the lot and extending from the rear
line of the front yard to the front line of the rear yard.
(Ord. passed 9-10-1984; Ord. passed 12-7-1999; Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed 4-
4-2017; Ord. passed 5-2- 2017; Ord. passed 11-7-2017; Ord. passed 8-27-2019)
§ 156.006 INTERPRETATION, PURPOSE AND CONFLICT.
   In interpreting and applying the provisions of this chapter, they shall be
held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public safety,
health, convenience, prosperity and general welfare. It is not intended by this
chapter to interfere with or abrogate or annul any easements, covenants or
other agreements between parties; provided, however, that, where this chapter
imposes a greater restriction upon the use of buildings or premises or upon the
height of buildings or requires larger open spaces than are imposed or required
by other ordinances, rules, regulations or by easements, covenants or
agreements, the provisions of this chapter shall govern; provided that, nothing
in this chapter shall be construed to amend or repeal any other existing
ordinance of the town.
(Ord. passed 9-10-1984)
§ 156.007 REENACTMENT AND REPEAL OF EXISTING ZONING ORDINANCE.
   This chapter, in part, carries forward by reenactment some of the provisions
of the "Zoning Ordinance of the Town of Sparta" adopted by the Town Council, 9-
4-1964, as amended, and it is not the intention to repeal but rather to reenact
and continue, in force, the existing provisions so that all rights and
liabilities that have accrued hereunder are preserved and may be enforced. All
provisions of the zoning ordinance of the town enacted in 1964, as amended,
which are reenacted herein are hereby repealed. All suits at law or in equity
and/or all prosecutions resulting from the violation of any zoning ordinance
heretofore in effect, which are now pending in any of the courts of the state
or of the United States, shall not be abated or abandoned by reason of the
adoption of this chapter but shall be prosecuted to their finality the same as
if this chapter had not been adopted; any and all violations of the existing
zoning ordinance, prosecutions for which have not yet been instituted, may be
hereafter filed and prosecuted; and nothing in this chapter shall be construed
as to abandon, abate or dismiss any litigation or prosecution now pending and/
or which may heretofore have been instituted or prosecuted.
(Ord. passed 9-10-1984)
ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 156.020 ZONING USE DISTRICTS NAMED.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the town is hereby divided into zoning use
districts with the designation and purposes as listed below:
CB   Central Business District
LI   Light Industrial District
NB   Neighborhood Business District
OI   Office and Institutional District
R-8  Two-Family and Mobile Home Residential District
R-12 Two-Family Residential District
R-20 Single-Family Residential District
RA   Residential-Agricultural District
RMF  Multiple-Family District
 
(Ord. passed 9-10-1984)
§ 156.021 DISTRICT BOUNDARIES SHOWN ON ZONING MAP.
   The boundaries of the districts are shown on a map entitled "Official Zoning
Map, Sparta, North Carolina", which is hereby adopted and incorporated in this
code and made a part hereof by reference. A copy of the map shall be maintained
on file in the office of the Town Clerk/Finance Officer. The zoning map and all
the notations, references and amendments thereto and other information shown
thereon are hereby made a part of this chapter the same as if the information
set forth on the map were fully described and set out herein. The zoning map
properly attested is posted at the office of the Town Clerk/Finance Officer and
is available for inspection by the public.
(Ord. passed 9-10-1984)
§ 156.022 RULES GOVERNING BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of any aforesaid
districts as shown on the zoning map, the following rules shall apply.
      (1)   Where district boundaries are indicated as approximately following
the centerlines of streets or highways, street lines or railroad right-of-way
lines or the lines extended, the centerlines, street lines or railroad right-
of-way lines shall be construed to be boundaries.
      (2)   Where district boundaries are so indicated that they approximately
follow lot lines, the lot lines shall be construed to be the boundaries.
      (3)   Where district boundaries are so indicated that they are
approximately parallel to the centerlines of streets, highways, railroads or
rights-of-way of same, the district boundaries shall be construed as being
parallel thereto and at a distance therefrom as indicated on the zoning map. If
no distance is given, the dimension shall be determined by use of the scale
shown on the zoning map.
   (B)   (1)   Where a district boundary line divides a lot in single
ownership, the district requirements for the least restricted portion of the
lot shall be deemed to apply to the whole thereof; provided that, the
extensions shall not include any part of a lot more than 35 feet beyond the
district boundary lines.
      (2)   The term "least restricted" shall refer to zoning restrictions, not
lot or tract size.
(Ord. passed 9-10-1984)
USE REQUIREMENTS BY DISTRICT
§ 156.035 IN GENERAL.
   Within the districts indicated on the zoning map, no building or land shall
be used, and no building shall be erected or altered which is intended or
designed to be used in whole or in part, for any use other than those listed as
permitted for that district in this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 9-10-1984)
§ 156.036 RA RESIDENTIAL-AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   General. The RA Residential-Agricultural District is established as a
district in which the principal use of the land is for low density residential
or agricultural purposes. It is established to provide and protect low density
residential areas for those desiring that type of environment. These districts
are intended to ensure that residential development not having access to public
water supplies and dependent upon septic tanks for sewage disposal will occur
at a sufficiently low density to provide a healthful environment.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following used are permitted:
      (1)   Single-family dwellings;
      (2)   Two-family dwellings;
      (3)   Modular dwellings;
      (4)   Individual mobile homes subject to the provisions of §
156.059;
      (5)   Any form of agriculture or horticulture, including the sale of
products at a retail stand on the property where produced;
      (6)   Customary home occupations, including dressmaking, cooking and
baking, hairdressing, music instruction, the renting of not more than one room,
the practice of the professions as insurance and accounting, shall be permitted
as accessory uses in a residence. The Board of Adjustment shall decide whether
other home occupations not listed here are within the spirit of this category
of accessory uses;
      (7)   Kindergartens and day nurseries; provided that, not less than 200
square feet of play area is provided for each child and provided further, the
aggregate play space is surrounded by a sturdy fence at least four feet in
height and planted with a buffer strip as per §
156.057;
      (8)   Rest and convalescent homes;
      (9)   Churches and their customary related uses, including cemeteries;
provided that, all buildings and graves shall be setback at least 20 feet from
any property line;
      (10)   Customary accessory uses and structures including private garages,
swimming pools and other accessory structures in the rear yard;
      (11)   Livestock animal veterinary clinic/hospital, provided such
facility is located on a currently-active farm as defined in §
156.042.
      (12)   Public elementary and secondary schools and private schools having
curricula approximately the same as ordinarily given in public schools;
      (13)   Public and private parks, playgrounds, community centers, clubs
and lodges, golf courses, swimming pools, fishing lakes, family campgrounds and
similar recreation uses;
      (14)   Public safety facilities such as fire and police stations and
rescue squad headquarters, provided that all vehicles and equipment shall be
stored indoors; provided further that, all buildings shall be setback at least
20 feet from all property lines and shall be designed and landscaped in a way
as to blend in with the surrounding area;
      (15)   Public works and public utility facilities, such as transformer
stations, pumping stations, water towers and telephone exchanges; provided:
         (a)   The facilities are essential to the service of the immediate
area and no vehicles or materials shall be stored on the premises;
         (b)   All buildings and apparatus shall be setback at least 20 feet
from all property lines and shall be designed and landscaped in a way as to
blend in with the surrounding area; and
         (c)   Such facilities as water towers, pumping stations and so forth
shall be surrounded by a chain link fence six feet in height and planted with a
buffer strip as per §
156.056.
      (16)   Signs: all signs shall comply with the general requirements in §
156.094. In addition, the Zoning Enforcement Officer shall issue a permit for
the following signs.
         (a)   One professional sign per lot identifying a home occupation
shall be permitted. It shall be unlighted and not exceed one square foot in
area.
         (b)   One announcement sign per lot identifying a permitted use such
as a residential subdivision, church, recreational facility or a school. It
shall not exceed 18 square feet in area and may be lighted from behind to
silhouette letters and figures.
         (c)   One sign per lot pertaining to the lease, rent or sale of the
property upon which it is displayed. No sign shall be illuminated.
   (C)   Conditional uses. The following conditional uses are permitted when
authorized by the Board of Adjustment after the Board holds a public hearing.
Each request shall be reviewed by the Planning and Zoning Board for their
recommendation prior to the submission to the Board of Adjustment:
      (1)   Mobile home parks, subject to conditions listed under §
156.058; and
      (2)   Group development projects, subject to conditions listed under §
156.057.
   (D)   Dimensional requirements. Within the RA Residential-Agricultural
District as shown on the zoning map, the following dimensional requirements
shall be complied with:
      (1)   Area, yard and height requirements shall be provided as required in
§§
156.075 and
156.076; and
      (2)   Off-street parking shall be provided as required in §
156.055.
(Ord. passed 9-10-1984; Ord. passed 5-2-2017)
§ 156.037 R-20 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   General. The R-20 Residential District is established as a district in
which the principal use of land is for medium density single-family residences
with limited home occupation and public and private community uses. The
regulations are intended to prohibit any use which, because of the character,
would interfere with the residential nature of this district. It is expected
that municipal water and sewerage facilities will be available to each lot in
the districts.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses are permitted:
      (1)   Single-family dwellings;
      (2)   Modular units;
      (3)   Customary home occupations, including dressmaking, cooking and
baking, the practice of such professions as insurance and accounting, shall be
permitted as accessory uses in a residence. See §
156.060;
      (4)   Churches and their customary related uses, excluding cemeteries;
provided, all buildings shall be set back at least 20 feet from any property
line;
      (5)   Family care homes or group care homes, subject to the following
requirements:
         (a)   The homes must be licensed by the appropriate state or local
agency;
         (b)   No family care home shall be located within a half-mile radius
of another facility;
         (c)   The minimum lot size and setback requirements of the zoning
district shall be met; and
         (d)   Off-street parking and loading shall be provided as per §
156.055, including landscape screening required by §
156.056.
      (6)   Public and private elementary and secondary schools having
curricula approximately the same as ordinarily given in public schools;
      (7)   Public parks, playgrounds, community centers, clubs, golf courses,
swimming pools and other public recreation facilities;
      (8)   Public works and public utility facilities such as transformer
stations, pumping stations, water towers and telephone exchanges; provided:
         (a)   The facilities are essential to the service of the immediate
area and no vehicles or materials shall be stored on the premises;
         (b)   All buildings and apparatus shall be setback at least 20 feet
from all property lines and shall be designed and landscaped in such a way as
to blend in with the surrounding area; and
         (c)   The facilities as water towers, pumping stations and so forth
shall be surrounded by a chain link fence six feet in height and planted with a
buffer strip as per §
156.056.
      (9)   Signs: all signs shall comply with requirements specified in the R-
A Residential District.
   (C)   Conditional uses. The following conditional uses are permitted when
authorized by the Board of Adjustment after the Board holds a public hearing.
Each request shall be reviewed by the Planning and Zoning Board for their
recommendations prior to the submission to the Board of Adjustment: Planned
Developments.
   (D)   Dimensional requirements. Within the R-20 Residential District, as
shown on the zoning map, the following dimensional requirements shall be
complied with:
      (1)   Area, yard and height requirements shall be provided as required in
§§
156.075 and
156.076; and
      (2)   Off-street parking shall be provided as required in §
156.055.
(Ord. passed 9-10-1984; Ord. passed 8-27-2019)
§ 156.038 R-12 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   General. The R-12 Residential District is established as a district in
which the principal use of land is for medium density single-family and two-
family residences, along with limited home occupations and public and private
community uses. The regulations are intended to prohibit any use which, because
of its character, would interfere with the residential nature of this district.
It is expected that municipal water and sewerage facilities will be available
to each lot in the districts.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses are permitted:
      (1)   All uses permitted in the R-20 Residential District;
      (2)   Two-family dwellings;
      (3)   Single-family attached dwellings. Site plan approval by the Zoning
Enforcement Officer after review and recommendation by the Planning Board
subject to conditions under §
156.057 is required.
         (a)   All units must be separated by a two-hour firewall.
         (b)   No more than four units may be in any building cluster.
         (c)   At least 400 square feet of private open space is required per
unit. The space must be surrounded by a six-foot fence of wood or masonry.
      (4)   See division (D) below;
      (5)   Customary home occupations, including dressmaking, cooking and
baking, hairdressing, music instruction, the renting of not more than one room,
the practice of the professions as insurance and accounting, shall be permitted
as accessory uses in a residence. The Board of Adjustment shall decide whether
other home occupations not listed here are within the spirit of this category
of accessory uses;
      (6)   Kindergartens and day nurseries; provided that, not less than 100
square feet of play area is provided for each child and provided further the
aggregate play space is surrounded by a sturdy fence at least four feet in
height and planted with a buffer strip as per §
156.056. The fences shall be provided by a landscape screen as specified by §
156.056; and
      (7)   Signs: all signs shall comply with the requirements specified in
the R-A Residential District.
   (C)   Conditional uses. The following conditional uses are permitted when
authorized by the Board of Adjustment after the Board holds a public hearing.
Each request shall be reviewed by the Planning and Zoning Board for their
recommendations prior to the submission to the Board of Adjustment: Planned
Developments; rest and convalescent homes not used primarily for the treatment
of contagious diseases, alcoholics, drug addicts and psychotics.
   (D)   Dimensional requirements. Within the R-12 Residential District as
shown on the zoning map, the following dimensional requirements shall be
complied with:
      (1)   Area, yard and height requirements shall be provided as required in
§§
156.075 and
156.076;
      (2)   Off-street parking shall be provided as required in §
156.055; and
      (3)   Off-street parking shall be provided with a landscape screen as
required in §
156.056.
(Ord. passed 9-10-1984; Ord. passed 8-27-2019)
§ 156.039 R-8 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   General. The R-8 Residential District is established as a district in
which the principal use of land is for medium density single-family residences,
two-family residences and mobile homes on single lots, along with limited home
occupations and public and private community uses. The regulations are intended
to prohibit any use which, because of its character, would interfere with the
residential nature of the district. It is expected that municipal water and
sewerage facilities will be available to each lot in the districts.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses are permitted:
      (1)   All uses in the R-12 Residential District;
      (2)   Individual mobile homes on single lots meeting the requirements in
§
156.059 and all provisions of §§
156.075 and
156.076; and
      (3)   Signs: all signs shall comply with the requirements specified in
the R-A Residential District.
   (C)   Conditional uses. The following conditional uses are permitted when
authorized by the Board of Adjustment after the Board holds a public hearing.
Each request shall be reviewed by the Planning and Zoning Board for their
recommendations prior to the submission to the Board of Adjustment: rest and
convalescent homes not used primarily for the treatment of contagious diseases,
alcoholics, drug addicts and psychotics.
   (D)   Dimensional requirements. Within the R-8 Residential District as shown
on the zoning map, the following dimensional requirements shall be complied
with:
      (1)   Area, yard and height requirements shall be provided as required in
§§
156.075 and
156.076;
      (2)   Off-street parking shall be provided as required in §
156.055; and
      (3)   Off-street parking shall be provided with a landscape screen as
required in §
156.056.
(Ord. passed 9-10-1984)
§ 156.040 R-MF RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   General. The High Density R-MF Residential Districts permit single-
family, two-family and multi-family development in those areas that need new
housing stimulation. It is expected that water and sewer services will be
available in all areas and that adequate roadways exist to handle expected
traffic loads.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses are permitted:
      (1)   All uses permitted in R-8 Residential Districts, except mobile
homes;
      (2)   Multiple-family dwellings meeting development standards in §
156.057; and
      (3)   Signs: all signs shall comply with the requirements specified in
the R-A Residential District.
   (C)   Dimensional requirements. Within the R-MF Residential District as
shown on the zoning map, the following dimensional requirements shall be
complied with:
      (1)   Area, yard and height requirements shall be provided as required in
§
156.075 and
156.076;
      (2)   Off-street parking shall be provided as required in §
156.055; and
      (3)   Off-street parking shall be provided with a landscape screen as
required with §
156.056.
(Ord. passed 9-10-1984)
§ 156.041 OI OFFICE AND INSTITUTIONAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   General. The OI Office and Institutional District is established as a
district in which hospitals, public health offices, clinics and associated
medical offices are located for public service. The areas are intended to be
primarily residential in nature and not be detrimental to residential uses.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses are permitted:
      (1)   Hospitals and public health care facilities;
      (2)   Medical laboratories;
      (3)   Medical, dental and related offices;
      (4)   Nursing or convalescent homes;
      (5)   Pet animal veterinary clinic/hospital, without outdoor kennels or
outdoor boarding of animals. Any accessory building used for boarding of
animals must be enclosed.
      (6)   Multiple-family dwellings meeting development standards in §
156.057; and
      (7)   Signs: all signs shall comply with the requirements specified in
the R-A Residential District.
   (C)   Dimensional requirements. Within the Institutional District as shown
on the zoning map, the following dimensional requirements shall be complied
with:
      (1)   Area, yard and height requirements shall be provided as required in
§§
156.075 and
156.076;
      (2)   Off-street parking shall be provided as required in §
156.055; and
      (3)   Off-street parking shall be provided with a landscape screen as
required in §
156.056.
(Ord. passed 9-10-1984; Ord. passed 5-2-2017)
§ 156.042 CB CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   General. The CB Central Business District is established as the
centrally located trade and commercial service area of the community. The
regulations of this district are designed to encourage the continued use of
land for community trade and commercial service uses and to permit a
concentrated development of permitted uses while maintaining a substantial
relationship between the intensity of land uses and the capacity of utilities
and streets.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses are permitted:
      (1)   Alcoholic beverage control stores;
      (2)   Automobile parking lots and structures;
      (3)   Automobile parts and supplies, new;
      (4)   Bakeries, retail;
      (5)   Banks and other financial institutions, including loan and finance
companies;
      (6)   Barber and beauty shops;
      (7)   Billiard and pool halls;
      (8)   Brewpub, subject to the following:
         (a)   Storage of materials used in the manufacturing, processing, and
for distribution shall be located entirely within the building.
         (b)   Owner must demonstrate that operation will not violate
requirements of the wastewater discharge and pollution abatement section of the
Town of Sparta Municipal Code.
      (9)   Bus stations;
      (10)   Business colleges, barber and beauty colleges, art schools, music
and dance studios and similar uses, but excluding industrial trade schools;
      (11)   Drug stores, with or without fountains;
      (12)   Dry cleaning, laundry pick-up stations and dry cleaning plants
having not more than 2,000 square feet;
      (13)   Electric repair shops;
      (14)   Fire and police stations;
      (15)   Floral and gift shops;
      (16)   Food stores and meat markets, retail only, but excluding the
killing or dressing of any flesh or fowl;
      (17)   Funeral homes and mortuaries;
      (18)   Hotels and inns;
      (19)   Jewelry repair shops and opticians;
      (20)   Launderettes and laundromats;
      (21)   Locksmiths and gunsmiths;
      (22)   Medical and dental clinics and laboratories;
      (23)   Microbrewery, subject to the following:
         (a)   Shall include one or more accessory uses such as a tasting room,
tap room, restaurant, retail, or other uses incidental to the brewery and open
and accessible to the public.
         (b)   Storage of materials used in the manufacturing, processing, and
for distribution shall be located entirely within the building.
         (c)   Owner must demonstrate that operation will not violate
requirements of the Wastewater Discharge and Pollution Abatement section of the
Town of Sparta Municipal Code.
      (24)   Newspaper offices and printing plants incidental to the offices;
      (25)   Offices, business, professional and public;
      (26)   Office supplies and equipment, sales and service;
      (27)   Pawn shops;
      (28)   Pet animal veterinary clinic/hospital, without outdoor kennels or
outdoor boarding of animals. Any accessory building used for boarding of
animals must be enclosed.
      (29)   Photographic studios and camera supply stores;
      (30)   Printing, publishing and reproduction establishments;
      (31)   Public works and utility facilities, but excluding service and
storage yards;
      (32)   Radio and TV repair shops;
      (33)   Restaurants, including drive-in restaurants; provided, the drive-
in restaurants are fenced on all sides which abut residential districts. The
fences shall be solid from the ground to a height of six feet and shall be
planted with a buffer strip as specified by §
156.056;
      (34)   Retail establishments such as department, clothing, fabric, shoe,
variety, notion, drug, hardware, furniture, appliance, floor covering, paint,
antique, art goods, jewelry, gift, music, toy, sporting goods, book and
stationery, magazine, candy, tobacco, pet and hobby and craft stores, but not
excluding similar retail outlets;
      (35)   Service stations; provided that, all gasoline pumps and other
stationary equipment shall be located at least 12 feet behind the property
line; provided further that, on all sides where the stations abut residential
districts, a six-foot high fence and landscaping as specified in §
156.056;
      (36)   Shoe repair and shine shops;
      (37)   Tailor and dressmaking shops;
      (38)   Taxicab stands;
      (39)   Telephone and telegraph offices;
      (40)   Theaters, indoor;
      (41)   Customary accessory uses and structures when located on the same
block as the principal structures, excluding, however, open storage; and
      (42)   Signs: all signs shall comply with the general requirements in §
156.056. In addition, the Zoning Enforcement Officer shall issue a zoning
permit for the following signs.
         (a)   Business signs shall be permitted. Any projecting sign shall be
at right angles from the building and suspended from a canopy; provided, the
sign is at least eight feet above the sidewalk. Any other business signs shall
be mounted flat with the building walls and must not project more than 18
inches from the wall. No flashing portable signs are permitted.
         (b)   Signs, directing the public to off-street parking areas are
permitted; provided, not more than two signs shall be permitted per lot;
provided further, the aggregate size of the signs shall not exceed eight square
feet in area.
   (C)   Conditional uses. The following conditional uses are permitted when
authorized by the Board of Adjustment after the Board holds a public hearing.
Each request shall be reviewed by the Planning and Zoning Board for their
comments prior to the submission to the Board of Adjustment:
      (1)   Mixed uses (i.e., buildings erected for both dwelling and business
purposes, and renovation of older buildings for the same purpose; provided
that, not more than one-half of the useable floor area shall be devoted to
residential purposes) and off-street parking for residential units is provided
as required by §
156.055.
      (2)   Electronic gaming operations.
   (D)   Dimensional requirements. Within the CB Central Business District as
shown on the zoning map, the following dimensional requirements shall be
complied with:
      (1)   Area, yard and height requirements shall be provided as required in
§§
156.075 and
156.076;
      (2)   Off-street parking and loading shall be provided as required in §
156.055; and
      (3)   Buffer strips as required by §
156.056.
(Ord. passed 9-10-1984; Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed 5-2-2017; Ord. passed 11-
7-2017)
§ 156.043 NB NEIGHBORHOOD BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   General. The NB Neighborhood Business Districts are generally located
on major thoroughfares and collector streets in the town's planning area. They
are intended to provide for offices, personal services and the retailing of
durable and convenience goods for the community. Because these commercial uses
are subject to public view and are important to the economy of the area, they
should have ample parking, controlled traffic movement and suitable
landscaping. Small manufacturing uses are permitted; provided that, no use may
have more than 12 employees and the total building area may not exceed 5,000
square feet. No manufacturing use detrimental to the character of the zone may
be permitted.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses are permitted:
      (1)   Any uses allowed under the Central Business District shall also be
permitted in the Neighborhood Business District so long as all other zoning
regulations are complied with;
      (2)   Assembly halls, ballrooms and similar structures;
      (3)   Automobile sales, new and used;
      (4)   Automobile repair garages, including temporary outdoor storage (60
days) of vehicles; provided, they are enclosed by a sturdy fence not less than
six feet in height and provided with a buffer strip as required by §
156.056. No more than 10% of the lot area may be used for temporary storage;
      (5)   Bicycle sales and repair shops;
      (6)   Boat and trailer works and sales;
      (7)   Bowling alleys and skating rinks, miniature golf courses;
      (8)   Brewpub, subject to the following:
         (a)   Storage of materials used in the manufacturing, processing, and
for distribution shall be located entirely within the building.
         (b)   Owner must demonstrate that operation will not violate
requirements of the wastewater discharge and pollution abatement section of the
Town of Sparta Municipal Code.
      (10)   Cabinet, woodworking and upholstery shops;
      (11)   Churches and customary accessory uses;
      (12)   Contractors’ offices and storage yards;
      (13)   Electrical supplies and equipment, sales and repairs;
      (14)   Farm equipment and machinery, sales, assembly and repairs;
      (15)   Funeral homes, mortuaries;
      (16)   Industrial supplies and equipment, sales and service;
      (17)   Industrial trade schools and research laboratories;
      (18)   Microbrewery, subject to the following:
         (a)   Shall include one or more accessory uses such as a tasting room,
tap room, restaurant, retail, or other uses incidental to the brewery and open
and accessible to the public.
         (b)   Storage of materials used in the manufacturing, processing, and
for distribution shall be located entirely within the building.
         (c)   Owner must demonstrate that operation will not violate
requirements of the Wastewater Discharge and Pollution Abatement section of the
Town of Sparta Municipal Code.
      (19)   Mobile home display lots;
      (20)   Monument sales;
      (21)   Motels and motor lodges;
      (22)   Motorcycle, lawnmower and power saw sales and service;
      (23)   Pet animal veterinary clinic/hospital, without outdoor kennels or
outdoor boarding of animals. Any accessory building used for boarding of
animals must be enclosed.
      (24)   Plumbing, electrical and heating supply houses;
      (25)   Lodges, social and recreational buildings, the chief activity of
which is carried on or is one customarily carried on primarily for gain;
      (26)   Radio and television stations excluding broadcasting towers;
      (27)   Secondhand stores and swap shops;
      (28)   Service stations;
      (29)   Sheet metal, roofing, plumbing and heating and refrigeration
shops;
      (30)   Sign painting and fabricating shops;
      (31)   Wholesale storage of gasoline and oil products, including bottled
gas and oxygen; and
      (32)   Signs: All signs shall comply with the general requirements in §
156.056. In addition, the Zoning Enforcement Officer shall issue a zoning
permit for the following signs:
         (a)   Business signs; provided, they are not located within 50 feet of
any residential district; provided further that, no sign shall be more than 20
feet in height, nor more than 40 square feet in area, and shall be at least 15
feet from the street edge. No flashing portable signs are permitted; and
         (b)   Signs directing the public to off-street parking areas are
permitted; provided, not more than two signs shall be permitted per lot;
provided further, the aggregate size of the signs shall not exceed eight square
feet in area.
         (a)   Business signs; provided, they are not located within 50 feet of
any residential district; provided further that, no sign shall be more than 20
feet in height, nor more than 40 square feet in area, and shall be at least 15
feet from the street edge. No flashing portable signs are permitted; and
         (b)   Signs directing the public to off-street parking areas are
permitted; provided, not more than two signs shall be permitted per lot;
provided further, the aggregate size of the signs shall not exceed eight square
feet in area.
   (C)   Conditional use. 
      (1)   Customary accessory uses and structures, including open storage;
provided, the area devoted to open storage is enclosed by a sturdy fence not
less than six feet in height and provided with a buffer strip as required by §
156.056. No outdoor storage is permitted in front yard areas.
      (2)   Electronic gaming operations, when authorized by the Board of
Adjustment after the Board holds a public hearing. Each request shall be
reviewed by the Planning and Zoning Board for their comments prior to the
submission to the Board of Adjustment.
   (D)   Dimensional requirements. Within the NB Neighborhood Business District
as shown on the zoning map, the following dimensional requirements shall be
complied with:
      (1)   Yard and height requirements shall be provided as required in §§
156.075 and
156.076;
      (2)   Buildings constructed or converted to uses permitted in this
district shall provide off-street loading and unloading space as required in §
156.055;
      (3)   Off-street parking space shall be provided as required in §
156.055; and
      (4)   Buffer strips as required by §
156.056.
(Ord. passed 9-10-1984; Ord. passed - - ; Ord. passed 5-2-2017; Ord. passed 11-
7-2017)
§ 156.044 LI LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   General. The LI Light Industrial District is established to provide
for those industries which, in their normal operations, have little or no
adverse effect upon adjoining properties.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses, and other similar uses, are
allowed:
      (1)   Automobile parking lots and structures;
      (2)   Amusement, recreation, and sporting goods manufacturing;
      (3)   Apparel and clothing manufacturing, including hosiery;
      (4)   Automobile parts and accessories manufacturing;
      (5)   Bakeries and other establishments manufacturing prepared food
products for wholesale distribution;
      (6)   Bedding and carpet manufacturing;
      (7)   Boat and trailer works and sales;
      (8)   Bottling works;
      (9)   Brewery/distillery;
      (10)   Building materials and specialties manufacturing;
      (11)   Building materials storage and sales yards; provided, all open
storage is enclosed by a fence not less than six feet in height and provided
with a buffer strip as required by §
156.056;
      (12)   Business machines manufacturing;
      (13)   Cabinet, woodworking and upholstery shops;
      (14)   Carnivals and revival grounds;
      (15)   Coliseums, armories and similar uses;
      (16)   Contractors’ offices and storage yards; provided, all open storage
enclosed by a fence not less than six feet in height, and provided with a
buffer strip as required by §
156.056;
      (17)   Dairy products processing and distributing facilities;
      (18)   Drugs, medicines and cosmetics manufacturing;
      (19)   Dry cleaning and laundry plants;
      (20)   Electrical appliances and electronic equipment manufacturing;
      (21)   Farm machinery sales, assembly and repair;
      (22)   Feed and seed stores, hatcheries and fertilizer sales;
      (23)   Food stores, fruit stands and produce markets;
      (24)   Furniture manufacturing;
      (25)   Golf driving ranges;
      (26)   Par 3 golf courses;
      (27)   Greenhouses and horticultural nurseries;
      (28)   Hardware and housewares manufacturing;
      (29)   Ice and cold storage plants and freezer lockers;
      (30)   Industrial supplies and equipment, sales and service; provided,
all open storage is enclosed by a fence not less than six feet in height and
provided with a buffer strip as required by §
156.056;
      (31)   Industrial trade schools and research laboratories;
      (32)   Leather products, including luggage and shoe manufacturing,
excluding leather tanning and finishing;
      (33)   Machine and welding shops; provided, all open storage is enclosed
by a fence not less than six feet in height and provided with a buffer strip as
required by §
156.056;
      (34)   Metal fabricating plants;
      (35)   Monument works and sales;
      (37)   Musical instruments manufacturing;
      (37)   Offices pertaining to any permitted use;
      (38)   Plumbing and heating supply houses; provided, all open storage is
enclosed by a fence not less than six feet in height and provided with a buffer
strip as required by §
156.056;
      (39)   Precision instruments and jewelry manufacturing;
      (40)   Printing, engraving and publishing establishments;
      (41)   Public safety facilities such as fire and police stations and
rescue squads;
      (42)   Public works and public utility facilities, including service and
storage yards; provided, they are enclosed by a sturdy fence not less than six
feet in height, and provided with a buffer strip as required by §
156.056;
      (43)   Restaurants, including drive-in restaurants;
      (44)   Radio and television stations and masts;
      (45)   Railroad freight yards or classification yards;
      (46)   Septic tank manufacturing;
      (47)   Service stations, including major repair work; provided that, all
gasoline pumps shall be located at least 12 feet behind the property line;
      (48)   Sheet metal, roofing, plumbing, heating and refrigeration shops;
      (49)   Sign painting and fabricating shops;
      (50)   Textile and cordage manufacturing;
      (51)   Wholesale and warehousing establishments, except for the storage
of dangerous or offensive items such as uncured hides and explosives;
      (52)   Wholesale storage of gasoline and oil products, including bottled
gas and oxygen;
      (53)   Customary accessory uses and structures, including open storage;
provided, the area devoted to open storage is enclosed by a fence at least six
feet in height and provided with a buffer strip as required by §
156.056. No outdoor storage is permitted in front yard areas;
      (54)   Signs: all signs shall comply with the general requirements in §
156.056. In addition, the Zoning Enforcement Officer shall issue a zoning
permit for the following signs:
         (a)   Business signs; provided, they are not located within 50 feet of
any residential district; provided further that, no sign shall be more than 20
feet in height, nor more than 40 square feet in area and shall be at least 15
feet from the street edge. No flashing or portable signs are permitted; and
         (b)   Signs directing the public to off-street parking areas;
provided, not more than two signs shall be permitted per lot; provided further,
the aggregate size of the signs shall not exceed eight square feet in area.
   (C)   Conditional uses. The following uses are permitted when authorized by
the Board of Adjustment after the Board holds a public hearing: seasonal
dwellings for the housing of migrant farm workers and migrant employees,
subject to conditions listed under §
156.061.
   (D)   Dimensional requirements. In the LI Light Industrial District, the
following dimensional requirements shall apply:
      (1)   Yard and height requirements shall be provided as required by §§
156.075 and
156.076;
      (2)   Off-street loading and parking space as required in §
156.055; and
      (3)   Buffer strips as required by §
156.056.
(Ord. passed 9-10-1984; Ord. passed 4-4-2017; Ord. passed 11-7-2017)
PARKING, DEVELOPMENT AND DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 156.055 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.
   There shall be provided at the time of the erection of any building, or at
the time any principal building is enlarged or increased in capacity by adding
dwelling units, guest rooms, seats or floor area; or before conversion from one
type of use or occupancy to another, permanent off-street parking space in the
amount specified by this section. The parking space may be provided in a
parking garage or properly graded open space.
   (A)   Certification of minimum parking requirements. Each application for a
zoning permit submitted to the Zoning Enforcement Officer, as provided for in
this chapter, shall include a scale drawing and other information as to the
location and dimensions of off-street parking and loading space and the means
of entrance and exit to the space. This information shall be in sufficient
detail to enable the Zoning Enforcement Officer to determine whether or not the
requirements of this section are met.
   (B)   Minimum off-street parking requirements. The following off-street
parking spaces shall be required:
 Required Off-Street Parking
                                        Required Off-Street Parking
Residential and Related Uses             
Any residential use consisting of 1 or  2 parking spaces for each dwelling unit
more dwelling units
                                        In addition to residence requirements,
Customary home occupations              1 parking space per 100 square feet
                                        devoted to the home occupation use
Mobile homes                            2 spaces for each mobile home
                                        1 space for each 3 guest rooms, plus 1
Rooming and boarding houses             additional space for the owners or
                                        managers
                                        Every building or structure used for
                                        business, trade or industry hereafter
                                        erected shall provide space as
                                        indicated herein for the loading and
                                        unloading of vehicles off the street or
Institutional Public and Semipublic     public alley. The space shall have
Uses                                    access to an alley, or if there is no
                                        alley, to a street. For the purposes of
                                        this section, an off-street loading
                                        space shall have a minimum dimension of
                                        12 feet by 40 feet and an overhead
                                        clearance of 14 feet in height above
                                        the alley or street grade
Churches and funeral homes              1 space for each 4 seats in the main
                                        chapel
Elementary school and junior high, both 1 space for each school employee
public and private
                                        1 space for each 4 patient beds, plus 1
Hospitals                               space for each staff or visiting
                                        doctor, plus 1 space for each 4
                                        employees
Libraries                               1 space for each 4 seats provided for
                                        patron use
                                        4 spaces for each doctor practicing at
Medical offices and clinics             the clinic, plus 1 space for each
                                        employee
Places of public assembly including     1 space for each 4 fixed seats provided
private clubs and lodges, auditoriums,  for patron use, plus 1 space for each
dance halls, pool halls, theaters,      100 square feet of floor or ground area
stadiums, gymnasiums, amusement parks,  used for amusement or assembly, but not
community centers and all similar       including fixed seats
places of public assembly
Rescue squads and armories              Parking space equivalent to 3 times the
                                        floor space in the main building
Sanitariums, rest and convalescent      1 space for each 6 patient beds, plus 1
homes, homes for the aged and similar   space for each staff or visiting
institutions                            doctor, plus 1 space for each employee
Senior high schools and colleges, both  1 space for each 2 students for whom
public and private                      the school was designed, plus 1 space
                                        for each employee
                                        Every building or structure used for
                                        business, trade or industry hereafter
                                        erected shall provide space as
                                        indicated herein for the loading and
                                        unloading of vehicles off the street or
                                        public alley. The space shall have
Business Uses                           access to an alley, or if there is no
                                        alley, to a street. For the purposes of
                                        this section, an off-street loading
                                        space shall have a minimum dimension of
                                        12 feet by 40 feet and an overhead
                                        clearance of 14 feet in height above
                                        the alley or street grade
                                        1 space for each 2 employees at maximum
Automobile sales and repair garages     employment on a single shift, plus 2
                                        spaces for each 300 square feet of
                                        repair or maintenance space
Hotels, motels, tourist homes and       1 space for each rental unit, plus 1
tourist courts                          additional space for each employee on
                                        shift of largest employment
Offices, business, professional,        1 space for each 200 square feet of
public, including banks                 gross floor area
                                        1 space for each 3 seating
Restaurants, brewpubs, microbreweries   accommodations, plus 1 space for each
                                        employee on shift of largest employment
Restaurants, drive-in                   Parking space equivalent to 5 times the
                                        floor space in the main building
Retail business and consumer service    1 space for each 200 square feet of
outlets                                 gross floor area
                                        2 spaces for each gas pump, plus 3
Service stations                        spaces for each grease rack or similar
                                        facility
Shopping centers                        3 square feet of parking space for each
                                        square foot of gross floor area
                                        Every building or structure used for
                                        business, trade or industry hereafter
                                        erected shall provide space as
                                        indicated herein for the loading and
                                        unloading of vehicles off the street or
                                        public alley. The space shall have
Manufacturing and Wholesale             access to an alley, or if there is no
                                        alley, to a street. For the purposes of
                                        this section, an off-street loading
                                        space shall have a minimum dimension of
                                        12 feet by 40 feet and an overhead
                                        clearance of 14 feet in height above
                                        the alley or street grade
                                        1 loading space for each 10,000 square
Industrial and wholesale operations     feet of gross floor area or fraction
                                        thereof
Manufacturing, industrial and wholesale 3 spaces for each 4 employees at
operations                              maximum employment on a single shift
                                        1 loading space for each 5,000 square
Retail operations                       feet of gross floor area or fraction
                                        thereof
 
(Ord. passed 9-10-1984; Ord. passed 11-7-2017)
§ 156.056 BUFFER STRIPS AND LANDSCAPE SCREENING.
   (A)   Landscaping and buffer strip requirements are established to improve
the appearance of vehicular use areas, outdoor storage yards and utility areas;
to require buffering between incompatible land uses; to protect the character
and value of surrounding areas; and reduce noise pollution, air pollution, heat
and artificial light glare.
   (B)   Where any property being developed for commercial, business or
industrial purposes shall abut a residential district, the owner or developer
of the business or industrial property or his or her agent shall cause to be
planted on the common boundary an evergreen buffer strip consisting of one row
of evergreen trees no more than 15 feet apart and one row of dense shrubs at
least five feet apart. The trees shall be at least five feet in height and the
shrubs two feet in height at the time of installation.
   (C)   The owner or developer of any new or expanded mobile home park or
Planned Development, or his or her agent, shall cause to be planted a buffer
strip described in division (B) above along the boundaries of the park or
Planned Development that abut other uses.
   (D)   Outdoor storage areas shall be screened from abutting properties by a
landscape screen consisting of one row of large evergreen shrubs spaced at
least five feet apart or one row of evergreen trees spaced at least ten feet
apart located between the required fence and the property line.
   (E)   Outdoor activity areas for kindergartens, service station yards and
outdoor utility areas and similar uses shall be screened from abutting
properties by a landscape screen consisting of one row of large evergreen
shrubs spaced at least five feet apart located between the required fence and
the property line.
   (F)   Off-street parking areas shall be screened on the sides and rear by a
landscape screen consisting of one row of large evergreen shrubs spaced at
least five feet apart located between the parking lot and property line.
   (G)   Landscaping shall be required along any front or side property line
that abuts the right-of-way of a street, road or highway. The landscaping shall
be provided as follows.
      (1)   A landscaping strip of at least six feet in depth shall be located
between the abutting right- of-way and any off-street parking, loading or other
vehicular use areas, except where driveway openings are to be provided.
      (2)   The landscaping strip shall be planted in accordance with the
following standards: one hardwood tree shall be planted for each 40 linear feet
of the landscaping strip. Trees in this strip must have all branches removed to
a height of six feet and be at least two inches in diameter.
   (H)   The Zoning Enforcement Officer shall maintain a list of recommended
plant materials for use in buffer strips and landscape screens.
   (I)   The developer should make every reasonable effort to preserve existing
vegetation. By preserving existing vegetation, potential erosion and
sedimentation are minimized and vegetated buffer zones for the use of the
residents are provided. The Planning Board may allow the developer to
substitute suitable existing vegetation for specific requirements (or any part
thereof) of divisions (A) through (F) above.
(Ord. passed 9-10-1984; Ord. passed 8-27-2019)
§ 156.057 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS FOR MULTIPLE-FAMILY PROJECTS AND GROUP
DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   General. Two-family, multi-family developments and group projects are
required to meet certain development standards to ensure compatibility with
surrounding land uses, provide for attractive, well-planned projects and to
promote the public health, safety and welfare of the town. All multiple- family
developments must be reviewed and approved prior to start of construction by
the Zoning Enforcement Officer after review and recommendations by the Planning
Board.
   (B)   Development standards.
      (1)   Area, yard and height requirements. The area, yard, and height
requirements shall be the same as those established for each zoning district in
§§
156.075 and
156.076.
      (2)   Plans required. Plans are required before any consideration is
granted by the Zoning Enforcement Officer. At least five copies of all required
plans, drawings and specifications shall be filed at the time of application.
These plans and specifications shall furnish the following information:
         (a)   General information. Including topographical features, streams,
vegetation, soil types, flood prone areas, historic sites and other features;
         (b)   Timing of development. The proposed schedule of development
including phases or stages likely to be followed;
         (c)   Public water and sewer system. Location of public water and
sewer lines presently in existence, connections to these lines, manholes,
pumping stations, fire hydrants and other necessary features. All multiple-
family projects must have public water and sewer service or approved treatment
facilities as required by the appropriate state or local authorities;
         (d)   Storm water drainage system. Proposed storm water drainage
system;
         (e)   Streets, curbs and gutters; street lights. Proposed location and
design of streets, curbs and gutters and street lights;
         (f)   Grading plan and sedimentation control measures. Proposed
grading plan and sedimentation control measures;
         (g)   Street access, easements, monuments, property lines. Proposed
street access, easements, monuments and property lines;
         (h)   Sidewalks. Proposed location and design of sidewalks;
         (i)   Floor plans and building layouts. Proposed location and floor
plans of all proposed structures;
         (j)   Parking, loading, circulation. The proposed location and extent
of parking and loading areas, including parking spaces and circulation routes
shall be shown as required in §
156.055;
         (k)   Landscaping, screening, fencing. Proposed landscaping,
screening, and fencing as required by §
156.056;
         (l)   Existing vegetation. The developer should make every reasonable
effort to preserve existing vegetation. By preserving existing vegetation,
potential erosion and sedimentation are minimized and vegetated buffer zones
for the use of the residents are provided;
         (m)   Refuse collection. All refuse containers shall be located on a
concrete, asphalt or similar base abutting a driveway and shall be enclosed
with the exception of the driveway side, by a wood or masonry fence or wall at
least six feet in height. One refuse container having at least an eight cubic
yard capacity shall be required for every ten dwelling units;
         (n)   Names and the like. Name of development, names and addresses of
the owner(s), designer or surveyor;
         (o)   Date and the like. Date, scale and north arrow;
         (p)   Boundaries. Boundaries of the tract with bearings and distances;
and
         (q)   Vicinity map. Vicinity map showing the location of the project,
surrounding land uses and names and addresses of all adjoining property owners.
(Ord. passed 9-10-1984)
§ 156.058 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS FOR MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   (A)   General. Mobile home parks located in RA Residential-Agricultural
zones are required to meet certain development standards to ensure
compatibility with surrounding land uses, provide for attractive, well planned
projects and to promote the public health, safety and welfare of the town. The
Zoning Enforcement Officer shall review development plans for mobile home parks
prior to the start of construction. The Planning Board shall have the
opportunity to review the plans and make recommendations regarding the proposed
park.
   (B)   Site plan requirements. Plans are required before any consideration is
granted by the Zoning Enforcement Officer. At least five copies of all required
plans, drawings and specifications shall furnish the following information:
      (1)   General information. Including topographical features, streams,
vegetation, soil types, flood prone areas, historic sites and other features;
      (2)   Timing of development. The proposed schedule of development
including phases or stages likely to be followed;
      (3)   Public water and sewer system. Location of public waters and sewer
lines presently in existence, connections to these lines, manholes, pumping
stations, fire hydrants and other necessary features. All mobile home parks
must have public water and sewer service or approved treatment facilities as
required by the appropriate state or district authorities;
      (4)   Storm water drainage system. Proposed storm water drainage system;
      (5)   Streets, curbs and gutters, electrical systems and street lights.
Proposed location and design of streets, curbs and gutters, electrical systems
and street lights;
      (6)   Grading plan and sedimentation control measures. Proposed grading
plan and sedimentation control measures;
      (7)   Street access, easements, monuments and property lines. Proposed
street access, easements, monuments and property lines;
      (8)   Sidewalks. Proposed location and design of sidewalks;
      (9)   Parking, loading, circulation. The proposed location and extent of
parking and loading areas, including parking spaces and circulation routes,
shall be shown as required in §
156.055;
      (10)   Floor plans and building layouts. Proposed location and floor
plans of all proposed structures, including numbers and dimensions of all
mobile home spaces;
      (11)   Landscaping, screening and fencing. Proposed landscaping,
screening and fencing as required by §
156.056;
      (12)   Existing vegetation. The developer should make every reasonable
effort to preserve existing vegetation. By preserving existing vegetation,
potential erosion and sedimentation are minimized and vegetated buffer zones
for the use of the residents are provided. The Planning Board may allow
appropriate existing vegetation to substitute for buffer strip and landscape
screen requirements if the intent of this chapter as expressed in §
156.056 is upheld;
      (13)   Refuse collection. Proposed method of collection and location of
receptacles. All refuse containers shall be located on a concrete, asphalt or
similar base abutting a driveway, and shall be enclosed with the exception of
the driveway side, by a wood or masonry fence or wall at least six feet in
height. One refuse container having at least an eight cubic yard capacity shall
be required for every ten mobile home spaces. Two individual containers per
space may be used as an alternative to this standard;
      (14)   Names and the like. Name of park, names and addresses of the owner
(s), designer or surveyor;
      (15)   Date and the like. Date, scale and north arrow;
      (16)   Boundaries. Boundaries of the tract with bearings, distances and
metes and bounds; and
      (17)   Vicinity map. Vicinity map showing the location of the park,
surrounding land uses and names and addresses of all adjoining property owners.
   (C)   Development standards.
      (1)   Minimum area. Each mobile home park shall be developed on a tract
not less than two acres in size and shall contain at least five mobile home
spaces available at first occupancy.
      (2)   Lot requirements. Each mobile home lot or space shall consist of a
minimum of 6,000 square feet and shall have a minimum width of 50 feet at the
street line. Each mobile home space shall be designated by permanent markers
located on the ground and may be occupied by only one mobile home at any time.
All mobile home spaces or a density no greater than five mobile homes per gross
acre is permitted.
      (3)   Setbacks.
         (a)   No mobile home shall be located closer than:
            1.   Forty feet from a state highway or city street right-of-way;
            2.   Thirty feet from the exterior boundary of the park;
            3.   Twenty feet from another mobile home; and
            4.   Twenty feet from an internal street in the park.
         (b)   Distances shall be measured from the outermost part of the unit,
including tongue.
      (4)   Streets and driveways. All streets within the mobile home park
shall be paved. The access streets must be connected with a state or city
street or highway. All internal streets must have a paved width no less than 18
feet with an eight-foot shoulder on at least one side of the street. Each
mobile home space must be served by a driveway (surfaced as per division (C)(5)
below) connecting to an internal street. No space shall have direct access to a
town street or state highway. All streets shall meet town standards and must be
approved by the Public Works Superintendent.
      (5)   Off-street parking. Each mobile home space shall have two off-
street parking spaces surfaced with pavement or a minimum of four inches of
crushed stone or gravel, extending to the internal street serving the space.
      (6)   Cul-de-sacs. Dead-end streets exceeding 300 feet shall be provided
with a cul-de-sac paved to a minimum of 45 feet in diameter.
      (7)   Signs. Permanent signs for identification of mobile home parks
shall be no more than 50 square feet in size and no closer than 20 feet to any
property line. One sign per park is permitted. Illumination of the signs must
be indirect, nonflashing and the source must not be visible from adjoining
property or public streets or roads.
      (8)   Buffer strips. Buffer strips as required by §
156.056 shall be provided by the developer on park boundaries. All vegetation
must be maintained in a healthy condition by the owner or developer. Dead or
damaged plants shall be replaced promptly.
      (9)   Water and sewerage service.
         (a)   Mobile home parks shall install public water and sewerage
systems as per town sizes, standards and specifications. After construction,
the systems shall be dedicated to the town for operation and maintenance. If
town water and sewerage services or the proposed park is outside the town
boundary, the developer shall construct approved systems which must be approved
by the appropriate state agency prior to the approval of park development plans
by the Planning Board. If a public water supply system is to be used and ten or
more mobile homes are to be served, certification of approval of water supply
system plans by the Sanitary Engineering Division of the State Board of Health
is required. If four or more, but less than ten mobile homes are served,
certification of the approval of the water supply system plans by the
Appalachian District Health Department is required.
         (b)   If a public sewage collection system is to be used,
certification of approval of the sewage collection system and a treatment
facilities plan by the Division of Environmental Management is required. If
individual septic tanks are used or are to be used, certification of the
acceptability of the site for use of septic tank systems by the Appalachian
District Health Department is required.
      (10)   Fire protection. Fire hydrants shall be installed to provide
unobstructed access within 500 feet from any mobile home space.
      (11)   Drainage. Each mobile home space shall be graded so as to provide
proper drainage. No mobile home space shall be located in an area subject to
flooding or seasonal high water table. (See town flood maps or county soil
survey.)
      (12)   Street lighting. All streets in the mobile home park shall be
adequately illuminated from sunset to sunrise. The minimum street light size
shall be 175-watt mercury vapor fixtures at not less than 250-foot intervals.
Underground electrical services are required within the park.
      (13)   Selling by individual. Mobile homes shall not be sold within a
mobile home park, except that an individual mobile home owner shall be allowed
to sell the mobile home in which he or she resides and except as set out in
division (C)(15) below.
      (14)   Administrative office. Within a mobile home park, one mobile home
may be used for an administrative office.
      (15)   Selling by operator. The owner or operator of a mobile home park
shall not sell mobile homes on or within a mobile home park unless the mobile
home unit for sale shall be placed individually and separately upon an existing
mobile home space where all design standards and utilities have been completed
as specified by this chapter and unless the mobile home is being occupied as a
residence.
      (16)   Garbage and refuse. All garbage and refuse in every mobile home
park shall be stored in suitable water-tight and fly-tight receptacles. The
method of garbage and refuse disposal shall be approved by the Appalachian
District Health Department if not served by municipal garbage collection. If
dumpster-type containers are to be used, all units shall be located on a
concrete, asphalt or similar base abutting a driveway and shall be enclosed,
with the exception of the driveway side, with a wood or masonry fence at least
six feet in height. One refuse container with at least an eight cubic yard
capacity shall be required for every ten mobile home spaces.
      (17)   Foundations and the like. Each mobile home unit within a mobile
home park shall be secured by adequate foundations, tie-downs and anchors so as
to conform to the state regulations for mobile homes. All mobile homes shall be
skirted with approved materials if not placed on a permanent foundation.
      (18)   Registration of occupants. Every mobile home park owner or
operator shall maintain an accurate register containing a record of all
occupants and owners of mobile homes in the park. The register shall contain
the following information:
         (a)   Name of owner or occupant;
         (b)   Mobile home space number;
         (c)   Make, model and registration number of mobile home; and
         (d)   Date when occupancy within the mobile home park begins and date
when occupancy within the mobile home park ceases
   (D)   Local review.
      (1)   The Planning Board shall review the preliminary development plan to
determine if the standards in §
156.057(B)(2) and (C) have been met. The Planning Board shall have 30 days to
approve or disapprove the plans and make its recommendation to the Zoning
Enforcement Officer for approval or disapproval.
      (2)   The Zoning Enforcement Officer, based on his or her findings and
the recommendations of the Planning Board, shall approve or disapprove the
mobile home park plan. If approved, the Zoning Enforcement Officer shall issue
the owner or developer a construction permit, retain one copy of the plan for
himself or herself, and forward one copy of the plan to the developer. If
disapproved, the reasons for the action and the recommended changes shall be
given to the park developer or his or her agent.
   (E)   Issuance of permits.
      (1)   After approval of the mobile home park plan, the Zoning Enforcement
Officer is authorized to issue a construction permit. The intent of this permit
is to enable the construction of the park according to the approved plans and
shall not be construed to entitle the recipient to offer spaces for rent or
lease, or to operate a mobile home park as defined in this chapter.
      (2)   When the construction of the mobile home park is completed, the
developer shall apply to the Zoning Enforcement Officer for an operating
permit. The Zoning Enforcement Officer, the electrical inspector and a
representative of the Appalachian District Health Department (if applicable)
shall make an on-site inspection of the park.
         (a)   If the park meets the development standards, the Zoning
Enforcement Officer shall issue the developer an operating permit.
         (b)   If the park does not meet the development standards, the Zoning
Enforcement Officer shall delay issuance of the operating permit until it meets
the development standards.
         (c)   When a mobile home park is to be developed in stages, the
proposed park plan shall be submitted for the entire development and
application for an operating license may be made for each stage developed.
   (F)   Nonconforming mobile home parks.
      (1)   Nonconforming mobile home parks shall refer to any mobile home park
within the Residential-Agricultural District which does not conform to all of
the provisions of this section, with the exception of division (C)(1) above.
      (2)   Beginning with the passage of this chapter, a nonconforming mobile
home park shall not be enlarged or altered so as to create additional spaces
until the park has been made to conform to the provisions of this chapter with
the exception of this section.
      (3)   Other regulations regarding nonconforming mobile home parks as §
156.093.
   (G)   Nonconforming uses. Nonconforming uses shall refer to a mobile home
park located in any other zone than the RA Residential-Agricultural zone,
regardless of park layout, design or density. Nonconforming uses shall not be
expanded, nor additional mobile home spaces be added to the park.
(Ord. passed 9-10-1984)
§ 156.059 PROVISIONS FOR MOBILE HOMES ON SINGLE LOTS.
   Mobile homes are permitted on individual lots in R-8 and RA districts
subject to the following conditions:
   (A)   The lot must be recorded as an individual lot;
   (B)   If municipal utilities are not available, the well and/or septic tank
must be approved by the Appalachian District Health Department;
   (C)   All yard dimensional requirements for the respective district must be
met;
   (D)   The lot must have legal access to a public street; and
   (E)   A certificate of occupancy must be issued by the Zoning Enforcement
Officer after these conditions and all other code requirements are met and
before the unit can be occupied.
(Ord. passed 9-10-1984)
§ 156.060 CUSTOMARY HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   Customary home occupations may be established in a dwelling in any
residential district. The following requirements shall apply in addition to all
other applicable requirements of this chapter for the residential district in
which the uses are located.
   (A)   The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and subordinate to the
residential use of the dwelling and shall not change the residential character
of the dwelling.
   (B)   Use of the dwelling for home occupations shall be limited to 25% of
one floor of the principal building.
   (C)   Residents of the dwellings only may be engaged in the home occupations
(except that not more than one assistant may be employed by the following
professional persons: lawyers, physicians, dentists, chiropractors, accountants
or other similar professions).
   (D)   No display of products shall be visible from the street and only
products made on the premises may be sold on the premises.
   (E)   No internal or external alterations inconsistent with the residential
use of the building shall be permitted.
   (F)   No machinery that causes noises or other interferences in radio and
television reception shall be allowed.
   (G)   Only vehicles used primarily as passenger vehicles shall be permitted
in connection with the conduct of the customary home occupation.
   (H)   No chemical, electrical or mechanical equipment that is not normally a
part of domestic or household equipment shall be used primarily for commercial
purposes, with the exception of medical and dental equipment used for
professional purposes.
   (I)   Unless otherwise specified, customary home occupations may employ one
sign, not more than one square foot in area, which may not be illuminated.
   (J)   Parking space shall be provided as per §
156.055 for the home occupation use.
   (K)   Accessory buildings may be used for the home occupation; provided, all
setback requirements are met and no more than 15% of the lot area is used for
business purposes.
   (L)   No open storage of parts, materials, supplies or finished products is
permitted on the premises.
(Ord. passed 9-10-1984)
§ 156.061 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS FOR SEASONAL AGRICULTURAL WORKER DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   Seasonal agricultural worker developments located in the LI Light
Industrial zone are required to meet certain development standards to ensure
compatibility with surrounding land uses, provide for attractive, well planned
projects and to promote the public health, safety and welfare of the town. The
Zoning Enforcement Officer shall review development plans for seasonal
agricultural worker developments prior to the start of construction. The
Planning Board shall have the opportunity to review the plans and make
recommendations regarding the proposed development. Once a special use permit
is granted for a seasonal agricultural worker development, any material
alterations or additions to the original plan must be approved by the Board of
Adjustment following a new public hearing and shall be subject to any new
conditions designated by the Board of Adjustment.
      (1)   All seasonal agricultural worker developments shall comply with the
standards set forth in NCGS 95-222 through 95-229, the Migrant Housing Act of
North Carolina.
      (2)   All seasonal agricultural worker developments shall comply with the
standards set forth in OSHA Standard for Temporary Labor Camps, codified as 29
CFR 1910.142 - Temporary Labor Camps. Owners/operators of seasonal agricultural
worker developments shall be responsible for compliance with applicable US
Department of Labor requirements regarding worker documentation.
   (B)   Site plan requirements. Plans are required before any consideration is
granted by the Zoning Enforcement Officer. At least five copies of all required
plans, drawings and specifications shall furnish the following information as
applicable:
      (1)   General information. Including topographical features, streams,
vegetation, soil types, flood prone areas, historic sites and other features;
      (2)   Timing of development. The proposed schedule of development
including phases or stages likely to be followed;
      (3)   Public water and sewer system. Location of public waters and sewer
lines presently in existence, connections to these lines, manholes, pumping
stations, fire hydrants and other necessary features. All seasonal agricultural
worker developments must have public water and sewer service or approved
treatment facilities as required by the appropriate state or district
authorities;
      (4)   Storm water drainage system. Proposed storm water drainage system;
      (5)   Streets, curbs and gutters, electrical systems and street lights.
Proposed location and design of streets, curbs and gutters, electrical systems
and street lights;
      (6)   Grading plan and sedimentation control measures. Proposed grading
plan and sedimentation control measures;
      (7)   Street access, easements, monuments and property lines. Proposed
street access, easements, monuments and property lines;
      (8)   Sidewalks. Proposed location and design of sidewalks;
      (9)   Parking, loading, circulation. The proposed location and extent of
parking and loading areas, including parking spaces and circulation routes,
shall be shown as required in §
156.055;
      (10)   Floor plans and building layouts. Proposed location and floor
plans of all proposed structures, including number of beds;
      (11)   Landscaping, screening and fencing. Proposed landscaping,
screening and fencing as required in §
156.056;
      (12)   Existing vegetation. The developer should make every reasonable
effort to preserve existing vegetation. By preserving existing vegetation,
potential erosion and sedimentation are minimized and vegetated buffer zones
for the use of the residents are provided. The Planning Board may allow
appropriate existing vegetation to substitute for buffer strip and landscape
screen requirements if the intent of this chapter as expressed in §
156.056 is upheld;
      (13)   Refuse collection. Proposed method of collection and location of
receptacles.
      (14)   Recreational space/facilities. Proposed recreational spaces and/or
facilities.
      (15)   Security. Proposed security measures, such as fence and gate, on-
site property manager, etc.
      (16)   Date and the like. Date, scale and north arrow;
      (17)   Boundaries. Boundaries of the tract with bearings, distances and
metes and bounds; and
      (18)   Vicinity map. Vicinity map showing the location of the seasonal
agricultural worker development, surrounding land uses and names and addresses
of all adjoining property owners.
   (C)   Development standards.
      (1)   Buffer strips. Buffer strips as required by §
156.056 shall be provided. All vegetation must be maintained in a healthy
condition by the owner or developer. Dead or damaged plants shall be replaced
promptly.
      (2)   Water and sewerage service. All seasonal agricultural worker
developments must have public water and sewer service or approved treatment
facilities as required by the appropriate state or district authorities.
      (3)   Garbage and refuse. All garbage and refuse shall be stored in
suitable water-tight and fly-tight receptacles. If dumpster-type containers are
to be used, all containers shall be located on a concrete, asphalt or similar
base abutting a driveway, and shall be enclosed with the exception of the
driveway side, by a wood or masonry fence or wall at least six feet in height.
One refuse container having at least a six cubic yard capacity shall be
required for every 40 beds in the development.
      (4)   Setbacks. All seasonal agricultural worker developments shall have
the following setbacks:
         (a)   Front yard: 50 feet.
         (b)   Side yard: 50 feet.
         (c)   Rear yard: 50 feet.
      (5)   Lighting. All structures and parking areas in seasonal agricultural
worker developments shall be adequately illuminated from sunset to sunrise. The
minimum street light size shall be 175-watt mercury vapor fixtures, or
equivalent.
      (6)   Paved access.  All seasonal agricultural worker developments shall
contain paved access from the street to all structures.
   (D)   Nonconforming seasonal agricultural worker developments.
      (1)   Nonconforming seasonal agricultural worker developments shall refer
to any seasonal agricultural worker development within the light industrial
district which does not conform to all of the provisions of this section.
      (2)   Beginning with the passage of this chapter, a nonconforming
seasonal agricultural worker development shall not be altered so as to create
additional dwelling units until the development has been made to conform to the
provisions of this chapter with the exception of this section.
      (3)   Other regulations regarding nonconforming uses as per §
156.093.
(Ord. passed 4-4-2017)
§ 156.062 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS FOR PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   General. Planned developments are intended to permit a creative
approach to the development of residential land; accomplish a more desirable
environment than would be possible through the strict application of minimum
requirements of the zoning ordinance; provide for an efficient use of lower
housing costs; enhance the appearance of neighborhoods through preservation of
natural features, the provision of underground utilities where feasible, and
the provision of recreation areas and open space; provide an opportunity for
new approaches to living environment; and provide an environment of stable
character compatible with surrounding residential areas. Planned developments
are required to meet certain development standards to ensure compatibility with
surrounding land uses, provide for attractive, well planned projects, and to
promote the public health, safety and welfare of the town. The zoning
enforcement officer shall review development plans for planned developments
prior to presentation to the Board of Adjustment. The Planning and Zoning Board
shall have the opportunity to review the plans and make recommendations
regarding the proposed planned development.
   (B)   Uses permitted. Within a planned development, a building or premises
shall be used for the permitted uses in the respective zoning district, as well
as the following:
      (1)   Public or private recreation space.
      (2)   Customary accessory buildings, including private garages, non-
commercial workshops, greenhouses, clubs, inns, and lodges which are accessory
to the primary residential function of the development, and which are an
integral part of the planned development.
      (3)   Private, non-commercial recreational facilities and buildings which
are accessory to the primary residential function of the development, and which
are an integral part of the planned development.
   (C)   Development standards.
      (1)   Minimum project size. Each planned development shall be developed
on a tract not less than three acres in size.
      (2)   Lot, yard, landscaping, and height requirements. Lot size, lot
width, yard, and height requirements as specified in §
156.076 are waived for planned developments, provided that the spirit and
intent of this section are complied with in the total development plan, as
determined by the Board of Adjustment. Landscaping requirements as specified in
§
156.056 are waived for planned developments, provided that the spirit and
intent of this section are complied with in the total development plan, as
determined by the Board of Adjustment. The Board of Adjustment may determine
that certain setbacks and landscaping be required within all or a portion of
the perimeter of the site, and shall exercise ultimate discretion as to whether
the total development plan complies with the spirit and intent of this section.
      (3)   Maximum density. The overall maximum density (dwelling units per
acre) allowed in planned developments shall not exceed 50% in excess of the
density which would be achieved under standard zoning regulations.
      (4)   Streets and driveways. All streets within planned developments
shall meet the requirements of
Chapter 155 - Subdivision Roads. The access streets must be connected with a
state or city street or highway. Each lot within a planned development must be
served by a driveway (surfaced as per division (C)(5) below) connecting to an
internal street. No lot within a planned development shall have direct access
to a town street or state highway.
      (5)   Off-street parking. Each dwelling unit within a planned development
shall have two off-street parking spaces surfaced with pavement or a minimum of
four inches of crushed stone or gravel, extending to the internal street
serving the space.
      (6)   Signs. Permanent signs for identification of a planned development
shall be no more than 50 square feet in size and no closer than 20 feet to any
property line. One sign per planned development is permitted. Illumination of
the signs must be indirect, nonflashing and the source must not be visible from
adjoining property or public streets or roads.
      (7)   Buffer strips. Buffer strips as required by §
156.056 shall be provided by the developer on planned development boundaries.
All vegetation must be maintained in a healthy condition by the owner or
developer. Dead or damaged plants shall be replaced promptly.
      (8)   Water and sewerage service.  Planned developments shall install
public water and sewerage systems as per town sizes, standards and
specifications. After construction, the systems shall be dedicated to the town
for operation and maintenance. If town water and sewerage services is
unavailable, or the proposed planned development is outside the town boundary,
the developer shall construct systems which must be approved by the appropriate
state agency prior to the approval of planned development by the Board of
Adjustment.
      (9)   Garbage and refuse. All refuse containers shall be located on a
concrete, asphalt or similar base, and shall be enclosed on three sides by a
wood or masonry fence or wall at least six feet in height. One refuse container
having at least an eight cubic yard capacity shall be required for every twenty
lots. The method of garbage and refuse disposal shall be approved by the
Appalachian District Health Department if not served by municipal garbage
collection.
      (10)   Privacy. Each development shall provide reasonable visual and
acoustical privacy for all dwelling units. The minimum distance between
buildings shall be 20 feet or as otherwise specified by the Board of Adjustment
to ensure adequate air, light, privacy, and space for emergency vehicles.
      (11)   Ownership, dedication and maintenance of common areas and
facilities. All common areas and facilities, including but not limited to,
roads, parking areas, open space, recreational areas, landscaping, common
areas, lighting, signage, waste storage and pick-up facilities, within and a
part of the planned development proposed for common ownership, and as shown on
the site plan, shall be conveyed to a legally constituted property owners
association and dedicated by recorded restrictive covenants running with the
land that describe the areas and facilities and their maintenance and
improvement requirements.
      (12)   Property owners association. Applicants for planned developments
shall create a property owners association and submit to the zoning enforcement
officer copies of all documents pertaining to the organization and operation of
such association prior to approval of the site plans. The instruments shall
include the following provisions:
         (a)   The association shall be established prior to the recording of a
plat or the sale of lots or units.
         (b)   Open space areas shall be reserved in perpetuity.
         (c)   The association shall be responsible for liability insurance,
local taxes, and the maintenance of all designated common facilities that may
include streets, open space and recreational areas, pedestrian facilities,
storm water facilities and easements.
         (d)   The association shall provide for the payment of member dues for
the pro rata share of the cost. The assessments levied by the association may
become a lien on the property of the members.
         (e)   The association shall have the right periodically to adjust the
assessments to meet the changing needs of the development.
      (13)   Title transferred free of debt. Prior to the conveyance of the
first lot in any planned development, all common areas and facilities shall be
transferred free of debt to the property owners association created for that
planned development.
   (D)   Local review.
      (1)   Site plan requirements. Plans are required before any consideration
is given by the town. At least five copies of all required plans, drawings and
specifications shall be furnished, and shall include the following information:
         (a)   General information. Including topographical features, streams,
vegetation, soil types, flood prone areas, historic sites and other features;
         (b)   Timing of development. The proposed schedule of development
including phases or stages likely to be followed;
         (c)   Public water and sewer system. Location of public waters and
sewer lines presently in existence, connections to these lines, manholes,
pumping stations, fire hydrants and other necessary features. All planned
developments must have public water and sewer service or approved treatment
facilities as required by the appropriate state or district authorities;
         (d)   Storm water drainage system. Proposed storm water drainage
system;
         (e)   Streets, curbs and gutters, electrical systems and street
lights. Proposed location and design of streets, curbs and gutters, electrical
systems and street lights;
         (f)   Grading plan and sedimentation control measures. Proposed
grading plan and sedimentation control measures;
         (g)   Street access, easements, monuments and property lines. Proposed
street access, easements, monuments and property lines;
         (h)   Open space, communal space. Designated open space, recreational
areas, and communally owned facilities;
         (i)   Sidewalks. Proposed location and design of sidewalks;
         (j)   Parking and circulation. The proposed location and extent of
parking spaces and circulation routes, shall be shown as required in §
156.055;
         (k)   Floor plans and building layouts. Proposed location and floor
plans of all proposed structures;
         (l)   Landscaping and screening. Proposed landscaping and screening as
required by §
156.056;
         (m)   Existing vegetation. The developer should make every reasonable
effort to preserve existing vegetation. By preserving existing vegetation,
potential erosion and sedimentation are minimized and vegetated buffer zones
for the use of the residents are provided. The Board of Planning Board may
allow appropriate existing vegetation to substitute for buffer strip and
landscape screen requirements if the intent of this chapter as expressed in §
156.056 is upheld;
         (n)   Refuse collection. All refuse containers shall be located on a
concrete, asphalt or similar base, and shall be enclosed on three sides by a
wood or masonry fence or wall at least six feet in height. One refuse container
having at least an eight cubic yard capacity shall be required for every twenty
lots;
         (o)   Names and the like. Name of Planned Development, names and
addresses of the owner(s), designer or surveyor;
         (p)   Date and the like. Date, scale and north arrow;
         (q)   Boundaries. Boundaries of the tract with bearings, distances and
metes and bounds; and
         (r)   Vicinity map. Vicinity map showing the location of the planned
development, surrounding land uses and names and addresses of all adjoining
property owners.
      (2)   The Planning and Zoning Board and the zoning enforcement officer
shall review the preliminary development plan to determine if the standards in
this section have been met. The zoning enforcement officer shall have 30 days
to review the plans and make a recommendation to the Board of Adjustment.
      (3)   The board of adjustment shall consider granting a conditional use
permit for the planned development following procedures set forth in §§
156.135 through
156.142.
      (4)   Following issuance of conditional use permit for the planned
development, the applicant must follow applicable procedures for subdivision
approval detailed in
Chapter 154 - Subdivisions.
(Ord. passed 8-27-2019)
AREA, YARD AND HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS
§ 156.075 NEIGHBORHOOD-BUSINESS DISTRICT YARD SETBACK.
   (A)   (1)   In the Neighborhood-Business (NB) District, change the side yard
requirements from 15 feet on both sides of a principal structure to 15 feet on
one side and zero on the other. When the business is adjacent to a residential
use, the 15-foot side yard shall be on the side separating the two uses. When
the business is adjacent to a residential on both sides, the 15-foot side yard
shall be on both sides.
      (2)   If an agreement should be worked out between the business and
residential property owners this requirement could be deleted.
   (B)   Also, in the Neighborhood-Business (NB) District, change the front
yard setback from 50 feet to 30 feet.
(Ord. passed 9-10-1984)
§ 156.076 AREA, YARD AND HEIGHT REQUIREMENT SPECIFIED.
         Minium Lot   Size         Minimum Yard Requirements           Maximum
                                                                       Height
District Square Feet  Lot Width in Front Yard
         Per Dwelling Feet at      Set Back in Side Yards Rear Yard in In Feet
         Unit         Building     feet        in Feet    Feet
                      Line
                    Minium   Size       Minimum Yard Requirements       Maximum
                    Lot                                                 Height
District            Square   Lot Width  Front Yard
                    Feet Per in Feet at Set Back   Side Yards Rear Yard In Feet
                    Dwelling Building   in feet    in Feet    in Feet
                    Unit     Line
RA Residential-
Agriculture with    30,000   100        50         15(a)      30        35
neither public
water or sewer
—public water     20,000   100        50         15(a)      30        35
—public water and 15,000   100        50         15(a)      30        35
sewer
R-20 Residential
with neither public 30,000   100        50         15(a)      30        35
water or sewer
—public water     20,000   100        50         15(a)      30        35
—public water and 20,000   100        50         15(a)      30        35
sewer
R-12 Residential,
plus 6,000 for each 12,000   75         50         12(a)      25        35
additional unit
R-8 Residential,
plus 4,000 for each 8,000    50         50         12(a)      25        35
additional unit
R-MF Residential,
plus 4,000 for each 8,000    50         50         12(a)      20        35
additional unit
OI Office and       8,000    60         50         10(a)      25        35
Institutional
CB Central Business None     None       None       None       20        35
District
NB Neighborhood     None     None       30         15(a)*     20        35
Business District
LI Light Industrial None     100        50         50         25        35
District
NOTES TO TABLE:
All accessory buildings shall have an eight-foot setback from side and rear
yard lot lines.
(a) Corner lots and ten feet on the street side
*See attached minutes
 
(Ord. passed 9-10-1984)
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 156.090 APPLICATION.
   No building or land shall hereafter be used and no building or part thereof
shall be erected, moved or altered, except in conformity with the regulations
herein specified for the district in which it is located.
(Ord. passed 9-10-1984)
§ 156.091 REDUCTION OF LOT AND YARD AREAS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No yard or lot existing at the time of passage of this chapter shall
be reduced in size or area below the minimum requirements set forth herein,
except for street widening.
   (B)   Yards or lots created after the effective date of the chapter shall
meet at least the minimum requirements established by this chapter, except in
approved planned developments.
(Ord. passed 9-10-1984; Ord. passed 8-27-2019)
§ 156.092 RELATIONSHIP OF BUILDING TO LOT.
   Every building hereafter erected, moved, or structurally altered shall be
located on a lot and, in no case, shall there be more than one principal
building and its customary accessory buildings on any lot, except in the case
of a specially designed complex of institutional, residential, commercial or
industrial buildings in an appropriate zoning district (i.e., school campus,
cluster housing, shopping center, industrial park and so forth), as permitted
by §
156.057.
(Ord. passed 9-10-1984)
§ 156.093 NONCONFORMING USES.
   After the effective date of this chapter, existing structures or the uses of
land or structures which would be prohibited under the regulations for the
district in which it is located (if they existed on the adoption date of this
chapter), shall be considered as nonconforming. Nonconforming structures or
uses (as defined in §
156.005) may be continued provided they conform to the following provisions.
   (A)   Continuing nonconforming uses of land.
      (1)   Extensions of use. Nonconforming uses of land shall not hereafter
be enlarged or extended in any way. Ordinary repairs shall not be construed as
an expansion of use.
      (2)   Change of use. Any nonconforming use of land may be changed to a
conforming use.
      (3)   Cessation of use. All nonconforming uses of land or uses involving
only minor structures, such as automobile wrecking yards, billboards, outdoor
advertising signs, junk yards, salvage operations, mobile homes or any similar
to those enumerated, shall be discontinued when the structure, billboard or
sign has deteriorated to the point where major repairs in excess of 60% of fair
market value of the structure are required. Nonconforming uses of land shall
not be reestablished after discontinuance for 180 days.
   (B)   Continuing the use of nonconforming buildings.
      (1)   Extensions of use. Nonconforming buildings and nonconforming uses
of buildings shall not hereafter be enlarged.
      (2)   Change of use. The lawful use of a building existing at the time of
the adoption of this chapter may be continued although the use does not conform
with the provisions of this chapter.
         (a)   No building shall be enlarged, unless the use therein is changed
to a conforming use; provided, however, that, a nonconforming building damaged
by fire, explosion, tornado, earthquake or similar uncontrollable cause to the
extent of not more than 60% of its assessed value at the time of the damage may
be repaired or rebuilt within one year of the date of the damage, but not
thereafter. Repairs must commence within six months of the date of damage and
reasonable efforts demonstrated to complete necessary repairs during this
period.
         (b)   Existing single-family residential structures in business or
industrial districts may be enlarged, extended or structurally altered;
provided that, no additional dwelling units result therefrom. However, any
enlargements, extensions or alterations, shall comply with the dimensional
requirements determined by the Board of Adjustment.
         (c)   If a nonconforming use is discontinued, any future use of the
buildings and premises shall be in conformity with the provisions of this
chapter. A reasonable interim, however, between tenants or occupants shall not
be construed to mean discontinuance; provided, the period does not exceed a
maximum of 180 days.
         (d)   The foregoing provisions of this section shall also apply to
nonconforming uses created by amendments to this chapter.
(Ord. passed 9-10-1984)
§ 156.094 SIGNS AND STRUCTURES.
   All permitted signs and structures shall be approved by the Zoning
Enforcement Officer and shall comply with the following regulations.
   (A)   Location. No advertising sign or structure shall be erected,
constructed or maintained so as to interfere with vision clearance along any
street, road or highway or at any intersection or junction of two or more
traffic arteries. Nor shall any advertising sign or structure be located within
the street, road or highway right-of-way.
   (B)   Illumination. No flashing, intermittent, red, green or yellow
illumination shall be used on any sign or structure located in the same line of
vision as a traffic control signal. All illuminated signs or structures shall
be so placed as to prevent the light rays or illumination therefrom being cast
upon residential dwellings. No advertising signs or structures with flashing or
intermittent lights shall be located in the town's zoning jurisdiction.
   (C)   Maintenance. All advertising structures, together with any supports,
braces, guys and anchors, shall be kept in repair and in a safe state of
preservation. All signs, including political signs, erected to serve temporary
purposes shall be removed within 60 days.
   (D)   Administration. The Zoning Enforcement Officer shall refuse a permit
for the erection or construction of any advertising sign or structure which
does not meet the requirements of this section. The Zoning Enforcement Officer
shall order the removal of any signs that are not constructed or maintained in
accordance with the provisions of this section.
(Ord. passed 9-10-1984)
§ 156.095 ELECTRONIC GAMING OPERATIONS.
   In addition to the regulations provided for elsewhere in this chapter,
electronic gaming operations shall be subject to the following requirements:
   (A)   Hours of operation. 8:00 a.m. - midnight; Monday through Saturday.
   (B)   Number of machines. The maximum number of machines/terminals/computers
for any electronic gaming operations business is 12.
   (C)   Minimum paved parking spaces.
      (1)   One space per every two terminals or one space per every 100 square
feet;
      (2)   One disabled space per every 25 or fewer spaces; and
      (3)   One additional space per each employee.
   (D)   Spacing requirements. Each electronic gaming operation must be a
minimum of 300 feet from any other electronic gaming operation. Additionally,
the establishment must be a minimum of 300 feet from any established religious
institution, school, daycare center, library, or public park. The distance
shall be determined by a horizontal straight line and not street distance, to
the closest structural wall of the property occupied by the electronic gaming
operation and the other property.
   (E)   Permits and licenses. All applicable state and local permits and
business licenses must be issued to the applicant prior to the opening of the
business.
   (F)   Food and/or beverages. If food and/or beverages are served, the
establishment must meet any state requirements and the requirements of the
Appalachian District Health Department.
   (G)   Alcoholic beverages. No alcoholic beverages will be served or consumed
on the premises of electronic gaming operations.
   (H)   Persons with criminal felony convictions. Persons with criminal felony
convictions will not be permitted to operate a business for electronic gaming.
A criminal background check will be required as a part of the application
process for the establishment of an electronic gaming operation or business.
   (I)   Maintaining on premises at all times. There must be an adult, 20 years
of age or older, managing the business on the premises at all time during the
hours of operation. Also, the minimum age established for persons to
participate and/or play the electronic gaming machine(s) is 20 years of age.
(Ord. passed - -)
EXCEPTIONS AND MODIFICATIONS
§ 156.105 LOT OF RECORD.
   (A)   Where the owner of a lot of official record in any residential
district at the time of the adoption of this chapter or his or her successor in
title thereto does not own sufficient contiguous land to enable him or her to
conform to the minimum lot size requirements of this chapter, such a lot may be
used as a residential building site; provided, however, that, the requirements
of the district are complied with or a variance is obtained from the Board of
Adjustment.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, whenever two or more adjoining vacant
lots of record are in single ownership at any time after the adoption of this
chapter and the lots individually have less area or width than the minimum
requirements of the district in which the lots are located, the lots shall be
considered as a single lot or several lots which meet the minimum requirements
of this chapter for the district in which the lots are located.
(Ord. passed 9-10-1984)
§ 156.106 FRONT YARD FOR DWELLING.
   (A)   The front yard requirements of this chapter for dwellings shall not
apply to any lot where the average setback of existing buildings located wholly
or partially within 100 feet on either side of the proposed dwelling and on the
same side of the street in the same block and use district as the lot is less
than the minimum required front yard depth.
   (B)   In that case, the front yard on the lots may be less than the required
front yard, but not less than the average of the existing front yard on the
aforementioned lots, or a distance of ten feet from the street right-of-way,
whichever is greater.
(Ord. passed 9-10-1984)
§ 156.107 HEIGHT LIMITATIONS.
   The height limitations of this chapter shall not apply to church spires,
belfries, cupolas, domes not intended for human occupancy, monuments, water
towers, observation towers, transmission towers, chimneys, smokestacks,
conveyors, flag poles, radio towers, television towers, masts, aerials and
similar structures, except as otherwise provided in the vicinity of airports.
(Ord. passed 9-10-1984)
§ 156.108 VISIBILITY AT INTERSECTIONS.
   On a corner lot in any residential district, no planting, structure, signs,
fence, wall or obstruction to vision more than three feet in height measured
from the centerline of the street shall be placed or maintained within the
triangular area formed by the intersecting street right-of-way lines and a
straight line connecting points on the street right-of-way lines each of which
is 25 feet distant from the point of intersection.
(Ord. passed 9-10-1984)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 156.120 ZONING ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (A)   The Town Manager is hereby authorized as the Zoning Enforcement
Officer and it shall be his or her duty to enforce and administer the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   If the Zoning Enforcement Officer finds that any of the provisions of
this chapter are being violated, he or she shall notify, in writing the person
responsible for the violations, indicating the nature of the violation and
ordering the action necessary to correct it. He or she shall order
discontinuance of the illegal use of land, buildings or structures; removal of
illegal buildings or structure or of additions, alterations or structural
changes thereto; discontinuance of any illegal work being done; or shall take
other lawful action to ensure compliance with or to prevent violation of this
chapter.
   (C)   If a ruling of the Zoning Enforcement Officer is questioned, the
aggrieved party or parties may appeal the ruling to the Board of Adjustment.
(Ord. passed 9-10-1984)
§ 156.121 ZONING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No building, sign or other structures shall be erected, moved, added to or
structurally altered until a zoning permit shall have been issued by the Zoning
Enforcement Officer. No zoning permit shall be issued, except in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter, except after written order from the Board
of Adjustment.
(Ord. passed 9-10-1984)
§ 156.122 APPLICATION FOR ZONING PERMIT.
   All applications for a zoning permit shall be accompanied by two sets of
plans showing the dimensions and shape of the parcel to be built upon; the
exact sizes, uses and locations on the parcel of buildings already existing, if
any, and the location and dimensions of the proposed building or alterations.
The application shall include other information as may be necessary to
determine conformance with and provide for the enforcement of this chapter. A
fee of $20 shall be charged for the processing of each application.
(Ord. passed 9-10-1984)
§ 156.123 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY REQUIRED.
   (A)   A certificate of occupancy issued by the Zoning Enforcement Officer is
required in advance of occupancy or use of a building hereafter erected,
altered or moved. Change of use of any building or land.
   (B)   A certificate of occupancy, either for the whole or a part of a
building, shall be applied for coincident with the application for a zoning
permit and shall be issued within ten days after the erection or structural
alteration of the buildings or part shall have been completed in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter. A certificate of occupancy shall not be
issued unless the proposed use of a building or land conforms to the applicable
provisions of this chapter. If the certificate of occupancy is denied, the
Zoning Enforcement Officer shall state, in writing, the reasons for refusal and
the applicant shall be notified of the refusal. A record of all certificates
shall be kept on file in the office of the Zoning Enforcement Officer, and
copies shall be furnished on request to any person having a proprietary or
tenancy interest in the building or land involved.
(Ord. passed 9-10-1984)
§ 156.124 REMEDIES AVAILABLE.
   In case any building is erected, constructed, altered, repaired, converted
or maintained or any building or land is used in violation of this chapter, the
Zoning Enforcement Officer or any other appropriate town authority, or any
person who would be damaged by the violation, in addition to other remedies,
may institute an action for injunction or mandamus or other appropriate action
or proceeding to prevent the violation.
(Ord. passed 9-10-1984)
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
§ 156.135 CREATION.
   (A)   (1)   A Zoning Board of Adjustment is hereby established.
      (2)   The Board shall consist of five members to be appointed by the Town
Council for the overlapping terms of three years. Initial appointments shall be
as follows: one member for a term of three years; two members for a term of two
years; and two members for a term of one year. Thereafter, as the terms expire,
all new appointments shall be for three-year terms.
      (3)   Nothing herein contained shall be interpreted as to forbid any
member from being appointed to succeed himself or herself.
      (4)   Members shall serve without pay, but may be reimbursed for any
expenses incurred while representing the Board of Adjustment.
   (B)   Vacancies occurring for any reason other than expiration of term shall
be filled as soon as is reasonably possible after the vacancy occurs by the
proper board making the appointment and the appointment shall only be for the
period of the unexpired term. Members may be removed for cause by the
appointing board upon written charges and after public hearing.
   (C)   (1)   Two alternate members shall be appointed.
      (2)   They shall have no official functions unless they are needed to
give the Board a quorum in the absence of official Board of Adjustment members.
      (3)   Alternate members shall have a term of three years.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 156.136 PROCEEDINGS.
   The Board of Adjustment shall elect a chairman and a vice-chairman from its
members who shall serve for one year or until reelected or until their
successors are elected. The Board shall appoint a secretary who may be a
municipal officer, and employee of the county, or a member of the Planning and
Zoning Board. The Board shall adopt rules and bylaws in accordance with the
provisions of this Chapter. Meetings of the Board shall be held at the call of
the chairman and at such other times as the Board may determine. The chairman,
or in his absence, the vice-chairman, may administer oaths and compel the
attendance of witnesses by subpoena. All meetings of the Board shall be open to
the public.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 156.137 DECISIONS.
   The concurring vote of four members of the Board of Adjustment shall be
necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision, or determination of the
Zoning Administrator, or to decide in favor of the applicant on any matter upon
which it is required to pass under this chapter or to effect any variation of
this chapter. On all appeals, applications, and other matters brought before
the Board of Adjustment, the Board shall inform in writing all the parties
involved of its decisions and the reasons therefore.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 156.138 APPEALS; HEARING AND NOTICE.
   (A)   An appeal to the Board may be taken by any person, firm, or
corporation aggrieved, or by any town officer, department, board or agency
affected by any decision of the Zoning Enforcement Officer or other town
official based in whole or in part upon the provisions of this subchapter. Such
appeal shall be taken within such time as shall be prescribed by the Board by
general rule by filing with the Zoning Enforcement Officer a notice of appeal
and specifying the grounds thereof. The Zoning Enforcement Officer shall
forthwith transmit to the Board all the papers constituting a record upon which
the action appealed from was taken.
   (B)   The Board of Adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of
appeals or other matters referred to it, and give due notice thereof to the
parties in interest, and decide the same within a reasonable time. Upon a
hearing, any party may appeal in person, by agent, or by attorney.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 156.139 STAY OF PROCEEDINGS.
   An appeal stays all legal proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed
from, unless the Zoning Enforcement Officer certifies to the Board of
Adjustment after the notice of appeal shall have been filed with him, that, by
reason of facts stated in the certificate, a stay would, in his opinion, cause
imminent peril to life and property. In such case, proceedings shall not be
stayed otherwise than by a restraining order which may be granted by the Board
of Adjustment or by a court of record on application, on notice to the Zoning
Enforcement Officer and on due cause shown.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 156.140 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Administrative review. To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged
there is error in any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by
the Zoning Enforcement Officer in the enforcement of this subchapter.
   (B)   Conditional uses; conditions governing applications. To grant, in
particular cases and subject to appropriate conditions and safeguards, permits
for conditional uses as authorized by this subchapter and set forth as
conditional uses under the various use districts. The Board shall not grant a
conditional use permit unless and until:
      (1)   A written application for a conditional use permit is submitted
indicating the section of this subchapter under which the conditional use
permit is sought;
      (2)   A public hearing is held. Notice of such public hearing shall be
posted on the property for which the conditional use permit is sought and in a
local newspaper at least fifteen days prior to the public hearing. This legal
notice shall describe the request and appear at least once weekly for two
consecutive weeks.
      (3)   The Board of Adjustment finds that, in the particular case in
question, the use for which the conditional use permit is sough will not
adversely affect the health or safety of persons residing or working in the
neighborhood of the proposed use and will not be detrimental to the public
welfare or injurious to property or public improvements in the neighborhood. In
granting such a permit, the Board of Adjustment may designate such conditions
in connection therewith as will conform to the requirements and spirit of this
subchapter. If at any time after conditional use permit has been issued, the
Board of Adjustment finds that the conditions imposed and agreements made have
not been or are not being fulfilled by the holder of a conditional use permit,
the permit shall be terminated and the operation of such a use discontinued. If
a conditional use permit is terminated for any reason, it may be reinstated
only after a public hearing is held.
      (4)   The Board of Adjustment shall determine a time limit for
conditional use permits. Upon expiration of the time period, the holder of the
conditional use permit must re-petition the Board for a new permit, which may
or may not be granted based on conditions determined at the time of re-
petition.
   (C)   Variances. To authorize upon appeal in specific cases such variances
from the terms of this subchapter as will not be contrary to the public
interest where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the
provisions of this subchapter would result in unnecessary hardship. A variance
from the terms of this subchapter shall not be granted by the Board of
Adjustment unless and until:
      (1)   A written application for a variance is submitted demonstrating:
         (a)   That special conditions and circumstances exist which are
peculiar to the land, structure, or building involved and which are not
applicable to other lands, structures, or buildings in the same district.
         (b)   That a literal interpretation of the provisions of this
subchapter would deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other
properties in the same district under the terms of this subchapter.
         (c)   That said circumstances do not result from the actions of the
applicant.
         (d)   That granting the variance requested will not confer upon the
applicant any special privileges that are denied by this subchapter to other
lands, structures, or buildings in the same district.
         (e)   That no nonconforming use of neighboring land, structures, or
buildings in the same district and no permitted use of lands, structures, or
buildings in other districts will be considered grounds for the issuance of a
variance.
      (2)    Notice of public hearing shall be given as set forth in §
156.141(B)(2). At the public hearing which is held, any party may appear in
person, by agent, or by attorney.
      (3)   The Board of Adjustment shall make findings that the requirements
of §
156.141 have been met for a variance.
      (4)   The Board of Adjustment shall make a finding that the reasons set
forth in the application justify the granting of the variance and that the
variance is the minimum one that will make possible the reasonable use of the
land, building, or structure.
      (5)   The Board of Adjustment shall further make a finding that the
granting of the variance will be in harmony with the general purpose and intent
of this subchapter and will not be injurious to the neighborhood or otherwise
detrimental to the public welfare.
      (6)   In granting any variance, the Board of Adjustment may prescribe
appropriate conditions and safeguards in conformity with this subchapter.
Violations of such conditions and safeguards, when made a part of the terms
under which the variance is granted, shall be deemed a violation of this
subchapter and punishable under §
156.142.
      (7)   Under no circumstances shall the Board of Adjustment grant a
variance to allow a use not permissible under the terms of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed - - ; Ord. passed 8-27-2019)
§ 156.141 LEGAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Interpretation, purpose, and conflict. In interpreting and applying
the provisions of this subchapter, they shall be held to be the minimum
requirements for the promotion of the public safety, health, convenience,
prosperity, and general welfare.
   (B)   It is not intended by this subchapter to interfere with or abrogate or
annul any easements, covenants, or other agreements between parties, provided,
however, that where this subchapter imposes a greater restriction upon the use
of buildings or premises or upon the height of buildings or requires larger
open spaces than are imposed or required by other ordinances, rules,
regulations, or by easements, covenants, or agreements, the provisions of this
subchapter shall govern, provided that nothing in this subchapter shall be
construed to amend or repeal any other existing ordinance of the town.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 156.142 REENACTMENT AND REPEAL OF EXISTING ZONING ORDINANCE.
   This subchapter, in part, carries forward by reenactment some of the
provisions of the Zoning Ordinance of The Town of Sparta adopted by the Town
Board, September 4, 1964, as amended, and it is not the intention to repeal but
rather to reenact and continue, in force, such existing provisions so that all
rights and liabilities that have accrued hereunder are preserved and may be
enforced. All provisions of the Zoning Ordinance of the Town of Sparta enacted
in 1964, as amended, which are reenacted herein are hereby repealed. All suits
at law or in equity and/or all prosecutions resulting from the violation of any
Zoning Ordinance heretofore in effect, which are now pending in any of the
courts of this State or of the United States, shall not be abated or abandoned
by reason of the adoption of this subchapter but shall be prosecuted to their
finality the same as if this subchapter had not been adopted; any and all
violations of the existing Zoning Ordinance, prosecutions for which have not
yet been instituted, may be hereafter filed and prosecuted; and nothing in this
subchapter shall be construed as to abandon, abate, or dismiss any litigation
or prosecution now pending, and/or which may heretofore have been instituted or
prosecuted.
(Ord. passed - -)
AMENDMENTS AND CHANGES
§ 156.150 MOTION TO AMEND.
   The Town Council may, on its own motion or upon recommendation of the
Planning Board, or upon petition by any person within the zoning jurisdiction,
after public notice and hearing, amend or repeal the regulations or the maps
which are a part of this chapter. No regulations or maps shall be amended,
supplemented, changed, modified or repealed until after a public hearing in
relation thereto, at which time all parties in interest and citizens shall have
an opportunity to be heard. A notice of the public hearing shall be given once
a week for two successive weeks in a newspaper of general circulation in the
town; the notice to be published the first time not less than 15 days prior to
the date fixed for the public hearing. A notice of public hearing shall be
posted on the property in question for the same period of time. The sign shall
be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises, facing the main frontage
street. The Zoning Enforcement Officer shall be responsible for the placement
of the signs.
(Ord. passed 9-10-1984)
§ 156.151 PROTEST AGAINST AMENDMENT.
   In case of a protest against a proposal, duly signed by the owners of 20% or
more either of the area of the lots included in the proposed change or of those
immediately adjacent thereto, either in the rear thereof or on either side
thereof, extending 100 feet therefrom, or of those directly opposite thereto
extending 100 feet from the street frontage of the opposite lots, the amendment
shall not become effective, except by favorable vote of three-fourths of all
the members of the Town Council.
(Ord. passed 9-10-1984)
§ 156.152 PLANNING BOARD ACTION.
   Every proposed amendment or repeal to this chapter shall be referred to the
Planning and Zoning Board for its recommendation and report; provided that, no
proposal shall be considered by the Planning and Zoning Board within five days
from filing of the proposal with the Zoning Enforcement Officer. All petitions
for a change in the zoning involved and the map shall include a legal
description of the property names and addresses of current abutting property
owners and shall be accompanied by a fee of $20 to cover cost of advertising as
required by this chapter.
(Ord. passed 9-10-1984)
CHAPTER 157: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
Section
   
157.01   Purpose
   
157.02   Applicability and jurisdiction
   
157.03   Relationship to other laws, regulations and private agreements
   
157.04   Effective date and transitional provisions
   
157.05   Drainage plan required
   
157.06   General provisions
   
157.07   Development standards
   
157.08   Maintenance
   
157.09   Performance security for installation and maintenance
 
   
157.99   Remedies and penalties
§ 157.01 PURPOSE.
    The purpose of this chapter is to protect, maintain and enhance the public
health, safety, environment and general welfare by establishing minimum
requirements and procedures to control the adverse effects of increased post-
development stormwater runoff and nonpoint and point source pollution
associated with new development and redevelopment as well as illicit discharges
into municipal stormwater systems. It has been determined that proper
management of construction-related and post-development stormwater runoff will
minimize damage to public and private property and infrastructure; safeguard
the public health, safety, and general welfare; and protect water and aquatic
resources.
(Ord. passed 5-5-2015)
§ 157.02 APPLICABILITY AND JURISDICTION.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall apply within the town limits.
   (B)   The following development activities are exempt from the provisions of
this subchapter:
      (1)   Construction of a single-family or two-family residence.
      (2)   Redevelopment, or change in use of structure that does not involve
more than 5,000 square feet of land disturbance.
      (3)   Redevelopment, or change in use of a structure, that does not
involve construction of more than 5,000 square feet of additional impervious
surface.
      (4)   Agriculture and forestry practices.
(Ord. passed 5-5-2015)
§ 157.03 RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER LAWS, REGULATIONS AND PRIVATE AGREEMENTS.
   This chapter is not intended to modify or repeal any other ordinance, rule,
regulation or other provision of law. The requirements of this chapter are in
addition to the requirements of any other ordinance, rule, regulation or other
provision of law. Where any provision of this chapter imposes restrictions
different from those imposed by any other ordinance, rule, regulation or other
provision of law, whichever provision is more restrictive or imposes higher
protective standards for human or environmental health, safety, and welfare
shall control.
(Ord. passed 5-5-2015)
§ 157.04 EFFECTIVE DATE AND TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   This chapter shall take effect on Wednesday, May 6, 2015.
   (B)   All development and redevelopment projects for which all necessary
permits were issued prior to the effective date of this chapter and which
remain valid, unexpired, unrevoked and not otherwise terminated at the time of
development or redevelopment shall be exempt from complying with all provisions
of this chapter dealing with the control and/or management of post-construction
runoff, but shall be required to comply with all other applicable provisions
(including but not limited to illicit discharge provisions).
(Ord. passed 5-5-2015)
§ 157.05 DRAINAGE PLAN REQUIRED.
   Any development or redevelopment subject to the provisions of this chapter
shall submit a drainage plan for review by the town in conjunction with
application for a zoning permit or feasibility permit. The town shall review
the drainage plan for compliance with the provisions of this chapter, The
drainage plan shall be prepared and bear the seal of a licensed professional
engineer, and include the following:
   (A)   Topographic map of the total drainage area that includes the project
site. The topographic map shall have a scale not smaller than one inch = 50
feet, and include the following:
      (1)   Contours at two-foot intervals;
      (2)   Property lines;
      (3)   Projects construction elements (structures, parking lots,
driveways, and other impervious surfaces);
      (4)   Existing perennial and intermittent streams; wetlands; and springs;
and
      (5)   Existing man-made stormwater facilities.
   (B)   Engineering drawings depicting design and details of proposed piping,
drainage structures, retention/detention structures, and channels connecting to
a network of man-made or natural drainage features.
   (C)   Specifications of piping, drainage structures, permanent erosion
control measures, and retention/detention structures.
   (D)   Computations to support the design and specifications.
(Ord. passed 5-5-2015)
§ 157.06 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   To the extent practical, lot lines in subdivisions shall follow
natural and existing man-made drainage features.
   (B)   Stormwater shall not be channeled into a sanitary sewer system.
(Ord. passed 5-5-2015)
§ 157.07 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Stormwater runoff from the development shall be transported from the
development by vegetated conveyances to the maximum extent practicable.
   (B)   All built-upon area shall be at a minimum of 30 feet landward of all
perennial and intermittent surface waters.
   (C)   Post-development runoff rate shall not exceed pre-development runoff
rate. Runoff rates must be based on the same calculation method.
   (D)   Stormwater management facilities shall have a minimum design capacity
of the 10-year discharge.
   (E)   Sormmwater management facilities shall be designed in accordance with
15A NCAC 2H.1008.
   (F)   Storm water management facilities shall be permanent, shall be
protected with easements or covenants that run with the land, and shall be
provided with public access.
   (G)   Projects that drain to Class Tr water shall include stormwater
management measures that do not result in a sustained increase in water
temperature of the receiving stream.
   (H)   Minimum pipe diameter shall be 18 inches for open-ended culverts and
15 inches for closed systems and driveway culverts. Minimum pipe diameter for
portions of closed systems outside the public right-of-way shall be 12 inches.
(Ord. passed 5-5-2015)
§ 157.08 MAINTENANCE.
   The owner (or other responsible party) of each stormwater management
facility installed pursuant to this chapter shall maintain and operate it so as
to preserve and continue its function in controlling stormwater quality and
quantity at the degree or amount of function for which the facility was
designed.
(Ord. passed 5-5-2015)
§ 157.09 PERFORMANCE SECURITY FOR INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE
   The town may, at its discretion, require the submittal of a performance
security or bond with surety, cash escrow, letter of credit or other acceptable
legal arrangement prior to issuance of a permit in order to ensure that the
stormwater management facilities are:
   (A)   Installed as indicated by the drainage plan; and
   (B)   Maintained by the owner as required by this chapter.
(Ord. passed 5-5-2015)
§ 157.99 REMEDIES AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   The remedies and penalties provided for violations of this chapter,
whether civil or criminal, shall be cumulative and in addition to any other
remedy provided by law, and may be exercised in any order.
   (B)   The town may refuse to issue a certificate of occupancy for the
building or other improvements constructed or being constructed on the site and
served by the stormwater practices in question until the applicant or other
responsible person has taken the remedial measures set forth in the notice of
violation or has otherwise cured the violations described therein.
   (C)   As long as a violation of this chapter continues and remains
uncorrected, the town may disapprove any request for permit or development
approval or authorization on the land on which the violation occurs.
   (D)   It the violation is deemed dangerous or prejudicial to the public
health or public safety and is within the geographic limits prescribed by G.S.
160A-193, the town may cause the violation to be corrected and the costs to be
assessed as alien against the property.
   (E)   The town may issue a stop work order to the person(s) violating this
chapter. The stop work order shall remain in effect until the person has taken
the remedial measures set forth in the notice of violation or has otherwise
cured the violation or violations described therein. The stop work order may be
withdrawn or modified to enable the person to take the necessary remedial
measures to cure such violations.
   (F)   Violation of this chapter may be enforced as a misdemeanor subject to
the maximum fine permissible under North Carolina law.
(Ord. passed 5-5-2015)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
[Reserved]
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to North Carolina General Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTES
G.S. Section Code Section
G.S. Section                        Code Section
1-593                               10.12
Ch. 7A                              152.34
7A-227                              93.07
7A-228                              93.07
                                    10.99,
                                    51.999,
14-4                                53.99,
                                    92.24,
                                    93.08
14-204                              111.10
18B-1001                            112.01
Ch. 20, Art. 17                     111.01
20-169                              94.11
20-219.11                           95.08
20-219.11(c)                        95.08
20-280(b)                           111.01
42-29                               93.07
42-30                               93.07
Ch. 44, Art. 1                      95.11
47-30                               154.24
Ch. 67                              Ch. 90
97-1 et seq.                        33.02
105-1 et seq.                       110.04
113A-50 et seq.                     154.08
130A-335                            92.09
136-30                              155.040
136-44.14                           155.038
136-66.2                            155.048
136-93                              155.036
                                    154.04,
136-102.6                           155.003,
                                    155.015,
                                    155.017
136-141                             95.13
136-143                             95.13
Ch. 143, Art. 21, Part 6            152.01
143-44 et seq.                      156.005
143-144 et seq.                     156.005
143-215.6A et seq.                  51.105
143-215.23 et seq.                  155.036
153A-121                            153.02
153A-122                            153.02
153A-123                            153.02
153A-340                            153.02
153A-372                            53.99
Ch. 160, Art. 5                     30.01
Ch. 160A                            154.04
Ch. 160A, Art. 8                    152.01
Ch. 160A, Art. 10                   93.07
Ch. 160A, Art. 18                   154.03
Ch. 160A, Art. 19                   156.001
Ch. 160A, Art. 19, Parts 3, 5 and 8 152.01
160A-174                            93.02
                                    10.99,
160A-175                            51.999,
                                    92.24
                                    Ch. 92,
160A-193                            92.24,
                                    95.01,
                                    157.99
160A-303                            95.01
160A-303.2                          Ch. 92,
                                    95.01
160A-347                            54.07
160A-360                            150.02
160A-361                            33.05
160A-428                            93.07
160A-436                            91.67
160D-109                            150.04
162A-88                             53.06
164-7                               10.14
                                    
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section 2011 Code Section
Prior Code Section 2011 Code Section
1.1.01             30.15
1.1.02             30.16
1.1.03             30.17
1.1.04             30.18
1.1.05             30.19
1.1.06             30.20
1.1.07             30.21
1.1.08             30.22
1.1.09             30.23
1.2.01             31.01
1.2.02             31.02
1.2.03             31.03
1.2.04             31.04
1.2.05             31.05
2.1.01             30.01
2.1.02             30.02
2.1.03             30.03
2.2.01             32.01
2.2.02             32.02
2.2.03             32.03
2.2.04             32.04
3.1.01             90.01
3.1.02             90.02
3.1.03             90.03
3.1.04             90.04
3.1.05             90.05
3.1.06             90.06
3.1.07             90.07
3.1.08             90.08
3.1.09             90.08
3.1.10             90.09
3.1.11             90.10
3.1.12             90.99
3.1.13             90.11
3.1.15             90.12
4.1.01             151.01
4.1.02             151.02
4.1.03             151.03
4.1.04             151.04
4.1.05             151.05
5.1.01             130.01
5.1.02             130.02
5.1.03             130.03
5.1.04             130.04
5.1.05             130.05
5.1.06             130.06,
                   130.99
5.1.07             130.07,
                   130.99
5.1.08             130.08,
                   130.99
5.2.03             92.25
5.2.04             92.26
5.2.05             92.27
5.2.06             92.28
5.2.07             92.29
5.2.08             92.30
5.2.09             92.31
5.2.10             92.31
6.1.01             33.04
6.1.02             33.04
6.1.03             33.04
6.1.04             33.04
6.1.05             33.04
6.1.06             33.04
6.1.07             33.04
6.1.08             33.04
6.1.10             91.01
6.1.11             91.02
6.1.12             91.03
6.1.13             91.04
6.1.14             91.05
6.1.15             91.06
6.2.01             91.20
6.2.02             91.21
6.2.03             91.22
6.2.04             91.23
6.2.05             91.24
6.2.06             91.25
6.2.07             91.26
6.2.08             91.27
6.2.09             91.28
6.2.10             91.29
6.2.11             91.30
6.3.01             91.45
6.3.02             91.46
6.3.03             91.47
6.3.04             91.48
6.3.05             91.49
6.3.06             91.50
6.4.02             91.66
7.1.01             92.01
7.1.02             92.02
7.1.04             92.04
7.1.05             92.05
7.1.06             92.06
7.1.07             92.07
7.1.08             92.08
7.1.09             92.09
7.1.10             92.10
7.1.11             92.11
7.1.12             92.12
7.1.13             92.13
8.1.01             110.01
8.1.02             110.02
8.1.03             110.03
8.1.04             110.04
8.1.05             110.05,
                   110.99
8.1.06             110.06
8.1.07             110.99
8.1.08             110.07
9.1.01             70.01
9.2.01             70.15
9.2.02             70.16
9.2.03             70.17
9.2.04             70.18
9.2.05             70.19
9.2.06             70.20
9.3.01             70.35
9.3.02             70.36
9.3.03             70.37
9.3.04             70.38
9.3.05             70.39
9.3.06             70.40
9.3.07             70.41
9.4.01             Ch. 75, Sch. I
9.4.02             72.01
9.4.03             72.02
9.4.04             72.03
9.4.05             72.04
9.4.06             72.05
9.4.07             72.06
9.4.08             72.07
9.4.09             72.08
9.4.10             72.09
9.5.01             71.01
9.5.02             71.02
9.5.03             71.03
9.5.04             71.04
9.5.05             71.05
9.5.07             71.06
9.5.08             71.07
9.5.09             71.08
9.5.10             71.09
9.5.11             71.10
9.5.12             71.11
9.6.01             Ch. 75, Sch. I
9.6.02             Ch. 75, Sch. I
9.6.03             Ch. 75, Sch. I
9.6.04             Ch. 75, Sch. I
9.6.05             Ch. 75, Sch. I
9.6.06             Ch. 75, Sch. I
9.6.08             Ch. 75, Sch. I
9.7.01             71.12
9.7.02             71.13
9.7.03             71.14
9.7.04             71.15
9.7.05             71.16
10.1.01            33.03
10.1.02            33.03
10.1.03            33.03
10.1.04            33.03
10.1.05            33.03
10.1.06            33.03
10.1.07            33.03
10.1.08            33.03
10.1.09            33.03
10.1.10            33.03
10.1.11            33.03
11.1.01            33.05
11.1.02            33.05
11.1.03            33.05
11.1.04            33.05
11.1.05            33.05
11.1.06            33.05
11.1.07            33.05
12.1.01            33.02
12.1.02            33.02
12.1.03            33.02
12.1.04            33.02
C.1.01             50.01
C.1.02             50.02
C.1.03             50.03
C.1.04             50.04
C.1.05             50.15
C.1.06             50.16
C.1.07             50.17
C.1.08             50.18
C.1.09             50.19
C.1.10             50.20
C.1.11             50.21
C.1.12             50.22
C.1.13             50.23
C.1.14             50.24
C.1.15             50.25
C.1.16             50.26
C.1.17             50.27
C.2.00             51.001
C.2.01             51.002
C.2.02             51.003
C.2.03             51.015
C.2.04             51.016
C.2.05             51.017
C.2.06             51.018
C.2.07             51.019
C.2.08             51.020
C.2.09             51.021
C.2.10             51.022
C.2.11             51.023
C.2.12             51.024
C.2.13             51.025
C.2.14             51.026
C.2.15             51.027
C.2.18             51.028
C.2.19             51.029
C.2.20             51.030
C.2.21             51.031
C.2.22             51.045
C.2.23             51.060
C.2.24             51.061
C.2.25             51.062
C.2.27             51.063
C.2.28             51.064
C.2.29             51.065
C.2.30             51.066
C.2.31             51.067
C.2.32             51.068
C.2.33             51.069
C.2.34             51.070
C.2.35             51.085
C.2.36             51.086
C.2.37             51.087
C.2.38             51.088
C.2.40             51.089
C.2.41             51.090
C.2.42             51.105
C.2.43             51.999
C.2.44             51.999
C.2.45             51.999
C.2.46             51.999
C.2.47             51.999
C.2.48             51.999
C.2.49             51.999
C.3.01             52.01
C.3.02             52.02
C.3.03             52.03
C.3.04             52.04
C.3.05             52.05
C.3.06             52.06
C.3.07             52.07
C.3.08             52.08
C.3.09             52.09
C.4.01             54.36
C.4.02             54.90
C.4.03             54.90
C.4.04             54.90
C.4.05             54.90
C.4.06             54.90
                   
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     53.01—
–      - -         53.06,
                     53.99
                     54.01—
                     54.07,
                     54.20—
                     54.24,
                     54.35—
                     54.43,
                     54.55—
–      - -         54.59,
                     54.70—
                     54.76,
                     54.90—
                     54.92,
                     54.99;
                     Ch. 54, Apps. A—
                     C
–      - -         110.08
                     153.01—
–      - -         153.11,
                     153.99
–      - -         154.24
                     156.005,
–      - -         156.042,
                     156.043,
                     156.095
                     156.001—
                     156.007,
                     156.020—
                     156.022,
                     156.035—
                     156.044,
                     156.055—
                     156.060,
–      9-10-1984   156.075,
                     156.076,
                     156.090—
                     156.094,
                     156.105—
                     156.108,
                     156.120—
                     156.124,
                     156.150—
                     156.152
1        10-13-1986  Ch. 74, Sch. I
–      12-10-1987  51.001,
                     51.019
–      5-2-1989    150.01—
                     150.04
                     154.01—
                     154.08,
–      1-2-1990    154.20—
                     154.23,
                     154.99
                     155.003,
                     155.015,
                     155.016,
–      1-1-2000    155.035—
                     155.047,
                     155.060—
                     155.071
–      10-2-2007   71.06
                     73.01—
–      - -2008     73.06,
                     73.99
                     152.01—
                     152.15,
                     152.30—
–      8-24-2009   152.34,
                     152.50—
                     152.54,
                     152.99
–      8-7-2012    92.24
–      - -         156.135—
                     156.142
–      10-7- -     34.01
–      10-2-2012   10.99
–      11-6-2012   90.99
–      11-6-2012   92.03
–      2-5-2013    71.17
–      2-5-2013    91.65
                     111.01—
–      2-5-2013    111.14,
                     111.99
–      4-7-2015    93.01—
                     93.08
                     157.01—
–      5-5-2015    157.09,
                     157.99
–      12-6-2016   91.67
                     156.005,
–      4-4-2017    156.055,
                     156.061
                     156.005,
                     156.036,
–      5-2-2017    156.041,
                     156.042,
                     156.043
                     156.005,
–      11-7-2017   156.042—
                     156.044,
                     156.055
                     156.005,
                     156.037,
                     156.038,
–      8-27-2019   156.056,
                     156.062,
                     156.091,
                     156.140
–      11-17-2020  92.32
–      3-2-2021    112.01
–      5-2-2021    94.01—
                     94.15
–      12-7-2021   150.04,
                     150.05
–      1-9-2024    95.01—
                     95.14
                    
 
