SPENCER, NORTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2021 S-14 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. passed 2-9-21; and
State legislation current through 2020 North Carolina Legislative Service,
Pamphlet No. 4
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
One West Fourth Street, Third Floor
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TOWN OFFICIALS
MAYOR         Jonathan Williams
MAYOR PRO-TEM Patti Secrest
ALDERMEN      Andrew Howe
             Erin Moody
             Steve Miller
             Rashid Muhammad
             Patricia Sledge
TOWN MANAGER  Peter Franzese
TOWN CLERK    Anna Kanode Ward
 
TOWN CHARTER AMENDMENTS
PART I
CHARTER AMENDMENTS*
Sec. 1. Appointment, qualifications, term, compensation and duties of town
manager.
   The charter of the Town of Spencer be and the same is hereby amended by
adding thereto the following:
   “The board of aldermen shall appoint a town manager who shall be responsible
for the administration of all departments of the town government. He shall be
appointed with regard to merit only, and he need not be a resident of the town
when appointed. He shall hold office during the pleasure of the board of
aldermen and shall receive such compensation as it shall fix by ordinance.
   “The town manager so appointed shall:
   (1)   be responsible for the administration of all departments of the town
government;
   (2)   see that within the town the laws of the state and the ordinances,
resolutions and regulations of the governing body are faithfully executed;
   (3)   attend all meetings of the governing body, and recommend for adoption
such measures as he shall deem expedient;
   (4)   make reports to the governing body from time to time upon the affairs
of the town, keep the governing body fully advised of the town's financial
condition and its future financial needs;
   (5)   shall perform the duties of tax collector, municipal accountant and
purchasing agent in addition to the above-mentioned duties;
   (6)   perform such other duties as may be required of him by the mayor and
board of aldermen.”
(Sess. Laws 1957, ch. 870, § 1)
Statutory reference:
   Session Laws 1957, ch. 870, was ratified May 29, 1957; councilmanager form
of government,
    G.S.§§ 160A-147 et seq.
Sec. 2. Elections.
   The board of aldermen of the Town of Spencer, pursuant to North Carolina
General Statutes section 160A-102, that the Spencer town charter, chapter C,
entitled “Elections,” is hereby amended as follows:
   (1)   The existing sections 1 through 5 of chapter C be and they hereby are
repealed.
   (2)   The following new section 1 and section 2 are hereby adopted and added
to chapter C as follows:
“Section 1. The board of aldermen shall consist of six (6) persons who shall be
elected in a non-partisan plurality municipal election every two (2) years
conducted as provided in North Carolina General Statutes section 163-292
beginning with the general municipal election in 1991.
“Section 2: The mayor of the Town of Spencer shall be elected in a non-partisan
plurality municipal election every two (2) years conducted as provided in North
Carolina General Statutes section 163-292 beginning with the general municipal
election in 1991.”
   (3)   The existing section 6 of chapter C of the Spencer town charter is
hereby renumbered as section 3.
   (4)   The present mayor and aldermen who were duly elected in the 1989
general municipal election shall continue in office until the duly elected
mayor and aldermen in the 1991 general municipal election have taken their
oaths of office. This ordinance amending the town charter shall be effective
from and after its passage and shall not be submitted to a vote of the people
unless a timely petition meeting the requirements of North Carolina General
Statutes section 160A-103 is submitted to the town clerk.
(Ord. 5-8-90, §§ 2-4)
   *Editor's note-The following editor's note was carried forward from the 1976
Code: “As included in the 1941 codification, the charter consisted of numerous
excerpts from special acts adopted by the state legislature during the period
from 1905 to 1939. Such excerpts were arranged by chapter, article and section,
and footnotes were added giving the derivation of each section. Since 1941,
much of the charter so codified has become obsolete and of no further value.
This resulted in part from the town's election under G.S. 160A-3, in certain
cases where such election is permitted, to follow procedures established by
general law to the exclusion of those established by charter provisions. Also,
it resulted in part from the repeal of certain local acts by newer general law
procedures designed for the purpose of insuring uniformity among municipalities
relative to such procedures. In addition to certain provisions from the charter
as codified in 1941 becoming obsolete, certain other provisions have been
superseded by additional special legislative acts applicable to the town and
enacted since 1941. It was not deemed desirable by either the editors of the
present volume or the town officials to include such acts adopted since 1941
and those acts adopted prior thereto and still having validity as a “charter,”
both because certain of the newer acts are not of a general and permanent
nature and not useful to the town in the day-to-day conduct of its affairs and
because a “charter” comprised of such acts would still contain numerous gaps
relative to items of information and law normally thought to be essential to a
useful city charter. For these reasons no attempt has been made to include
anything representing a “charter” in the present codification. Instead, a
series of notes has been added to this volume, referring the reader to
appropriate points to certain of those special legislative acts, including
those compiled as a charter in 1941 as well as those adopted since, still
having validity and under which the town still appears to be operating. A copy
of the charter as codified in 1941 may be found on file for reference purposes
in the office of the town clerk.”
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      Chapter
         
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time; computing time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinances
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the Town of Spencer shall be
designated as the “Code of Spencer, North Carolina,” and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only, and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BOARD OF ALDERMAN. The governing body of the Town of Spencer, North
Carolina.
      CHARTER. The Charter of the Town of Spencer, North Carolina.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      COUNTY. Rowan County, North Carolina.
      GOVERNOR. The Governor of North Carolina.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this municipality unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of North Carolina.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have subchapters.
      TOWN. The Town of Spencer, North Carolina.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this town shall be by the following
rules, unless such construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance:
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy may do as well as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this town exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this town for the transaction of all
municipal business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME; COMPUTING TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from
their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal or
in any way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering
system hereof and printed for inclusion herein. When subsequent ordinances
repeal any chapter, section or subsection, or any portion thereof, the repealed
portions may be excluded from this code by omission from reprinted pages. The
subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted in the case of
repeal, shall be prima facie evidence the subsequent ordinances numbered or
omitted are readopted as a new code by the town.
   (B)   Amendments to any of the provisions of the code shall be made by
amending such provisions by specific reference to the section number of this
code in language substantially similar to the following: “Section
               of the Code of Ordinances, Town of Spencer, North Carolina, is
hereby amended as follows....” The new provisions shall then be set out in full
as desired.
   (C)   If a new section not heretofore existing in the Code is to be added,
language substantially similar to the following shall be used: “The Code of
Ordinances, Town of Rockingham, North Carolina, is hereby amended by adding a
section, to be numbered               , which section shall read as
follows:....” The new section shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (D)   All sections, articles, chapters or provisions desired to be repealed
must be specifically repealed by section, article or chapter number, as the
case may be.
('88 Code, § 2-6)
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10,
passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-80; Am.
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   (1)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text
of the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example: (G.S. §
160A-11) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-80; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-85).
      (2)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
         § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection
or copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            For provisions concerning the inspection of public records, see
G.S. §§ 139-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the town published in 1994 and subsequently amended, the 1994
code section number shall be indicated in the history by “(`94 Code, §
      ).”
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of any
section or subsection of this code of ordinances for which no other penalty is
provided, or failing, neglecting or refusing to comply with the same shall,
upon conviction, be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor and subject to a fine not
to exceed $100 or imprisonment not to exceed 30 days, and each day that any of
the provisions of this code of ordinances are violated shall constitute a
separate offense with a fine not to exceed $200.
(G.S. § 14-4(a)) (Am. Ord. 15-05, passed 4-12-16)
Statutory reference:
   For provisions concerning enforcement of ordinances, see G.S. § 160A-175
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      Chapter
         
30.   TOWN GOVERNMENT
         
31.   TOWN OFFICIALS
         
32.   DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
         
33.   REVENUE AND FINANCE
         
34.   CIVIL EMERGENCY PROCEDURES
         
35.   CIVIL CITATIONS
CHAPTER 30: TOWN GOVERNMENT
Section
   
30.01   Regular meetings
   
30.02   Special, emergency, and recessed meetings
   
30.03   Organizational meeting
   
30.04   Agenda
   
30.05   Public address to the Council
   
30.06   Order of business
   
30.07   Office of Mayor
   
30.08   Office of Mayor Pro Tempore
   
30.09   When the presiding officer is in active debate
   
30.10   Action by the Council
   
30.11   Second required
   
30.12   One motion at a time
   
30.13   Substantive motions
   
30.14   Adoption by majority vote
   
30.15   Voting by written ballot
   
30.16   Debate
   
30.17   Ratification of actions
   
30.18   Procedural motions
   
30.19   Renewal of motion
   
30.20   Withdrawal of motion
   
30.21   Duty to vote
   
30.22   Introduction of ordinances
   
30.23   Adoption of ordinances and approval of contracts
   
30.24   Adoption of the budget ordinance
   
30.25   Special rules of procedure
   
30.26   Closed sessions
   
30.27   Quorum
   
30.28   Public hearings
   
30.29   Quorum at public hearings
   
30.30   Minutes
   
30.31   Appointments
   
30.32   Committees and boards
   
30.33   Amendment of the rules
   
30.34   Reference to Robert’s Rules of Order Newly Revised
   
Appendix: Permitted procedural motions
§ 30.01 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   The Council shall hold a regular meeting on the second Tuesday of each
month, except that if a regular meeting day is a legal holiday, the meeting
shall be held on the next business day. The meeting shall be held at the
Spencer Municipal Building and shall begin at 6:00 p.m. A copy of the Council’s
current meeting schedule shall be filed with the City Clerk.
(Ord. passed 6-8-10; Am. Ord. passed 2-9-21)
§ 30.02 SPECIAL, EMERGENCY, AND RECESSED (OR ADJOURNED) MEETINGS.
   (A)   Special meetings. 
      (1)   The Mayor, the Mayor Pro Tempore, or any two members of the Council
may at any time call a special Council meeting by signing a written notice
stating the time and place of the meeting and the subjects to be considered. At
least 48 hours before a special meeting called in this manner, written notice
of the meeting stating its time and place and the subjects to be considered
shall be:
         (a)   Delivered to the Mayor and each Council member or left at his or
her usual dwelling place;
         (b)   Posted on the Council’s principal bulletin board, or if none, at
the door of the Council’s usual meeting room; and
         (c)   Mailed or delivered to each newspaper, wire service, radio
station, television station, and person who has filed a written request for
notice with the City Clerk. Only those items of business specified in the
notice may be transacted at a special meeting called in this manner, unless all
members are present or have signed a written waiver of notice. Even in such a
case, the Council shall only discuss or transact items of business not
specified in the notice if it determines in good faith at the meeting that it
is essential to discuss or act on the item immediately.
      (2)   A special meeting may also be called or scheduled by vote of the
Council in open session during another duly called meeting. The motion or
resolution calling or scheduling the special meeting shall specify its time,
place, and purpose. At least 48 hours before a special meeting called in this
manner, notice of the time, place, and purpose of the meeting shall be:
         (a)   Posted on the Council’s principal bulletin board, or if none, at
the door of the Council’s usual meeting room; and
         (b)   Mailed or delivered to each newspaper, wire service, radio
station, television station, and person who has filed a written request for
notice with the City Clerk. Such notice shall also be mailed or delivered at
least 48 hours before the meeting to each Council member not present at the
meeting at which the special meeting was called or scheduled, and to the Mayor
if he or she was not present at that meeting. Only those items of business
specified in the notice may be discussed or transacted at a special meeting
called in this manner, unless all members are present or those not present have
signed a written waiver of notice, and the Council determines in good faith at
the meeting that it is essential to discuss or act on the item immediately.
   (B)   Emergency meetings.
      (1)   Emergency meetings of the City Council may be called only because
of generally unexpected circumstances that require immediate consideration by
the Council. Only business connected with the emergency may be considered at an
emergency meeting. One of the following two procedures must be followed to call
an emergency meeting of the Council:
         (a)   The Mayor, the Mayor Pro Tempore, or any two members of the
Council may at any time call an emergency council meeting by signing a written
notice stating the time and place of the meeting and the subjects to be
considered. The notice shall be delivered to the mayor and each council member
or left at his or her usual dwelling place at least six hours before the
meeting.
         (b)   An emergency meeting may be held at any time when the Mayor and
all members of the Council are present and consent thereto, or when those not
presenl have signed a written waiver of notice, but only in either case if the
Council complies with the notice provisions of division (B)(2) of this section.
      (2)   Notice of an emergency meeting divisions (B)(1)(a) and (b) of this
section shall be given to each local newspaper, local wire service, local radio
station, and local television station that has filed a written emergency
meeting notice request, which includes the newspaper’s, wire service’s, or
station’s telephone number, with the City Clerk. This notice shall be given
either by telephone or by the same method used to notify the Mayor and the
Council members and shall be given at the expense of the party notified.
   (C)   Recessed meetings. A properly called regular, special, or emergency
meeting may be recessed to a time and place certain by a procedural motion made
and adopted as provided in Rule 18, Motion 2, in open session during the
regular, special, or emergency meeting. The motion shall state the time and
place when the meeting will reconvene. No further notice need be given of a
recessed session of a properly called regular, special, or emergency meeting.
(Ord. passed 6-8-10)
§ 30.03 ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING.
   On the date and at the time of the first regular meeting in December
following a general election in which council members are elected, or at an
earlier date, if any, set by the incumbent Council, the newly elected members
shall take and subscribe the oath of office as the first order of new business.
As the second order of new business, the Council shall elect a Mayor, if he or
she is not elected as such by the voters, and a Mayor Pro Tempore. This
organizational meeting shall not be held before the municipal election results
are officially determined, certified, and published in accordance with G.S. Ch.
163, Subch. IX.
(Ord. passed 6-8-10)
§ 30.04 AGENDA.
   (A)   Proposed agenda. The Town Clerk shall prepare a proposed agenda for
each meeting. A request to have an item of business placed on the agenda must
be received at least two working days before the meeting. Any Council member
may, by a timely request, have an item placed on the proposed agenda. A copy of
all proposed ordinances shall be attached to the proposed agenda. An agenda
package shall be prepared that includes, for each item of business placed on
the proposed agenda, as much background information on the subject as is
available and feasible to reproduce. Each Council member shall receive a copy
of the proposed agenda and the agenda package and they shall be available for
public inspection and distribution or copying when they are distributed to the
Council members.
   (B)   Adoption of the agenda.
      (1)   As its first order of business at each meeting, the Council shall,
as specified in Rule 6, discuss and revise the proposed agenda and adopt an
agenda for the meeting. If items are proposed to be added to the agenda of a
meeting, the Council may, by majority vote, require that written copies of
particular documents connected with the items be made available at the meeting
to all Council members.
      (2)   The Council may by majority vote add items to or subtract items
from the proposed agenda, except that:
         (a)   The Council may not subtract items from the proposed agenda
stated in the notice of a special meeting called by the Mayor, Mayor Pro
Tempore, or two Council members, unless those calling the meeting consent, to
the deletion;
         (b)   The Council may not add items to the proposed agenda stated in
the notice of a special meeting called by the Mayor, Mayor Pro Tempore, or two
Council members, unless all members are present, or those who are absent sign a
written waiver of notice; and
          (c)    Only business connected with the emergency may be considered
at an emergency meeting. The Council may add items to the proposed agenda of a
special meeting only if it determines in good faith at the meeting that it is
essential to discuss or act on the item immediately.
      (3)   The Council may designate certain agenda items “for discussion and
possible action”. Such designation means that the Council intends to discuss
the general subject area of that agenda item before making any motion
concerning that item.
   (C)   Consent agenda. The Council may designate a part, of the agenda as the
“consent agenda”. Items shall be placed on the consent agenda by those
preparing the proposed agenda if they are judged to be noncontroversial and
routine. Any member may remove an item from the consent agenda and place it on
the regular agenda while the agenda is being discussed and revised prior to its
adoption at the beginning of the meeting. All items on the consent agenda shall
be voted on and adopted by a single motion, with the minutes reflecting the
motion and vote on each item.
   (D)   Open meetings requirements. The Council shall not deliberate, vote, or
otherwise take action on any matter by reference to a letter, number, or other
designation, or other secret device or method, with the intention of making it
impossible for persons attending a meeting of the Council to understand what is
being deliberated, voted, or acted on. The Council may, however, deliberate,
vote, or otherwise take action by reference to an agenda, if copies of the
agenda - sufficiently worded to enable the public to understand what is being
deliberated, voted, or acted on - are available for public inspection at the
meeting.
(Ord. passed 6-8-10)
§ 30.05 PUBLIC ADDRESS TO THE COUNCIL.
   Any individual or group who wishes to address the Council shall make a
request to be on the agenda to the Town Clerk. However, the Council shall
determine at the meeting whether it will hear the individual or group.
(Ord. passed 6-8-10)
§ 30.06 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   Items shall be placed on the agenda according to the order of
business. The order of business for each regular meeting shall be as follows:
      Any items scheduled to be taken up at specific times are considered to be
special orders.
      (1)   Invocation;
      (2)   Call to order;
      (3)   Pledge of allegiance;
      (4)   Discussion and revision of the proposed agenda, including consent
agenda; adoption of an agenda;
      (5)   Approval of minutes;
      (6)   Public comments;
      (7)   Public hearings;
      (8)   Ordinances;
      (9)   Resolutions;
      (10)   Proclamations;
      (11)   Committee reports;
      (12)   Department reports;
      (13)   Town Manager report;
      (14)   Other items;
      (15)   Requests/comments by Mayor and Board members;
      (16)   Vote for executive session (when necessary);
      (17)   Executive session;
      (18)   Return to open meeting;
      (19)   Vote for adjournment;
      (20)   Adjournment.
   (B)   By general consent of the Council, items may be considered out of
order.
(Ord. passed 6-8-10; Am. Ord. 18-022, passed 11-13-18; Am. Ord. 18-027, passed
12-11-18)
§ 30.07 OFFICE OF MAYOR.
   (A)   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the Council but shall have
the right to vote only when there is a tie. In order to address the Council, a
member must be recognized by the Mayor.
   (B)   The Mayor or other presiding officer shall have the following powers:
      (1)   To rule motions in or out of order, including any motion patently
offered for obstructive or dilatory purposes;
      (2)   To determine whether a speaker has gone beyond reasonable standards
of courtesy in his or her remarks and to entertain and rule on objections from
other members on this ground;
      (3)   To entertain and answer questions of parliamentary law or
procedure;
      (4)   To call a brief recess at any time; and
      (5)   To adjourn in an emergency.
   (C)   A decision by the presiding officer under division (B)(1), (2), or (3)
of this section may be appealed to the Council upon motion of any member,
pursuant to Rule 18(B), Motion 1. Such a motion is in order immediately after a
decision under division (B)(1), (2), or (3) of this section is announced and at
no other time. The member making the motion need not be recognized by the
presiding officer, and the motion if timely made may not be ruled out of order.
(Ord. passed 6-8-10)
§ 30.08 OFFICE OF MAYOR PRO TEMPORE.
   At the organizational meeting, the Council shall elect from among its
members a Mayor Pro Tempore to serve at the Council’s pleasure. A Council
member who serves as Mayor Pro Tempore shall be entitled to vote on all matters
and shall be considered a Council member for all purposes, including the
determination of whether a quorum is present. In the Mayor’s absence, the
Council may confer on the Mayor Pro Tempore any of the Mayor’s powers and
duties. If the Mayor should become physically or mentally unable to perform the
duties of his or her office, the Council may by unanimous vote declare that the
Mayor is incapacitated and confer any of the Mayor’s powers and duties on the
Mayor Pro Tempore. When a Mayor declares that he or she is no longer
incapacitated, and a majority of the Council concurs, the Mayor shall resume
the exercise of his or her powers and duties. If both the Mayor and Mayor Pro
Tempore are absent from a meeting, the Council may elect from among its members
a temporary chairman to preside at the meeting.
(Ord. passed 6-8-10)
§ 30.09 WHEN THE PRESIDING OFFICER IS IN ACTIVE DEBATE.
   If the Mayor or other presiding officer becomes actively engaged in debate
on a particular proposal, he or she may designate another Council member to
preside over the debate. The Mayor or other presiding officer shall resume
presiding as soon as action on the matter is concluded.
(Ord. passed 6-8-10)
§ 30.10 ACTION BY THE COUNCIL.
   The Council shall proceed by motion, except as otherwise provided for in
Rule 4 and in Rule 31. Any member may make a motion.
(Ord. passed 6-8-10)
§ 30.11 SECOND REQUIRED.
   A motion shall require a second before any discussion of the motion is
considered.
(Ord. passed 6-8-10)
§ 30.12 ONE MOTION AT A TIME.
   A member may make only one motion at a time.
(Ord. passed 6-8-10)
§ 30.13 SUBSTANTIVE MOTIONS.
   A substantive motion is out of order while another substantive motion is
pending.
(Ord. passed 6-8-10)
§ 30.14 ADOPTION BY MAJORITY VOTE.
   A motion shall be adopted by a majority of the votes cast, a quorum as
defined in Rule 27 being present, unless otherwise required by these rules or
the laws of North Carolina. A majority is more than half.
(Ord. passed 6-8-10)
§ 30.15 VOTING BY WRITTEN BALLOT.
   The Council may choose by majority vote to use written ballots in voting on
a motion. Such ballots shall be signed, and the minutes of the Council shall
show the vote of each member voting. The ballots shall be available for public
inspection in the office of the City Clerk immediately following the meeting at
which the vote took place and until the minutes of that meeting are approved,
at which time the ballots may be destroyed.
(Ord. passed 6-8-10)
§ 30.16 DEBATE.
   The Mayor shall state the motion and then open the floor to debate on it.
The Mayor shall preside over the debate according to the following general
principles:
   (A)   The maker of the motion is entitled to speak first;
   (B)   A member who has not spoken on the issue shall be recognized before
someone who has already spoken;
   (C)   To the extent possible, the debate shall akernate between proponents
and opponents of the measure.
(Ord. passed 6-8-10)
§ 30.17 RATIFICATION OF ACTIONS.
   To the extent permitted by law, the Council may ratify actions taken on its
behalf but without its prior approval. A motion to ratify is a substantive
motion.
(Ord. passed 6-8-10)
§ 30.18 PROCEDURAL MOTIONS.
   (A)   Certain motions allowed. In addition to substantive proposals, only
the following procedural motions, and no others, are in order. Unless otherwise
noted, each motion is debatable, may be amended, and requires a majority of the
votes cast, a quorum being present, for adoption. Procedural motions are in
order while a substantive motion is pending and at other times, except as
otherwise noted.
   (B)   Order of priority of motions. In order of priority (if applicable),
the procedural motions are:
      (1)   Motion 1. To appeal a procedural ruling of the presiding officer. A
decision of the presiding officer ruling a motion in or out of order,
determining whether a speaker has gone beyond reasonable standards of courtesy
in his or her remarks, or entertaining and answering a question of
parliamentary law or procedure may be appealed to the Council, as specified in
Rule 7. This appeal is in order immediately after such a decision is announced
and at no other time. The member making the motion need not he recognized by
the presiding officer and the motion, if timely made, may not be ruled out of
order.
      (2)   Motion 2. To adjourn. This motion may be made only at the
conclusion of Council consideration of a pending substantive matter: it may not
interrupt deliberation of a pending matter. A motion to recess to a time and
place certain shall also comply with the requirements of Rule 2(C).
      (3)   Motion 3. To take a brief recess.
      (4)   Motion 4. Call to follow the agenda. The motion must be made at the
first reasonable opportunity, or the right to make it. is waived for the out-
of-order item in question.
      (5)   Motion 5. To suspend the rules. The Council may not suspend
provisions of the rules that state requirements imposed by law on the Council.
For adoption, the motion requires a vote equal to two-thirds of the actual
membership of the Council, excluding the Mayor, unless he or she may vote in
all cases, and vacant seats.
      (6)   Motion 6. To go into closed session. The Council may go into closed
session only for one or more of the permissible purposes listed in G.S. § 143-
318.11(a). The motion to go into closed session shall cite one or more of these
purposes and shall be adopted at an open meeting. A motion based on G.S. § 143-
318.11(a)(1) shall also state the name or citation of the law that renders the
information to be discussed privileged or confidential. A motion based on G.S.
§ 143-318(a)(3) shall identify the parties in each existing lawsuit concerning
which the Council expects to receive advice during the closed session, if in
fact such advice is to be received.
      (7)   Motion 7. To leave closed session.
      (8)   Motion 8. To divide a complex motion and consider it by paragraph.
The motion is in order whenever a member wishes to consider and vote on
subparts of a complex motion separately.
      (9)   Motion 9. To defer consideration. The Council may defer a
substantive motion for later consideration at an unspecified time. A
substantive motion the consideration of which has been deferred expires 100
days thereafter unless a motion to revive consideration is adopted. If
consideration of a motion has been deferred, a new motion with the same effect
cannot be introduced while the deferred motion remains pending (has not
expired). A member who wishes to revisit the matter during that time must take
action to revive consideration of the original motion, or else move to suspend
the rules.
      (10)   Motion 10. Motion for the previous question. The motion is not in
order until there have been at least 20 minutes of debate, and every member has
had an opportunity to speak once.
      (11)   Motion 11. To postpone to a certain time or day. If consideration
of a motion lias been postponed, a new motion with the same effect cannot be
introduced while the postponed motion remains pending. A member who wishes to
revisit the matter must either wait until the specified time, or move to
suspend the rules.
      (12)   Motion 12. To refer a motion to a committee. The Council may vote
to refer a substantive motion to a committee for its study and recommendations.
Sixty days or more after a substantive motion has been referred to a committee,
the introducer of the substantive motion may compel consideration of the
measure by the entire Council, whether or not the committee has reported the
matter to the Council.
      (13)   Motion 13. To amend.
         (a)   An amendment to a motion must be pertinent to the subject matter
of the motion. An amendment is improper if adoption of the motion with that
amendment added would have the same effect as rejection of the original motion.
A proposal to substitute completely different wording for a motion or an
amendment shall be treated as a motion to amend.
         (b)   A motion may be amended, and that amendment may be amended, but
no further amendments may be made until the last-offered amendment is disposed
of by a vote.
         (c)   Any amendment to a proposed ordinance shall be reduced to
writing before the vote on the amendment.
      (14)   Motion 14. To revive consideration. The Board may vote to revive
consideration of any substantive motion earlier deferred by adoption of Motion
9 of Rule 18(b). The motion is in order at any time within 100 days after the
day of a vote to defer consideration. A substantive motion on which
consideration has been deferred expires 100 days after the deferral unless a
motion to revive consideration is adopted.
      (15)   Motion 15. To reconsider. The Council may vote to reconsider its
action on a matter. The motion to do so must be made by a member who voted with
the prevailing side (the majority side except in the case of a tie; in that
case the “nos” prevail) and at the meeting during which the original vote was
taken, including any continuation of that meeting through recess to a time and
place certain. The motion cannot interrupt deliberation on a pending matter,
but is in order at any time before final adjournment of the meeting.
      (16)   Motion 16. To rescind or repeal. The Council may vote to rescind
actions it has previously taken or to repeal items that it has previously
adopted. The motion is not in order if rescission or repeal of an action is
forbidden by law.
      (17)   Motion 17. To prevent reintroduction for six months. The motion
shall be in order immediately following the defeat of a substantive motion and
at no other time. The motion requires for adoption a vote equal to two-thirds
of the actual membership of the Council excluding the Mayor, unless he or she
may vote in all cases, and vacant seats. If adopted, the restriction imposed by
the motion remains in effect for six months or until the next organizational
meeting of the Council, whichever occurs first.
(Ord. passed 6-8-10)
§ 30.19 RENEWAL OF MOTION.
   A motion that is defeated may be renewed at any later meeting unless a
motion to prevent reintroduction has been adopted.
(Ord. passed 6-8-10)
§ 30.20 WITHDRAWAL OF MOTION.
   A motion may be withdrawn by the introducer at any time before it is amended
or before the presiding officer puts the motion to a vote, whichever occurs
first.
(Ord. passed 6-8-10)
§ 30.21 DUTY TO VOTE.
   Every member must vote unless excused by the remaining members according to
law. A member who wishes to be excused from voting shall so inform the
presiding officer, who shall take a vote of the remaining members. No member
shall be excused from voting except upon matters involving the consideration of
his or her own financial interest, or official conduct. In all other cases, a
failure to vote by a member who is physically present in the Council chamber,
or who has withdrawn without being excused by a majority vote of the remaining
members present, shall be recorded as an affirmative vote.
(Ord. passed 6-8-10)
§ 30.22 INTRODUCTION OF ORDINANCES.
   A proposed ordinance shall be deemed to be introduced on the date the
subject matter is first voted on by the Council.
(Ord. passed 6-8-10)
§ 30.23 ADOPTION OF ORDINANCES AND APPROVAL OF CONTRACTS.
   (A)   Generally. An affirmative vote equal to a majority of all the members
of the Council not excused from voting on the question in issue (including the
Mayor’s vote in case of an equal division) shall be required to adopt an
ordinance, to take any action that has the effect of an ordinance, or to make,
ratify, or authorize any contract on behalf of the city. In addition, no
ordinance or action that has the effect of an ordinance may be finally adopted
on the date on which it is introduced except by an affirmative vote equal to or
greater than two-thirds of all the actual membership of the Council, excluding
vacant seats, and not including the Mayor unless he or she has the right to
vote on all questions before the Council. No ordinance shall be adopted unless
it has been reduced to writing before a vote on adoption is taken.
   (B)   Zoning protest petitions. An affirmative vote equal to three-fourths
of all the members of the City Council shall be required for an ordinance
making a change in a zoning regulation, restriction, or boundary to become
effective, if a valid protest petition is received in accordance with the
requirements set out in G.S. § 160A-385(a). This rule shall not apply in those
cases excepted by G.S. 160A-385(a).
(Ord. passed 6-8-10)
§ 30.24 ADOPTION OF THE BUDGET ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Notwithstanding the provisions of any city charter, general law, or
local act:
      (1)   Any action with respect to the adoption or amendment of the budget
ordinance may be taken at any regular or special meeting of the Council by a
simple majority of those present and voting, a quorum being present;
      (2)   No action taken with respect to the adoption or amendment of the
budget ordinance need be published or is subject to any other procedural
requirement governing the adoption of ordinances or resolutions by the Council;
and
      (3)   The adoption and amendment of the budget ordinance and the levy of
taxes in the budget ordinance are not subject to the provisions of any city
charter or local act concerning initiative or referendum.
   (B)   During the period beginning with the submission of the budget to the
Council and ending with the adoption of the budget ordinance, the Council may
hold any special meetings that may be necessary to complete its work on the
budget ordinance. Except for the notice requirements of the open meetings law,
which continue to apply, no provision of law concerning the call of special
meetings applies during that period so long as:
      (1)   Each member of the hoard has actual notice of each special meeting
called for the purpose of considering the budget; and
      (2)   No business other than consideration of the budget is taken up.
This rule does not allow, and may not be construed to allow, the holding of
closed meetings or executive sessions by the Council if it is otherwise
prohibited by law from holding such a meeting or session.
(Ord. passed 6-8-10)
§ 30.25 SPECIAL RULES OF PROCEDURE.
   The Board may adopt itss own special rules of procedure, to be specified
here.
(Ord. passed 6-8-10)
§ 30.26 CLOSED SESSIONS.
   (A)   The Council may hold closed sessions as provided by law. The Council
shall only commence a closed session after a motion to go into closed session
has been made and adopted during an open meeting. The motion shall state the
purpose of the closed session. If the motion is based on G.S. § 143-318.11(a)
(1) (closed session to prevent the disclosure of privileged or confidential
information or information that is not considered a public record), it must
also state the name or citation of the law that renders the information to be
discussed privileged or confidential. If the motion is based on G.S. § 143-
318.11(a)(3) (consultation with attorney; handling or settlement of claims,
judicial actions, or administrative procedures), it must identify the parties
in any existing lawsuits concerning which the public body expects to receive
advice during the closed session. The motion to go into closed session must be
approved by the vote of a majority of those present and voting. The Council
shall terminate the closed session by a majority vote.
   (B)   Only those actions authorized by statute may be taken in closed
session. A motion to adjourn or recess shall not be in order during a closed
session.
(Ord. passed 6-8-10)
§ 30.27 QUORUM.
   A majority of the actual membership of the Council plus the Mayor, excluding
vacant seats, shall constitute a quorum. A majority is more than half. A member
who has withdrawn from a meeting without being excused by majority vote of the
remaining members present shall be counted as present for purposes of
determining whether or not a quorum is present.
(Ord. passed 6-8-10)
§ 30.28 PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   (A)   Public hearings required by law or deemed advisable by the Council
shall be organized by a special order (adopted by a majority vote) that sets
forth the subject, date, place, and time of the hearing as well as any rules
regarding the length of time allotted for each speaker, and other pertinent
matters. The rules may include, but are not limited to, rules:
      (1)   Fixing the maximum time allotted to each speaker;
      (2)   Providing for the designation of spokespersons for groups of
persons supporting or opposing the same positions;
      (3)   Providing tor the selection of delegates from groups of persons
supporting or opposing the same positions when the number of persons wishing to
attend the hearing exceeds the capacity of the hall (so long as arrangements
are made, in the case of hearings subject to the open meetings law, for those
excluded from the hall to listen to the hearing); and
      (4)   Providing for the maintenance of order and decorum in the conduct
of the hearing.
   (B)   All notice and other requirements of the open meetings law applicable
to Council meetings shall also apply to public hearings at which a majority of
the Council is present; such a hearing is considered to be part of a regular or
special meeting of the Council. These requirements also apply to hearings
conducted by appointed or elected committees of the Council, if a majority of
the committee is present. A public hearing for which any notices required by
the open meetings law or other provisions of law have been given may be
continued to a time and place certain without further advertisement. The
requirements of Rule 2(C) shall be followed in continuing a hearing at which a
majority of the Council is present.
   (C)   The Council may vote to delegate to city staff members, as
appropriate, the authority to schedule, call, and give notice of public
hearings required by law or the Council. The Council shall provide adequate
guidelines to assist staff members in fulfilling this responsibility, and it
shall not delegate the responsibility in cases where the Council itself is
required by law to call, schedule, or give notice of the hearing.
   (D)   At the time appointed for the hearing, the Mayor or his or her
designee shall call the hearing to order and then preside over it. When the
allotted time expires or when no one wishes to speak who has not done so, the
presiding officer shall declare the hearing ended.
§ 30.29 QUORUM AT PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   A quorum of the Council shall be required at all public hearings required by
state law. If a quorum is not present al such a hearing, the hearing shall be
continued until the next regular Council meeting without further advertisement.
(Ord. passed 6-8-10)
§ 30.30 MINUTES.
   (A)   Full and accurate minutes of the Council proceedings, including closed
sessions, shall be kept. The Board shall also keep a general account of any
closed session so that a person not in attendance would have a reasonable
understanding of what transpired. These minutes and general accounts shall be
open to inspection of the public, except as otherwise provided in this rule.
The exact wording of each motion and the results of each vote shall be recorded
in the minutes, and on the request of any member of the Council, the “ayes” and
“nos” upon any question shall be taken. Members’ and other persons’ comments
may be included in the minutes if the Council approves.
   (B)   Minutes and general accounts of closed sessions may be sealed by
action of the Council. Such sealed minutes and general accounts may be withheld
from public inspection so long as public inspection would frustrate the purpose
of the closed session.
(Ord. passed 6-8-10)
§ 30.31 APPOINTMENTS.
   (A)   The Council may consider and make appointments to other bodies,
including its own committees, if any, oniy in open session. The Council may not
consider or fill a vacancy among its own membership except in open session.
   (B)   The Mayor may vote on appointments that come before the Council.
(Ord. passed 6-8-10)
§ 30.32 COMMITTEES AND BOARDS.
   (A)   Establishment and appointment. The Council or the Mayor, if the Mayor
is delegated that power by the Council, may establish and appoint members for
such temporary and standing city committees and boards as are needed to help
carry on the work of city government. Any specific provisions of law relating
to particular committees and boards shall be followed.
   (B)   Open meetings law. The requirements of the open meetings law shall
apply to all elected or appointed authorities, boards, commissions, councils,
or other bodies of the city that are composed of two or more members and that,
exercise or are authorized to exercise legislative, policy-making, quasi
judicial, administrative, or advisory functions. However, the law’s
requirements shall not apply to a meeting solely among the city’s professional
staff.
(Ord. passed 6-8-10)
§ 30.33 AMENDMENT OF THE RULES.
   These rules may be amended at. any regular meeting or at any properly called
special meeting that includes amendment of the rules as one of the stated
purposes of the meeting, so long as the amendment is consistent with the city
charter, general law, and generally accepted principles of parliamentary
procedure. Adoption of an amendment shall require an affirmative vote equal to
or greater than two-thirds of all the actual membership of the Council,
excluding vacant seats, and not including the Mayor unless he or she has the
right to vote on all questions before the Council.
(Ord. passed 6-8-10)
§ 30.34 REFERENCE TO ROBERT’S RULES OF ORDER NEWLY REVISED.
   To the extent not provided for in these rules, and to the extent it does not
conflict with North Carolina law or with the spirit of these rules, the Council
shall refer to Robert’s Rules of Order Newly Revised, to answer unresolved
procedural questions.
(Ord. passed 6-8-10)
Appendix
Permitted Procedural Motions in Order of Precedence1
Motion                                                 Vote      Special Requirements
                                                       Required2
                                                                 Is in order immediately after the presiding officer announces a procedural
1.   To appeal a procedural ruling of the presiding Majority  ruling, as specified in Rule 7, and at no other time. The member making the
officer                                                          motion need not be recognized by the presiding officer, and the motion if
                                                                 timely made may not. be ruled out of order.
2.   To adjourn                                     Majority  May not interrupt deliberation of pending substantive matter. Motion to
                                                                 recess to a time and place certain must also comply with Rule 2(c).
3.   To take a brief recess                         Majority  None
4.   Call to follow the agenda                      Majority  Must be made at first reasonable opportunity, or the right to make it is
                                                                 waived for the out-of-order item in question.
5.   To suspend the rules                           two-      The Council may not suspend provisions of the rules that state requirements
                                                       thirds    imposed by law on the conned.
                                                                 Motion must cite one or more of the permissible purposes for closed sessions
                                                                 listed in G.S. § 143-318.11(a) and must be adopted at an open meeting. A
                                                                 motion based on G.S. § 143-318.11(a)(1) must also state the name or citation
6.   To go into closed session                      Majority  of the law that renders the information to be discussed privileged or
                                                                 confidential. A motion based on G.S. § 143-318.11(a)(3) must identify the
                                                                 parties in each existing lawsuit concerning which the Council expects to
                                                                 receive advice during the closed session, if in fact, such advice is to be
                                                                 received.
7.   To leave closed session                        Majority
8.   To divide a complex motion and consider it by  Majority  None
paragraph
                                                                 A substantive motion the consideration of which has been deferred expires 100
                                                                 days thereafter unless a motion to revive consideration (Motion 14) is
9.   To defer consideration                         Majority  adopted. Whde a deferred motion remains pending, a new motion with the same
                                                                 effect cannot, be introduced.
                                                                 CAUTION: Do not confuse with Motion 11.
Motion                                    Vote      Special Requirements
                                          Required2
10.   Motion for the previous question Majority  Not in order until there have been at least 20 minutes of debate, and every
                                                    member has had an opportunity to speak once.
11.   To postpone to a certain time or Majority  None. While a postponed motion remains pending, a new motion with the same
day                                                 effect cannot be introduced. CAUTION: Do not confuse with Motion 9.
                                                    60 days or more after a motion is referred to a committee, the introducer may
12.   To refer a motion to a committee Majority  compel consideration of the measure by the Council, regardless of whether the
                                                    committee has reported the matter to the Council.
                                                    (a) Amendments must be pertinent to the subject, matter of the motion being
                                                    amended. An amendment is improper if adoption of the motion with that amendment
                                                    added has the same effect as rejection of the original motion. A proposal to
13.   To amend                         Majority  substitute a different motion shall be treated as a motion to amend. (b) A
                                                    motion may be amended, and that amendment may be amended, hut no further
                                                    amendments may be made until the last-offered amendment is disposed of by a
                                                    vote. (c) Any amendment to a proposed ordinance must be reduced to writing
                                                    before the vote on the amendment.
                                                    In order at any time within 100 days after the day of a vote to defer
14.   To revive consideration          Majority  consideration. Failure to adopt Motion 14 within the 100 day period results in
                                                    expiration of the deferred substantive motion.
                                                    Must be made by a member who voted with the prevailing side (the majority side
                                                    except in the case of a tie; in that case the “nos” prevail). May only be made
15.   To reconsider                    Majority  at the meeting at which the original vote was taken, including any continuation
                                                    of that meeting through recess to a time and place certain. Cannot interrupt
                                                    deliberation on a pending matter, but is in order at any time before final
                                                    adjournment of the meeting.
16.   To rescind or repeal             Majority  Not in order if rescission or repeal of an action is forbidden by law.
 
Motion                                     Vote       Special Requirements
                                           Required2
                                                      In order immediately
                                                      following defeat of a
                                                      substantive motion and
                                                      at no other time. If
                                                      adopted, the
17.   To prevent reintroduction for six            restriction imposed by
months                                     Two-thirds the motion remains in
                                                      effect for six months
                                                      or until the next
                                                      organizational meeting
                                                      of the Council,
                                                      whichever occurs
                                                      first.
1.   Under these rules all procedural motions are debatable and none
requires a second. All may be amended, subject to the stated limitations on
motions to amend (Motion 13). Except where indicated otherwise, procedural
motions may interrupt deliberations on a pending substantive matter
2.   The required vote for adoption of a procedural motion is generally a
majority of the votes cast, a quorum being present. In a few cases, the
required vote is a vote equal to two-thirds of the actual membership of the
Council, excluding the Mayor, unless he or she may vote in all cases, and
vacant seats.
 
(Ord. passed 6-8-10)
CHAPTER 31: TOWN OFFICIALS
Section
   
31.01   Town Clerk
   
31.02   Town Attorney
§ 31.01 TOWN CLERK.
   (A)   The Town Manager shall appoint a Town Clerk.
(`94 Code, § 2-30)
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Town Clerk to:
      (1)   Have custody of the town seal and keep the records and proceedings
of the town, and duly certify the same when requested;
      (2)   Keep the following books and accounts:
         (a)   A book for recording all deeds made to the town; and
         (b)   A book of ordinances and resolutions.
      (3)   Do any other and further acts as the Board may require pursuant to
the Charter, and other special acts applicable to the town or the state
statutes.
(`94 Code, § 2-31)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of Clerk to administer oaths, see G.S. § 11-7.1(a)(7)
   Duties of City Clerk, see G.S. § 160A-171
   Finance Officer, see G.S. §§ 159-24 et seq.
§ 31.02 TOWN ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The Board shall appoint a Town Attorney.
(`94 Code, § 2-27)
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Town Attorney to:
      (1)   Prosecute for and defend suits against the town;
      (2)   Advise the Mayor, Board and Town Manager in regard to matters
connected with the town's business;
      (3)   Attend meetings of the Board when requested by it to do so;
      (4)   Draw deeds, contracts, bonds, notes and other legal papers as may
be required for the proper conduct of the town's business;
      (5)   Draw all ordinances granting franchises;
      (6)   Approve all ordinances as to form before their introduction; and
      (7)   Perform any additional duties as the Board may require pursuant to
the Charter, and other special acts applicable to the town and state statutes.
(`94 Code, § 2-28)
Statutory reference:
   Town Attorney, see G.S. § 160A-173
CHAPTER 32: DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
Fire Department
   
32.20   Appointment of the Fire Chief
   
32.21   Duties of the Fire Chief
   
32.22   Record of fires
   
32.23   Assistant Chief
   
32.24   Right-of-entry for purpose of identification
   
32.25   Enlisting aid of citizens
Historic Preservation Commission
   
32.35   Historic Preservation Commission
   
32.36   Meetings
   
32.37   Attendance of meetings
   
32.38   Rules of procedure and design guidelines
   
32.39   Meeting minutes
   
32.40   Commission powers
   
32.41   Historic districts
   
32.42   Historic landmarks
   
32.43   Certificate of appropriateness required
   
32.44   Application for certificate of appropriateness
   
32.45   Action on application for certificate of appropriateness
   
32.46   Hearings for certificate of appropriateness
   
32.47   Appeal of decision
   
32.48   Administrative approval of minor works
   
32.49   Review criteria
   
32.50   Certain changes not prohibited
   
32.51   Enforcement and remedies
   
32.52   Delay in demolition of landmarks and buildings within historic
districts
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town to establish, organize, equip, maintain and prescribe
duties of Fire Department, see G.S. § 160A-291
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.20 APPOINTMENT OF THE FIRE CHIEF.
   The Town Manager shall approve the appointment of a Chief of the Fire
Department.
(`94 Code, § 7-20) (Ord. passed 11-14-95)
§ 32.21 DUTIES OF THE FIRE CHIEF.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Chief of the Fire Department to:
      (1)   Supervise and direct the extinguishing of fires;
      (2)   Preserve and keep safe all equipment of the Fire Department;
      (3)   Compel, when necessary, all officers of the town or other persons
to aid in the extinguishing of fires;
      (4)   Enforce all rules, provisions of this code and other ordinances
relative to fire prevention;
      (5)   Inspect all equipment of the fire department and report all needed
repairs to the Board;
      (6)   Report all violations of the fire prevention regulations of G.S.
Title 9 or any other fire prevention ordinances;
      (7)   Annually report to the Board the names, residences and occupations
of all firefighters, the number and locality of fires which have occurred
during the year, the causes thereof if they can be ascertained, the name of the
owner and value of the property destroyed, insurance coverage and any other
matters pertaining to the Fire Department, its organization and operation as
the Chief deems best; and
      (8)   Do any other and further things necessary for the proper and
efficient operation of the Department and for the prevention of fire.
   (B)   Subject to the supervision of the Board, the Chief of the Fire
Department shall have the general control of the Department, the personnel,
apparatus and the fire alarm system.
(`94 Code, § 7-21)
   (C)    Whenever a fire shall occur, it shall be the duty of the Fire Chief
to report immediately to the place of the fire and to take active charge of the
fire fighting operations.
   (D)   Immediately after the occurrence of any fire, the Chief shall
investigate or shall cause to be investigated the cause, origin and
circumstances thereof and, as far as possible, shall determine whether the fire
is the result of accident, carelessness or design. If the Chief has reason to
believe that the fire is of suspicious origin, the officer shall notify the
proper authorities designated by law to pursue the investigation of suspicious
fires, and shall further cooperate with the authorities in the collection of
evidence and in the prosecution of the case when properly instituted.
(`94 Code, § 7-22)
Statutory reference:
   Duties of the Fire Chief generally, see G.S. § 160A-292
§ 32.22 RECORD OF FIRES.
   (A)   The Fire Chief shall keep or shall cause to be kept an accurate record
of all fires.
   (B)   For each fire the following information shall be secured and kept:
      (1)   The location of the premises;
      (2)   The owner of the premises;
      (3)   A brief description of the premises, whether of brick, stone,
concrete, iron or wood;
      (4)   How the premises is occupied, whether as dwelling, storehouse,
factory, workshop or otherwise;
      (5)   The amount and nature of damage to both real and personal property;
      (6)   The amount of insurance;
      (7)   Cause of the fire; and
      (8)   The date.
(`94 Code, § 7-23)
§ 32.23 ASSISTANT CHIEF.
   In the absence of the Chief, the Assistant Chief shall perform all duties
required of the Chief and shall be clothed with the same authority as the
Chief.
(`94 Code, § 7-24)
§ 32.24 RIGHT-OF-ENTRY FOR PURPOSE OF INSPECTION.
   The Chief, or any member of the Fire Department when so directed by the
Chief, shall have the right to enter any building or premises at any reasonable
hour for the purpose of making an inspection.
(`94 Code, § 7-26)
§ 32.25 ENLISTING AID OF CITIZENS.
   During the continuance of any fire, the Chief and each of the captains of
the Fire Department shall have the power to call on any person to assist in
extinguishing the fire or in removing any goods, wares, merchandise or
furniture from any building on fire or in danger to some place of safety. No
person shall fail to obey any order given for this purpose.
(`94 Code, § 7-27)
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION
§ 32.35 HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Spencer Historic Preservation Commission
("Commission") under the authority of G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 19, Part 3C.
   (B)   The Commission shall consist of (at least three) members appointed by
the Board of Aldermen. All members shall reside within the planning and zoning
jurisdiction of Spencer. A majority of the members of the Commission shall have
demonstrated special interest, experience, or education in history,
architecture, archaeology, or related fields. The Commission shall serve
without compensation. The Commission may appoint advisory bodies and committees
as appropriate.
   (C)   Members of the Commission shall serve terms of four years. Terms shall
be staggered. A member may be reappointed for a second consecutive term, but
after two consecutive terms a member shall be ineligible for reappointment
until one calendar year has elapsed from the date of the termination of his or
her second term.
(Ord. passed 3-8-94)
§ 32.36 MEETINGS.
   The Historic Preservation Commission shall establish a meeting time and
shall meet at least quarterly and more often as it shall, determine and
require. All meetings of the Commission shall be open to the public and
reasonable notice of the time and place thereof shall be given to the public.
All meetings shall conform to the North Carolina Open Meetings Law, G.S. § 143-
33B.
(Ord. passed 3-8-94)
§ 32.37 ATTENDANCE OF MEETINGS.
   Any member of the Historic Preservation Commission who misses more than
three consecutive regular meetings or more than half the regular meetings in a
calendar year shall lose his or her status as a member of the Commission and
shall be replaced or reappointed by the Board of Aldermen. Absence due to
sickness, death or other emergencies of like nature shall be recognized as
approved absences and shall not affect the member’s status on the Commission
except that in the event of a long illness or other such cause for prolonged
absence, the member shall be replaced.
(Ord. passed 3-8-94)
§ 32.38 RULES OF PROCEDURE AND DESIGN GUIDELINES.
   Prior to any official action the Commission shall adopt and publish rules of
procedure governing its meetings and the conduct of official business and
bylaws governing the appointment of members, terms of office/ the election of
officers and related matters. The Commission shall also prepare and adopt
principles and guidelines for altering, restoring, moving, or demolishing
properties designated as landmarks or within historic districts.
(Ord. passed 3-8-94)
§ 32.39 MEETING MINUTES.
   The Commission shall keep permanent minutes of all its meetings. The minutes
shall record attendance of its members, its resolutions, findings,
recommendations, and actions.
(Ord. passed 3-8-94)
§ 32.40 COMMISSION POWERS.
   The Historic Preservation Commission is authorized and empowered to
undertake such actions reasonably necessary to the discharge and conduct of its
duties and responsibilities as outlined in this chapter and G.S. Ch. 160A, Art.
19, Part 3C, including but not limited to the following:
   (A)   Undertake an inventory of properties of historical, prehistorical,
architectural and/or cultural significance;
   (B)   Recommend to the Board of Aldermen areas to be designated by ordinance
as “historic districts” and individual structures, buildings, sites, areas or
objects to be designated by ordinance as “Landmarks;”
   (C)   Recommend to the Board of Aldermen that designation of any area as a
historic district, or part thereof, or designation of any building, structure,
site, area or object as a landmark, be revoked, or removed for cause;
   (D)   Review and act upon proposals for alterations, demolition or new
construction within historic districts, or for the alteration or demolition of
designated landmarks;
   (E)   Conduct an educational program with respect to historic districts and
landmarks within its jurisdiction;
   (F)   Cooperate with the state, Federal and local government, in pursuance
of the purposes of this ordinance; to offer or request assistance, aid,
guidance or advice concerning matters under its purview or of mutual interest.
The Board of Aldermen, or the Commission when authorized by the Board of
Aldermen, may contract with the State or the United States, or any agency of
either, or with any other organization provided the terms are not inconsistent
with state or Federal law;
   (G)   Enter, solely in performance of its official duties and only at
reasonable times, upon private lands for examination or survey thereof.
However, no member, employee or agent of the Commission may enter any private
building or structure without express consent of the owner or occupant thereof;
   (H)   Prepare and recommend the official adoption of a preservation element
as part of the town comprehensive plan;
   (I)   Acquire by any lawful means the fee or any lesser included interest,
including options to purchase, to properties within established districts or to
any such properties designated as landmarks, to hold, manage, preserve, restore
and improve the same, and to exchange or dispose of the property by public or
private sale, lease or otherwise, subject to covenants or other legally binding
restrictions which will secure appropriate rights of public access and promote
the preservation of the property;
   (J)   Restore, preserve and operate historic properties; and
   (K)   Negotiate at any time with the owner of a building, structure, site,
area or object for its acquisition or its preservation, when such action is
reasonably necessary or appropriate.
(Ord. passed 3-8-94)
§ 32.41 HISTORIC DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Historic districts are hereby established as districts which overlap
with other zoning districts. All uses permitted in any such district/ whether
by right or as a special use, shall be permitted in the historic district.
   (B)   Historic districts, as provided for in this section, may from time to
time be designated, amended, or repealed, provided however that, no district
shall be recommended for designation unless it is deemed to be of special
significance in terms of its historical, prehistorical, architectural or
cultural importance. Such district must also possess integrity of design,
setting, workmanship, materials, feeling and/or association. No district shall
be designated, amended, or repealed until the following procedure has been
carried out:
      (1)   An investigation and report describing the significance of the
buildings, structures, features, sites or surroundings included in any such
proposed district, and a description of the boundaries of such district has
been prepared; and
      (2)   The Department of Cultural Resources, acting through the State
Historic Preservation Officer or his or her designee, shall have made an
analysis of and recommendations concerning such report and description of
proposed boundaries. Failure of the Department to submit its written analysis
and recommendations to the Board of Aldermen within 30 calendar days after a
written request for such analysis has been received by the Department of
Cultural Resources shall relieve the Board of Aldermen of any responsibility
for awaiting such analysis, and the Board of Aldermen may at any time
thereafter take any necessary action to adopt or amend its zoning ordinance.
   (C)   The Board of Aldermen may also, in its discretion, refer the report
and the proposed boundaries to any other interested body for its
recommendations prior to taking action to amend the zoning ordinance.
   (D)   With respect to any changes in the boundaries of such district,
subsequent to its initial establishment, or the creation of additional
districts within the jurisdiction, the investigative studies and reports
required by division (B)(1) of this section shall be prepared by the Commission
and shall be referred to the Planning Board for its review and comment
according to the procedures set forth in the zoning ordinance. Changes in the
boundaries of an initial district or proposal for additional districts shall be
submitted to the Department of Cultural Resources in accordance with the
provisions of division (B)(2) of this section.
   (E)   Upon receipt of these reports and recommendations the Board of
Aldermen may proceed in the same manner as would otherwise be required for the
adoption or amendment of any appropriate zoning ordinance provisions.
(Ord. passed 3-8-94)
§ 32.42 HISTORIC LANDMARKS.
   (A)   Upon complying with the required landmark designation procedures set
forth herein, the Board of Aldermen may adopt and from time to time amend or
repeal an ordinance designating one or more historical landmarks. No property
shall be recommended for designation as a landmark unless it is deemed and
found by the Commission to be of special significance in terms of its
historical, prehistorical, architectural or cultural importance, and to possess
integrity of design, setting, workmanship, materials, feeling and/or
association.
   (B)   The subchapter shall describe each property designated in the
subchapter, the name or names of the owner or owners of the property, those
elements of the property that are integral to its historical; architectural or
prehistorical value, including the land area of the property so designated, and
any other information the governing board deems necessary. For each building,
structure, site, area or object so designated as a landmark, the chapter shall
require that the waiting period set forth in this chapter be observed prior to
its demolition. A suitable sign for each property designated as a landmark may
be placed on the property at the owner’s consent; otherwise the sign may be
placed on a nearby public right-of-way.
   (C)   No property shall be designated as a landmark until the following
steps have been taken.
      (1)   As a guide for the identification and evaluation or landmarks, the
Commission shall, at the earliest possible time and consistent with the
resources available to it, undertake an inventory of properties of historical,
architectural, prehistorical and cultural significance within Spencer.
      (2)   The Commission shall make or cause to be made an investigation and
report on the historic, architectural, prehistorical, educational or cultural
significance of each building, structure, site, area or object proposed for
designation or acquisition. Such report shall be forwarded to the Division of
Archives and History, North Carolina Department of Cultural Resources.
      (3)   The Department of Cultural Resources, acting through the State
Historic Preservation Officer, or his or her designee, shall either upon
request of the Department or at the initiative of the Commission be given an
opportunity to review and. comment upon the substance and effect of the
designation of any landmark. All comments will be provided in writing. If the
Department does not submit its comments to the Commission within 30 days
following receipt by the Department of the report, the Commission and the Board
of Aldermen shall be relieved of any responsibility to consider such comments.
      (4)   The Commission and the Board of Aldermen shall hold a joint public
hearing (or separate public hearings) on the proposed ordinance. Reasonable
notice of the time and place thereof shall be given.
      (5)   Following the public hearing(s) the Board of Aldermen may adopt the
ordinance as proposed, adopt the ordinance with any amendments it deems
necessary, or reject the proposed ordinance.
      (6)   Upon adoption of the ordinance the owners and occupants of each
landmark shall be given written notification of such designation insofar as
reasonable diligence permits. One copy of the ordinance and all amendments
thereto shall be filed by the Commission in the office of the Register of Deeds
of Rowan County. Each landmark shall be indexed according to the name of the
owner of the property in the grantor and grantee indexes in the Register of
Deeds office and the Commission shall pay a reasonable fee for filing and
indexing. A second copy of the ordinance and all amendments thereto shall be
kept on file in the office of the Spencer Town Clerk and be made available for
public inspection at any reasonable time. A third copy of the ordinance and all
amendments thereto shall be given to the building, inspector. The fact that a
building, structure, site, area or object has been designated a landmark shall
be clearly indicated on all tax maps maintained by Rowan County for such period
as the designation remains in effect.
      (7)   Upon the adoption of the landmark ordinance or any amendments
thereto, it is the duty of the Commission to give notice thereof to the tax
supervisor of Rowan County. The designation and any recorded restrictions upon
the property limiting its use for preservation purposes shall be considered by
the tax supervisor in appraising it for tax purposes.
(Ord. passed 3-8-94)
§ 32.43 CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS REQUIRED.
   (A)   From and after the designation of a landmark or a historic district,
no exterior portion of any building or other structure (including masonry
walls, fences, light fixtures, steps and pavement, or other appurtenant
features), nor any above-ground utility structure nor any type of outdoor
advertising sign shall be erected, altered, restored, moved or demolished on
such landmark or within the historic district until after an application for a
certificate of appropriateness as to exterior features has been submitted to
and approved by the Commission. Such a certificate is required to be issued by
the Commission prior to the issuance of a building permit or other permit
granted for the purposes of constructing, altering, moving or demolishing
structures, which certificate may be issued subject to reasonable conditions
necessary to carry out the purposes of this subchapter. A certificate of
appropriateness shall be required whether or not a building or other permit is
required.
   (B)   For purposes of this chapter, “exterior features” shall include the
architectural style, general design, and general arrangement of the exterior of
a building or other structure, including the kind and texture of the building
material, the size and scale of the building, and the type and style of all
windows, doors, light fixtures, signs and other appurtenant features. Exterior
features may also include historic signs, color and significant landscape,
archaeological and natural features of the area. In the case of outdoor
advertising signs, “exterior features” shall be construed to mean the style,
material, size and location of all such signs.
   (C)   The State of North Carolina (including its agencies, political
subdivisions and instrumentalities), the Town of Spencer, and all public
utilities shall be required to obtain a certificate of appropriateness for
construction, alteration, moving or demolition within the historic district or
of designated landmarks.
(Ord. passed 3-8-94)
§ 32.44 APPLICATION FOR CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS.
   (A)   Applications for a certificate of appropriateness shall be obtained
from and, when completed, filed with the Zoning Administrator. The application
shall be filed two weeks prior to the next regularly scheduled meeting of the
Commission. Each application shall be accompanied by sketches, drawings,
photographs, specifications, descriptions and other information of sufficient
detail to clearly show the proposed exterior alterations, additions, changes or
new construction. The names and mailing addresses of property owners filing
and/or subject to the application and the addresses of property within 100 feet
on all sides of the property which is the subject of the application must also
be filed. No application which does not include the aforementioned information
will be accepted.
   (B)   It shall be the policy of the Commission, in regard to applications
involving new construction or extensive alterations and/or additions to
existing structures, that a sub-committee of the Commission shall be available
to meet with persons involved in planned or pending applications in order to
advise them informally at an early stage in the development process concerning
the Commission’s guidelines, the nature of the area where the proposed project
will take place, and other relevant factors. The members of the sub-committee,
collectively and individually, shall refrain from any indication of approval or
disapproval. Advice or opinions given by any member of the sub-committee at
such an informal meeting shall not be considered official or binding upon the
Commission.
(Ord. passed 3-8-94)
§ 32.45 ACTION ON APPLICATION FOR CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS.
   The Secretary of the Commission shall notify, by mail, not less than one
week prior to the meeting at which the matter is to be heard, the owners of
property within 100 feet on all sides of the subject property. Applications for
certificates of appropriateness shall be acted upon within 90 days after
filing, otherwise the application shall be deemed to be approved and a
certificate shall be issued. An extension of time may be granted by mutual
consent of the Commission and the applicant. As part of the review procedures,
the Commission may view the premises and seek the advice of the Department of
Cultural Resources or other such expert advice as it may deem necessary under
the circumstances. The Commission may hold a public hearing on any application
when deemed necessary. The action on an application shall be approval, approval
with conditions or denial and the decision of the Commission must be supported
by specific findings of fact indicating the extent to which the application is
or is not congruous with the special character of the historic district or
landmark.
(Ord. passed 3-8-94)
§ 32.46 HEARINGS FOR CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS.
   (A)   Prior to the issuance or denial of a certificate of appropriateness,
the applicant and other property owners likely to be materially affected by the
application shall be given an opportunity to be heard. All meetings of the
Commission shall be open to the public in accordance with the North Carolina
Open Meetings Law, G.S. Ch. 143, Art. 33C.
   (B)   The Commission shall have no jurisdiction over interior arrangement,
except as provided below, and shall take no action under this ordinance except
to prevent the construction, reconstruction, alteration, restoration, moving or
demolition of buildings, structures, appurtenant features, outdoor advertising
signs or other significant features which would be incongruous with the special
character of the historic district or landmark.
   (C)   The jurisdiction of the Commission over interior spaces shall be
limited to specific interior features of architectural, artistic, or historical
significance in publicly owned landmarks; and of privately owned landmarks for
which consent for interior review has been given by the owners. Said consent of
an owner for interior review shall bind future owners and/or successors in
title, provided such consent has been filed in the Register of Deeds Office and
indexed according to the name of the owner of the property in the grantor and
grantee indexes. The landmark designation shall specify the interior features
to be reviewed and the specific nature of the Commission’s jurisdiction over
the interior.
   (D)   All of the provisions of this chapter shall apply to construction,
alteration, moving and demolition by the State of North Carolina, its political
subdivisions, agencies and instrumentalities, provided however they shall not
apply to interiors of buildings or structures owned by the State of North
Carolina.
(Ord. passed 3-8-94)
§ 32.47 APPEAL OF DECISION.
   (A)   An appeal may be taken to the Board of Adjustment from the
Commission’s action in granting or denying any certificate by any aggrieved
party.
   (B)   Written notice of the intent to appeal must be sent to the Commission,
postmarked within 30 days following their decision. Appeals shall be in the
nature of certiorari. Appeals from the Board of Adjustment shall be heard by
the Superior Court of Rowan, County.
   (C)   The State of North Carolina shall have a right of appeal to the North
Carolina Historical Commission, which shall render its decision within 30 days
from the date that a notice of appeal by the state is received by the
Historical Commission. The decision of the Historical Commission shall be final
and binding upon both the state and the Commission.
(Ord. passed 3-8-94)
§ 32.48 ADMINISTRATIVE APPROVAL OF MINOR WORKS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding the provisions of §
32.45, upon receipt of a completed application the Zoning Administrator may
issue a certificate of appropriateness for minor works.
   (B)   Minor works are defined as those exterior changes which do not involve
substantial alterations, additions, or removals that could impair the integrity
of the property and/or district as a whole. Such minor works shall be limited
to those listed in the Commission’s “Bylaws and Rules of Procedure.” No
application may be denied without the formal action of the Commission. All
minor works applications approved by the Zoning Administrator shall be
forwarded to the Commission in time for its next scheduled meeting.
(Ord. passed 3-8-94)
§ 32.49 REVIEW CRITERIA.
   (A)   No certificate of appropriateness shall be granted unless the
Commission finds that the application complies with the principles and
guidelines adopted by the Commission for review of changes and new
construction. It is the intent of these regulations to insure insofar as
possible that construction, reconstruction, alteration, restoration, moving, or
demolition of buildings, structures: appurtenant fixtures, outdoor advertising
signs, or other significant features in the district or of landmarks shall be
congruous with the special character of the district or landmark.
   (B)   In considering new construction, the Commission may encourage
contemporary design which is harmonious with the character of the district.
   (C)   In granting a Certificate of Appropriateness, the Commission shall
take into account the historic or architectural significance of the structure
under consideration and the exterior form and appearance of any proposed
additions or modifications to that structure as, well as the effect of such
change or additions upon other structures in the vicinity.
   (D)   In addition to the principles and guidelines, the following features
or elements of design shall be considered in reviewing applications for
certificates of appropriateness:
      (1)   Lot coverage, defined as the percentage of the lot area covered by
primary structures;
      (2)   Setback, defined as the distance from the lot lines to the
building;
      (3)   Building height;
      (4)   Spacing of buildings, defined as the distance between adjacent
buildings;
      (5)   Proportion, shape, positioning, location, pattern, sizes, and style
of all elements of fenestration and entry doors;
      (6)   Surface materials and textures;
      (7)   Roof shapes, forms and materials;
      (8)   Use of regional or local architectural traditions;
      (9)   General form and proportion of buildings and structures, and the
relationship of additions to the main structure;
      (10)   Expression of architectural detailing;
      (11)   Orientation of the building to the street;
      (12)   Scale, determined by the size of the units of construction and
architectural details in relation to the human scale and also by the
relationship of the building mass to adjoining open space and nearby buildings
and structures; maintenance of pedestrian scale;
      (13)   Proportion of width to height of the total building facade;
      (14)   Archaeological sites and resources associated with standing
structures;
      (15)   Effect of trees and other landscape elements;
      (16)   Major landscaping which would impact known archaeological sites;
      (17)   Style, material, size and location of all outdoor advertising
signs;
      (18)   Appurtenant features and fixtures, such as lighting;
      (19)   Structural condition and soundness;
      (20)   Walls - physical ingredients, such as brick, stone or wood walls,
wrought iron fences, evergreen landscape masses, or combinations of these;
      (21)   Color;
      (22)   Ground cover or paving;
      (23)   Significant landscape, archaeological, and natural features; and
      (24)   The Secretary of the Interior’s “Standards for Rehabilitation and
Guidelines for Rehabilitating Historic Buildings” shall be the sole principles
and guidelines used in reviewing applications of the State of North Carolina
for certificates of appropriateness.
(Ord. passed 3-8-94)
§ 32.50 CERTAIN CHANGES NOT PROHIBITED.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent the ordinary
maintenance or repair of any exterior architectural feature in a historic
district or of a landmark which does not involve a change in design, materials,
or outer appearance thereof; the ordinary maintenance or repair of streets,
sidewalks, pavement markings, street signs, or traffic signs; and/or the
construction, reconstruction, alteration, restoration or demolition of any such
feature which the Building Inspector shall certify is required by the public
safety because of an unsafe or dangerous condition. Nothing herein shall be
construed to prevent:
   (A)   The maintenance; or
   (B)   In the event of an emergency, the immediate restoration, of any
existing above-ground utility structure without approval by the Commission.
(Ord. passed 3-8-94)
§ 32.51 ENFORCEMENT AND REMEDIES.
   (A)   Compliance with the terms of the certificate of appropriateness shall
be enforced by the Zoning Administrator. Failure to comply with the certificate
shall be a violation of the zoning ordinance and is punishable according to
established procedures and penalties for such violations.
   (B)   In case any building, structure, site, area or object designated as a
landmark or within a historic district is about to be demolished, whether as a
result of deliberate neglect or otherwise, materially altered, remodeled,
removed or destroyed except in compliance with this chapter; the Board of
Aldermen, the Commission, or other party aggrieved by such action may institute
any appropriate action or proceeding; to prevent such unlawful demolition,
destruction, material alteration, remodeling or removal; to restrain, correct;
or abate such violation, or to prevent any illegal act or conduct with respect
to such a building or structure.
(Ord. passed 3-8-94)
§ 32.52 DELAY IN DEMOLITION OF LANDMARKS AND BUILDINGS WITHIN HISTORIC
DISTRICTS.
   (A)   An application for a certificate of appropriateness authorizing the
demolition, removal, or destruction of a designated landmark or a building,
structure or site within a historic district may not be denied except as
provided in division (C) below. However, the effective date of such a
certificate may be delayed for up to 365 days from the date of approval. The
period of delay shall be reduced by the Commission if it finds that the owner
would suffer extreme hardship or be permanently deprived of all beneficial use
or return from such property by virtue of the delay. During the delay period
the Commission shall negotiate with the owner in an effort to find a means of
preserving the building, structure or site. If the Commission finds that a
building, structure, or site has no special significance or value toward
maintaining the character of a district, it shall waive all or part of such
period of delay and authorize earlier demolition or removal.
   (B)   If the Commission has voted to recommend the designation of a landmark
or the designation of an area as a historic district, and final designation has
not been made by the Board of Aldermen, the demolition or destruction of any
building, structure or site in the proposed district or of the designated
landmark may be delayed by the Commission for up to 180 days or until the Board
of Aldermen takes final action on the designation, whichever occurs first.
   (C)   The Board of Aldermen may enact an ordinance to prevent the demolition
by neglect of any designated landmark or any structure or building within the
established historic district. Such chapter shall provide appropriate
safeguards to protect property owners from undue hardship.
   (D)   An application for a certificate of appropriateness authorizing the
demolition of a building, structure or site determined by the State Historic
Preservation Officer as having statewide significance as defined in the
criteria of the National Register of Historic Places may be denied except where
the Commission finds that the owner would suffer extreme hardship or be
permanently deprived of all beneficial use or return by virtue of the denial.
(Ord. passed 3-8-94)
CHAPTER 33: REVENUE AND FINANCE
Section
   
33.01   Fiscal year
   
33.02   Property taxes
§ 33.01 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the town shall begin on the July 1 and shall end on the
June 30 of the succeeding year.
(`94 Code, § 6-1)
Statutory reference:
   State fiscal year, see G.S. § 147-85
§ 33.02 PROPERTY TAXES.
   (A)   Any taxpayer may make a partial payment on the total ad valorem tax
charged against the person's property and thereafter be relieved of penalties
or interest to the extent of the payment, but no release of an individual
parcel of real property from tax lien of the town shall be granted upon a
partial payment made by the party in whose name the property was listed for
taxes.
(`94 Code, § 6-20)
   (B)   In order to avoid undue hardship, the tax collector may release a
particular tract or parcel of real estate from the tax lien of the town when a
change in the ownership of the property has occurred since the listing date for
the year proposed to be paid, upon payment by the owner of the property of the
tax against the same and upon the payment of all unpaid personal property tax
against the party in whose name the property was listed. The party paying the
personal property tax of another shall be subrogated to the rights of the town
with respect to the tax, and the tax collector shall assign to the party all
rights of the town with respect to the item of personal tax.
(`94 Code, § 6-21)
   (C)   The rules stated in division (A) and (B) above shall apply in cases
where property has been sold for taxes and the town is the holder of the
certificate of sale, provided that no suit has been instituted to foreclose the
certificate, and provided further that the applicant for a release in
accordance with the provisions of division (B) above shall first pay the cost
of advertising, selling and issuing of the certificate of sale.
(`94 Code, § 6-21)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town as to property taxes, see G.S. § 160A-209
   Local government finance, see G.S. §§ 159-1 et seq.
   Power of town to impose taxes, see G.S. § 160A-206
CHAPTER 34: CIVIL EMERGENCY PROCEDURES
Section
   
34.01   State of emergency
   
34.02   Issuance of proclamation and curfew order by Mayor
   
34.03   Limitations on application of curfew
   
34.04   Restrictions imposed during curfew
   
34.05   Proclamation of end of emergency and curfew
Statutory reference:
   Emergency Management Act, see G.S.§§ 166A-1 et seq.
   Riots and civil disorders, see §§ G.S. 14-288.1 et seq.
§ 34.01 STATE OF EMERGENCY.
   A state of emergency shall be deemed to exist whenever, during times of
great public crisis, disaster, rioting, catastrophe or similar public
emergency, for any reason, municipal public safety authorities are unable to
maintain public order or afford adequate protection for lives, safety or
property.
(`94 Code, § 5-1)
§ 34.02 ISSUANCE OF PROCLAMATION AND CURFEW ORDER BY MAYOR.
   In the event of an existing or threatened state of emergency endangering the
lives, safety, health and welfare of the people within the town or threatening
damage to or destruction of property, the Mayor is hereby authorized and
empowered to issue a public proclamation declaring to all persons the existence
of a state of emergency and, in order to more effectively protect the lives,
safety and property of people within the town, to define and impose a curfew
applicable to all persons within the jurisdiction of the town.
(`94 Code, § 5-2)
§ 34.03 LIMITATIONS ON APPLICATION OF CURFEW.
   The Mayor is hereby authorized and empowered to limit the application of a
curfew as authorized in § 34.02 to any area specifically designated and
described within the corporate limits and to specific hours of the day or
night, and to exempt from the curfew police personnel, firefighters, doctors,
nurses and any other classes of persons as may be essential to the preservation
of public order and immediately necessary to serve the safety, health and
welfare needs of the people within the town.
(`94 Code, § 5-3)
§ 34.04 RESTRICTIONS IMPOSED DURING CURFEW.
   During the existence of a proclaimed state of emergency when a curfew has
been imposed, it shall be unlawful for any person subject to the curfew to:
   (A)   Be or travel upon any public street, alley or roadway or upon public
property, unless in search of medical assistance, food or other commodity or
service necessary to sustain the well being of the person's self or the
person's family or some member thereof;
   (B)   Possess off one's own premises, buy, sell, give away or otherwise
transfer or dispose of any explosives, firearms, ammunition or dangerous weapon
of any kind;
   (C)   Sell beer, wines or intoxicating beverages of any kind or to possess
or consume the same off one's own premises; or
   (D)   Sell gasoline or any other similar petroleum products or any other
inflammable substances, except as expressly authorized by the provisions of the
curfew imposed.
(`94 Code, § 5-4)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 34.05 PROCLAMATION OF END OF EMERGENCY AND CURFEW.
   The Mayor shall proclaim the end of a state of emergency and curfew as soon
as circumstances warrant or when directed to do so by the Board.
(`94 Code, § 5-5)
CHAPTER 35: CIVIL CITATIONS
Section
   
35.01   Penalties for violation
   
35.02   Uncorrected violations
   
35.03   Failure to pay
   
35.04   Civil citations not exclusive
   
35.05   Appeal of determination of violation
   
35.06   Applicable chapters and appendices
   35.07   Recovery of civil penalties
§ 35.01 PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION.
   Any person determined to be in violation of any of the provisions of the
chapters and/or appendices identified in §
35.06 shall receive a civil citation for a penalty of $100 for such violation.
No penalty shall be assessed until the person alleged to be in violation has
been notified of the violation by a Code Enforcement Officer. The notification
shall be either through a personal visit or by certified mail. If uncorrected
after the notification, a Code Enforcement Officer who observed the violation
shall issue a citation requiring the violator to pay the above-stated penalty
to the town. The owner, tenant or occupant of any building or land or part
thereof of any person who participates in or acts in concert, assists, directs,
creates or maintains any condition found to be a violation shall be subject to
the penalties and remedies herein provided.
(Ord. 02-05, passed 12-10-02; Am. Ord. 16-08, passed 8-9-16)
§ 35.02 UNCORRECTED VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   When a Code Enforcement Officer finds that a previous violation has
not been corrected, the officer shall issue another citation requiring payment
of an additional civil penalty in the amount of $200.
   (B)   After a second citation has been issued, no further civil citation
shall be issued to the same person for the same continuing violation at the
same location unless and until an additional written notice is delivered to the
offender by personal service, certified mail or posting of the notice at the
location of the violation if reasonable attempts to serve the notice are
unsuccessful. The notice shall set forth the nature of the violation and order
that corrective action be taken. The notice shall state that failure to correct
the violation within the time specified in the notice will result in the
assessment of additional civil penalties and other enforcement action. If after
the specified time period has expired and corrective action has not been
completed, the civil penalty shall automatically activate in the amount of $200
per day until the violation is corrected.
   (C)   The Code enforcement Officer shall notify the violator by personal
service or certified mail of the day the civil penalty began to accrue and
shall state that the penalty will continue to accrue for each day the violation
remains uncorrected. Any enforcement action for injunctive relief by the town
shall not stay or abate the accruing of the civil penalty, and the penalty
shall continue to accrue daily until the violation is finally corrected either
voluntarily or by the town as a result of a court order.
(Ord. 02-05, passed 12-10-02; Am. Ord. 16-08, passed 8-9-16)
§ 35.03 FAILURE TO PAY.
   If the civil penalty is not paid within ten days after the demand for
payment by a Code Enforcement Officer, the town may initiate a civil action in
the nature of a debt collection to recover civil penalties which have
previously accrued. The action shall not stop further civil penalties from
accruing if the violation has not been corrected.
(Ord. 02-05, passed 12-10-02)
§ 35.04 CIVIL CITATIONS NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   Civil penalties are an additional remedy for code enforcement. In addition
thereto, all remedies allowed in N.C. General Statutes and this code may also
be pursued by the town at the same time without waiving the civil penalties
authorized in this chapter.
(Ord. 02-05, passed 12-10-02)
§ 35.05 APPEAL OF DETERMINATION OF VIOLATION.
   A person notified of a violation may appeal such determination to the Zoning
Board of Adjustment. The appeal must be filed with the city not later than ten
days after the receipt of the first notice issued. Failure to timely file an
appeal shall constitute acceptance of the determination that a violation
exists. If an appeal is filed, further action by the Code Enforcement Officer
shall be suspended until a ruling is issued by the Board of Adjustment. If the
Board finds that a violation exists, enforcement under this chapter shall
continue despite any further appeals by the violator. The fact that an appeal
is filed or pending under this chapter shall not prevent the town from pursuing
other enforcement remedies allowed by law and a finding by the Zoning Board of
Adjustment that a violation does not exist shall not be binding in any other
enforcement proceeding brought by the town against the same violation that the
Zoning Board of Adjustment ruled upon.
(Ord. 02-05, passed 12-10-02)
§ 35.06 APPLICABLE CHAPTER AND APPENDICES.
   The following chapters and appendices of this code shall be applicable for
this chapter (notwithstanding the fact that some of the below listed chapters
also have penalties contained within them):
   (A)   
Chapter 90, Abandoned and Junked Vehicles;
   (B)   
Chapter 91, Animal Regulations;
   (C)   
Chapter 92, Parks and Recreation;
   (D)   
Chapter 93, Public Health and Safety Matters; Public Nuisances;
   (E)   
Chapter 94, Streets and Sidewalks;
   (F)   
Chapter 111, Energy Utilization Material and Equipment Installers;
   (G)   
Chapter 113, Taxicab Operations;
   (H)   
Chapter 114, Temporary Sales;
   (I)   
Chapter 130, General Offenses;
   (J)   
Chapter 131, Youth Protection;
   (K)   
Chapter 150, Building Regulations; Building Construction;
   (L)   
Chapter 151, Housing Code;
   (M)   
Chapter 153, Flood Hazard Regulations;
   (N)   
Chapter 154, Subdivision Regulations;
   (O)   
Chapter 155, Zoning; and
   (P)   Any chapter or section of this code without a civil penalty specified
for a violation.
(Ord. 02-05, passed 12-10-02; Am. Ord. 16-08, passed 8-9-16)
§ 35.07 RECOVERY OF CIVIL PENALTIES.
   The Land Management Director shall bring suit in small claims court for
recovery in matters where the accumulation of any civil penalties assessed for
violations of this code is less than or equal to $5,000. The Director shall
represent the town in this matter.
(Ord. 16-08, passed 8-9-16)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      Chapter
         
50.   REFUSE
CHAPTER 50: REFUSE
Section
   
50.01   General provisions
   
50.02   County ordinance adopted
   
50.03   Definitions
   
50.04   Use of town facility by nonresidents or for deposit of scrap metal,
automobile bodies and the like
   
50.05   Storage and collection
   
50.06   Refuse regulations for business establishments
   
50.07   Placement of household garbage, waste and refuse in boxes, bags or
other containers
   
50.08   Industrial and building waste
   
50.09   Tree limbs, shrubbery cuttings and the like
   
50.10   Heavy items
   
50.11   Apartments
   
50.12   Commercial dumpsters in residential districts
 
   
50.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town to operate solid waste disposal system, see G.S. § 160A-
312
   Regulation of placement of trash, refuse or garbage, see G.S. § 160A-303.1
§ 50.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   All pertinent provisions of this chapter are hereby made a part of the terms
and conditions whereby the town furnishes solid waste disposal collection to
any person or whereby the town performs any work of any kind in connection with
the furnishing of solid waste collection service
(`94 Code, § 9-1)
§ 50.02 COUNTY ORDINANCE ADOPTED.
   There is hereby adopted by the town the county ordinance entitled “Ordinance
for the Management of Solid Wastes,” and the same is incorporated herein as
fully as if set out at length herein, provided, however, that whenever the
ordinance conflicts with other sections of this chapter, the sections of this
chapter shall prevail. One or more copies of the ordinance are on file in the
office of the Town Clerk.
(`94 Code, § 9-160)
§ 50.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. The organic waste matter, both animal and vegetable, from houses,
kitchens, restaurants, hotels and the like, which is comprised chiefly of waste
food, but which also includes tin cans, bottles and dirty rags. GARBAGE does
not include liquid that may be drained.
   WASTE MATERIAL. Paper, rags, cartons, boxes, trash, packing material and the
like, but not organic waste.
(`94 Code, § 9-150)
§ 50.04 USE OF TOWN FACILITY BY NONRESIDENTS OR FOR DEPOSIT OF SCRAP METAL,
AUTOMOBILE BODIES AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person residing outside of the town to
deposit any garbage, waste materials, refuse matter or deceased animals or fowl
in any town-owned or town-controlled facility for the disposal of garbage,
waste or other refuse, without permission from the authorized agent for the
town, either the Town Manager or the Superintendent of Public Works.
   (B)   No scrap metal, sheet metal or auto bodies shall be deposited in the
disposal facility.
(`94 Code, § 9-151)
§ 50.05 STORAGE AND COLLECTION.
   (A)   No person, other than those under the direction of the Public Works
Director, shall haul away or remove any garbage or refuse set out for
collection as provided in this chapter, except by written consent of the Public
Works Director.
   (B)   Collection of garbage on a weekly basis by a predetermined route.
      (1)   All garbage containers shall be placed on the street no earlier
than dusk on the evening prior to scheduled collection and no later than 7:00
a.m. on collection days. Containers shall be removed from the street and out of
sight, where possible, by the owner or occupant of the premises by midnight on
the day of collection. No containers of any type are to be placed, kept or left
on the street for any purpose on Saturday and Sunday, except as provided for
those with Monday pickups.
      (2)   Failure to abide by this policy will result in the following
penalty: residents who place or leave their garbage containers and/or recycling
bins on the street in violation of this policy shall receive a warning for the
first offense. Second or future violations will result in a penalty pursuant to
§
50.99.
   (C)   Preparation for collection of garbage. All counties and municipalities
in North Carolina are required to institute recycling for the purpose of
reducing the solid waste stream. In the city, garbage is to be separated for
the purpose of collecting materials that can be recycled. Newspapers, aluminum
and metal cans, plastic milk jugs and two- and three-liter soft drink bottles,
glass bottles and jars, and other items as may be designated, are to be
separated by the resident and brought to our convenience site at 600 Sowers
Ferry Road. Site hours are from 7:00 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. Monday through Friday,
and from 9:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. on the first and third Saturday of each month.
Per G.S. § 130A-309.10, It is unlawful for any resident to place recyclables
into regular garbage pickup.
   (D)   In residential areas all garbage must be in an approved 95-gallon roll
out container. The maximum total garbage pickup per residence shall not exceed
190 gallons per week. One 95-gallon container will be provided by the town. If
an extra 95-gallon container is needed the resident will be responsible for
purchasing a second container from the town and will be billed at the town’s
cost. Spillover litter, excess items or bags by receptacles, or any other
condition declared a nuisance under §
93.21 shall be enforced accordingly as a violation of that section.
   (E)   Exemptions. Elderly, handicapped or other persons may be granted an
exemption from curbside collection by the Public Works Director, for cause
shown. Such persons will receive special collection service at a mutually
determined site at the residence.
   (F)   Any variance in the collection method or schedule of garbage, trash,
and the like, or the types of containers that are designated for collection
must be approved in advance by the Public Works Director.
   (G)   Nothing except garbage shall be placed in garbage receptacles.
   (H)   Garbage receptacles as provided for in this chapter shall be placed on
the curb or immediately adjacent to the street of the owner’s or tenant’s
premises or in other designated areas as determined by the public works
director, and made easily accessible to the collectors for emptying the
receptacle. No garbage receptacles shall be placed in the streets.
   (I)   No person shall interfere with or remove the contents of any garbage
receptacle set out for collection. Further, carts and bins supplied by the town
are assigned to resident or business addresses, and are the property of the
town. They are to be left at the address if the occupant moves to another
location.
(Ord. 11-03, passed 7-12-11; Am. Ord. 12-04, passed 10-9-12; Am. Ord. 13-03,
passed 9-10-13) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.06 REFUSE REGULATIONS FOR BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   Business establishments in the town may receive solid waste collection
service from the town for household type garbage. For the purpose of this
section, home occupations shall not be considered a business establishment
unless the nature or volume of garbage exceeds that allowed for residential
uses.
   (B)   Business establishments shall observe the following regulations:
      (1)   Trash bins shall be approved 95-gallon rollout style containers,
and shall be limited to two. Rates for this service shall be those set by the
Board of Aldermen from time to time. Containers shall be screened as described
in division (B)(7). In no case shall pickup exceed more than 190 gallons.
      (2)   Waste and refuse must be placed in bags, and must be contained
entirely within the receptacle. Spillover litter, excess items or bags by
receptacles, or any other condition declared a nuisance under §
93.21 shall be enforced accordingly as a violation of that section.
      (3)   Any business requiring service for more than 190 gallons or
requiring pickup more than once a week shall provide for their own garbage
collection.
      (4)   Business establishments shall privately dispose of any junked
washing machines, refrigerators, water heaters and the like that are acquired.
This matter shall not be accepted at the town landfill or garbage disposal
area.
      (5)   The town provides a drop-off site for separated, recyclable goods
at 600 Sowers Ferry Road. Site hours are from 7:00 a.m. - 3:30 p.m. Monday
through Friday, and from 9:00 a.m. - 12:00 p.m. on the first and third Saturday
of each month.
      (6)   Every site upon which one or more dumpsters are to be placed shall
be located and constructed so as to facilitate collection and minimize any
harmful effect on persons occupying the development site, neighboring
properties or public rights-of-way. Those developments hereafter established
that are required to provide a refuse container shall locate the container on
the property it serves. Any deterioration of the ground surface around a
dumpster, i.e. broken pavement, ruts, standing water, etc., must be remedied
within five business days from the personal delivery of notice or ten business
days from the mailing of notice to the owner of operator by the code
enforcement officer. Any dumpster area that is cited for this infraction more
than three times in any six-month period must have a base pad and access drive
paved with concrete, asphalt or other bituminous paving.
      (7)   Dumpster screening is required for any dumpster that is visible to
the public from any point along the length of the business property at the
building front. Dumpsters shall be screened in accordance with the following:
         (a)   Enclosures shall be constructed of durable, weatherproof,
permanent materials. All solid waste dumpsters or other large containers for
external solid waste storage shall have a lid placed on the container to
minimize the potential contamination of stormwater runoff;
         (b)   Screening shall consist of a solid opaque device that is at
least six feet in height, or at least one foot higher than the height of the
dumpster, whichever is greater, and have latching gates to provide access.
Materials and color used on the exterior of said device shall be compatible and
consistent with those used on the principal structure(s) on the site; and
         (c)   The site shall be paved with concrete, asphalt or other
bituminous paving and shall be located abutting a driveway of sufficient width
to allow access by the solid waste collection equipment. Sites and means of
access shall be approved by the Town Planner.
      (8)   The town reserves the right to deny pickup of any improperly stored
materials. Any business failing to provide for proper containers will be
responsible for the disposal of the materials.
      (9)   Businesses having to comply with division (B)(7) shall do so by no
later than July 1, 2007. All businesses must comply with all other standards of
this section by no later than December 1, 2006.
      (10)   It shall be required that all shopping centers provide at least
one approved trash receptacle for every 100 feet of storefront. These
receptacles shall be no larger than 30 gallons each. It shall be the
responsibility of the property owner to see to the removal of trash from the
above-mentioned receptacles. Each receptacle must be emptied completely at
least once each week.
      (11)   Businesses that cannot conform to the standards of this chapter
can apply for exception. The Technical Review Committee shall review all
applications for exception with regards to this chapter. Approval of the
exception is at the discretion of the Technical Review Committee. Anything
unresolved shall be transmitted in writing to the Sanitation Committee for
review.
(Ord. 06-03, passed 7-11-06; Am. Ord. 16-09, passed 10-11-16)
§ 50.07 PLACEMENT OF HOUSEHOLD GARBAGE, WASTE AND REFUSE IN BOXES, BAGS OR
OTHER CONTAINERS.
   The town will haul household rubbish, trash, pine needles and yard rakings
when the refuse is put into boxes, bags or other type containers and placed on
the front of the lot near the street.
(`94 Code, § 9-154)
§ 50.08 INDUSTRIAL AND BUILDING WASTE.
   Waste or refuse from manufacturing, assembling or processing operations will
not be collected by the town. No building materials or refuse from building
operations or landscape contract work will be handled by the town forces.
(`94 Code, § 9-156)
§ 50.09 TREE LIMBS, SHRUBBERY CUTTINGS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Tree limbs, hedge and shrubbery cuttings, when not produced by a tree
or landscape contractor, will be picked up, provided that the limbs, hedge or
shrubbery cuttings are cut in six-foot lengths and are not more than four
inches in diameter and placed on the front of the lot with the large ends of
each limb toward the street for quick loading. Utility companies shall not be
considered tree or landscape contractors when they voluntarily cut limbs over
or on private property. However, these companies will have to comply with the
limb size as stated above.
   (B)   No limbs or other debris will be picked up from vacant lots.
   (C)   Tree limbs must be piled separately from other debris.
   (D)   Any contractors who engage in the removing or trimming of trees and/or
produce refuse in the form of stumps, limbs or other rubbish shall first obtain
a permit from the town before commencing work. All refuse produced by
contractors shall be removed by the contractors.
   (E)   Debris such as wire, vines, leaves, lumber and the like, mixed with
limbs and brush will cause a forfeit of pickup service. Residents will be
responsible for removal of the debris and fined upon failure to do so.
   (F)   The method for collecting leaves and grass clippings within the
corporate limits of the town will be determined by the date, and whether that
date is considered to be “in season” or “out of season”. The dates for in
season and out of season are as follows:
      (1)   In season: October 1 - December 31 and March 15 - April 15. The
town will run predetermined routes on a regular basis using vacuum machines to
collect leaves and grass clippings placed on the curb.
      (2)   Out of season: January 1 - March 14 and April 15 - September 30.
The town will only collect leaves that are bagged in 35-gallon or smaller bags.
These should be placed near the curb for collection based on a predetermined
route.
      (3)   Location of leaves. Leaves must be placed behind the sidewalk or
curb so as to not impede storm water drainage, pedestrian traffic, or vehicular
traffic.
      (4)   General disposal. Leaves must be free of all limbs, brick, rock,
and the like. If leaves are commingled with limbs, brick, rock, or other
materials, then the town may refuse to collect the debris.
   (G)   Bulk pick up fees.
      (1)   The town will only pick up debris that is the result of cropping or
topping of trees, the felling of trees, tree stumps, or the clearing of
undeveloped property on a fee schedule. Bulk estimates are given by the
issuance of a work order.
      (2)   The town will only pick up debris from trees that was removed by
contractors or persons for hire by a fee schedule. Bulk estimates are given by
the issuance of a work order.
(`94 Code, § 9-157) (Am. Ord. 01-06, passed 6-12-01; Am. Ord. 11-04, passed 5-
10-11)
Penalty, see § 10.99
Cross-reference:
   Dumping leaves, rubbish and the like in streets, see §
94.10
§ 50.10 HEAVY ITEMS.
   The removal and hauling of heavy items such as discarded stoves,
refrigerators, water heaters and other heavy objects shall be the
responsibility of the persons discarding the items.
(`94 Code, § 9-158)
§ 50.11 APARTMENTS.
   Each apartment house or complex of more than four total units shall provide
for their own garbage collection and shall provide a dumpster of suitable size
to contain the garbage. There will be no exceptions to this section.
(Ord. 98-13, passed 10-13-98)
§ 50.12 COMMERCIAL DUMPSTERS IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   No commercial dumpster shall be allowed to be kept on any premises within a
residential district, except as herein provided:
   (A)   Individual homeowners may obtain a permit from the town for a
temporary use commercial dumpster to foster structural renovation or repair
when the improvements would produce more waste than could reasonably be
accommodated by normal household receptacles. Disposal of the dumpster shall be
the responsibility of the permit's applicant.
   (B)   Contractors and responsible parties of new construction not having
adequate means to dispose daily of construction debris are hereafter required
to obtain a permit and have a commercial dumpster on-site with adequate
dimensions to house waste materials produced by any new construction. The
dumpster is required to be emptied as frequently as is necessary to keep
contained all refuse and waste material consequent of the construction.
Disposal of the dumpster shall be the responsibility of the contractor or
responsible party listed on the permit.
   (C)   Permits for the temporary use of a commercial dumpster in a
residential district shall be for a period of 30 days. Should the temporary
dumpster be needed beyond the initial permit period, the applicant may obtain
staff approval for an additional period of 30 days.
(Ord. 00-02, passed 6-13-00; Am. Ord. 15-03, passed 3-10-15)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Individual homeowners.
      (1)   Any person placing any limbs or refuse from vacant lots on the
street right-of- way shall be in violation of this chapter and shall be issued
a civil penalty of $100.
(`94 Code, § 9-157)
      (2)   Any person possessing a commercial dumpster on their premises
within any residential district without permit shall be notified by personal
service or first class mail of the violation, and be instructed to obtain a
permit or remove the dumpster within 48 hours from the personal delivery of
said notice or five days from the mailing of said notice to the owner or
operator. Failure to comply shall result in the property owner being issued a
civil penalty of $100. Each tenth day following this citation in which the
violation remains shall result in a separate and additional civil penalty of
$200.
(Ord. 00-02, passed 6-13-00)
      (3)   Residents or businesses who place or leave their garbage containers
on the street in violation of this policy shall receive a warning for the first
offense. Second or future violations will result in a $100 civil citation.
Appeals can be made to the Land Management Director.
   (B)   Contractors and responsible parties.   
      (1)   Any contractor who places limbs or other refuse on or near the
street right-of- way shall be in violation of this chapter and shall be issued
a civil penalty of $500. Every day after 14 days from the date the citation was
issued shall constitute a separate violation of this section and additional
$500 civil penalty.
(`94 Code, § 9-157)
      (2)   Any contractor or responsible party not having adequate means to
dispose daily of construction debris, and engaging in new construction without
an on-site dumpster shall be notified by personal delivery of notice or first
class mail of the violation, and be instructed to obtain a permit and provide a
dumpster. Failure to comply within 48 hours from the personal delivery of said
notice or five days from the mailing of said notice to the owner, contractor or
operator shall result in the contractor or responsible party being issued a
civil penalty of $200. Each fifth day thereafter in which the violation remains
shall result in a separate and additional $400 civil penalty.
(Ord. 00-02, passed 6-13-00; Am. Ord. 13-03, passed 9-10-13; Am. Ord. 16-08,
passed 8-9-16; Am. Ord. 16-09, passed 10-11-16)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      Chapter
         
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
         
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
         
73.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle or vehicle, as defined below, which
displays a commercial license plate upon that vehicle, or to which the primary
purpose or intent of operating the vehicle is to generate revenue to the
operator of the vehicle.
(Ord. 00-03, passed 7-11-00)
   GOLF CART. A vehicle designed and manufactured for operation on a golf
course for sporting or recreational purposes and that is not capable of
exceeding speeds of 20 mph.
   MOTOR VEHICLE or VEHICLE.  Any machine designed or intended to travel over
land by self-propulsion or while attached to any self-propelled vehicle.
(`94 Code, § 15-90)
   OPERATE. To drive, or be in physical control of a golf cart that is moving
or has its key inserted and in the on position.
   OVERSIZED VEHICLE.
      (1)   Any machine designed or intended to travel over land by self-
propulsion or while attached to any self-propelled vehicle that:
         (a)   Has more than two axles or four tires; or
         (b)   Is designated to carry more than 15 passengers, including the
driver; or
         (c)   Weighs more than 10,000 pounds with or without load; or
         (d)   Requires hazardous materials placards; or
         (e)   Measures more than 100 inches in width; or
         (f)   Measures more than nine feet in height; or
         (g)   Measures more than 22 feet in length.
      (2)   This definition includes, but is not limited to semi-trailers, tow
trucks, buses, limousines, tractors, construction equipment, delivery vans,
recreational vehicles, or similar vehicles.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. Any vehicle or portable structure which can be towed,
hauled, or driven and is primarily designed as temporary living accommodations
for recreational, camping, and travel use. A RECREATIONAL VEHICLE shall not be
considered as a dwelling unit.
(Am. Ord. 10-02, passed 3-9-10; Am. Ord. 16-14, passed 12-13-16)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   If any person shall violate a provision of this title regulating the
operation or parking of vehicles, he or she shall be responsible for an
infraction and shall be required to pay a penalty of not more than $50.
(G.S. § 14-4(b))
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Obedience to police required
   
71.02   Authority of police in special cases
   
71.03   Boarding or alighting from moving vehicles prohibited
   
71.04   Riding on vehicles not intended for passengers prohibited
   
71.05   Entering, jumping on or riding vehicles without permission prohibited
   
71.06   Protruding out of or hanging onto vehicles prohibited
   
71.07   Limitation on number of persons permitted in front seat
Traffic-Control Devices
   
71.20   Official traffic maps; erection and installation
   
71.21   Obedience to official traffic-control devices; sign requirements for
enforcement
   
71.22   No turn signs; turning markers
Operation of Vehicles
   
71.35   Stop intersections
   
71.36   Speed limits
   
71.37   Yield intersections
   
71.38   One-way streets
   
71.39   No right turn intersections
   
71.40   No left turn intersections
   
71.41   U-turns
   
71.42   Driving on sidewalks prohibited
   
71.43   Obstructing intersections or crosswalks prohibited
   
71.44   Driving through funeral processions prohibited
   
71.45   Limitations on backing
   
71.46   Driving on roadways laned for traffic
   
71.47   Emerging from alleys, driveways or buildings
   
71.48   School zones
   
71.49   Attaching bicycles, motorcycles, toy vehicles and the like to moving
vehicles
   
71.50   Riding on handlebars, frame or without hands on motorcycles or bicycles
prohibited
   
71.51   Use of coasters restricted
   
71.52   Zones of quiet
   
71.53   Play streets or parks
   
71.54   Trucks restricted in certain areas
   
71.55   Walking in street where sidewalk provided
   
71.56   Manual on uniform traffic control devices
   
71.57   Policy statement
   
71.58   Rules and regulations
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town as to traffic control, see G.S. § 160A-300
   Authority of town to install traffic-control devices, see G.S. §§ 20-158 et
seq., 20-169
   Codification of certain traffic ordinances by appropriate entries upon
official map books, see G.S. § 160A-77(b)
   Motor vehicles and traffic generally, see G.S. §§ 20-1 et seq.
   Powers of local authorities generally, see G.S. § 20-169
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01 OBEDIENCE TO POLICE REQUIRED.
   No person shall refuse to comply with any lawful order or direction of a
police officer made pursuant to this chapter or other ordinance relative to
motor vehicles and traffic.
(`94 Code, § 15-1)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.02 AUTHORITY OF POLICE IN SPECIAL CASES.
   In the event of a fire or other emergency, or when it is necessary to
expedite traffic or safeguard pedestrians, police officers may direct traffic
as conditions may require, notwithstanding the provisions of this chapter.
(`94 Code, § 15-2)
§ 71.03 BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM MOVING VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall board or alight from any public conveyance or other vehicle
while the conveyance or vehicle is in motion.
(`94 Code, § 15-3)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.04 RIDING ON VEHICLES NOT INTENDED FOR PASSENGERS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall ride on any vehicle not designated or intended for the use
of passengers. This provision shall not apply to an employee engaged in the
necessary discharge of a duty or to persons riding within truck bodies in
spaces intended for merchandise.
(`94 Code, § 15-4)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.05 ENTERING, JUMPING ON OR RIDING VEHICLES WITHOUT PERMISSION PROHIBITED.
   No person shall enter, jump on or ride any automobile or other vehicle
without the consent of the owner or driver.
(`94 Code, § 15-5)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.06 PROTRUDING OUT OF OR HANGING ONTO VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall allow any part of his or her body to protrude beyond the
limits of the vehicle in which the person is riding except to give signals as
are by law required, and no person shall hang onto any vehicle whatsoever.
(`94 Code, § 15-6)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.07 LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF PERSONS PERMITTED IN FRONT SEAT.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver or the person in charge of any motor
vehicle to permit more than three persons, including the driver, to ride in the
front or driver's seat of a motor vehicle.
(`94 Code, § 15-7)
Penalty, see § 70.99
Statutory reference:
   Overloaded or overcrowded vehicles, see G.S. § 20-140.2
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 71.20 OFFICIAL TRAFFIC MAPS; ERECTION AND INSTALLATION.
   (A) The Board, by ordinance from time to time, shall designate, lay off and
indicate upon maps to be appropriately marked and maintained in the office of
the Town Clerk the following: fire lanes, parking spaces and zones, no parking
zones, limited parking zones, loading zones, safety zones, school zones,
hospital zones, quiet zones, traffic zones other than the above, through
streets, stop streets, yield right-of-way streets, one-way streets, three- and
four-lane streets, play streets, bus stops, parallel parking, angle parking and
parking under any other restrictions, together with indications of
intersections at which traffic shall be controlled by official traffic signals,
intersections at which left turns or right turns shall be prohibited or at
which left turns or right turns shall be allowed under certain conditions, and
intersections at which markers, buttons, painted marks, signs or other
indications shall be placed to indicate the course to be traveled by vehicles
traversing or turning at the intersections.
   (B)   Whenever any designation is made in accordance with this section, the
designated town officials or their agents shall erect and install any signs,
markings, lines, signals and other traffic-control devices as may be necessary
to clearly indicate the designation and to put drivers of vehicles on notice of
the restriction, limitation or prohibition resulting from the designation.
(`94 Code, § 15-20)
§ 71.21 OBEDIENCE TO OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES; SIGN REQUIREMENTS FOR
ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the directions of any official
traffic-control device applicable thereto and placed in accordance with this
chapter or other traffic ordinances of the town, unless otherwise directed by a
police officer, subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle.
   (B)   No provision of this chapter which provides for signs shall be
enforced against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the alleged
violation, the official sign is not in proper position or is insufficiently
legible to an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular section does
not stipulate signs, the section shall be effective without signs being placed
to give notice thereof.
(`94 Code, § 15-21)
§ 71.22 NO TURN SIGNS; TURNING MARKERS.
   Whenever authorized signs are placed which indicate that no right, left or
U-turn is permitted, the driver of a vehicle shall obey the directions of the
sign, and when authorized markers, buttons or other indications are placed
within an intersection which indicate the course to be traveled by vehicles
traversing or turning thereat, the driver of a vehicle shall obey the
directions of the indications.
(`94 Code, § 15-22)
Statutory reference:
   Turning at intersections generally and authority of town to alter turning
methods by placement of buttons, markers and the like, see G.S. § 20-153
OPERATION OF VEHICLES
§ 71.35 STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   When stop signs are placed at stop intersections as designated on the
official traffic maps, every driver of a vehicle shall stop before entering the
intersection, and he or she shall not proceed into or across the through street
until he or she has first determined that no conflict with traffic will ensue.
(`94 Code, § 15-30)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.36 SPEED LIMITS.
   Except in those cases in which speed limits differing from those provided by
state law have been adopted by ordinance of the Board, and have been made
effective by the adoption of a concurring ordinance by the state authority
where required by state law, and by the erection within the town of signs
giving notice of the authorized speed limits, the speed limit established by
state law shall apply within the town. A schedule of all authorized variations
from the speed limits, together with copies of ordinances of the Board and of
the state authority authorizing the variations, where required by state law,
shall be maintained on file in the office of the Town Clerk.
(`94 Code, § 15-31)
Statutory reference:
   Speed restrictions generally and authority of town to impose certain speed
limits, see G.S. §§ 20-141 et seq.
§ 71.37 YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
   When yield right-of-way signs have been placed at those intersections
designated as locations for the signs on the official traffic maps, no person
shall fail to yield the right-of-way at yield right-of-way signs before
entering the intersections.
(`94 Code, § 15-32)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.38 ONE-WAY STREETS.
   Upon those streets or portions of streets designated as one-way streets on
the official traffic maps of the town, no person shall operate a vehicle except
in the indicated direction when signs have been placed, erected or installed
and maintained at every intersection where movement in the opposite direction
is prohibited.
(`94 Code, § 15-33)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.39 NO RIGHT TURN INTERSECTIONS.
   When “no right turn” signs have been placed at those intersections
designated as locations for the signs on the official traffic maps, no person
shall make a right turn at the designated intersections.
(`94 Code, § 15-34)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.40 NO LEFT TURN INTERSECTIONS.
   When “no left turn” signs have been placed at those intersections designated
as locations for the signs on the official traffic maps, no person shall make a
left turn at the designated intersections.
(`94 Code, § 15-35)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.41 U-TURNS.
   When “no U-turn” signs are placed at those locations designated as locations
for the signs on the official traffic maps, no person shall make a U-turn at
the designated locations, provided that U-turns are prohibited at all street
intersections where electric traffic-control devices are located, and it shall
not be necessary to erect “no U-turn” signs at these intersections.
(`94 Code, § 15-36)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.42 DRIVING ON SIDEWALKS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle shall not drive within any sidewalk area,
except at a permanent or temporary driveway.
(`94 Code, § 15-37)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any vehicle having a saddle or seat for the
use of the rider and designed to travel on not more than three wheels in
contact with the ground, including motor scooters and motor driven bicycles but
excluding tractors and utility vehicles, to be operated on the sidewalks or
rights-of-way of the town or on any property of the town, unless the property
is a dedicated public road.
(`94 Code, § 15-41)
Penalty, see § 70.99
Statutory reference:
   Driving on sidewalks, see G.S. § 20-160
§ 71.43 OBSTRUCTING INTERSECTIONS OR CROSSWALKS PROHIBITED.
   No driver shall move his or her vehicle across an intersection or a marked
crosswalk unless he or she knows that there is sufficient space on the other
side of the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the driver's vehicle
without obstructing the passage of other vehicles or pedestrians, although a
traffic-control signal may be indicating the driver's right to proceed.
(`94 Code, § 15-38)
Penalty, see § 70.99
Cross-reference:
   Obstruction of streets and sidewalks, see §
94.02
§ 71.44 DRIVING THROUGH FUNERAL PROCESSIONS PROHIBITED.
   No vehicle may be driven through a funeral procession, except that this does
not apply to authorized emergency vehicles if the same are responding to calls.
(`94 Code, § 15-38)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.45 LIMITATIONS ON BACKING.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the vehicle into any intersection or
over a crosswalk, nor shall a driver back it otherwise, unless the movement can
be made in safety and unless ample warning has been given by hand, horn or
other signal.
(`94 Code, § 15-40)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.46 DRIVING ON ROADWAYS LANED FOR TRAFFIC.
   All vehicles operated on any roadway which has been clearly marked with
traffic lanes shall be driven, as nearly as practical, entirely within a single
lane and shall not be moved out of the lane until the driver has first
ascertained that the movement can be made with safety.
(`94 Code, § 15-42)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.47 EMERGING FROM ALLEYS, DRIVEWAYS OR BUILDINGS.
   A driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, driveway or building shall
stop the vehicle immediately prior to reaching the sidewalk or the sidewalk
areas extending across any alleyway, and upon entering the roadway, shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the roadway.
(`94 Code, § 15-43)
Statutory reference:
   Entering highway from alley, building entrance, private road or driveway,
see G.S. § 20-156
§ 71.48 SCHOOL ZONES.
   Whenever authorized signs are placed, erected or installed indicating any
street or part thereof as a school zone, all drivers of motor vehicles using
the street or part thereof shall exercise the greatest care in driving upon the
street or part thereof for the protection of children.
(`94 Code, § 15-44)
§ 71.49 ATTACHING BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES, TOY VEHICLES AND THE LIKE TO MOVING
VEHICLES.
   Any person riding upon any bicycle, motorcycle, coaster, sled, roller skates
or any toy vehicle shall not attach the vehicle or the person's self to any
public conveyance or moving vehicle upon any roadway.
(`94 Code, § 15-45)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.50 RIDING ON HANDLEBARS, FRAME OR WITHOUT HANDS ON MOTORCYCLES OR BICYCLES
PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The operator of a motorcycle or bicycle, when upon a street, shall not
carry any person upon the handlebars, frame or tank of the vehicle, nor shall
any person ride in such a fashion.
(`94 Code, § 15-46)
   (B)   No person shall ride a bicycle or motorcycle on any street without
having his or her hands on the handlebar.
(`94 Code, § 15-47)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.51 USE OF COASTERS RESTRICTED.
   No person riding in any coaster, toy vehicle or similar device shall go upon
any roadway, other than a street set aside as a play street, except while
crossing a street at a crosswalk or intersection.
(`94 Code, § 15-48)
Penalty, see § 70.99
Cross-reference:
   Roller skates, street skates and skateboards regulated, see §
94.08
§ 71.52 ZONES OF QUIET.
   Whenever authorized signs are placed which indicate a zone of quiet, no
person operating a motor vehicle within the zone of quiet shall sound the horn
or any other warning device of the vehicle, except in an emergency.
(`94 Code, § 15-49)
Penalty, see § 70.99
Cross-reference:
   Noise regulations, see §§
93.26 and
93.27
§ 71.53 PLAY STREETS OR PARKS.
   Whenever authorized signs are placed, erected or installed indicating any
street or part thereof as a play street or a park, no person shall drive a
vehicle upon the street or portion thereof, except for drivers of vehicles
having business in or whose residences are within the closed area, in which
case the driver shall exercise the greatest care in driving upon any street or
portion thereof.
(`94 Code, § 15-50)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.54 TRUCKS RESTRICTED IN CERTAIN AREAS.
   (A)   No person shall operate any truck or trailer for the transportation of
property or persons on the streets or parts of streets designated on the
official traffic maps, provided that trucks and trailers may travel on the
parts of streets to reach or to return from a destination upon the streets.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall cause to be erected and maintained, at all
approaches to the parts of streets on which trucks are prohibited, signs of
dimensions and at locations that shall be approved by the town, and directing
that no trucks are allowed in accordance with the provisions of this section.
(`94 Code, § 15-51)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.55 WALKING IN STREET WHERE SIDEWALK PROVIDED.
   Where sidewalks are provided, it shall be unlawful for any pedestrian to
walk along and upon an adjacent roadway. Where sidewalks are not provided, any
pedestrian walking along and upon a highway shall, when practicable, walk only
on the extreme left of roadway or its shoulder facing traffic which may
approach from the opposite direction. Such pedestrian shall yield the right-of-
way to approaching traffic.
(Ord. 06-04, passed 4-11-06)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 71.56 MANUAL ON UNIFORM TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   All signage, pavement markings, and signals used for traffic control on
public streets in the Town of Spencer must be designed and marked in accordance
with the latest version of the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices
(MUTCD). Traffic controls and street signs which are erected and/or maintained
by the town shall be consistent with the MUTCD. All specialty traffic control,
street signs and posts must also comply with the MUTCD. Existing signs not in
compliance with the MUTCD will remain in place until they are no longer in good
order, at which time they will be removed and not replaced.
(Ord. 11-08, passed 9-13-11)
§ 71.57 POLICY STATEMENT.
   This section is adopted in the interest of public safety. Golf carts,
hereinafter "cart(s)," are not designed or manufactured to be used on public
streets and roads, hereinafter "street(s)," and the town in no way advocates or
endorses their operation on streets. The town, by regulating such operation, is
merely addressing safety issues. This section is not to be relied upon as a
determination that operation on streets is safe or advisable even if done in
accordance with this section. All persons operating carts must be observant of,
and attentive to the safety of themselves and others, including their
passengers, other motorists, bicyclists, and pedestrians. All persons that
operate or ride carts on streets inside the town do so at their own risk. The
town shall have no liability under any theory of liability, for permitting
carts to be operated on streets under legislative authority granted by the
State of North Carolina, and pursuant to such legislative authority, such cart
operation shall be in accordance with this section.
(Ord. 16-14, passed 12-13-16)
§ 71.58 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   Carts shall only be operated on streets within the municipal limits of the
town in accordance with the following rules and regulations:
   (A)   Any person who operates a cart in the town assumes all liability
associated with operating the cart.
   (B)   Any person who operates a cart must be at least 16 years of age and
possess a valid driver's license required by the State of North Carolina for
operation of a motor vehicle. Cart operators must carry their driver's license
on their person at all times while operating a cart on the streets in the
corporate limits.
   (C)   Carts shall be driven on streets only from dawn to dusk, unless the
cart is equipped with two lighted lamps, one on each side of the front of the
cart, visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of at least
300 feet to the front of such cart, and a red lamp on the rear, exhibiting a
red light visible under like conditions from a distance of at least 200 feet to
the rear of such cart. In lieu of the red lamp, the cart may alternatively be
equipped at the rear with two red reflectors of a diameter of not less than
three inches, which are designed, located and maintained so that each reflector
is visible for at least 500 feet when approached by a motor vehicle displaying
lawful undimmed headlights. For added safety a reflectorized triangle may be
mounted on the rear of the golf cart but is not required. If the cart does not
have electric signals, hand signals should be used by the operator.
   (D)   Carts shall only be driven on streets in the town with a posted speed
limit of 35 miles per hour or less.
   (E)   Carts shall not be operated on or alongside any portion of Salisbury
Avenue but may cross Salisbury Avenue after exercising extreme caution. Driving
on Salisbury Avenue may be authorized by the Chief of Police for parades and
special events.
   (F)   Any person who operates a cart on the streets in the town shall adhere
to all applicable state laws concerning the possession and use of alcoholic
beverages and illegal drugs, and all applicable state traffic laws.
   (G)   No cart shall be operated in a careless or reckless manner.
   (H)   Carts shall be operated to the right side of the travel lane unless
making a left turn.
   (I)   The maximum occupancy of a cart traveling on streets shall be one
person per bucket seat or two people per bench seat.
   (J)   Carts shall not be operated on any sidewalk in the town.
   (K)   Carts shall not be operated on the walking trails of the Stanback
Forest.
   (L)   Carts shall not be operated on or across any public or private
properties outside the street right of way without the permission of the
property owner.
   (M)   Carts shall only park in handicapped parking spaces if the driver or
at least one passenger has a valid handicap parking placard and such placard is
properly displayed in the cart.
   (N)   No cart shall be operated at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent for the existing conditions and in no instance at a speed greater than
20 miles per hour.
   (O)   All cart owners of cart's that operate on the streets within the town
shall complete and submit a cart registration/inspection form. The completed
forms will be maintained by the Spencer Police Department. All carts operated
on the streets must have a valid permit sticker issued by the Police
Department. No fee shall be charged for the yearly registration of the golf
cart. A sticker will be provided by the town indicating the golf cart has been
inspected and approved for operation on the streets of Spencer. The Chief of
Police or his designee retains the right to refuse to issue and/or revoke any
permit sticker from any cart at any time for any reason that he feels is
appropriate to ensure the safety and well-being of the citizens of the town or
the motoring public.
   (P)   Each owner shall have proof of cart ownership, and must complete a
waiver of liability, releasing the town, its employees, and officials from all
liability that may arise as a result of operating a cart on streets inside the
town. A current waiver of liability must be on file with the Spencer Police
Department to operate on streets.
   (Q)   Lost or stolen permit/stickers are the responsibility of the owner. A
police report must be filed in the event of a lost or stolen permit/sticker.
The Chief of Police shall have discretion in determining whether a Permit/
Sticker may be re-issued in this instance. If no record can be found of a
previous application, or the receipt of a permit/sticker, the Chief of Police
may direct the applicant to reapply, and pay $5 for a replacement decal.
   (R)   Any person who operates a cart on the streets shall have liability
insurance coverage in an amount sufficient to cover the risk involved in using
the cart on the streets in accordance with requirements mandated by the laws of
North Carolina. Proof of such insurance shall be in the possession of the
operator of the cart while operating the cart and a copy shall be provided to
the Police Department at the time of permitting.
   (S)   Any act constituting a violation of this section or failure to comply
with any of its requirements shall subject the offender to criminal penalties
as listed in §
10.99 of this code and/or a civil penalty of $50 for the first offense and $100
for each subsequent offense, plus any attorney fees incurred by the town.
   (T)   Offenders are also subject to charges on N. C. Uniform Citations and
arrest. If the offenders fail to pay any civil penalty within ten days of its
issuance or if there are repeat ordinance violations, the privileges and permit
granted by this section may be revoked by the Spencer Police Department.
Members of the Spencer Police Department that are designated by the Chief of
Police are authorized to inspect golf carts prior to issuance of a permit.
   (U)   Carts used/owned by the town and operated for special events or
official business shall be required to comply with this section.
(Ord. 16-14, passed 12-13-16)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
72.01   General provisions
   
72.02   No parking zone and safety zone markers
   
72.03   Obstructing passage of other vehicles prohibited
   
72.04   Specific locations of prohibited parking
   
72.05   Designated streets for restricted parking
   
72.06   Fire lanes
   
72.07   Taxi stands, bus stands and the like; taxi parking regulations
   
72.08   Prohibited purposes for parking
   
72.09   Parking of trucks after sunset restricted
   
72.10   Parking procedures
   
72.11   Parking lights
   
72.12   Moving vehicles of other operators into prohibited areas
   
72.13   Commercial vehicles restricted in residential districts
   
72.14   Oversized vehicles, boats and trailers restricted from parking in
right-of-ways
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town to regulate on-street parking, see G.S. § 160A-301
   Off-street parking facilities, see G.S. § 160A-302
   Stopping, standing and parking, see G.S. §§ 20-161 et seq.
§ 72.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   No vehicle shall stop in any street except for the purpose of parking
as prescribed in this chapter, unless the stop is made necessary by the
approach of fire apparatus, by the approach of a funeral or other procession
which is given the right-of-way, by the stopping of a public conveyance, by the
lowering of railway gates, by traffic signals, by the passing of some other
vehicle or a pedestrian, or by some emergency.
   (B)   In all cases covered by these exceptions the vehicles shall stop so as
not to obstruct any footway, pedestrian aisle, safety zone, crossing or street
intersection if it can be avoided.
(`94 Code, § 15-60)
Penalty, see § 70.99
Statutory reference:
   Stopping on highway, see G.S. § 20-161
§ 72.02 NO PARKING ZONE AND SAFETY ZONE MARKERS.
   Whenever authorized signs or markings are placed which indicate no parking
zones or safety zones. the driver of a vehicle shall obey the regulatory
indications.
(`94 Code, § 15-23)
§ 72.03 OBSTRUCTING PASSAGE OF OTHER VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   No vehicle shall so stand on any street as to interrupt or interfere with
the passage of public conveyances or other vehicles.
(`94 Code, § 15-61)
Penalty, see § 70.99
Cross-reference:
   Obstruction of streets and sidewalks, see §
94.02
§ 72.04 SPECIFIC LOCATIONS OF PROHIBITED PARKING.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic or when so directed by a police officer or
traffic-control device, in any of the following places:
   (A)   On a sidewalk or on the space between the sidewalk and the curb;
   (B)   Within an intersection;
   (C)   On a crosswalk;
   (D)   Within 30 feet of any flashing beacon, stop sign or traffic-control
signal located at the side of a street or roadway;
   (E)   Within 50 feet in any direction of the outer edge of a railroad
underpass or overhead bridge;
   (F)   Within 50 feet of the closest rail on either side of any street
leading to a grade crossing, provided that where existing permanent structures
are located closer than 50 feet, parking may be permitted in front of the
structures, unless otherwise prohibited, and if the parking does not block the
view in either direction of the approach of a locomotive or train;
   (G)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction, when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
   (H)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure or within any underpass
structure;
   (I)   Within 15 feet in either direction of the driveway entrance to a
hotel, theater, hospital, sanatorium or any public building;
   (J)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopping, standing, or parking at
the edge or curb of a street;
   (K)   Within 15 feet of any fire plug or hydrant;
   (L)   Within 12 feet of the point where the margin of any alley or driveway
of a public business intersects any public street in the town.
   (M)   At those places specified on the official traffic maps and at which
signs are placed which prohibit parking or when the curbing has been painted
yellow in lieu of signs prohibiting parking.
   (N)   On an alley, right-of-way, or public thoroughfare that interferes,
blocks, or creates a hazard for any passing vehicles, except for emergency
vehicles, town vehicles, public works vehicles and equipment, public safety
vehicles, volunteer firefighter personal vehicles, or the alike in the
performance of their duties.
(`94 Code, § 15-62) (Am. Ord. 18-007, passed 4-10-18) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Parking near fire hydrants and the like, see G.S. § 20-162
§ 72.05 DESIGNATED STREETS FOR RESTRICTED PARKING.
   Upon those streets or portions of streets designated on the official traffic
maps of the town as streets where parking is limited to certain designated
times, no person shall park a vehicle except in conformity with these
restrictions, when signs have been placed, erected or installed and maintained
on the streets giving notice of the applicable limitations.
(`94 Code, § 15-63)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.06 FIRE LANES.
   (A)   Pursuant to the provisions of G.S. § 160A-301, and for the protection
and safety of the lives and property of the citizens, there are hereby
established certain fire lanes as specified on the official traffic map and at
which signs are placed prohibiting parking and/or the fire lane has been
clearly painted with yellow markings in addition to or in lieu of signs. Fire
lanes may be established upon the request of the property owner or person in
general charge of the operation and control of the area, with approval by the
Board, both on private property which constitutes a public vehicular area as
that term is defined by G.S. § 20-4.01(32), and on any public drive, driveway,
road, roadway, street, alley or other surface generally used or reserved for
the movement or parking of motor vehicles.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a vehicle or permit it to
stand, whether attended or unattended, or to put or place any other object,
structure or obstruction in a fire lane which has been established and properly
marked under the provisions of this section. However, it shall not be unlawful
for governmental vehicles, including municipal transit buses or non-
governmental emergency vehicles, including rescue squad vehicles, to stop,
stand or travel within the fire lanes when required to do so in the performance
of their official duties.
   (C)   Any vehicle which shall be or remain standing or parked in any fire
lane established under this section may be removed by or under order of the
Chief of Police or the Chief's designee.
(`94 Code, § 15-64)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.07 TAXI STANDS, BUS STANDS AND THE LIKE; TAXI PARKING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Whenever signs are placed at locations designated on the official
traffic maps, which signs indicate that the locations are reserved for the
parking of taxis, buses and the like, and no automobile or other vehicle other
than the type specified shall park at these locations.
(`94 Code, § 15-65)
   (B)   Not more than two taxicabs owned by the same company shall be parked
in one block at the same time, unless parked in established taxi stands as
provided in division (A) above.
(`94 Code, § 15-69)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.08 PROHIBITED PURPOSES FOR PARKING.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle upon any street for the principal
purpose of:
      (A)   Displaying it for sale;
      (B)   Washing, greasing or repairing the vehicle, except repairs
necessitated by an emergency;
      (C)   Storage thereof by garages, dealers or other persons, when the
storage is not incidental to the bona fide use and operation of the vehicle;
      (D)   Storage of any detached trailer or van, when the towing unit has
been disconnected;
      (E)    Transferring merchandise or freight from one vehicle to another;
and
(`94 Code, § 15-66)
      (F)   Advertising.
(`94 Code, § 15-67)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.09 PARKING OF TRUCKS AFTER SUNSET RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful to park any truck on any cement or asphalt street from
sunset to sunrise for more than two hours continuously, and during the two-hour
period that the truck is parked, there shall be displayed a light at the front
and end of the truck.
(`94 Code, § 15-68)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.10 PARKING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Where not otherwise indicated by this chapter, all vehicles shall park
parallel to the curb and not more than 12 inches therefrom.
(`94 Code, § 15-70)
   (B)   In no case shall a vehicle remain backed up to the curb, except when
actually loading or unloading.
(`94 Code, § 15-71)
   (C)   No vehicle shall stop with its left side to the curb in the business
district, except that on one- way streets, vehicles shall stop headed in the
direction of traffic.
(`94 Code, § 15-72)
   (D)   On any street which is marked off with lines indicating the parking
spaces for cars, the same shall be parked between the lines.
(`94 Code, § 15-73)
   (E)   Parked cars shall move out in the direction headed, or if they are
parked at an angle with the curb, they shall back out at that angle until they
have cleared the other cars and shall then proceed in the direction in which
they are most nearly headed.
(`94 Code, § 15-75)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 72.11 PARKING LIGHTS.
   Parking lights upon a vehicle, when the vehicle is lawfully parked at night
on a street in accordance with this chapter, shall not be required, except
where specifically required by the town.
(`94 Code, § 15-74)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town to enact ordinance dealing with lights on parked vehicles,
see G.S. § 20-134
§ 72.12 MOVING VEHICLES OF OTHER OPERATORS INTO PROHIBITED AREAS.
   No person shall move a vehicle not owned by the person into any prohibited
area, or sufficiently away from a curb to make the distance unlawful.
(`94 Code, § 15-76)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 72.13 COMMERCIAL AND OVERSIZED VEHICLES, BOATS, AND TRAILERS RESTRICTED FROM
PARKING IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE is defined as any motor vehicle or vehicle, which
displays a commercial license plate upon that vehicle, commercial business name
or markings on the vehicle, or to which the primary purpose or intent of
operating the vehicle is to generate revenue to the operator of the vehicle.
   (B)   Commercial vehicles shall be allowed to be kept on any premises within
a residential zoning district, with exceptions and provisions as herein
provided to protect the public health, safety and general welfare:
      (1)   The legal owner, lessee, or occupant of the real property onto
which the commercial vehicle is parked is also the registered owner or person
entitled to possession of the commercial vehicle.
      (2)   No more than two commercial vehicles per 8,750 square feet of lot
space are permitted on a lot, which is not vacant but contains a principal
dwelling unit.
      (3)   Commercial vehicles must be contained within the residential off-
street parking confines of the affected lot and not on any street, highway, or
public right-of-way.
   (C)   Commercial vehicles shall be prohibited on any premises within a
residential zoning district if these conditions exist:
      (1)   An open display or outside storage of goods, stock in trade, or
other commodities; and
      (2)   Any person not a resident on the premises that is employed in
connection with the parking or storage of the commercial vehicles on that
property.
   (D)   The Code Enforcement Officer may order the removal of any commercial
vehicle, on private property, which is in violation of this section.
   (E)   The Chief of Police or his designee may order the removal of any
commercial vehicle, on the street, highway, or public right-of-way, which is in
violation of this section.
(Ord. 00-03, passed 7-11-00; Am. Ord. 10-02, passed 3-9-10; Am. Ord. 17-005,
passed 3-14-17) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.14 OVERSIZED VEHICLES, BOATS AND TRAILERS RESTRICTED FROM PARKING IN
RIGHT-OF-WAYS.
   (A)   Oversized vehicles, boats, and trailers greater than eight feet in
width or which is blocking more than one-half the width of the street, highway,
or public right-of-way, creating a traffic hazard are prohibited from parking
or to be left standing on any street, highway, or public right-of-way within
the corporate boundaries of the town.
   (B)   The Chief of Police or his designee may order the vehicle removed when
he finds the vehicle to be in violation of this section.
(Ord. 17-005, passed 3-14-17)
CHAPTER 73: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Restricted parking
SCHEDULE I. RESTRICTED PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to park in any of the following streets or
portions of street when the following restrictions apply.
   (B)   Any vehicle parked within the areas listed in the schedule below or
shown on the official traffic maps as having limitations regarding certain
times that parking is permitted or not permitted shall be regarded as
continuously parked, even though the vehicle may be moved from one parking
space to another within the same block during an eight-hour period.
 
Street                 Location                Side(s) Restrictions
                       From the intersection           Parking shall be
                       with Salisbury Avenue           prohibited between the
Fourth Street          West to the             Both    hours of 1:00 a.m. local
                       intersection with               time and 4:00 a.m. local
                       Yadkin Avenue                   time
                       From the intersection           Parking shall be
                       with Third Street South         prohibited between the
South Salisbury Avenue to the intersection     Both    hours of 1:00 a.m. local
                       with Sixth Street               time and 4:00 a.m. local
                                                       time
                                                       Parking shall be limited
                       From the intersection           to two hours between the
South Salisbury Avenue with Third Street South West    hours of 8:00 a.m. local
                       to the intersection             time and 5:00 p.m. local
                       with Sixth Street               time on all days except
                                                       Sundays
                       From the intersection           Parking shall be
                       with Salisbury Avenue           prohibited between the
Third Street           West to the             Both    hours of 1:00 a.m. local
                       intersection with               time and 4:00 a.m. local
                       Yadkin Avenue                   time
 
   (C)   No parking during school hours - 7:00 a.m. until 4:00 p.m.
      (1)   The following areas are so designated:
         (a)   The roadway area along Whitehead Ave, on the side abutting the
property of Rowan County Board of Education's property line as indicated on the
Rowan County Tax Map 037 Parcel 006, extending 992 feet from the corner of
Oakwood Ave toward 1st Street.
         (b)   The roadway area along Oakwood Ave, on the side abutting the
property of Rowan County Board of Education's property line as indicated on the
Rowan County Tax Map 037 Parcel 006, extending 878 feet from the corner of
Whitehead Ave toward Pinecroft Lane.
      (2)   All areas designated in division (C)(1) above shall be clearly
identified with the installation of signs, markings, lines, signals, or other
traffic-control devices as may be necessary to clearly indicate the designation
and to put drivers of vehicles on notice of the restriction, limitation or
prohibition resulting from the designation.
      (3)   No person shall park vehicle except in conformity with these
restrictions, when signs have been placed, erected or installed and maintained
on the streets giving notice of the applicable limitations.
      (4)   Any vehicle which shall be or remain standing or parking in all
areas so designated in division (C)(1) above may be removed by or under order
of the Chief of Police or the Chief's designee as authorized in §
72.05.
   (D)   Fire lanes.
      (1)   The following areas are so designated:
         (a)   The roadway area, extending eight feet from the edge of
pavement, then along the south side of 8th Street, extending approximately 75
feet from the northwest corner of the 8th Street Ballpark Concession Stand
Building, then west toward Baldwin Ave, ending at the marked handicapped
parking space on pavement, located behind the 8th Street Ballpark Grand Stand
located at Rowan County Tax Map #043 Parcel 008 commonly known as 705 8th
Street.
         (b)   The roadway area, extending eight feet from the edge of
pavement, then along Baldwin Ave. South from 8th Street, beginning on the
roadway, evenly with the southwest corner post of the 8th Street Ballpark
Grandstand and extending south for approximately 40 feet to the southernmost
end of the 1st Baseline Dugout Building of the 8th Street Ballpark, located
along its western boundary at Rowan County Tax Map #043 Parcel 008 commonly
known as 705 8th Street.
      (2)   All areas designated in division (D)(1)(a) above shall be clearly
painted with yellow hash markings, eight feet from the edge of pavement, in
addition to signs prohibiting parking for the fire lane.
      (3)   All areas so designated in division (D)(1)(b) above shall be
clearly painted with yellow hash markings, four feet from the edge of pavement,
in addition to signs prohibiting parking for the fire lane.
      (4)   Any vehicle which shall be or remain standing or parking in the
fire lane so designated in division (D)(1) above may be removed by or under
order of the Chief of Police or the Chief's designee as authorized in §
72.06.
(Ord. 96-2, passed 2-13-96; Am. Ord. 17-004, passed 2-14-17; Am. Ord. 17-014,
passed 8-8-17) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
90.   ABANDONED AND JUNKED VEHICLES
         
91.   ANIMAL REGULATIONS
         
92.   PARKS AND RECREATION
         
93.   PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY MATTERS; PUBLIC NUISANCES
         
94.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
CHAPTER 90: ABANDONED AND JUNKED VEHICLES
Section
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Administration
   
90.03   Vehicles exempt
   
90.04   Abandoned vehicles prohibited; removal authorized
   
90.05   Nuisance vehicles prohibited; removal authorized
   
90.06   Junked motor vehicles regulated; removal authorized
   
90.07   Removal of vehicles in violation; towing notice requirements
   
90.08   Exceptions to prior notice requirement
   
90.09   Right to probable cause hearing before sale or final disposition of
vehicle
   
90.10   Redemption of vehicle during proceedings
   
90.11   Sale and disposition of unclaimed vehicle
   
90.12   Conditions on removal of vehicles from private property
   
90.13   Protection against criminal or civil liability
   
90.14   Unlawful removal of impounded vehicle
Statutory reference:
   Abandoned motor vehicles, see G.S. §§ 20-137.6 et seq. and 160A-303 et seq.
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. As authorized and defined in G.S. § 160A-303, an
ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE is one that is left:
      (1)   Upon a public street or highway in violation of a law or ordinance
prohibiting parking;
      (2)   On a public street or highway for longer than seven days;
      (3)   On property owned or operated by the town for longer than 24 hours;
or
      (4)   On private property without the consent of the owner, occupant or
lessee thereof, for longer than two hours.
   AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL. The supervisory employee of the Police Department or
the Code Enforcement Officer, respectively, designated to authorize the removal
of vehicles under the provisions of this chapter.
   ENCLOSED STRUCTURE. A garage or building structure erected pursuant to the
lawful issuance of a building permit, constructed in accordance with all zoning
and building code regulations and which provides a complete enclosure so that
the junked motor vehicles cannot be seen from a public street or abutting
property.
    JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE. As authorized and defined in G.S. § 160A-303.2, means
a vehicle that does not display a current license plate and that:
      (1)   Is partially dismantled or wrecked;
      (2)   Cannot be self-propelled or moved in the manner in which it
originally was intended to move; or
      (3)   Is more than five years old and appears to be worth less than  $500
.
   MOTOR VEHICLE or VEHICLE. Any machine designed or intended to travel over
land by self- propulsion or while attached to any self-propelled vehicle.
   NUISANCE VEHICLE. A vehicle on public or private property that is determined
and declared to be a health or safety hazard, a public nuisance and unlawful,
including a vehicle found to be:
      (1)   A breeding ground or harbor for mosquitoes, other insects, rats or
other pests;
      (2)   A point of heavy growth of weeds or other noxious vegetation over
eight inches in height;
      (3)   A point of collection of pools or ponds of water;
      (4)   A point of concentration of quantities of gasoline, oil or other
flammable or explosive materials as evidenced by odor;
      (5)   One which has areas of confinement which cannot be operated from
the inside, such as trunks, hoods and the like;
      (6)   So situated or located that there is a danger of it falling or
turning over;
      (7)   One which is a point of collection of garbage, food waste, animal
waste, or any other rotten or putrescible matter of any kind;
      (8)   One which has sharp parts thereof which are jagged or contain sharp
edges of metal or glass; and/or
      (9)   Any other vehicle specifically declared a health and safety hazard
and a public nuisance by the Board.
(`94 Code, § 15-90) (Ord. passed 1-9-90; Am. Ord. 04-03, passed 4-13-04; Am.
Ord. 04-05, passed 8-10-04)
§ 90.02 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Police Department and Town Code Enforcement Officer shall be responsible
for the administration and enforcement of this chapter. The Police Department
shall be responsible for administering the removal and disposition of vehicles
determined to be abandoned on the public streets and highways within the town,
and on property owned by the town. The Code Enforcement Officer shall be
responsible for administering the removal and disposition of abandoned,
nuisance or junked motor vehicles located on private property. The town may, on
an annual basis, contract with private tow truck operators or towing businesses
to remove, store, and dispose of abandoned vehicles, nuisance vehicles and
junked motor vehicles in compliance with this chapter and applicable state
laws. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to limit the legal authority
or powers of officers of the Town Police Department and Fire Department in
enforcing other laws or in otherwise carrying out their duties.
(`94 Code, § 15-91) (Ord. passed 1-9-90)
§ 90.03 VEHICLES EXEMPT.
   Nothing in this chapter shall apply to any vehicle which is:
   (A)   Located in a bona fide automobile graveyard or junk yard as defined in
G.S. § 136-143, in accordance with the Junkyard Control Act, the same being
G.S. §§ 136-141 et seq.;
   (B)   In an enclosed building;
   (C)   Within an enclosed area in the rear or side yard of the place of
business of an automobile repair business properly licensed pursuant to §§
110.01 et seq. of this code, and the vehicle is being kept pursuant to the
operation of that business.
      (1)   For purposes of this provision, an area shall be deemed enclosed
when surrounded by a fence, wall or other structure that is at least seven feet
tall measured from the ground, is constructed of an opaque material, and
surrounds the area on all sides. A gate providing entry to the area may be
provided if constructed of similar material and kept closed during non-business
hours.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the requirements of this section, this exception
shall expire after a vehicle has been on the property for a period of 180 days,
and further, the movement of a vehicle from the enclosed area to an unenclosed
area at the same location shall not be considered removal of the vehicle from
the enclosed area;
   (D)   In an appropriate storage place or depository maintained in a lawful
place and manner by the town.
   (E)   Covered with a fitted car cover designed for that vehicle and parked
on property so that the vehicle cannot be seen from a public street or abutting
property.
(`94 Code, § 15-103) (Ord. passed 8-11-92; Am. Ord. passed 10-8-96; Am. Ord.
04-03, passed 4-13-04)
§ 90.04 ABANDONED VEHICLES PROHIBITED; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a vehicle to cause or allow the vehicle to be abandoned as the
term is defined in § 90.01.
   (B)   Upon investigation, proper authorizing officials of the town may
determine that a vehicle is an abandoned vehicle and order the vehicle removed.
(`94 Code, § 15-92) (Ord. passed 1-9-90)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 90.05 NUISANCE VEHICLES PROHIBITED; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee or occupant of the real
property upon which the vehicle is located to leave or allow the vehicle to
remain on the property after it has been declared a nuisance vehicle.
   (B)   Upon investigation, the Code Enforcement Officer may determine and
declare that a vehicle is a health or safety hazard and a nuisance vehicle as
defined above, and order the vehicle removed.
(`94 Code, § 15-93) (Ord. passed 1-9-90)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 90.06 JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES REGULATED; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
the possession of a junked motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee, or occupant
of the real property upon which a junked motor vehicle is located to leave or
allow the vehicle to remain on the property after the vehicle has been ordered
removed.
   (B)   The Code Enforcement Officer may order the removal of a junked motor
vehicle, as defined in this chapter after finding in writing that the aesthetic
benefits of removing the vehicle outweigh the burdens imposed on the private
property owner. The finding shall be based on a balancing of the monetary loss
of the apparent owner against the corresponding gain to the public by promoting
or enhancing community, neighborhood or area appearance. The following, among
other relevant factors, may be considered:
      (1)   Protection of property values;
      (2)   Promotion of tourism and other economic development opportunities;
      (3)   Indirect protection of public health and safety;
      (4)   Preservation of the character and integrity of the community; and
      (5)   Promotion of the comfort, happiness and emotional stability of area
residents.
(`94 Code, § 15-94) (Ord. passed 1-9-90)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 90.07 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES IN VIOLATION; TOWING NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as set forth in § 90.08, an abandoned, nuisance or junked
vehicle which is to be removed shall be towed only after notice to the
registered owner or person entitled to possession of the vehicle. In the case
of a nuisance vehicle or a junked motor vehicle, if the names and mailing
addresses of the registered owner or person entitled to the possession of the
vehicle, or the owner, lessee, or occupant of the real property upon which the
vehicle is located can be ascertained in the exercise of reasonable diligence,
the notice shall be given by personal delivery or first class mail. The person
who mails the notice shall retain a written record to show the names and
addresses to which mailed, and the date mailed. If the names and addresses
cannot be ascertained or if the vehicle to be removed is an abandoned motor
vehicle, notice shall be given by affixing on the windshield or some other
conspicuous place on the vehicle a notice indicating that the vehicle will be
removed by the town on a specified date, but no sooner than seven days after
the notice is affixed. The notice shall state that the vehicle will be removed
by the town on a specified date, not sooner than seven days after the notice is
affixed or mailed, unless the vehicle is moved by the owner or legal possessor
prior to that time.
   (B)   With respect to abandoned vehicles on private property, nuisance
vehicles and junked motor vehicles to which notice is required to be given, if
the registered owner or person entitled to possession does not remove the
vehicle but chooses to appeal the determination that the vehicle is abandoned,
a nuisance vehicle or in the case of a junked motor vehicle that the aesthetic
benefits of removing the vehicle outweigh the burdens, the appeal shall be made
to the Board of Adjustment in writing, heard at the next regularly scheduled
meeting of the Board of Adjustment, and further proceedings to remove the
vehicle shall be stayed until the appeal is heard and decided.
(`94 Code, § 15-95) (Ord. passed 1-9-90)
   (C)   Any abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle which has been ordered
removed may, as directed by the town, be removed to a storage garage or area by
the tow truck operator or towing business contracting to perform the services
for the town. Whenever a vehicle is removed, the authorizing town official
shall immediately notify the last known registered owner of the vehicle, and
the notice shall include the following:
      (1)   The description of the removed vehicle;
      (2)   The location where the vehicle is stored;
      (3)   The violation with which the owner is charged, if any;
      (4)   The procedure the owner must follow to redeem the vehicle; and
      (5)   The procedure the owner must follow to request a probable cause
hearing on the removal.
   (D)   The town shall attempt to give notice to the vehicle owner by
telephone. However, whether or not the owner is reached by telephone, written
notice, including the information set forth in divisions (C)(1) through (C)(5)
above, shall also be mailed to the registered owner's last known address,
unless this notice is waived in writing by the vehicle owner or the owner's
agent.
   (E)   If the vehicle is registered in the state, notice shall be given
within 24 hours. If the vehicle is not registered in the state, notice shall be
given to the registered owner within 72 hours from the removal of the vehicle.
   (F)   Whenever an abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle is removed,
and the vehicle has no valid registration or registration plates, the
authorizing town official shall make reasonable efforts, including checking the
vehicle identification number, to determine the last known registered owner of
the vehicle and to notify the owner of the information set forth in divisions
(C)(1) through (C)(5) above.
(`94 Code, § 15-97) (Ord. passed 1-9-90; Am. Ord. 16-09, passed 10-11-16)
§ 90.08 EXCEPTIONS TO PRIOR NOTICE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   The requirement that notice be given prior to the removal of an
abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle may, as determined by the
authorizing official, be omitted in those circumstances where there is a
special need for prompt action to eliminate traffic obstructions or to
otherwise maintain and protect the public safety and welfare.
   (B)   The findings shall, in all cases, be entered by the authorizing
official in the appropriate daily records. Circumstances justifying the removal
of vehicles without prior notice include:
      (1)   Vehicles abandoned on the public streets and highways, for which
the Board hereby determines that immediate removal of the same may be warranted
when they are:
         (a)   Obstructing traffic;
         (b)   Parked in violation of an ordinance prohibiting or restricting
parking;
         (c)   Parked in a no stopping or standing zone;
         (d)   Parked in loading zones;
         (e)   Parked in bus zones; or
         (f)   Parked in violation of temporary parking restrictions imposed
under Chapter 73, Parking Schedule I.
      (2)   Other abandoned or nuisance vehicles, and with respect to abandoned
or nuisance vehicles left on town owned property other than the streets and
highways, and on private property, the vehicles may be removed without giving
prior notice only in those circumstances where the authorizing official finds a
special need for prompt action to protect and maintain the public health,
safety and welfare. By way of illustration and not of limitation, the
circumstances include vehicles blocking or obstructing ingress or egress to
businesses and residences, vehicles parked in a location or manner so as to
pose a traffic hazard, and vehicles causing damage to public or private
property.
(`94 Code, § 15-96) (Ord. passed 1-9-90)
§ 90.09 RIGHT TO PROBABLE CAUSE HEARING BEFORE SALE OR FINAL DISPOSITION OF
VEHICLE.
   After the removal of an abandoned vehicle, nuisance vehicle or junked motor
vehicle, the owner or any other person entitled to possession is entitled to a
hearing for the purpose of determining if probable cause existed for removing
the vehicle. A request for hearing must be filed in writing with the county
magistrate designated by the chief district court judge to receive the hearing
requests. The magistrate will set the hearing within 72 hours of receipt of the
request, and the hearing will be conducted in accordance with the provisions of
G.S. § 20-219.11.
(`94 Code, § 15-98) (Ord. passed 1-9-90)
§ 90.10 REDEMPTION OF VEHICLE DURING PROCEEDINGS.
   At any stage in the proceedings, including before the probable cause
hearing, the owner may obtain possession of the removed vehicle by paying the
towing fee, including any storage charges, or by posting a bond for double the
amount of the fees and charges to the tow truck operator or towing business
having custody of the removed vehicle. Upon regaining possession of a vehicle,
the owner or person entitled to the possession of the vehicle shall not allow
or engage in further violations of this chapter.
(`94 Code, § 15-99) (Ord. passed 1-9-90)
§ 90.11 SALE AND DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLE.
   Any abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle which is not claimed by the
owner or other party entitled to possession will be disposed of by the tow
truck operator or towing business having custody of the vehicle. Disposition of
the vehicle shall be carried out in coordination with the town and in
accordance with G.S. §§ 44A-1 et seq.
(`94 Code, § 15-100) (Ord. passed 1-9-90)
§ 90.12 CONDITIONS ON REMOVAL OF VEHICLES FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   As a general policy, the town will not remove a vehicle from private
property if the owner, occupant or lessee of the property could have the
vehicle removed under applicable state law procedures. In no case will a
vehicle be removed by the town from private property without a written request
of the owner, occupant or lessee, except in those cases where a vehicle is a
nuisance vehicle or is a junked motor vehicle which has been ordered removed by
the Code Enforcement Officer. The town may require any person requesting the
removal of an abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle from private property
to indemnify the town against any loss, expense or liability incurred because
of the removal, storage or sale thereof.
(`94 Code, § 15-101) (Ord. passed 1-9-90)
§ 90.13 PROTECTION AGAINST CRIMINAL OR CIVIL LIABILITY.
   No person shall be held to answer in any civil or criminal action to any
owner or other person legally entitled to the possession of an abandoned,
nuisance or junked motor vehicle, for disposing of the vehicle as provided in
this chapter.
(`94 Code, § 15-102) (Ord. passed 1-9-90)
§ 90.14 UNLAWFUL REMOVAL OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or attempt to remove from any
storage facility designated by the town any vehicle which has been impounded
pursuant to the provisions of this code unless and until all towing and
impoundment fees which are due, or bond in lieu of the fees, have been paid.
(`94 Code, § 15-103) (Ord. passed 1-9-90)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 91: ANIMAL REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Bird sanctuary
   
91.02   Animal or fowl fights prohibited
   
91.03   Livestock or other domestic animal
   
91.04   Grazing, hitching and the like; running at large
   
91.05   Rowan County ordinance adopted
Domestic Animals
   
91.20   Definitions
   
91.21   Authority of officers
   
91.22   Obstructing or interfering with enforcement officers
   
91.23   Responsibility of owners
   
91.24   Keeping of dogs
   
91.25   Barking, howling, trespassing and the like
Inherently Dangerous Animals
   
91.40   Strict liability
 
   
91.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town to regulate, restrict or prohibit keeping, running or
going at large of domestic animals, see G.S. § 160A-186
   Dogs generally, see G.S. §§ 67-1 et seq.
   Regulation of possession or harboring of wild animals, G.S. § 160A-187
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 BIRD SANCTUARY.
   (A)   There is hereby created and established a bird sanctuary within the
town limits, provided that any birds classed as predatory by the State Wildlife
Resources Commission or by the State General Statutes are not protected by this
section, nor may the protection of this section extend to pigeons, crows,
starlings or English sparrows.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to hunt, kill or trap any birds
protected by this section.
(`94 Code, § 3-1) (Am. Ord. 06-05, passed 5-9-06)
Penalty, see § 91.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town to establish bird sanctuary, see G.S. § 160A-188
§ 91.02 ANIMAL OR FOWL FIGHTS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall attend, encourage or stage any animal or fowl fight.
(`94 Code, § 3-3) (Am. Ord. 06-05, passed 5-9-06)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.03 LIVESTOCK OR OTHER DOMESTIC ANIMAL.
   (A)   No person shall keep any horse, mule, donkey, cow, sheep, duck,
chicken, turkey or other domesticated fowl, or goat (or similar animals) within
the corporate limits unless the following stipulations are adhered to. No swine
shall be permitted. The provisions of this section shall not be applicable to
bona fide farms as defined by G.S. §§ 105-277.1(1) through (3) and 105-277.3.
The provisions of this section may be waived by the Board of Aldermen for
temporary applications on public land.
      (1)   Lot or parcel must be a minimum of two acres;
      (2)   Up to four non-fowl animals may be kept on any residential zoned
lot provided that there shall be at least one acre of land for each such non-
fowl animal;
      (3)   Livestock shall be housed or stabled no less than 300 feet from any
residential structure on another lot;
      (4)   Livestock shall be pastured or kept a minimum of 200 feet from any
residential structure on another lot;
      (5)   Livestock shall not be permitted to roam unless pastured or staked;
and
      (6)   All areas, including but not limited to stable, barn, and pasture,
shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary manner to prevent odors, rodents,
and flies.
   (B)   The maximum number of animals as specified within this section may not
be legally increased as a result of an animal giving birth.
(Ord. 05-03, passed 8-9-05; Am. Ord. 14-07, passed 7-8-14)
§ 91.04 GRAZING, HITCHING AND THE LIKE; RUNNING AT LARGE.
   Unless the Board of Aldermen has granted a waiver as authorized by §
91.03 on public land:
   (A)   No person shall graze or tie up any animal on any vacant lot within 50
feet of any dwelling or any street.
   (B)   No person shall hitch any animal to any of the trees, lampposts,
electric light or power or telephone or telegraph poles, mail boxes, wires or
hydrants owned by the town or permitted by the town to be erected on or in any
of the streets, sidewalks, squares or parks.
   (C)   No person who is the owner of or who has the custody of any horse,
mule, donkey, hog, sheep, goat or cattle of any kind shall allow the same to
run at large on or in the streets, sidewalks, parks, squares or cemeteries.
With the exception of horses or mules being used for riding or driving and
fastened to hitching posts or blocks, no person shall stake or otherwise fasten
any of the aforementioned animals for grazing purposes on or in any of the
streets, sidewalks, parks, squares or cemeteries, nor shall any person feed any
of the animals mentioned above upon or in any of the streets, sidewalks, parks
or squares.
(`94 Code, § 3-7) (Am. Ord. 06-05, passed 5-9-06; Am. Ord. 14-07, passed 7-8-
14) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 ROWAN COUNTY ORDINANCE ADOPTED.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of this chapter, the town adopted the Rowan
County Animal Control Ordinance, and gives authority to Rowan County Animal
Control oficials to operate within the jurisdiction of the town.
(Ord. 06-05, passed 5-9-06)
DOMESTIC ANIMALS
§ 91.20 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LOT. A portion, piece, division or parcel of land, with or without a
household, which is identified by a tax map, recorded plat, deed, lease or the
like. All contiguous land under common ownership and used for a single purpose
shall constitute a single lot.
   PEN. An enclosure constructed, of fencing material that is either attached
or sits upon the ground.
   SHELTER. A structure which consists of at least three sides, a floor and a
roof and adequate in size and design to preserve the animal’s body heat and
protect the animal from the elements.
   TETHER. Fastening an animal so that it can range only within a set radius.
(Ord. 06-05, passed 5-9-06)
§ 91.21 AUTHORITY OF OFFICERS.
   Members of the Police Department, the Rowan County Animal Control
Department, the Superintendent of Public Works and/or the Superintendent's
appointed assistant shall be empowered to perform the duties of the Town Animal
Warden.
(`94 Code, § 3-21)(Am. Ord. passed 6-8-04; Am. Ord. 06-05, passed 5-9-06)
§ 91.22 OBSTRUCTING OR INTERFERING WITH ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct or interfere with in any way
the impoundment of any domestic animal found in violation of the provisions of
this subchapter. It shall be unlawful for any person, other than the Animal
Warden, to release or attempt to release any domestic animal which has been
impounded.
(`94 Code, § 3-22) (Am. Ord. passed 6-8-04; Am. Ord. 06-05, passed 5-9-06)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.23 RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNERS.
   Owners of domestic animals are responsible for the acts of their animals.
The owner of any domestic animal which commits a nuisance upon the property of
another person, or which damages another person's property or person, is fully
responsible and accountable for these acts.
(`94 Code, § 3-23) (Am. Ord. passed 6-8-04; Am. Ord. 06-05, passed 5-9-06)
§ 91.24 KEEPING OF DOGS.
   The town adopted the Rowan County Animal Control Ordinance, and gives
authority to Rowan County Animal Control officials to operate within the
jurisdiction of the town. The following section is therefore enforced by the
town.
   (A)   No person shall erect, locate or maintain upon any shelter, pen or lot
or group of shelters, pens or lots housing more than three dogs over the age of
six months, located or maintained within 50 feet of any residence other than
the residence of the owners of such dogs within the city. In no case shall more
than three dogs over the age of six months be allowed to be sheltered, penned
or fenced outside on a permanent basis.
   (B)   No person shall tether an animal to a tree, fence, post, house, or
other stationary object for more than two hours total in any 24-hour period.
   (C)   Shelters, pens or lots shall be constructed and maintained as to
provide sufficient space to allow each animal to make normal postural and
social adjustments with adequate freedom of movement to maintain physical
conditioning. The animal should be able to sit, stand, turn and lie without
obstruction. Adequate space for food and water containers must be provided.
Inadequate space may be indicated by evidence of malnutrition, poor condition,
debility, stress, or abnormal behavior patterns. Animals shall not be tied,
chained or fastened to any stationary or inanimate object as a means of
confinement or restraint to property, but must be in an approved shelter, pen
or lot.
   (D)   Shelters or pens constructed and used for the purpose of keeping dogs
shall be set back ten feet from the outer limits of the lot upon which the cage
or pen is situated; provided, however, this setback requirement shall not be
applicable where the placing of the cage or pen within the ten-foot area does
not result in locating the cage or pen within 50 feet of the nearest household
occupied by persons other than the owner or keeper of the cage or pen. This
division shall not apply to the fencing of all or a major portion of a lot.
   (E)   If any animal is kept on the premises by a fence, the fence must be
adequate to contain the animal. If it is an effective, working invisible fence,
then there must be a visible, permanent sign on the premises stating that there
is an invisible fence.
   (F)   Penalties. Any violation of this section shall subject the owner,
keeper, or person in charge of the possession and/or control of the animal to
the penalties in §
91.99.
(Ord. 06-05, passed 5-9-06; Am. Ord. 11-07, passed 8-9-11; Am. Ord. 16-02,
passed 4-12-16)
§ 91.25 BARKING, HOWLING, TRESPASSING AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   No person shall keep within the corporate limits one or more domestic
animal which, by prolonged and habitual barking, howling or whining or by
prolonged and habitual trespassing or marauding on the property of a person
other than the owner, cause serious annoyance to neighboring residents and
interfere with the reasonable use and enjoyment of the premises occupied by the
residents.
   (B)   Upon written and signed complaint being made to the Police Department
by any resident pursuant to division (A) above, and upon a determination by the
Police Department, after an investigation, that the complaint is valid, a
representative of the Police Department shall notify the person against whom
the complaint is directed that a complaint has been received, and thereupon the
person shall remedy the unlawful condition within 24 hours from the time of
notification.
   (C)   Any person failing or refusing to remedy the unlawful condition found
to exist pursuant to this section within 24 hours from the time of notification
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(`94 Code, § 3-28) (Am. Ord. passed 6-8-04; Am. Ord. 06-05, passed 5-9-06)
Penalty, see § 91.99
INHERENTLY DANGEROUS ANIMALS
§ 91.40 STRICT LIABILITY.
   The owner or keeper of an inherently dangerous animal shall be strictly
liable in civil damages for injuries or property damage the inherently
dangerous mammal inflicts upon a person, his or her property, or another
animal.
(Ord. passed 4-11-00; Am. Ord. 06-05, passed 5-9-06)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of any
section or subsection of this chapter for which no other penalty is provided,
or failing, neglecting or refusing to comply with the same shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor and subject to a fine not to
exceed $50 or imprisonment not to exceed 30 days, and each day that any of the
provisions of this chapter are violated shall constitute a separate offense.
(G.S. § 14-4(a))
   (B)   Any violations of §
91.24 or §
91.40 shall constitute a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of $100 and/or
imprisonment for up to 30 days. Each day in violation constitutes a separate
offense. Payment of a fine imposed in criminal proceedings pursuant to this
section does not relieve a person of his or her liability for taxes, civil
penalties, or fees imposed under §
91.24 or §
91.40.
(Ord. passed 4-11-00; Am. Ord. passed 6-8-04; Am. Ord. 06-05, passed 5-9-06;
Am. Ord. 16-03, passed 4-12-16)
CHAPTER 92: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
92.01   Possession, display or consumption of alcoholic beverages at parks
prohibited
   
92.02   Hours of operation of town-owned parks
   
92.03   Entry of registered sex offenders prohibited from parks and recreation
areas
§ 92.01 POSSESSION, DISPLAY OR CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES AT PARKS
PROHIBITED.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Alcohol, brandy, whiskey, bourbon, scotch, rum, gin,
beer, malt lager, ale, porter and wine, and in addition thereto any spiritous,
vinous, malt or fermented beverages, liquids and compounds, whether medicated,
proprietary, patented or not, and by whatever name called, containing .5% or
more of alcohol by volume.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to display, possess or consume any alcoholic
beverage at either the Eighth Street Park or the North Rowan Avenue Park.
(`94 Code, § 12-1) (Ord. passed 3-11-82)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.02 HOURS OF OPERATION OF TOWN-OWNED PARKS.
   (A)   The use of North Rowan Avenue Park after 10:00 p.m. and before 7:00
a.m. is prohibited, except upon written permission from the Town Manager.
(`94 Code, § 12-2) (Ord. passed 3-11-82)
   (B)   From May 1 through September 30, the use of Eighth Street Park after
11:00 p.m. and before 7:00 a.m. is prohibited, except upon written permission
from the Town Manager.
   (C)   From October 1 through April 30, the use of Eighth Street Park after
10:00 p.m. and before 7:00 a.m. is prohibited, except upon written permission
from the Town Manager.
(`94 Code, § 12-3) (Ord. passed 3-11-82)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.03 ENTRY OF REGISTERED SEX OFFENDERS PROHIBITED FROM PARKS AND RECREATION
AREAS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      REGISTERED SEX OFFENDER. An individual who is registered by any state or
federal agency as a sex offender and whose name is published on any state or
federal registered sex offender listing, including, but not limited to the sex
offender registry established in G.S. Chapter 14, Art. 27A.
      TOWN OF SPENCER PARKS AND RECREATION AREAS. Any town-owned, leased,
operated or maintained land which is designated by the town as a park or
recreation facility.
   (B)   No registered sex offender shall enter into or upon any town parks and
recreation areas operated by the town, except for when such facilities are open
for duly called public meetings and for voting. Otherwise, each entry into such
areas, regardless of the time period between such entries, shall constitute a
separate offense under this section.
   (C)   Anyone who is found in violation of this section he or she shall be
guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor punishable by up to 20 days in jail as set
forth in G.S. § 5A-1340.23(c), and shall be fined not more than $500 per
offense as set forth in § 14-4(a).
   (D)   The Town Manager or his or her designee shall post this regulation at
the main entrance of each park within 30 days of passage of this section.
(Ord. 07-08, passed 10-9-07)
CHAPTER 93: PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY MATTERS; PUBLIC NUISANCES
Section
Fire Prevention
   
93.01   Interference with Fire Department prohibited
   
93.02   Riding on fire trucks by unauthorized persons prohibited
   
93.03   Dead wires
   
93.04   Burnt utility poles
   
93.05   Obstruction of fire hydrants
   
93.06   False fire alarm assessment policy
   
93.07   Open burning and fire pits
Public Nuisances
   
93.20   Enforcement
   
93.21   Nuisances declared
   
93.22   Maintenance of exterior of premises required
   
93.23   Notification of property owner
   
93.24   Right of entry to abate; appeals
   
93.25   Cost of abatement; lien
   
93.26   Noise regulations
   
93.27   Unreasonable sound amplification
   
93.28    Chronic violators
Residential Rental Property and Remedial Action Program
   
93.40   Residential rental property and remedial action program purpose
   
93.41   Definitions
   
93.42   Disorder thresholds, disorder activity count, and verified violations
   
93.43   Notification of mandatory meeting
   
93.44   Mandatory initial meeting
   
93.45   Remedial action plan and review
   
93.46   Notice of revocation
   
93.47   Transition plan and notification of tenants
   
93.48   Notice of appeal
   
93.49   Hearing procedure and appeal of Board’s findings
   
93.50   INRA designation binding on subsequent owner
   
93.51   Enforcement, remedies and penalties
   
93.52   Adoption of remedial action plan manual
 
   
93.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Fire Department, see §§
32.20 et seq.
   Fire limits, see §
150.02
   Interfering with or damaging fire alarm systems, see §
130.10
   Unauthorized carrying or use of fire whistles, sirens and the like, see §
130.08
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town as to fire protection, G.S. §§ 160A-291 et seq.
   Fire protection generally, see G.S. §§ 58-79-1 et seq.
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 93.01 INTERFERENCE WITH FIRE DEPARTMENT PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall be in the vicinity of a fire in a way so as to
interfere with the duties of the Fire Department, nor shall any vehicle be
driven nearer than 50 feet to any fire truck when the truck is proceeding to a
fire.
   (B)   No person shall enter in or on any building or grounds occupied by the
Fire Department or interfere with a firefighter in the discharge of the
firefighter's duty or hinder a firefighter in the performance of the
firefighter's duty, nor shall any person other than members of the Fire
Department loiter about any fire station, or change, handle or meddle in any
manner with any fire engine or any other fire apparatus.
(`94 Code, § 7-1)
Penalty, see § 93.99
Statutory reference:
   Blocking or obstructing firefighting equipment, see G.S. § 20-157
   Interference with firefighters, see G.S. § 58-82-1
§ 93.02 RIDING ON FIRE TRUCKS BY UNAUTHORIZED PERSONS PROHIBITED.
   No person other than a bona fide member of the Fire Department or Police
Department shall mount any fire engine, wagon or apparatus before it leaves the
station or while on its way to or from a fire or at any other time, unless by
permission of the driver or officer in command of the engine, wagon or other
apparatus.
(`94 Code, § 7-2)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.03 DEAD WIRES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to permit any dead or unused wires to hang or
remain on any pole, tree or house where the same have been formerly connected
and in use, but all dead wires shall be taken down and removed immediately upon
notice by the Chief of Police.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Chief of the Fire Department to notify the
Chief of Police whenever the officer has knowledge of these existing
conditions.
(`94 Code, § 7-3)
Penalty, see § 93.99
Cross-reference:
   Poles and wires generally, see §§
94.70 et seq.
§ 93.04 BURNT UTILITY POLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any telephone, telegraph or electric power or light
company to allow any pole belonging to the company, which pole has been charred
by fire, to remain in a charred condition longer than ten days from the time of
the fire, and all charred poles shall be scraped or removed.
(`94 Code, § 7-4)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.05 OBSTRUCTION OF FIRE HYDRANTS.
   No person shall place or keep any fence, growth, trash or other material
near any fire hydrant that would prevent the hydrant from being immediately
discernible or in any manner hinder the Fire Department from gaining immediate
access to a fire hydrant. A clear space of not less than three feet shall be
provided on all sides of all fire hydrants.
(Ord. 98-11, passed 8-11-98)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.06 FALSE FIRE ALARM ASSESSMENT POLICY.
   There shall be a $250 fire alarm call assessment charge per alarm after the
third false alarm due to malfunctioning equipment. All businesses and
residences having equipment that the Fire Department knows about, shall receive
written notification of this policy. The fire alarm call assessment charge
shall be waived upon recommendation of the Fire Chief and Approval of the
Board.
(`94 Code, § 7-5) (Motion passed 9-12-89)
Statutory reference:
   False fire alarms, damaging fire alarm systems and the like, see G.S. § 14-
286
§ 93.07 OPEN BURNING AND FIRE PITS.
   (A)   Open burning for campfires and outdoor cooking is permitted without
any burning permit if performed in an approved container constructed of steel,
brick, or masonry.
   (B)   Open burning in approved portable containers and outdoor fireplaces is
permitted.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      FIRE PIT. Defined to include belowground pits, freestanding fireplaces,
and portable devices intended to contain and control outdoor fires.
   (D)   Prohibited burning. Burning that is offensive or objectionable because
of smoke or odor emissions, or when atmospheric conditions or local
circumstances make such fires hazardous, shall be prohibited.
   (E)   Prohibited burning in public places. Burning in any outdoor fire pits
is prohibited on any property owned by the Town of Spencer unless approved by
the Fire Chief. Any outdoor cooking on approved grills will be permitted.
   (F)   Hours of operation. A person shall not maintain any outdoor burning
from midnight to 7:00 a.m., unless permitted and approved by the Fire Chief.
Outdoor cooking will be permitted during these hours.
   (G)   Extinguishment authority. The Spencer Fire Department is authorized to
order the extinguishment by the responsible person of any burning that creates
or adds to a hazardous or objectionable situation.
   (H)   Fire pits. 
      (1)   All belowground fire pits shall be at least four inches in depth
and shall be surrounded on the outside aboveground by a non-combustible
material such as steel, brick, or masonry. The fire pit cannot exceed three
feet in diameter. Nor may the fire pile exceed two feet in height.
      (2)   Fire pits must be used in accordance with the manufacturer’s
specifications and the following regulations:
         (a)   Only natural firewood and/or commercial logs may be burned.
Burning of leaves, yard waste, paper, cardboard, garbage and similar items is
not permitted;
         (b)   All fire pits must be located away from any structure or
combustible material;
         (c)   Belowground fire pits and freestanding fireplaces must be
located at a minimum of 25 feet away from any structure or combustible
material;
         (d)   Portable fire pits must be located at a minimum of 15 feet away
from any structure or combustible material;
         (e)   The fire must be constantly attended and supervised until the
fire has been completely extinguished; and
         (f)   A portable fire extinguisher or other approved extinguishing
equipment, such as a garden hose of sufficient length, must be readily
available.
(Ord. 10-12, passed 11-9-10) Penalty, see §
93.99
PUBLIC NUISANCES
§ 93.20 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Town Manager shall appoint an individual as enforcement officer for this
subchapter. The individual so appointed shall have the duty of full enforcement
of this subchapter, and any enforcement officer shall be clothed with full
power and authority imposed by this subchapter, and is hereby authorized and
directed to proceed to carry out the provisions of this subchapter.
(`94 Code, § 8-1) (Ord. passed 4-8-82)
§ 93.21 NUISANCES DECLARED.
   (A)   The following enumerated and described conditions are hereby found,
deemed and declared to constitute a detriment, danger and hazard to the health,
safety, morals and general welfare of the inhabitants of the town and are
found, deemed and declared to be public nuisances wherever the same may exist,
and the creation, maintenance or failure to abate the nuisances is hereby
declared unlawful:
      (1)   Any condition which is a breeding ground or harbor for mosquitoes
or a breeding ground or harbor for rats or other pests;
      (2)   A place of heavy growth of weeds or other noxious vegetation over
eight inches in height. This shall include the area between a property line and
the edge of pavement of any abutting street, and to the centerline of any
abutting alleyway;
      (3)   An open place of collection of water where insects tend to breed;
      (4)   An open place of concentration of combustible items such as
mattresses, boxes, paper, automobile tires and tubes, garbage, trash, refuse,
brush, old clothes, rags or any other combustible materials or objects of a
like nature;
      (5)   An open place of collection of garbage, food waste, animal waste or
any other rotten or putrescible matter of any kind;
      (6)   Any furniture, appliance or other metal product of any kind or
nature openly kept, which has jagged edges of metal or glass, or areas of
confinement;
      (7)   Any improper or inadequate drainage on private property which
causes flooding, interferes with the use of or endangers in any way the
streets, sidewalks, parks or other town-owned property of any kind, provided
that the notices required and powers conferred by this chapter by and on the
enforcement officer in abating the nuisances defined by this division shall be
given and exercised by the Director of Public Works;
      (8)   Any condition which blocks, hinders or obstructs, in any way, the
natural flow of branches, streams, creeks, surface waters, ditches or drains,
to the extent that lots or properties are not free from standing water.
   (B)   Any other condition not enumerated in division (A) above may be
specifically declared to be a danger to the public health, safety, morals and
general welfare of the inhabitants of the town and a public nuisance by the
Board, which proceeding may be initiated by the enforcement officer before the
Board after giving written notice in conformity with § 93.23, which notice will
state the condition existing, the location and that the Board of Aldermen will
be requested on a day certain, after a public hearing at which the person
notified may appear and be heard, to declare that the conditions existing
constitute a danger to the public health, safety, morals and general welfare of
the inhabitants of the town and a public nuisance and that, after the
declaration by the Board in the form of an ordinance, the condition will be
abated as provided for in § 93.24, provided that no appeal shall lie from a
proceeding initiated by the enforcement officer before the Board as provided in
§ 93.24.
(`94 Code, § 8-2) (Ord. passed 4-8-82; Am. Ord. passed 2-9-93; Am. Ord. 04-07,
passed 9-14-04)
Penalty, see § 93.99
Statutory reference:
   Abatement of public health nuisance, see G.S. § 160A-193
§ 93.22 MAINTENANCE OF EXTERIOR OF PREMISES REQUIRED.
   Purpose. Overgrown lots and concentrations of trash and debris on a property
can create hazardous, unsafe or unhealthy conditions and constitute a public
nuisance. It is the intent of this provision to protect the health, safety, and
general welfare of the public, preserve property values and rights of the
individual and community.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep on their front porch
furniture designed for interior use, waste, lumber, junk, trash, debris,
abandoned objects, bedding, packing boxes, cans, containers, accumulation of
substantial quantities of loose earth, rocks, pieces of concrete or cement or
pieces of metal, appliances, automotive machine parts or any collection of
materials that can be considered combustible or that can harbor rats or other
pests. After notice of violation of this section, it shall be unlawful to allow
the items to remain on the porch of the occupant or owner for five business
days from the personal delivery of said notice or ten business days from the
mailing of said notice.
(Ord. 99-12, passed 6-8-99)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to have on their premises material
that creates a littered condition, such as dilapidated furniture, discarded
appliances, broken machinery, dilapidated building materials, discarded
automotive parts, tires or any other similar items which are not completely
enclosed within a building or dwelling. After notice of violation of this
section, it shall be unlawful to allow the items to remain on the property of
the occupant or owner for five business days from the personal delivery of said
notice or ten business days from the mailing of said notice. This shall not
apply to authorized junk dealers or establishments licensed to engage in
repair, rebuilding, reconditioning or salvaging of equipment.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for the owner and/or occupant of a property to
fail to cut grass, weeds, and other overgrowth vegetation on property when the
grass, weeds and other overgrowth vegetation is of a greater height than eight
inches on average, or to permit the property to serve as a breeding place for
mosquitoes, as a refuge for rats and snakes, as a collecting place for trash
and litter, or as a fire hazard, any one of which situations is declared to be
a nuisance. It shall be the duty of the owner and occupant to cut and remove
all grass, weeds, and other overgrowth vegetation as often as necessary.
      (1)   Vacant, unimproved lots adjacent to improved properties, except
those as defined as naturally wooded, shall be cut in their entirety as often
as necessary in order to meet the requirements listed above.
      (2)   Vacant, unimproved lots over one acre and adjacent to improved
properties shall be cut within 100 feet of all adjacent improved property, and
within 100 feet of any street frontage, as often as necessary in order to meet
the requirements listed above.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of property on which is located a
NATURALLY WOODED LOT, defined as a lot densely wooded with trees, scrubs and
overgrowth where equipment cannot maneuver because of the density of its
vegetation, to permit the property to serve as a breeding place for mosquitoes,
as a refuge for rats and snakes, as a collecting place for trash and litter, or
as a fire hazard, any one of which is declared to be a nuisance. It shall be
the duty of the owner to cut and remove all grass, weeds, and other overgrowth
vegetation as often as necessary.
   (E)   Accumulation of trash and debris. It shall also be unlawful for any
owner or occupant of a property to allow any concentration of rubbish, trash,
junk, mattresses, boxes, old clothes, rags or any other combustible material or
objects of like kind that may serve as a breeding place or refuge for
mosquitoes, rats and snakes, or as a fire hazard.
   (F)   Responsibility for sidewalk, curb and grass strip maintenance. It
shall be the responsibility of the owner or occupant of a property to ensure
that the sidewalk and curb abutting their property are kept clear of trash,
debris and vegetation of any kind, in accordance herein, and that the grass
strip between the sidewalk and curb remain mowed at all times during the
growing season.
(Ord. 99-15, passed 6-8-99; Am. Ord. 10-07, passed 4-13-10; Am. Ord. 16-09,
passed 10-11-16; Am Ord. 17-013, passed 7-11-17) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.23 NOTIFICATION OF PROPERTY OWNER.
   When any public nuisance is found to exist on any property within the town,
the enforcement officer shall notify the owner of the premises where the
nuisance is located that conditions exist which constitute a public nuisance
and that, unless the condition is abated within five business days from the
personal delivery of said notice or ten business days from the mailing of said
notice, which shall be sent by first class mail, the conditions constituting a
nuisance will be abated, and the cost of abatement shall constitute a lien
against the premises.
(`94 Code, § 8-3) (Ord. 14-08, passed 8-12-14; Am. Ord. 16-09, passed 10-11-16)
§ 93.24 RIGHT OF ENTRY TO ABATE; APPEALS.
   (A)   The Inspection Department is hereby given full power and authority to
enter upon the premises involved for the purpose of abating any nuisance found
to exist as set out in this chapter.
   (B)   Within the period mentioned in §
93.23, the owner of the property where the nuisance exists may appeal the
findings of the enforcement officer made pursuant to §
93.21 to the Board by giving written notice of appeal to the enforcement
officer, the appeal to stay the abatement of the nuisances by the enforcement
officer until a final determination by the Board. In the event no appeal is
taken, the enforcement officer may proceed to abate the nuisance.
(`94 Code, § 8-4)
   (C)   The Board, in the event an appeal is taken as provided in division (B)
above, may, after hearing all interested persons and reviewing the findings of
the enforcement officer, reverse the finding made pursuant to §
93.21, but if the Board shall determine that the findings of the enforcement
officer made pursuant to the section are correct and proper, it shall adopt an
ordinance specifically declaring the condition existing on the property to be a
danger and hazard to the health, safety, morals and general welfare of the
inhabitants of the town and a public nuisance, and directing the enforcement
officer to cause the conditions to be abated.
(`94 Code, § 8-5) (Ord. passed 4-8-82; Am. Ord. 14-08, passed 8-12-14)
§ 93.25 COSTS OF ABATEMENT; LIEN.
   After the abatement of any nuisance as provided in this chapter, the cost of
the abatement shall be a charge against the owner and a lien on the premises
upon confirmation of the cost thereof by the Board, which confirmation shall
take place only after ten days’ written notice or personal delivery of said
notice to the owner of the premises where the nuisance existed of the proposed
confirmation. Upon confirmation, the cost of abatement shall be a lien against
the premises from which the nuisance was abated, the same to be recorded as
provided in G.S. §§ 160A-193 et seq., and to be collected as unpaid taxes.
(`94 Code, § 8-6) (Motion passed 6-9-87) (Am. Ord. 16-09, passed 10-11-16)
§ 93.26 NOISE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of this subchapter, the creation of any
unreasonably loud, disturbing and unnecessary noise is prohibited. Noise of a
character, intensity and duration as to be detrimental to the life or health of
any individual is prohibited.
(`94 Code, § 8-8)
   (B)   The following acts, among others, are declared to be loud, disturbing
and unnecessary noises in violation of this section, but the enumeration shall
not be deemed to be exclusive:
      (1)   The sounding of any horn or signal device on any automobile,
motorcycle, bus or other vehicle while not in motion, except as a danger signal
if another vehicle is approaching apparently out of control, or if in motion,
only as a danger signal after or as brakes are being applied and deceleration
of the vehicle is intended; the creation by means of any horn or signal device
of any unreasonably loud or harsh sound; and the sounding of the device for an
unnecessary and unreasonable period of time;
      (2)   The use of any gong or siren upon any vehicle other than police,
fire or other emergency vehicle;
      (3)   The playing of any radio, phonograph or other musical instrument in
a manner or with a volume, particularly during the hours between 11:00 p.m. and
7:00 a.m., as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of any person in
any dwelling, hotel or other type of residence;
      (4)   The keeping of any animal or bird which, by causing frequent or
long continued noise, shall disturb the comfort and repose of any person in the
vicinity;
      (5)   The use of any automobile, motorcycle or other vehicle so out of
repair, so loaded or in a manner as to create loud or unnecessary grating,
grinding, rattling or other noise;
      (6)   The blowing of any steam whistle attached to any stationary boiler,
except to give notice of the time to begin or stop work, or as a warning of
danger;
      (7)   The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any steam engine,
stationary internal combustion engine, motor vehicle or motorboat engine except
through a muffler or other device which will effectively prevent loud or
explosive noises therefrom;
      (8)   The use of any mechanical device operated by compressed air, unless
the noise created thereby is effectively muffled and reduced;
      (9)   The erection, including excavating, demolition, alteration or
repair of any building in a residential or business district, other than
between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on weekdays, except in the case of
urgent necessity in the interest of public safety, and then only with a permit
from the Building Inspector, which permit may be renewed for a period of three
days or less while the emergency continues;
      (10)   The creation of any excessive noise on any street adjacent to any
school, institution of learning or court while the same is in session, or
within 150 feet of any hospital, which unreasonably interferes with the working
of the institution, provided that conspicuous signs are displayed in the street
indicating that the same is a school, court or hospital street;
      (11)   The creation of any excessive noise on Sundays on any street
adjacent to any church, provided that conspicuous signs are displayed in the
streets adjacent to churches indicating that the same are church streets;
      (12)   The creation of loud and excessive noise in connection with
loading or unloading any vehicle or the opening and destruction of bales,
boxes, crates and containers;
      (13)   The sounding of any bell or gong attached to any building or
premises, which disturbs the quiet or repose of any person in the vicinity
thereof;
      (14)   The shouting and crying of peddlers, barkers, hawkers and vendors,
which disturbs the quiet and peace of the neighborhood;
      (15)   The use of any drum, loudspeaker or other instrument or device for
the purpose of attracting attention by creation of noise to any performance,
show or sale or display of merchandise;
      (16)   The use of any mechanical loudspeakers or amplifiers on trucks or
other moving vehicles for advertising or other purposes, except where a
specific license is received from the Police Department; and/or
      (17)   The conducting, operating or maintaining of any garage or filling
station in any residential district so as to cause loud or offensive noises to
be emitted therefrom between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
(`94 Code, § 8-9)
Penalty, see § 93.99
Cross-reference:
   Barking, howling, trespassing and the like, see §
91.25
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town to regulate, restrict or prohibit loud noises and the
like, see G.S. § 160A-184
§ 93.27 UNREASONABLE SOUND AMPLIFICATION.
   (A)   Excessive and unnecessary noise creates a significant threat to the
public health, safety and welfare. There has been an alarming increase in the
frequency and volume of noise from the many sound-reproducing devices available
today. It is the intent of this section to strike an appropriate balance
between the right of individuals to obtain information and derive pleasure by
listening to radios and other similar devices, and the right of the public to a
peaceful and healthful environment.
   (B)   Noise described in division (C) below is hereby declared unreasonable,
dangerous to the public health, safety and welfare, and shall be illegal unless
exempted in this section.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to play, use or otherwise operate,
either from a motor vehicle or as a pedestrian, any radio, tape player or other
sound amplification device emitting sound that is audible from a distance of 50
or more feet from the source of the sound, unless the device is being used to
request assistance or warn against an unsafe condition.
   (D)   This subsection shall not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   Public safety personnel, when responding to an emergency call or
engaged in other official business;
      (2)   Persons engaged in a lawful assembly, procession or community
event;
      (3)   The operator of a public utility vehicle, when utilizing two-way
communications equipment;
      (4)   The operator of a vehicle being used for advertising purposes in
accordance with existing ordinances; and/or
      (5)   The activation of a theft alarm signal device.
(`94 Code, § 8-10)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.28 CHRONIC VIOLATORS.
   (A)   Definitions.
      CHRONIC VIOLATOR. A person or entity who owns property whereupon in the
previous calendar year, the town gave notice to abate at least three times
under any provision of this nuisance chapter, and the owner failed to abate the
property. A notice of being classified as a CHRONIC VIOLATOR will be sent via
certified mail to the owner on or about the beginning of the new calendar year
by a Code Enforcement Officer.
   (B)   Action taken. Upon determination of a chronic violator and where a
property is found to be in violation of this nuisances chapter, the town may,
without further notice in the calendar year in which the notice to abate is
given, take action to remedy the violation, and the expense of such action
shall become a lien upon the property and shall be collected as unpaid taxes.
The owner would receive an annual notice via certified mail.
(Ord. 13-01, passed 1-8-13; Am Ord. 17-013, passed 7-11-17)
RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY AND REMEDIAL ACTION PROGRAM
§ 93.40 RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY AND REMEDIAL ACTION PROGRAM PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this article is to establish a method to hold owners of
residential rental property accountable for failing to use effective methods to
reduce disorder activity on their property. Owners of residential rental
property whose property meets or exceeds the disorder threshold as established
by this article may be expeditiously identified and contacted when excessive
levels of disorder activity have occurred on or in the property.
   (B)   It is not the intent of this subchapter to determine the rights and
liabilities of persons under agreements to which the town is not a party. This
article shall not be construed to alter the terms of any lease or other
agreement between a landlord and a tenant or others relating to property that
is the subject of this article; provided that no provision of any lease or
other agreement shall be construed to excuse compliance with this article.
Additionally, a violation of this article shall not in and of itself create
negligence per se standard or otherwise expand existing liability in tort for
either a landlord or a tenant.
(Ord. 18-017, passed 9-11-18)
§ 93.41 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall
have the meaning ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE. A certificate indicating that the owner has
complied with the remedial action plan and the disorder activity is below the
disorder threshold.
   CODE OFFICIAL. The Director of the Land Management Department or designee
who is primarily responsible for the administration of this article, along with
the Police Official.
   COMPLIANCE ORDER. A notice of violation issued by a Code Enforcement
Official of the Town of Spencer.
   DISORDER. A police call is classified as one of the following call types:
‘ABC Violation,’ ‘Armed Robbery,’ ‘Assault,’ ‘Assault with Weapon,’ ‘Civil
Disturbance,’ ‘Drug,’ ‘Gunshots,’ ‘Intoxicated Subject,’ ‘Litter,’ ‘Loud
Music,’ ‘Overdose,’ ‘Prostitutes,’ ‘Riot,’ ‘Shoot into Occupied Building,’
‘Shoot into Occupied Vehicle,’ ‘Shooting,’ ‘Stolen Property,’ ‘Suspicious
Subject,’ ‘Suspicious Subject Weapon,’ ‘Suspicious Vehicle,’ ‘Trespassing.’ A
domestic violence call for service is not a disorder as defined herein.
   DISORDER ACTIVITY. Activity occurring on or in a residential rental property
categorized as either reported violent crimes, reported property crimes,
certain types of disorder-related, person-initiated requests for police service
and disorder related service calls resulting from observation by police
officers and/or code enforcement officials. A domestic violence call for
service is not a disorder activity.
   DISORDER ACTIVITY COUNT. The number of reports of disorder activity at a
residential rental unit as determined by the police activity reports.
   DISORDER RISK THRESHOLD. Means, for each residential rental unit, a disorder
activity count of three or more or a disorder activity count which is in the
top ten percent for all residential rental units in the town with disorder
activity.
   IN NEED OF REMEDIAL ACTION (INRA). A designation by the town officials that
a residential rental unit has been identified for enforcement action under this
subchapter.
   MANAGER. The person, persons or legal entity appointed or hired by the owner
to be responsible for the daily operation of the residential rental property.
   OWNER. The person, persons or legal entity that holds legal title to a
residential rental property.
   POLICE OFFICIAL. The Chief of Police or designee who is primarily
responsible for the administration of this subchapter, along with the Code
Official.
   REGISTERED AGENT. The person identified by the owner of the residential
rental property in the remedial action plan filed pursuant to this article who
is authorized to receive legal process and/or notice required or provided for
in this subchapter.
   REMEDIAL ACTION PLAN (RAP). A written plan agreed upon and signed by both
the town officials and owner whereby the owner agrees to implement remedial
measures on a residential rental unit or property which exceeds the disorder
threshold or meets the verified violation threshold. The remedial action plan
may contain remedial measures for an entire residential rental property if
necessary to address the disorder activity or verified violations associated
with a residential rental until located thereon.
   REMEDIAL MEASURES. Mandatory and voluntary measures as stated within the
Remedial Action Plan Manual, a copy of which is on file on the town's website
and at the Town of Spencer Town Hall.
   RENTAL PERMIT. A permit issued to the owner which permits the rental or
lease of a residential rental unit or residential rental property that is
subject to a remedial action plan.
   RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY. Property that contains one or more residential
rental units and associated common areas and tenant amenities including but not
limited to parking lots, pools, recreation facilities and clubhouses.
   RESIDENTIAL RENTAL UNIT. An individual residential dwelling unit for lease
to and use by residential tenants. A residential rental unit may consist of an
apartment, a condominium, a mobile home, a single-family dwelling or any other
dwelling type intended to be rented for purposes of residential occupancy, but
not including hotels, motels, bed and breakfast inns, and other transient
occupancies.
   VERIFIED VIOLATION. 
      (1)   The aggregate of all violations of housing ordinances or codes
found in an individual rental unit of residential real property during a 72-
hour period; and
      (2)   Any violations that have not been corrected by the owner or manager
within 21 days of receipt of written notice from the town of the violation.
Should the same violation occur more than two times in a 12-month period, the
owner or manager may not have the option of correcting the violation. If the
housing ordinance or code provides that any form of prohibited tenant behavior
constitutes a violation by the owner or manager of the rental property, it
shall be deemed a correction of the tenant-related violation if the owner or
manager, within 30 days of receipt of written notice of the tenant-related
violation, brings a summary ejectment action to have the tenant evicted.
   VERIFIED VIOLATION THRESHOLD. More than four verified violations in a
rolling 12-month period or two or more verified violations in a rolling 30-day
period.
(Ord. 18-017, passed 9-11-18)
Editor's note: 
   The appendix referred to in this section is not set out at length herein but
may be found on file in the offices of the town.
§ 93.42 DISORDER THRESHOLDS, DISORDER ACTIVITY COUNT, AND VERIFIED VIOLATIONS.
   On or before the fifth day of each calendar month, the police official will
compile a list of residential rental units meeting the verified violation
threshold and having a level of disorder activity above the disorder threshold
during the 12-month period ending the previous calendar month.
(Ord. 18-017, passed 9-11-18)
§ 93.43 NOTIFICATION OF MANDATORY MEETING.
   The owner of a residential rental unit that falls at or above the disorder
risk threshold shall be sent a notice by certified mail to the name and address
known by the town or if not known, then to addresses listed in the Rowan County
Office of the Tax Assessor for that property, which shall contain the following
information:
   (A)   The date, time and location for the mandatory initial meeting between
the town officials and the owner;
   (B)   The disorder activity count for the residential rental property;
   (C)   A statement that the owner may provide additional evidence at the
initial mandatory meeting to be considered by the police official; and
   (D)   A detailed summary of the disorder activity and/or verified violations
that have occurred on or in the property.
(Ord. 18-017, passed 9-11-18)
§ 93.44 MANDATORY INITIAL MEETING.
   (A)   Unless otherwise agreed to by the owner and town officials, within 30
days after notice has been provided to the owner that a residential rental unit
meets the verified disorder risk threshold or falls at or above the disorder
threshold, a mandatory initial fact-finding meeting shall be between the owner
and the town officials. The owner shall be required to attend the mandatory
initial fact-finding meeting in person, unless the owner's primary residence is
200 miles or greater from the Town of Spencer Town Hall. In the event there are
multiple owners, the owner attending the initial meeting must have power of
attorney to execute the remedial action plan on behalf of the other owners. If
the owner is a legal entity other than a natural person, including but not
limited to a corporation, partnership, or limited liability company, the
mandatory initial meeting shall be attended by an officer, manager, or other
individual with authority to execute the remedial action plan on behalf of the
entity.
   (B)   At the mandatory initial meeting, the town officials and the owner
shall, at a minimum, review the following:
      (1)   The data that established that the property meets the verified
violation threshold or falls above the disorder threshold;
      (2)   Any relevant evidence provided by the owner that may establish that
the unit or property does not meet the verified violation threshold or fall at
or above the disorder threshold.
      (3)   After reviewing all the evidence, any previously identified
disorder activity or verified violation that is found to either not have
occurred on or in the property or does not clearly meet the definition of a
disorder activity or verified violation shall be discounted and not considered
by the town officials. In the event that the adjustment for the unit or
property results in the property remaining at the verified disorder risk
threshold or above the disorder threshold, then the owner and town officials
shall develop and sign a remedial action plan and the code official shall issue
the owner a rental permit for the residential rental unit, upon payment of the
prescribed fee. A six month review date shall be set in the remedial action
plan. In the event the adjustment results in the unit below the verified
violation or disorder threshold, then no further action shall be taken by the
town officials at that time
   (D)   In the event the owner fails to attend the mandatory initial meeting
without just cause, the town officials shall review all the evidence concerning
the property pursuant to divisions (B) and (C) of this section. Upon a finding
that the property meets the verified violation threshold or is at or above the
disorder threshold, the code official shall refer the property to the city
attorney's office for determination of whether a public nuisance action or any
other legal or equitable remedy is warranted.
   (E)   The owner of residential rental property that is required to
participate under this article shall pay a rental registration fee as set by
the Board of Aldermen in its schedule of fees before the issuance of a rental
permit. Such fee shall not exceed $500 in any 12-month period.
   (F)   In the event, the owner fails to comply with division (D) herein by
not attending the mandatory initial meeting, the code official shall issue a
civil citation(s) in accordance with §
93.51(E) herein.
(Ord. 18-017, passed 9-11-18)
§ 93.45 REMEDIAL ACTION PLAN AND REVIEW.
   (A)   Escalation of enforcement (authority to intervene). In the event,
after a rental permit has been issued and a dwelling unit has been entered into
the remedial action program, the disorder risk threshold is met again prior to
the six-month review, the town officials shall intervene with a mandatory
meeting as prescribed herein, following the procedures in §§
93.43 and
93.44 for notification. The purpose of the meeting is to review and adjust as
necessary the remedial action plan and give consideration to revocation of the
rental permit. If it is necessary to remove the tenant from the residence, the
owner shall take the necessary steps to do so, supported by the town officials,
or the town officials, shall consult with the Town Attorney public nuisance
alternatives for summary ejectment order.
   (B)   On the six-month review date, the owner and town officials shall
review the disorder activity and verified violations in or on the residential
rental unit since the date of the remedial action plan and determine the
disorder activity or verified violations for the unit or property from the
previous twelve months and disorder activity since the implementation of the
current time period. If the disorder activity would no longer result in the
property being at or above the disorder threshold or the property no longer
meets the verified violation threshold the owner shall be issued a certificate
of compliance. If the unit continues to meet the verified violation threshold
or falls at or above he disorder threshold and any required tasks or steps
contained in the remedial action plan have not been addressed, then the town
officials shall determine whether the owner has complied in good faith with the
remedial action plan.
      (1)   In determining whether the owner has acted in good faith, the town
officials shall weigh the following factors:
         (a)   Whether the owner has regularly met with the town officials as
requested;
         (b)   Whether the owner has exhausted all resources reasonably
available to the owner in order to comply with the terms of the remedial action
plans;
         (c)   Whether the owner has intentionally ignored a term of a remedial
action plan; and
         (d)   Whether the disorder activity on the unit property constitutes a
public nuisance as defined by applicable statutes.
      (2)   If the owner has been found to have acted in good faith to comply
with the remedial action plan, then the town officials shall amend the remedial
action plan as necessary and set a second review date which shall be not less
than six months in the future;
      (3)   If the owner has been found to have not acted in good faith, then
the town officials shall revoke the rental permit and designate the residential
rental unit in need of remedial action (INRA).
      (4)   Town officials shall deem the owner in compliance with the remedial
action plan if the owner has taken steps to evict the tenant and the tenant is
no longer residing within or on the rental property in question.
      (5)   This subchapter does not prohibit the police official from
notifying the affected housing authority if the rental unit is under the
jurisdiction of Section 8 Housing Funding.
   (C)   At the second six-month review, the owner and town officials shall
review the verified violations and disorder activity in or on the unit or
property since the date of the amended remedial action plan and determine the
verified violations or disorder activity for the unit or property from the
previous year and current time period. If the property no longer meets the
verified violation threshold or disorder activity no longer results in the
property being at or above the disorder risk threshold, then the owner shall be
issued a certificate of compliance.
   (D)   If the unit or property continues to meet the verified violation
threshold or falls at or above the disorder risk threshold, then the town
officials shall determine whether the owner has acted in good faith to comply
with the amended remedial action plan. The town officials may provide
additional extensions of time, if the town officials find that the owner is
complying in good faith and could comply if offered more time.
      (1)   If the owner has acted in good faith, then the town officials may
continue to work with the owner, provided, however that if the unit or property
remains at or above the disorder risk threshold for a period of two years the
town officials shall refer the property to the Town Attorney's Office for a
determination as to whether a public nuisance action or any other legal or
equitable remedy is warranted.
      (2)   If the owner has been found to have not acted in good faith, then
the town officials shall revoke the rental permit and designate the residential
rental unit in need of remedial action (INRA).
   (E)   All remedial action plans will be based on the procedures and
practices set forth in the Town of Spencer's Remedial Action Plan Manual; A
Guide to Managing Rental Properties to Prevent Crime.
(Ord. 18-017, passed 9-11-18)
§ 93.46 NOTICE OF REVOCATION.
   A notice of revocation shall be sent by certified mail or delivered in
person to the address listed on the rental permit.
(Ord. 18-017, passed 9-11-18)
§ 93.47 TRANSITION PLAN AND NOTIFICATION OF TENANTS.
   Upon revocation of a rental permit, the town officials shall develop a
transition plan for the continued operation and management of the residential
rental property. The transition plan may include the disengagement of the owner
from the operation and maintenance of the residential rental property, a
referral to the town attorney for the evaluation of the property as a public
nuisance or for any other legal or equitable remedy available under law
necessary to fairly assist in bringing the property into compliance with this
article. Upon revocation of a rental permit and issuance of a transition plan,
the town officials shall take reasonable steps to notify the residents of the
unit or property covered by the plan.
(Ord. 18-017, passed 9-11-18)
§ 93.48 NOTICE OF APPEAL.
   A residential rental property owner may appeal any decision of the town
officials against an individual rental unit under this article to the zoning
board of adjustment, (hereinafter referred to as “the Appeal Board”). All
notice of appeals must be filed in writing with the Director of the Land
Management Department (Staff Liaison to Board of Adjustment) or Town Manager
within ten calendar days of the town officials decision or action. The owner
shall provide a valid current address for the purpose of all notifications
required to be made pursuant to this chapter. The request must state the reason
for the appeal.
(Ord. 18-017, passed 9-11-18)
§ 93.49 HEARING PROCEDURE AND APPEAL OF BOARD'S FINDINGS.
   (A)   The Town Clerk shall forward an appeal to the Director of the Land
Management Department, who shall forward such appeal to the Board of
Adjustment. The town officials shall prepare a summary of the case, including
all relevant data. The summary shall be provided to the board and the owner at
least five working days before the hearing.
   (B)   The Appeal Board shall fix a reasonable time for hearing appeals,
shall give due notice to the owner of the individual rental unit, and shall
render a decision within a reasonable time.
   (C)   The owner may appear at the hearing in person or by representation by
an agent or attorney of his or her choice. The North Carolina Rules of
Evidence, G.S. Chapter 8C, shall not strictly apply to the hearing, but all
parties shall have an opportunity to offer evidence, cross-examine witnesses,
and inspect documents. Only sworn testimony shall be accepted. The chair of the
Appeal Board, as well as any Board member designated by the chair, shall have
the authority to administer the oath as set forth for witnesses in a civil
matter by G.S. § 11-11. All hearings before the Appeal Board shall be de novo
and recorded. The Appeal Board has the authority to develop rules and
regulations consistent with this article to facilitate the hearing process.
   (D)   The town shall have the burden of proof. With respect to revocations
of permits and INRA status the town must establish by the preponderance of the
evidence that the owner's property is in need of remedial action and the owner
has failed to act in good faith to comply with the remedial action plan. After
reviewing the evidence and hearing testimony from the witnesses, the appeal
board shall issue findings of fact and conclusions of law and issue a decision
in writing either affirming or reversing, wholly or partly, or may modify the
decision of the town officials and may make any decision and order that in the
opinion of the appeal board ought to be made in the matter. The decision of the
Appeals Board may be delivered to the owner either by personal service or by
registered or certified mail return receipt requested or by mailing a copy of
the decision by signature confirmation as provided" by the United States Postal
Service.
   (E)   The owner shall have the right to seek judicial review of the Appeal
Board's decision in a proceeding in the nature of certiorari instituted in the
superior court of the county within 30 days after the date the Appeal Board
votes to uphold the Town Officials. Judicial review shall not automatically
stay the revocation.
(Ord. 18-017, passed 9-11-18)
§ 93.50 INRA DESIGNATION BINDING ON SUBSEQUENT OWNER.
   The designation of a property as INRA and the application of the procedures
set forth in this article shall be binding upon all subsequent owners or other
transferees of an ownership interest in the rental residential unit or property
covered by the designation. However, the revocation may be stayed during the
implementation of a transition plan. The INRA shall be recorded with the Rowan
County Register of Deeds for the rental property affected and billed to the
owner of the property for the filing fee. If the owner doesn't remit payment of
the filing fee to the Town of Spencer within ten days of receiving the notice
to pay, the fee shall be assessed against the property as an unpaid tax lien
and filed accordingly with the Rowan County Clerk of Court and the Rowan County
Tax Assessor's Office.
(Ord. 18-017, passed 9-11-18)
§ 93.51 ENFORCEMENT, REMEDIES AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   The remedies provided herein are not exclusive and may be exercised
singly, simultaneously, or cumulatively. In addition, the remedies provided
herein may be combined with any other remedies authorized by law and exercised
in any order. This article may be enforced by an appropriate equitable remedy
issuing from a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (B)   It shall be a civil violation of this article for any owner of a
residential rental unit or property, or person or entity on behalf of that
owner, to commit any of the following acts:
      (1)   Lease or rent a residential rental unit to another person or entity
when the rental permit for that residential rental unit has been revoked except
pursuant to a transition plan as set forth in §
93.47 of this subchapter.
      (2)   Lease or rent a residential rental unit to another person or entity
after the owner has been served with notice of the mandatory meeting based upon
disorder activity associated with that residential rental unit and fails to
attend the meeting without just cause as set forth in §
93.44 of this subchapter.
      (3)   Providing material known to be false or should have known to be
false or misleading on the residential rental permit.
      (4)   Failing to attend the mandatory initial meeting or any other
meeting after notice has been timely and pursuant to §
93.44.
      (5)   Additional late fee civil penalty of $50 may be assessed if the
initial civil penalty is not paid or appealed within 30 days from the date of
issuance.
   (C)   Notwithstanding that an owner of a residential rental property's
rental permit to occupy has been revoked or has been issued a civil penalty for
a violation of this subchapter or the owner has failed to attend the mandatory
initial meeting as set forth in §
93.44, the owner shall not commit the following acts:
      (1)   Refuse or fail to comply with any order of the town to repair a
dwelling pursuant to Chapter 160, Minimum Housing Code; or
      (2)   Terminate the utility services of any occupants or otherwise
violate the rights of residential tenants under G.S. Chapter 42, Art. 2A, 5, or
6.
   (D)   Notwithstanding that the owner's rental permit to occupy has been
revoked, the owner's compliance with its obligations in division (C)(1) and (2)
hereinabove shall not be deemed as offenses under division (E) below.
   (E)   Failure to comply with any provisions of this section shall subject
the offender to a civil penalty of $50 a day for the first 30 days, $100 a day
for the next 30 days, and $500 a day for each subsequent day.
   (F)   A civil penalty that is assessed under this article may be recovered
by the town in a civil action in the nature of a debt if the owner does not pay
the penalty fee within 30 days after a notice of the penalty is issued by the
town officials.
(Ord. 18-017, passed 9-11-18)
§ 93.52 ADOPTION OF REMEDIAL ACTION PLAN MANUAL.
   The “Remedial Action Plan Manual: a Guide to Managing Rental Properties to
Prevent Crime” (“Remedial Action Plan Manual”), a copy of which is located on
the town website for use and download at any time and is on file at customer
service desk, at town hall for a printing fee of $15, is hereby adopted. The
town council hereby finds and determines the remediation strategies set out
therein to be reasonable and appropriate to address the public health, safety
and welfare issues addressed by this article. The chief of police or his
designee is hereby authorized to amend the Remedial Action Plan Manual.
(Ord. 18-017, passed 9-11-18)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of
this chapter for which no other penalty is provided, or failing, neglecting or
refusing to comply with the same shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a Class 3
misdemeanor and subject to a fine not to exceed $100 or imprisonment not to
exceed 30 days, and each day that any of the provisions of this chapter are
violated shall constitute a separate offense with a fine not to exceed $200.
(G.S. § 14-4(a))
   (B)   Violation of §
93.27 shall be a misdemeanor. The penalty for the first and second offenses
shall be $100. The penalty for a subsequent offense thereafter shall be $300.
(`94 Code, § 8-10) (Ord. passed 5-12-93; Am. Ord. 06-06, passed 5-9-06; Am.
Ord. 16-04, passed 4-12-16)
CHAPTER 94: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Encroachment upon streets and sidewalks prohibited
   
94.02   Obstruction of streets, alleys, rights-of-way, public thoroughfares,
and sidewalks prohibited
   
94.03   Snow and ice removal
   
94.04   Damage to streets, alleys, rights-of-way, public thoroughfares, or
sidewalks
   
94.05   Damage to street lights, trees and the like
   
94.06   Machinery likely to damage pavement prohibited on streets
   
94.07   Barricades
   
94.08   Roller skates, street skates and skateboards regulated
   
94.09   Playing games in street prohibited
   
94.10   Dumping leaves, rubbish and the like on streets and sidewalks
prohibited
   
94.11   Mailboxes outside of historic district
Parades, Processions, Meetings and Picketing
   
94.20   Definitions
   
94.21   Permit required for parades or processions upon public streets
   
94.22   Application for permit; authority of Police Chief to designate route
   
94.23   Restricted hours for parades or processions
   
94.24   Interfering with parades, processions or marches prohibited
   
94.25   Conduct by participants
   
94.26   Picketing permitted; conditions
   
94.27   Interference with pickets prohibited
   
94.28   Authority of police
   
94.29   Maintenance of free passage
Public Festivals and Special Events Within the Town Limits
   
94.30   Definitions
   
94.31   Allowance of public festival or special event upon issuance of a permit
   
94.32   Sale of alcoholic beverages permitted at public festivals
   
94.33   Sale of alcoholic beverages permitted at special events
   
94.34   Firearms
   
94.35   Signs for festivals and special events
   
94.36   Penalty and conflict
Excavations
   
94.40   Permit required
   
94.41   Protection of work
   
94.42   Filling openings
Driveway Construction
   
94.55   Permit required; supervision of work
   
94.56   Design standards
   
94.57   Maintenance; materials; drainage
Poles and Wires
   
94.70   Permit required
   
94.71   Agreements for use of same poles by different companies
   
94.72   Maintenance and inspection
   
94.73   Use by town
 
   
94.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Advertising on streets, see §
130.01
   Injuring, cutting and the like of trees, shrubs or flowers on streets, parks
and squares, see §
130.06
   Loafing or loitering on streets, see §
130.07
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town to regulate driveway connections into streets and alleys,
see G.S. § 160A-307
   Establishment and control by town of streets, sidewalks, alleys and the like
generally, see G.S. § 160A-296
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01 ENCROACHMENT UPON STREETS AND SIDEWALKS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to notify all persons
about to erect any buildings, sidewalks, walls or fences near the street or any
public way or alley not to encroach upon the street or public alley. If, in the
opinion of the Mayor and Street Committee, any obstruction is being or has been
constructed on any street or public alley, the Mayor shall cause a survey of
the line of the street or alley to be made by a competent surveyor, and if the
survey shall show that the street or alley is obstructed by any building,
sidewalk, wall or fence, the owner shall be required to pay the cost of the
survey and be required to remove all obstructions at once. No person who shall
be found to have encroached on any street or public way or alley by any
building, sidewalk, wall or fence shall refuse or neglect to remove the same,
upon notice from the Mayor, within one week from the date thereof.
(`94 Code, § 13-1)
   (B)   No gate to any residence, lot or other enclosure shall swing or open
outward over the street or sidewalk. Each day any gate is allowed to open
outward over the sidewalk or street shall constitute a separate offense.
(`94 Code, § 13-2)
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to erect or maintain any shelter, sunshade or
awning in front of any building which shall extend over the sidewalk, which
shall be less than seven feet above the level of any sidewalk or which shall
extend more than ten feet from the building to which it may be attached,
provided that stationary awning arms shall not be less than eight feet above
the level of the sidewalk.
(`94 Code, § 13-3)
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to hang or suspend any sign over or above the
sidewalks or streets at less than 8 feet from the ground over the sidewalk and
less than 15 feet from the ground above the street. The sign shall be kept
securely fastened at all times.
(`94 Code, § 13-4)
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.02 OBSTRUCTION OF STREETS, ALLEYS, RIGHTS-OF-WAY, PUBLIC THOROUGHFARES,
AND SIDEWALKS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to place any obstruction whatsoever in or over any of
the streets, alleys, rights-of-way, public thoroughfares, or sidewalks of the
town, and it shall be unlawful to obstruct any sidewalk, alley, right-of-way,
public thoroughfare, or street with any wheelbarrow, automobile, truck or other
vehicle, railroad car, chair, bench, chicken coop, box or other articles,
provided that a margin not exceeding 2½ feet in width on the inside of the
sidewalk in the business blocks shall be allowed for the exhibition of
merchandise by abutting merchants, and provided further that this section shall
not apply to baby carriages and wheelchairs rolled on the sidewalks in a manner
so as not to obstruct the same.
(`94 Code, § 13-5) (Am. Ord. 18-007, passed 4-10-18) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 SNOW AND ICE REMOVAL.
   Every occupant of a store building, in front of which the sidewalk is paved
with stone, brick, asphalt or cement, shall remove snow, ice or other
obstruction from the sidewalk at the earliest possible time and as soon as the
weather permits.
(`94 Code, § 13-6)
§ 94.04 DAMAGE TO STREETS, ALLEYS, RIGHTS-OF-WAY, PUBLIC THOROUGHFARES, OR
SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   No person shall damage, deface or mar in any manner whatsoever any of
the streets, alleys, rights-of-way, public thoroughfares, or sidewalks of the
town
   (B)   The town shall have the right and privilege to repair the damage,
defacement or mar, and assess the cost thereof against the offender.
(`94 Code, § 13-5) (Am. Ord. 18-007, passed 4-10-18) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 DAMAGE TO STREET LIGHTS, TREES AND THE LIKE.
   No person shall break, destroy or in any manner damage any light, pump, well
or tree in any street or public place, or deface or in any manner damage any
building belonging to the town.
(`94 Code, § 13-6)
Penalty, see § 94.99
Statutory reference:
   Willful and wanton injury to real property generally, G.S. § 14-127
§ 94.06 MACHINERY LIKELY TO DAMAGE PAVEMENT PROHIBITED ON STREETS.
   No person shall drive or permit to be driven over any hard surfaced, asphalt
or paved street of the town any agricultural machinery, such as harrows and the
like, with sharp blades, discs or spikes that will drag on the pavement or any
traction engine with caterpillar wheels or any heavy piece of machinery that
will in any way damage or injure the paving.
(`94 Code, § 13-7)
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.07 BARRICADES.
   (A)   No person shall drive any vehicle or animal past, around or over any
barricade lawfully placed upon any street by town officials or employees, which
street has been closed by the barricade, except by consent of persons
authorized to give the consent.
(`94 Code, § 13-8)
   (B)   No person, other than an employee of the town, shall remove, tear down
or destroy any barricade which has been erected by the town.
(`94 Code, § 13-9)
Penalty, § 94.99
§ 94.08 ROLLER SKATES, STREET SKATES AND SKATEBOARDS REGULATED.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ROLLER SKATE. To ROLLER SKATE shall mean to skate on any type of roller
skates or street skates.
      SKATEBOARD. Any type of platform device mounted on any type of roller
wheel or wheels.
   (B)   No person shall roller skate or ride a skateboard anywhere in the town
without complying with the terms of this section.
   (C)   No person shall roller skate or ride a skateboard on any street except
for the purpose of crossing the street. The rules relating to pedestrians
crossing streets shall apply to persons crossing a street on roller skates or a
skateboard. No person crossing a street on roller skates or a skateboard shall
travel too fast for safety under the conditions existing.
   (D)   No person shall roller skate or ride a skateboard in a reckless manner
on any public sidewalk. No person shall ride a skateboard or roller skate on a
sidewalk without exercising due care for the safety of other persons using the
sidewalk.
(`94 Code, § 13-12) (Ord. passed 10-9-90)
Penalty, see § 94.99
Cross-reference:
   Use of coasters restricted, see §
71.51
§ 94.09 PLAYING GAMES IN STREET PROHIBITED.
   No person shall play baseball, basketball, football or other games or sports
of a similar nature on any public street.
(`94 Code, § 13-13) (Am. Ord. 06-08, passed 5-9-06)
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.10 DUMPING LEAVES, RUBBISH AND THE LIKE ON STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to dump, throw or otherwise discard grass cuttings,
leaves, yard rakings, limbs, trash or rubbish into the streets or upon the
paved or established sidewalks of the town.
(`94 Code, § 8-7)
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.11 MAILBOXES OUTSIDE OF HISTORIC DISTRICT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect a curbside mailbox outside of
the Historic District along either side of Salisbury Avenue, between Jefferson
Street and 17th Street (see also §
155.063 , Mailboxes within Historic District).
(Ord. 14-09, passed 9-9-14)
PARADES, PROCESSIONS, MEETINGS AND PICKETING
§ 94.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MEETING. Any assembly together or concert of action between or among five or
more persons for the purpose of protesting any matter or of making known any
position or promotion of the persons, or of or on behalf of any organization or
class of persons, or for the purpose of attracting attention to the assembly.
   PARADE OR PROCESSION. Any assemblage of five or more persons participating
in, or three or more vehicles being operated in any march, ceremony, show,
exhibition or procession of any kind in or upon the public streets, sidewalks,
alleys, parks or other public grounds or places, not including a bona fide
funeral procession.
(`94 Code, § 11-20)
§ 94.21 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR PARADES OR PROCESSIONS UPON PUBLIC STREETS.
   No procession or parade shall occupy, march or proceed along any street,
sidewalk or any other public place, nor shall any person conduct any public or
private meeting on any street, sidewalk or other public place in the town,
except in accordance with a permit issued by the Chief of Police and any other
regulations as are set forth in this subchapter which may apply.
(`94 Code, § 11-21)
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.22 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; AUTHORITY OF POLICE CHIEF TO DESIGNATE ROUTE.
   A written application shall be made to the Chief of Police by any person
desiring to have a parade, procession or meeting, setting forth the object,
time, place and route of the parade or procession, or the object, time and
place of the meeting. The Chief of Police shall have authority to designate the
route of the parade or procession and the portion of the streets or other
public places to be used in a way so as to avoid as much as possible the
obstruction or impediment of public travel or public business. The Chief of
Police may refuse to issue a permit for a parade, procession or meeting, unless
application therefor is filed with the officer at least 24 hours before the
time thereof.
(`94 Code, § 11-22)
§ 94.23 RESTRICTED HOURS FOR PARADES OR PROCESSIONS.
   No parade shall be permitted between the hours of 11:30 a.m. and 2:00 p.m.,
or between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and 6:00 p.m., local time, and no parade or
procession shall commence or continue after sunset or commence before sunrise.
(`94 Code, § 11-23)
§ 94.24 INTERFERING WITH PARADES, PROCESSIONS OR MARCHES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to physically interfere with
processions, marches or meetings, or with the persons lawfully engaged therein
in the use of any street, sidewalk or other public place, or to address
profane, indecent, abusive or threatening language or other fighting words to
or at the participants, which would tend to provoke the participants or others
to a breach of the peace.
(`94 Code, § 11-24)
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.25 CONDUCT BY PARTICIPANTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct or participate in any
parade, procession or meeting of a character, extent and duration, or of a
nature to create a public disturbance, to operate as a nuisance or to tend to
create or threaten rioting, disorderly conduct or public or private mischief.
(`94 Code, § 11-25)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person conducting or participating in any
parade, procession or meeting to address profane, indecent, abusive or
threatening language or other fighting words to or at any person, which would
tend to provoke the person or others to a breach of the peace.
(`94 Code, § 11-26)
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.26 PICKETING PERMITTED; CONDITIONS.
   Peaceful picketing, including demonstrating, in the furtherance of a lawful
purpose shall be permitted in the town, provided the same is done under the
following conditions:
   (A)   Picketing shall be conducted only on the sidewalks or other town-owned
area normally used or reserved for pedestrian movement, including easements and
rights-of-way, and shall not be conducted on the portion of a street used
primarily for vehicular traffic.
   (B)   Not more than ten pickets promoting the same objective shall be
permitted to use the sidewalks within one block in the town at any one time.
   (C)   The pickets may carry written or printed placards or signs not
exceeding 2 feet in width and 2 feet in height promoting the objective for
which the picketing is done, provided that the words used are not defamatory in
nature and would not tend to produce violence. The staff on which the placard
is carried shall not exceed 40 inches in length, must be made of wood, shall
not exceed 3/4-inch in diameter at any point and must be blunt at each end.
   (D)   Pickets must march in single file and not abreast, and may not march
closer together than 15 feet, except in passing one another.
   (E)   If pickets promoting different objectives desire to use the same
sidewalk for picketing, and the use would result in the presence of more than
ten pickets thereon, the Chief of Police shall allot time to each group of
pickets for the use of the sidewalk on an equitable basis, but each group shall
be permitted to picket subject to the provisions of this section at least once
every two hours.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any picket to address profane, indecent,
abusive or threatening language to or at any person, which would tend to
provoke the person or others to a breach of the peace.
(`94 Code, § 11-30)
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.27 INTERFERENCE WITH PICKETS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to physically interfere with pickets in
the use of the sidewalk or to address profane, indecent, abusive or threatening
language to or at the pickets, which would tend to provoke the pickets or
others to a breach of the peace.
(`94 Code, § 11-31)
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.28 AUTHORITY OF POLICE.
   The police officers of the town may, in the event of the assemblage of
persons in numbers that would tend to intimidate pickets pursuing their lawful
objective, through numbers alone or through the use of inflammatory words,
direct the dispersal of persons so assembled and may arrest any person who
fails to depart from the place of the assemblage when so directed by the
police.
(`94 Code, § 11-32)
§ 94.29 MAINTENANCE OF FREE PASSAGE.
   Whenever the free passage of any street or sidewalk in the town shall be
obstructed by a crowd, the persons composing the crowd shall disperse or move
on when so directed by a police officer, as provided in § 94.28.
(`94 Code, § 11-33)
PUBLIC FESTIVALS AND SPECIAL EVENTS WITHIN THE TOWN LIMITS
§ 94.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT.  An establishment engaged in the business of
regularly selling food, customarily, but not exclusively, to be eaten on the
premises, including businesses that are commonly referred to as restaurants,
cafés, grills and other establishments that have a food counter where food is
sold.
   MALT BEVERAGE.  Beer, lager, malt liquor, ale, porter, or any other brewed
or fermented beverage containing at least 0.5% and not more than 15% alcohol by
volume.
   OPEN CONTAINER.  A container whose seal has been broken or a container other
than the manufacturer’s unopened original container.
   UNFORTIFIED WINE.  Wine that has an alcoholic content produced only by
natural fermentation by the addition of pure cane, beet, or dextrose sugar, and
that has an alcoholic content of not more than 17% alcohol by volume.
   WINERY. An establishment regularly engaged in the manufacture, sale or
marketing of wine.
(Ord. 13-05, passed 9-10-13)
§ 94.31 ALLOWANCE OF PUBLIC FESTIVAL OR SPECIAL EVENT UPON ISSUANCE OF A
PERMIT.
   (A)   Public festivals. Upon issuance of a permit by the Town of Spencer,
community organizations, arts groups, and other non-profit organizations may
hold a public festival within public rights-of-way, or on town-owned property
within the town limits as designated in a festival/special event permit.
   (B)   Special events. Upon issuance of a permit by the Town of Spencer,
restaurants, food service establishments, businesses, wineries and any other
for-profit organizations may hold a special event within public rights-of-way,
or on town-owned property within the town limits as designated in a festival/
special event permit.
   (C)   Festivals and special events held on private property but which are
open to the public require a festival/special event permit.
   (D)   Applications may be approved by the Town of Spencer upon meeting the
following requirements:
      (1)   A written application for a public street festival or special event
permit, including street closures, must be submitted to the Town of Spencer at
least 60 days prior to the event. A detailed site map indicating, at a minimum,
the stage area, concessions, tables and seating area, parking areas and
locations where the road may be blocked off shall also be required. A copy of
the application and permit shall be submitted and retained by the office of the
Town Clerk;
      (2)   A statement of the applicant’s intent whether to serve or to allow
the consumption of beer and wine. If serving alcoholic beverages, a copy of the
applicant’s ABC permit demonstrating that the applicant is properly licensed to
allow the consumption of beer and wine within the plan-defined area, and a
verified statement by the applicant that:
         (a)   Its ABC permit is in good standing; and
         (b)   The applicant has not been cited for any violation of its ABC
permit for the premises within the previous three-year period. If the applicant
has been cited, the applicant must provide a statement describing the
circumstances for which it was cited and describing what, if any, penalty was
imposed for the incident.
      (3)   The applicant’s plan must also indicate that the festival or
special event area must be maintained, and all debris or refuse removed from
the area, at regular intervals during the business day so as to maintain an
orderly appearance and to prevent the attraction of vermin, insects, or other
pests to the area. The plan must also indicate that the applicant must maintain
an unobstructed path for pedestrian travel on the sidewalk at least five feet
wide at all times and that the applicant agrees to remove all obstructions and
additions to the festival area immediately upon completion of the festival in
order to open the streets to public use as soon as possible;
      (4)   The applicant agrees that at no time would anyone be allowed to
block access to a fire hydrant in the street festival area;
      (5)   The applicant, or an authorized officer or member if the applicant
is not an individual, must sign an agreement to indemnify and hold the town
harmless from any and all claims of property damage, personal injury or death
arising from or related to the provision of outdoor table service at the
establishment;
      (6)   Certificate of insurance indicating that the applicant has, or will
have, in place for the duration of the permit period, liability insurance with
a minimum limit of $1,000,000 for the premises and all activities conducted
thereon; and
      (7)   Permit review. In the review of a festival or special event permit
request, the Town of Spencer shall be guided by the following considerations:
         (a)   The number of permits issued and the area or areas for which
such permits are issued in relation to crowd density, traffic control, the
ability to protect persons and property, fire prevention and control, general
safety and availability of town assets and resources to ensure the reasonable
protection of the general public.
         (b)   In those instances in which the Town Manager, or designee,
considers town resources to be insufficient to meet the above considerations,
the Town Manager, or designee, may require the applicant for such permit to
provide, at the applicant’s expense, adequate and qualified security personnel
for the duration of the permit.
         (c)   The Town Manager, or designee, shall have the authority to
designate the boundaries of any public festival or special event area. To
accommodate such an event, the Town Manager, or designee, upon approval from
the Spencer Board of Aldermen, is further authorized to temporarily close any
public streets, sidewalks or other city-owned areas within the boundaries of
any proposed public festival or special event. Where such streets, sidewalks,
or other town-owned areas are temporarily closed, they shall be for the general
use of the public.
(Ord. 13-05, passed 9-10-13; Am. Ord. 18-011, passed 6-12-18)
§ 94.32 SALE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES PERMITTED AT PUBLIC FESTIVALS.
   (A)   It shall be lawful for a public street festival permittee to serve or
sell malt beverages and unfortified wine where the boundaries of the area in
which such beverages is clearly delineated, where access to such area is
restricted to persons who shall be at least 21 years of age and where the
following requirements are met.
   (B)   All applicable health and ABC laws are complied with:
      (1)   The contents of beer bottles, cans, wine bottles or any other
unopened container shall be poured into appropriate plastic cups or plastic
glasses;
      (2)   One or more representative of the organization selling alcoholic
beverages under an appropriately issued, special one-time ABC permit has been
certified by the North Carolina ABC Board’s “Be a Responsible Seller” program;
      (3)   All empty bottles and cans shall be handled in such a way as to not
be broken or left on town property; and
      (4)   The permittee shall be required to maintain proper decorum and
order and leave the area in a clean condition.
(Ord. 13-05, passed 9-10-13)
§ 94.33 SALE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES PERMITTED AT SPECIAL EVENTS.
   (A)   It shall be lawful for a special event permittee to serve or sell malt
beverages and unfortified wine where the boundaries of the area in which such
beverages is clearly delineated, where access to such area is restricted to
persons who shall be at least 21 years of age and where the following
requirements are met.
   (B)   All applicable health and ABC laws are complied with:
      (1)   All malt beverages or unfortified wines must be sold in, and
consumed from, their original containers;
      (2)   All empty bottles and cans shall be handled in such a way as to not
be broken or left on town property; and
      (3)   The permittee shall be required to maintain proper decorum and
order and leave the area in a clean condition.
(Ord. 13-05, passed 9-10-13)
§ 94.34 FIREARMS.
   Except for sworn certified law enforcement personnel, the open-carry of
firearms in the public festival or special event area is prohibited. A valid
concealed handgun permittee issued by the State of North Carolina or reciprocal
state, may carry a handgun concealed in the public festival or special event
area, in accordance with the North Carolina General Statutes.
(Ord. 13-05, passed 9-10-13; Am. Ord. 18-011, passed 6-12-18)
§ 94.35 SIGNS FOR FESTIVALS AND SPECIAL EVENTS.
   Promotional signage for public street festivals or special events shall
comply with the provisions of Chapter 150, Sign Regulations, of this code.
(Ord. 13-05, passed 9-10-13)
§ 94.36 PENALTY AND CONFLICT.
   (A)   Any violation of this subchapter shall constitute a misdemeanor,
punishable as provided in G.S. § 14-4. A first violation of a public festival
or special event permit issued pursuant to this subchapter shall result in the
issuance of a written warning to the permittee. A second violation within one
year of the first shall result in an immediate revocation of the permit and a
60-day ban on future permits. Additionally, a violation of any of the
provisions of this subchapter shall subject the offender to a civil penalty of
up to $500. If a person fails to pay this penalty within ten days after being
cited for a violation, the town may seek to enforce this subchapter through any
appropriate equitable action. Each day that a violation continues after the
offender has been notified of the violation shall constitute a separate
offense. The town may seek to enforce this subchapter by using any one, or a
combination, of the foregoing remedies.
   (B)   In the event of a conflict between the provisions of this subchapter
and any other town ordinance, the provisions of this subchapter shall control.
The enactment of this suchapter, however, shall not result in any change of the
general applicability of any other town ordinance.
(Ord. 13-05, passed 9-10-13)
EXCAVATIONS
§ 94.40 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall make any excavation, or cut or make any other opening in any
of the streets or sidewalks, without first having obtained a permit therefor
from the town.
(`94 Code, § 13-20)
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.41 PROTECTION OF WORK.
   Any person carrying on or doing any construction, excavation or repair work
in any street or part of a street in the town, pursuant to a permit obtained as
provided in § 94.40, shall erect and maintain proper, safe and sufficient
barricades and, during the period of time between one-half hour after sunset
and one-half hour before sunrise, shall maintain sufficient lights or flares
around the barricades, work or excavation to warn persons of the presence of
the excavations and work and to prevent injury to persons and damage to
property.
(`94 Code, § 13-21)
§ 94.42 FILLING OPENINGS.
   All openings made in any street or sidewalk under the provisions of this
subchapter shall immediately, upon the completion of the work, be filled and
the surface thereof made flush with the adjacent surfaces. Any hard surface,
macadam or asphalt removed shall be replaced by the town at the expense of the
applicant granted permission to open the street or sidewalk. Each day the
opening is left unfilled in violation of this section shall constitute a
separate offense.
(`94 Code, § 13-21)
Penalty, see § 94.99
DRIVEWAY CONSTRUCTION
§ 94.55 PERMIT REQUIRED; SUPERVISION OF WORK.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to break any street curb for the
purpose of constructing a driveway entrance, or to construct any driveway
across the grass plot or sidewalk, without first obtaining a permit therefor
from the Town Manager or the Manager's authorized representative. All work
approved under the provisions of this subchapter shall be done under the
supervision of the Superintendent of Public Works.
(`94 Code, § 13-30)
   (B)   The Board shall have the authority to rescind by resolution any permit
granted for a driveway when the Board finds the action to be in the public
interest.
(`94 Code, § 13-31)
   (C)   Where property is to be served by a driveway opening into a state
highway street, a permit as required by the state shall be obtained prior to
the issuance of a permit by the Town Manager, as required by this subchapter.
(`94 Code, § 13-32)
§ 94.56 DESIGN STANDARDS.
   All residential and commercial driveway entrances constructed or
reconstructed upon the street rights-of-way of the town shall be designed
according to the requirements of the manual on driveway entrance regulations of
the state, with the additional provision that no driveway shall be less than 12
feet wide and that single-family residential driveways shall not be greater
than 24 feet wide, with not more than two driveway entrances to the same
property. No driveway entrance shall be constructed so as to interfere with
sidewalks, traffic signals, lamp standards, fire hydrants or so as to be within
5 feet of a side property line. No driveway for a corner lot shall be
constructed within 15 feet of the intersection of right-of-way lines.
(`94 Code, § 13-33)
§ 94.57 MAINTENANCE; MATERIALS; DRAINAGE.
   Responsibility for construction, maintenance and repairs to new and existing
driveway entrances shall rest with the property owner. Materials for the
construction or reconstruction of driveways shall be Portland cement concrete,
bituminous concrete on stone base or crushed stone at a thickness of not less
than four inches as specified by the Superintendent of Public Works. Drainage
shall not be impeded, and in areas where storm sewers are not provided, the
property owner shall provide suitable drainage structures as required. Driveway
pipe shall be of a size adequate to carry the anticipated flow in the ditch as
determined by the Superintendent of Public Works. However, driveway pipe will
not be less than 15 inches inside diameter unless otherwise directed by the
Superintendent of Public Works. An approved list of pipe materials is available
from the Superintendent of Public Works.
(`94 Code, § 13-34) (Am. Ord. 07-08, passed 10-9-07)
POLES AND WIRES
§ 94.70 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No poles for electric, telegraph, telephone or other purposes shall be
placed on any street without a permit therefor being obtained from the town.
(`94 Code, § 13-40)
   (B)   No permit shall be issued pursuant to this subchapter for the erection
of poles on any street where there exists a line of poles on the street for the
purpose of supporting electric, telephone or telegraph wires.
(`94 Code, § 13-41)
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.71 AGREEMENTS FOR USE OF SAME POLES BY DIFFERENT COMPANIES.
   (A)   Whenever any electric, telephone or telegraph company desires to place
lines or wires along any particular street upon which it does not have a line
of poles, but upon which street there exists a line of poles owned by another
company, the companies may maintain their wires upon the same poles. If an
agreement cannot be reached between the companies owning the poles and the
companies desiring to place wires thereon, the companies may submit the
question of compensation to three disinterested persons for arbitration, or
they may submit the same to the Board for determination.
   (B)   This section shall apply to poles owned by the town as well as poles
owned by companies operating under franchises from the town.
(`94 Code, § 13-42)
§ 94.72 MAINTENANCE AND INSPECTION.
   It shall be the duty of the owners of all poles supporting electric,
telephone or telegraph wires to keep the same in a safe condition and, for that
purpose, to inspect the same once every three months.
(`94 Code, § 13-43)
§ 94.73 USE BY TOWN.
   One duct in all underground conduit systems shall be provided for the town,
free of charge, for the town's police or fire alarm telegraph system when
required, and the town shall have the use of all poles on streets for the same
purposes.
(`94 Code, § 13-44)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of
this chapter for which no other penalty is provided, or failing, neglecting or
refusing to comply with the same shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a Class 3
misdemeanor and subject to a fine not to exceed $50 or imprisonment not to
exceed 30 days, and each day that any of the provisions of this chapter are
violated shall constitute a separate offense.
(G.S. § 14-4(a))
   (B)   Any person found guilty of violating any provision of §
94.08 shall be fined not less than $5 nor more than $50 for each offense.
(`94 Code, § 13-12) (Am. Ord. 06-07, passed 5-9-06)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
110.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
111.   ENERGY UTILIZATION MATERIAL AND EQUIPMENT INSTALLERS
         
112.   PAWNSHOPS AND DEALERS IN PRECIOUS METALS
         
113.   TAXICAB OPERATIONS
         
114.   TEMPORARY SALES
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   License tax upon certain businesses; conditions applicable to licenses
   
110.03   Exemptions
   
110.04   Franchises
   
110.05   Schedule of license taxes
   
110.06   When license taxes are due and payable
   
110.07   Doing business without paying license tax and securing required
license prohibited
   
110.08   License required for each separate business and each place of business
   
110.09   License valid only for designated place of business
   
110.10   Application for license
   
110.11   Investigation of applicant; refusal to issue license; appeal
   
110.12   Additional prerequisites to issuance of license
   
110.13   New license required on change of business
   
110.14   Revocation of license
   
110.15   Rebates and refunds
   
110.16   Display of license
   
110.17   Assignment
   
110.18   Contents of license; copies on file
   
110.19   Replacement of license when lost or destroyed
 
   
110.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town to regulate and license businesses, trades and the like,
see G.S. § 160A-194
   License taxes generally, see G.S. §§ 105-33 et seq.
   Privilege license taxes on trades, professions and the like, see G.S. §
160A-211
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENT. The person having the agency for the manufacturer, producer or
distributor.
   BUSINESS. Any business, trade, profession or calling of any kind, subject,
by the provisions of this chapter, to a license tax.
   ENGAGED IN THE BUSINESS. Engaged in the business as either owner or
operator.
   FISCAL YEAR. The period beginning with July 1 and ending on the June 30 next
following.
   QUARTER. Any three consecutive months.
(`94 Code, § 10-1)
§ 110.02 LICENSE TAX UPON CERTAIN BUSINESSES; CONDITIONS APPLICABLE TO
LICENSES.
   In addition to the tax on property as otherwise provided for and under the
power and authority conferred in the laws of the state, there shall be levied
and collected annually, or more often where provided for, a privilege license
tax on trades, professions, agencies, business operations, exhibitions,
circuses and all subjects authorized to be licensed as set out in this chapter.
Nothing herein contained shall be construed to prevent the Board from imposing
from time to time, as it may see fit, license taxes that are not specifically
herein defined, or from increasing or decreasing the amount of any special
license tax, or from prohibiting or regulating the businesses or acts licensed,
and all licenses are granted subject to the provisions of existing or future
ordinances.
(`94 Code, § 10-2)
§ 110.03 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The license taxes levied by the Board shall not apply to:
      (1)   Any business operated by any strictly religious or charitable
organization, when the proceeds of these businesses are for the exclusive
benefit of the organization.
      (2)   Any business operated under the management of and located upon the
grounds of any industrial or agricultural fair association during the period
its fair is held.
   (B)   Except as provided by division (A) above or in the schedule of license
taxes levied by the Board or as provided by state law, there shall be no
exemption of any person, for any reason, from the payment of the prescribed
license tax.
   (C)   Every person engaging in any business upon which there is levied a
license tax by the Board, but which person is exempt from the payment of the
tax by the provisions of this chapter, shall nevertheless secure from the tax
collector a license to engage in the business. The license shall show upon its
face that the licensee is exempt from the payment of the license tax and shall
cite the section of this code which is the authority therefor, provided that
this division shall not apply to the persons so exempted under the provisions
of division (A) above.
(`94 Code, § 10-3)
§ 110.04 FRANCHISES.
   (A)   The Board shall have power to grant, upon reasonable terms, franchises
for public utilities. These grants shall not exceed a period of 60 years,
unless renewed at the end of the period granted.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to licenses and shall not
apply to franchise taxes, unless so specifically provided.
(`94 Code, § 10-4)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town relative to contracts generally, see G.S. §§ 160A-16 et
seq.
   Authority of town to grant utility franchises, see G.S. § 160A-319
§ 110.05 SCHEDULE OF LICENSE TAXES.
   The Board shall prepare and levy each year a schedule of license taxes on
any trades and occupations as may be deemed necessary and not inconsistent with
state law. A permanent copy of the same shall be kept on file in the office of
the tax collector throughout the current year, and this permanent copy shall
constitute the official license tax levy as of that year.
(`94 Code, § 10-5)
§ 110.06 WHEN LICENSE TAXES ARE DUE AND PAYABLE.
   (A)   The license taxes levied by this chapter are levied as of July 1 for
the fiscal year beginning with that day.
   (B)   In the case of any business operating under a prior license, the
license tax levied as of July 1 shall be due and payable not later than the
last day of the same month.
(`94 Code, § 10-6)
§ 110.07 DOING BUSINESS WITHOUT PAYING LICENSE TAX AND SECURING REQUIRED
LICENSE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Except as provided in § 110.06, it shall be unlawful for any person to
engage in any business or profession for which a license is required without
first having paid the license tax and secured the required license.
(`94 Code, § 10-7)
   (B)   Each day any person operates any business after the license tax
therefor becomes due and payable, without paying the tax and securing a license
for the business, shall constitute a separate offense.
(`94 Code, § 10-8)
Penalty, see § 110.99
§ 110.08 LICENSE REQUIRED FOR EACH SEPARATE BUSINESS AND EACH PLACE OF
BUSINESS.
   Every person engaged in more than one business is required to secure a
license for each separate business in which the person is engaged, and every
person having more than one place of business shall secure a license for each
place of business, unless the places are contiguous and operated as a unit.
(`94 Code, § 10-9)
§ 110.09 LICENSE VALID ONLY FOR DESIGNATED PLACE OF BUSINESS.
   No license issued under the provisions of this chapter for the conduct of
any business at a fixed place named therein shall be valid for the conduct of
the business at any place other than that designated in the license.
(`94 Code, § 10-10)
§ 110.10 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Every application for a license required by this chapter shall be made
in writing to the tax collector, upon a form provided by the tax collector. The
application shall be signed either by the applicant or applicant's agent and
shall furnish all the information as provided on the form.
   (B)   In addition to the information furnished by applicants on the form as
provided in division (A) above, every solicitor applying for a license shall
furnish to the tax collector the name and address of the person whom the
solicitor represents, together with a description of the goods or services
which the solicitor offers for sale.
(`94 Code, § 10-11)
§ 110.11 INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT; REFUSAL TO ISSUE LICENSE; APPEAL.
   Before issuing any license, the tax collector shall satisfy him or herself
that the applicant therefor is a person of good character or, if the applicant
is a corporation, that the officers thereof are persons of good character. If
the tax collector shall not be satisfied of the good character of the
applicant, the tax collector may refuse to issue the license, and the applicant
may appeal to the Board.
(`94 Code, § 10-12)
§ 110.12 ADDITIONAL PREREQUISITES TO ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   The tax collector shall not issue any license when the application therefor
is refused by the Board of Aldermen or by any other board, commission or
official in any case where the approval of the Board of Aldermen or by another
board, commission or official is a required condition to the issuance of the
license, nor shall the tax collector issue any license until the applicant
therefor has complied with every provision of this chapter.
(`94 Code, § 10-13)
§ 110.13 NEW LICENSE REQUIRED ON CHANGE OF BUSINESS.
   If, after the issuance of a license to carry on a certain line of business,
the licensee shall so change or alter the business as to bring it under a
classification for which a higher license tax is required, the licensee shall,
before making the change, deliver the license to the tax collector, together
with a written and signed statement as to the nature of the proposed change,
and shall pay to the tax collector the proper additional license tax. The tax
collector shall thereupon cancel the old license and shall issue to the
licensee a new and appropriate license.
(`94 Code, § 10-14)
§ 110.14 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Any license issued by the tax collector may be revoked by the Board, upon
the finding by the Board that the licensee has persistently violated any
provision of this code or other ordinance or any laws of the state, or that the
licensee is conducting the business in a fraudulent or unlawful manner or is
abusing his or her license.
(`94 Code, § 10-15)
§ 110.15 REBATES AND REFUNDS.
   No license tax shall be rebated, nor shall any refund of any part thereof be
made in any case where the licensee discontinues the business before the end of
the period for which the license was issued.
(`94 Code, § 10-16)
§ 110.16 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every license must be kept prominently displayed at the place of business of
the licensee named therein, or if the licensee has no fixed place for doing
business, the licensee must keep the license wherever the business is being
operated and in a place where it can be seen at any time by an official
desiring to inspect the same.
(`94 Code, § 10-17)
§ 110.17 ASSIGNMENT.
   Every license issued under this chapter shall be a personal privilege and
shall not be assignable, except that when any business carried on at a fixed
place designated in the license issued therefor is sold as a unit to any person
and the purchaser thereof is to carry on the business at the same place, the
license for the business may be assigned to the purchaser who, upon delivery of
the license properly assigned to the tax collector, together with a written and
signed statement that the business has been sold as a unit and that the
purchaser is to carry on the same at the same place of business, and upon the
payment of a fee as prescribed from time to time by the Board, shall be
entitled to have a new and appropriate license issued to the purchaser,
provided that any business requiring special approval shall not have a license
issued until the special approval has been duly obtained from the proper
authority.
(`94 Code, § 10-18)
§ 110.18 CONTENTS OF LICENSE; COPIES ON FILE.
   Every license issued shall show on the face thereof the name of the
licensee, the nature of the business and the location thereof, if the business
has a fixed location, the time for which issued, the amount of the tax and
penalty, if any, paid. Any license requiring the approval of the Board of
Aldermen or of any other board, commission or official shall show the approval
on its face. The tax collector shall keep an exact copy of each license issued,
including the approval of the Board of Aldermen or the board, commission or
official endorsed on the face of the copy.
(`94 Code, § 10-19)
§ 110.19 REPLACEMENT OF LICENSE WHEN LOST OR DESTROYED.
   Upon satisfactory evidence that any licensee has lost any license or license
tag, or that the license or tag has been destroyed, the tax collector shall
issue to the licensee a duplicate license or tag upon the payment of a fee as
prescribed from time to time by the Board.
(`94 Code, § 10-20)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Any person engaged in any business or profession for which they have not
received the required license, thereby violating § 110.07, shall have seven
business days to acquire the necessary license. Any person that continues to
violate this requirement shall be subject to a civil fine of $150 per day that
the violation continues. This shall not prohibit other enforcement measures by
other government officials.
(Ord. 99-19, passed 8-10-99)
CHAPTER 111: ENERGY UTILIZATION MATERIAL AND EQUIPMENT INSTALLERS
Section
   
111.01   License required
   
111.02   Application for license
   
111.03   Procedure for issuance of license
   
111.04   Bond required
   
111.05   Termination and renewal of license
   
111.06   Suspension and revocation of license
   
111.07   Change of location
   
111.08   Permit required; fee
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person may, for a consideration, install, alter or restore within the
town any insulation or other materials or energy utilization equipment designed
or intended to meet the State Building Code requirements for insulation and
energy utilization standards who is not either:
   (A)   Licensed as a contractor to do the proposed work under G.S. Chapter
87;
   (B)   Working under the supervision of a registered architect or
professional engineer;
   (C)   An owner working upon his or her own building; or
   (D)   Licensed under this chapter.
(`94 Code, § 10-30) (Ord. passed 12-8-77)
Penalty, see § 111.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see G.S. § 160A-194
§ 111.02 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   Every person desiring a license under this chapter shall submit an
application for the license to the town conforming to the following
requirements:
   (A)   Each application shall be a written statement upon forms provided by
the town.
   (B)   Each application shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name and home address of the applicant, if an individual, or
home office address, if a corporation or partnership;
      (2)   Names and home addresses of the partners, if a partnership;
      (3)   Names and home addresses of the officers and directors, if a
corporation;
      (4)   The place where the proposed business is to be located;
      (5)   A complete record of all convictions of felonies or acts involving
dishonesty, fraud or deceit by the applicant or any employee, partner, officer,
or director of the applicant, whether in this or any other state or
jurisdiction;
      (6)   A complete record of all licenses held by the applicant or any
employee, partner, officer or director of the applicant authorizing activities
of the type authorized herein or other activities involving construction,
alteration, or modification of buildings and structures; and
      (7)   Information as to the circumstances in which any local, state or
federal government or agency has refused, suspended or revoked a license of the
type described in subsection (6) above to the applicant or any employee,
partner, officer or director of the applicant.
   (C)   Each application shall be accompanied by a fee in the amount of $15
for the license, the amount to be for the fiscal year and prorated by quarters
to the end of the year.
   (D)   False statements on any application for a license shall be grounds for
immediate revocation or denial of the license.
(`94 Code, § 10-31) (Ord. passed 12-8-77)
§ 111.03 PROCEDURE FOR ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Each application received by the town shall be promptly forwarded to
the Police Department. The appropriate officers shall promptly make any
comments and recommendations pertaining to the application and forward them to
the Building Inspector.
   (B)   The application and any comments and recommendations relating thereto
shall be considered by the Building Inspector, who shall then issue or deny the
license pursuant to division (C) below.
   (C)   The Building Inspector shall issue the license unless it shall find
that the applicant or any employee, partner, officer, or director of the
applicant has:
      (1)   Been convicted within the last three years of a felony or an act
involving dishonesty, fraud or deceit, whether in this or any other state or
jurisdiction;
      (2)   Been refused a license to do the type of work authorized herein or
has had the license suspended or revoked by any local, state or federal
government or agency, and the government or agency has not subsequently granted
or restored the license;
      (3)   Knowingly made a false statement in the application; and/or
      (4)   Failed to post the bond or other security as required by this
chapter.
(`94 Code, § 10-32) (Ord. passed 12-8-77)
§ 111.04 BOND REQUIRED.
   (A)   Before a license shall be issued to any applicant, the applicant shall
post a bond with the town in the amount of $1,000. In lieu of posting a bond,
the applicant may deposit a cashier's check or cash in the same amount.
   (B)   The security required by division (A) above shall be available to
indemnify any person for any damage which may accrue by reason of the
applicant's failure to properly provide or install insulation, energy
utilization equipment or other materials designed or intended to meet the State
Building Code standards for insulation and energy utilization.
(`94 Code, § 10-33) (Ord. passed 12-8-77)
§ 111.05 TERMINATION AND RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   All licenses issued hereunder shall terminate on the last day of the fiscal
year for which issued. Renewal of the licenses shall be pursuant to the same
procedures and requirements set forth for initial issuance.
(`94 Code, § 10-35) (Ord. passed 12-8-77)
§ 111.06 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The Building Inspector may suspend or revoke any license issued
hereunder at any time upon a showing that the applicant or any employee,
partner, officer or director of the applicant has:
      (1)   Knowingly made a false statement in the application for a license;
      (2)   Violated the state building code requirements as to insulation or
energy utilization equipment or materials, whether in this or any other
jurisdiction; and/or
      (3)   Been convicted of an act involving dishonesty, fraud or deceit with
respect to any contract entered into for work requiring this license.
   (B)   Any licensee whose license is suspended or revoked may appeal the
suspension or revocation to the Board. After reasonable notice to the licensee,
the Board shall afford the licensee an opportunity to show why its license
should not be suspended or revoked.
(`94 Code, § 10-36) (Ord. passed 12-8-77)
§ 111.07 CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   The location of any licensed business may be changed, provided ten days'
notice thereof is given to the town and operation at the new location does not
violate any applicable state or local law, ordinance or regulation.
(`94 Code, § 10-37) (Ord. passed 12-8-77)
§ 111.08 PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE.
   No person licensed under this chapter may, for a consideration, install,
alter or restore any insulation or other materials or energy utilization
equipment designed or intended to meet the State Building Code requirements for
insulation and energy utilization without first securing a permit from the
building inspector for each item of work. There shall be a fee in the amount of
the cost of issuing each permit issued.
(`94 Code, § 10-38) (Ord. passed 12-8-77)
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to all
the applicable punishment, penalties, and equitable relief provided for by G.S.
§ 160A-175.
(`94 Code, § 10-38) (Ord. passed 12-8-77)
CHAPTER 112: PAWNSHOPS AND DEALERS IN PRECIOUS METALS
Section
   
112.01   Compliance with state law; enforcement
§ 112.01 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAW; ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The town shall abide G.S. Chapter 66 regarding the regulation of
precious metal businesses, pawnbrokers, cash converters, and secondary metals
recyclers, and to strengthen metals theft prevention by requiring permitting of
nonferrous materials metal purchasers, making it a crime to cut, mutilate,
deface, or otherwise injure the property of another to obtain nonferrous
metals, creating related criminal offenses, and making other as allowed by
House Bill 199.
   (B)   All pawnbrokers, metal dealers, scrap dealers, precious metal dealers,
and cash converters located within the town shall abide with applicable
sections of G.S. Chapter 66.
   (C)   The Spencer Chief of Police or his or her designee shall perform the
duties of a law enforcement officer as required by G.S. Chapter 66.
   (D)   The town hereby adopts the provisions of House Bill 199 and G.S.
Chapter 66.
(`94 Code, § 10-50) (Ord. passed 8-11-92; Am. Ord. passed 6-14-05; Am. Ord. 12-
03, passed 9-11-12)
CHAPTER 113: TAXICAB OPERATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Operators and drivers distinguished
   
113.03   Proof of financial responsibility
Certificate
   
113.15   Certificate required
   
113.16   Certificate to constitute franchise
   
113.17   Application
   
113.18   Investigation
   
113.19   Factors to be considered in granting a certificate
   
113.20   Inspection of vehicles
   
113.21   Issuance; denial
   
113.22   Term; re-issuance
   
113.23   Failure to begin operations
   
113.24   Transfer
   
113.25   Revocation
   
113.26   Substitution of vehicles
   
113.27   Additional vehicles
Taxicab Driver's Permit
   
113.40   Permit required
   
113.41   Application
   
113.42   Investigation of the applicant
   
113.43   Issuance
   
113.44   Expiration and renewal
   
113.45   Refusal; suspension; revocation
   
113.46   Appeals
   
113.47   Display of permit required
Operation
   
113.60   Vehicle equipment
   
113.61   Condition of vehicle
   
113.62   Repair of vehicle
   
113.63   Identification of vehicles
   
113.64   Inspections
Statutory reference:
   Regulation of taxis, see G.S. § 160A-304
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CERTIFICATE. A certificate of public convenience and necessity issued by the
Town Board of Aldermen licensing the operation of a taxicab business.
   DRIVER. Any person who drives a taxicab, either owned by him, her or by
other persons.
   HOLDER. Any person to whom a certificate of public convenience and necessity
has been issued.
   MANIFEST. A daily record of all trips made by a taxicab, showing time and
place of origin and destination of each trip and the amount of fare.
   OWNER. Any person operating one or more taxicabs for hire.
   PERMIT. A permit issued by the Chief of Police indicating that an individual
has been granted permission to drive a taxicab.
   TAXICAB. Any motor vehicle, seating nine or fewer passengers, operated upon
any street or highway on call or demand, accepting or soliciting passengers
indiscriminately for hire between any points along streets or highways as may
be directed by the passenger being transported.
(Ord. 00-08, passed 10-10-00)
§ 113.02 OPERATORS AND DRIVERS DISTINGUISHED.
   (A)   To operate one or more taxicabs shall mean to engage in the taxicab
business with taxicabs in the town by causing taxicabs which are under one's
ownership or control to be propelled, either by himself or by someone under his
or her direction or supervision, for the purpose of carrying passengers for
hire. An operator is a person who operates one or more taxicabs.
   (B)   To drive a taxicab shall mean to be physically in control of a
taxicab, whether or not the taxicab is in motion, when the taxicab is being
used for or is available or ready to be used for the carrying of passengers for
hire. A driver is one who drives the taxicab. The same person may or may not be
both an operator and a driver.
(Ord. 00-08, passed 10-10-00)
§ 113.03 PROOF OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   No person shall engage in the business of operating a taxicab within
the town unless he or she first files with the Chief of Police proof of
financial responsibility. As used in this section, proof of financial
responsibility shall mean a certificate of any insurance carrier duly
authorized to do business in the state certifying that there is in effect a
policy of liability insurance insuring the owner and operator of the taxicab
business and his or her agents and employees while in the performance of their
duties against loss from any liability imposed by law for damages, including
damages for care and loss of service because of bodily injury to or destruction
of property caused by accident arising out of the ownership, use or operation
of the taxicabs, subject to limits, exclusive of interest and costs, with
respect to each motor vehicle as follows: $25,000 because of bodily injury or
death of one person in any one accident, and subject to the limit for one
person; $50,000 because of bodily injury to or death of two or more persons in
any accident; and $10,000 because of injury to or destruction of property of
others in any one accident.
   (B)   Before any certificate of insurance provided for in this section may
be canceled, ten days' notice shall be given to the Chief of Police by the
insurance carrier prior to the date of the cancellation.
(Ord. 00-08, passed 10-10-00)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CERTIFICATE
§ 113.15 CERTIFICATE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a taxicab or permit a taxicab
owned or controlled by him or her to be operated as a vehicle for hire upon
town streets without having first obtained a certificate of public convenience
and necessity authorized by the Town Board in accordance with the provisions of
this subchapter.
(Ord. 00-08, passed 10-10-00)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 113.16 CERTIFICATE TO CONSTITUTE FRANCHISE.
   A certificate of public convenience and necessity issued under the
provisions of this subchapter shall constitute a franchise from the town for
the operation of taxicabs within the town, subject to the provisions of this
chapter and the ordinances of the town regulating the operation of taxicabs.
(Ord. 00-08, passed 10-10-00)
§ 113.17 APPLICATION.
   Any person desiring a certificate required by the provisions of this
subchapter shall file an application therefor with the Chief of Police. The
application shall set forth any information as may be of assistance to the Town
Board in determining whether the public convenience and necessity require the
issuance of the certificate for which the application is filed.
(Ord. 00-08, passed 10-10-00)
§ 113.18 INVESTIGATION.
   In order to assist the Town Board in their determination regarding the
granting of a certificate, the Chief of Police or his or her designee shall
make a full and complete investigation of facts relative to the situation. The
Chief of Police shall report to the Town Manager and Town Board his or her
findings and any other information that would assist the Town Board in their
determination to grant a certificate.
(Ord. 00-08, passed 10-10-00)
§ 113.19 FACTORS TO BE CONSIDERED IN GRANTING A CERTIFICATE.
   In determining whether the public convenience and necessity require the
issuance of a certificate, the Board of Aldermen shall, among other things,
take into consideration the following factors:
   (A)   Whether or not the public convenience and necessity require the
proposed or additional taxicab service within the town;
   (B)   The financial responsibility of the applicant and the likelihood of
the proposed services being permanent, responsible and satisfactory;
   (C)   The number and condition of vehicles;
   (D)   The schedule of rates proposed to be charged;
   (E)   The number of taxicabs operated at the time of the determination and
the demand for increased service, if any, whether or not the safe use of the
streets by the public, both vehicular and pedestrian, will be preserved, and
whether or not adequate provisions have been made for off-street parking of the
taxicabs;
   (F)   The experience of the applicant in the taxicab business;
   (G)   Any other relative facts as may be deemed necessary and advisable.
(Ord. 00-08, passed 10-10-00)
§ 113.20 INSPECTION OF VEHICLES.
   After filing of an application for a certificate required by the provisions
of this subchapter, the applicant shall make available for inspection those
vehicles that will be used in the operation of the taxicab business. The
vehicles will be presented to the Chief of Police or his or her designee at a
place and time to be fixed by the Chief of Police or his or her designee for an
examination and inspection to determine that the vehicles meet the requirements
set forth in this chapter for taxicabs. The Chief of Police or his or her
designee shall report the results of the inspection to the Town Board for
consideration in connection with the factors enumerated in § 113.19.
(Ord. 00-08, passed 10-10-00)
§ 113.21 ISSUANCE; DENIAL.
   The Town Board shall have the power and it shall be its duty to order
certain certificates issued, refuse to issue certain certificates, or to issue
certain certificates for a partial exercise only of the privileges sought, and
the Board may attach to the exercise of the rights granted by the certificates
any terms and conditions as in its judgment the public convenience and
necessity may require.
(Ord. 00-08, passed 10-10-00)
§ 113.22 TERM; RE-ISSUANCE.
   A certificate issued under the provisions of this subchapter shall expire on
December 31 of each year, unless a shorter period of time is specified in the
certificate. Each certificate shall be reissued by the Chief of Police during
the month of December of each year without application therefor unless
previously revoked.
(Ord. 00-08, passed 10-10-00)
§ 113.23 FAILURE TO BEGIN OPERATIONS.
   If a certificate is issued to an applicant under this subchapter and the
applicant shall fail, in accordance with the provisions of the certificate, to
begin operations within 60 days after the date of the certificate, the
certificate shall become null and void.
(Ord. 00-08, passed 10-10-00)
§ 113.24 TRANSFER.
   A certificate issued under this subchapter shall not be transferred without
the consent of the Town Board. Application for a transfer shall be filed in the
same manner as an application for a certificate. The proceedings upon the
application for a transfer shall be the same as those described for the
issuance of a certificate, except that the question of public convenience and
necessity need not be proved.
(Ord. 00-08, passed 10-10-00)
§ 113.25 REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Town Board may, at any time, revoke any certificate issued under
this subchapter for any one or more of the following causes:
      (1)   Failure to operate the taxicabs specified in the certificate in a
manner to serve the public adequately and efficiently;
      (2)   Failure to maintain motor equipment in good repair;
      (3)   Failure to pay the town taxes or license fees imposed upon
taxicabs;
      (4)   Failure to carry liability insurance or bond as required by this
chapter;
      (5)   Repeated and persistent violation by the taxicab drivers employed
by the holder of the certificate in question of traffic and safety ordinances
or state laws relating to alcoholic beverages or prostitution;
      (6)   Failure to report accidents;
      (7)   Willful failure to comply with any provision of this chapter or
other ordinances or state laws relating to the operation of taxicabs; and/or
      (8)   The abandonment of the use of a certificate for a period of 90
consecutive days, provided the Board may, in its discretion, renew the
certificate for an additional 90 days upon written application by the owner
filed prior to the 90-day expiration date.
   (B)   No certificate shall be revoked until the owner has had at least five
days notice by personal service or certified mail of the charges against him or
her and of the time and place of the hearing. If, after the hearing, it is
found that the owner is guilty of one or more of the offenses listed in this
section, the Town Board shall have the power to revoke the certificate, or to
condition a revocation upon compliance of its order within any time fixed by
it.
(Ord. 00-08, passed 10-10-00)
§ 113.26 SUBSTITUTION OF VEHICLES.
   The person to whom a certificate has been issued under this subchapter may,
by appropriate endorsement thereon by the Chief of Police, substitute another
vehicle for the vehicle for which the certificate is granted. In these
instances, the liability insurance or bonds shall also be transferred to the
substitute vehicle.
(Ord. 00-08, passed 10-10-00)
§ 113.27 ADDITIONAL VEHICLES.
   Any time that additional vehicles are proposed to be used in connection with
any taxicab business over and above the number listed in the certificate, the
holder of the certificate must file an application for an amendment to the
certificate with the Chief of Police. The application for the amendment shall
be submitted by the Chief of Police to the Town Board for consideration at its
next regular meeting occurring not less than 30 days after the date the
application is submitted. The Board shall review the application and shall take
action based on the criteria listed in § 113.19.
(Ord. 00-08, passed 10-10-00)
TAXICAB DRIVER'S PERMIT
§ 113.40 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      APPLICANT. Any person applying for a taxicab driver's permit or for the
renewal of the permit.
   (B)   No person shall drive a taxicab for hire within the town unless the
driver of the taxicab shall have first obtained and shall have then in force a
taxicab driver's permit issued under the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 00-08, passed 10-10-00)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 113.41 APPLICATION.
   (A)   An application for a taxicab driver's permit shall be filed with the
Police Department on forms provided by the Department. The application shall be
verified under oath and shall include the following information:
      (1)   The name and permanent address of the applicant;
      (2)   The applicant's criminal and traffic conviction history;
      (3)   The number and date of issuance of the applicant's driver's
license; and
      (4)   Any other information as the Department shall require.
   (B)   Each application shall be accompanied by the following:
      (1)   Full fingerprints of the applicant;
      (2)   Results of physical examination by a physician;
      (3)   A statement from a physician certifying that the applicant is not
inflicted with any disease, affliction or disability which would materially
impair his or her ability to drive a taxicab in a safe manner. The statement
shall state the hearing and eyesight condition of the applicant; and
      (4)   A fee to be set by the Police Department for the processing of the
application, which shall be nonrefundable.
(Ord. 00-08, passed 10-10-00)
§ 113.42 INVESTIGATION OF THE APPLICANT.
   (A)   The Police Department shall conduct an investigation of each applicant
for an initial or renewal permit under this subchapter. The investigation is to
determine:
      (1)   The accuracy of information within the application;
      (2)   Whether the applicant meets the qualifications required in this
subchapter; and
      (3)   Whether there is any basis to refuse a permit.
   (B)   A record of the investigation and a copy of the traffic and criminal
record of the applicant, if any, shall be forwarded with the application for
review by the Chief of Police.
(Ord. 00-08, passed 10-10-00)
§ 113.43 ISSUANCE.
   (A)   After determination that the applicant satisfactorily meets the
requirements set out in this subchapter, the Chief of Police may issue a
taxicab driver's permit.
   (B)   The permit shall be of a design and contain information prescribed by
the Chief of Police and approved by the Town Manager.
(Ord. 00-08, passed 10-10-00)
§ 113.44 EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL.
   Taxicab driver's permits shall be in effect from the date of issue until
June 30 of the year following the year of issue. A permit for each 12-month
period thereafter will become available on July 1, must be secured no later
than August 15, and shall be issued only upon a reexamination of the
individual's traffic and criminal history for the previous year. If the history
discloses violations, the Chief of Police may deny a permit renewal.
(Ord. 00-08, passed 10-10-00)
§ 113.45 REFUSAL; SUSPENSION; REVOCATION.
   (A)   Upon consideration of the application for a permit under this
subchapter, the Chief of Police shall either approve or reject the application.
The Chief of Police may refuse to grant or renew, or may revoke or suspend the
taxicab driver's permit for any applicant or driver who fails or refuses to
comply with the provisions of this subchapter or otherwise ceases to be
qualified. In cases of suspension, revocation or refusal to grant or renew a
driver's permit, the driver shall be notified of the reasons for the action
through personal service or in writing.
   (B)   Factors to be considered relative to the refusal, suspension or
revocation include the following:
      (1)   The applicant or driver does not possess a valid driver's license
issued by the state;
      (2)   The applicant or driver is not physically or mentally capable of
operating a taxicab in a safe manner;
      (3)   The applicant or driver is addicted to or a habitual user of
alcoholic beverages, narcotics or other habit forming substance;
      (4)   The applicant or driver has knowingly made a false statement or
given false information on the application for the permit;
      (5)   The applicant or driver is or has been a habitual violator of local
or state traffic or criminal laws;
      (6)   The applicant or driver has accumulated a sufficient number of
points against his or her driving record under the schedule in G.S. Chapter 20
to justify the suspension or revocation of a driver's license;
      (7)   The applicant or driver has been convicted of a felony against this
state, or convicted of any offense against another state which would have been
a felony if the applicant had been convicted in this state;
      (8)   The applicant or driver has been convicted of or has entered a plea
of guilty to any of the following offenses within a period of three years
immediately prior to the date of application:
         (a)   A crime involving a motor vehicle resulting in death;
         (b)   Driving a motor vehicle while intoxicated; and/or
         (c)   A violation of any local, state or federal law relating to
alcoholic beverages, narcotics or prostitution.
(Ord. 00-08, passed 10-10-00)
§ 113.46 APPEALS.
   (A)   In a case of refusal to grant or renew a taxicab driver's permit or
upon the suspension or revocation of the permit, the applicant or driver may
appeal to the Town Manager. The appeal must be made within ten days following
receipt of notice of the action and shall be filed with the Town Clerk.
   (B)   Upon failure of an applicant or driver to appeal within the prescribed
time, the decision shall be considered final.
   (C)   During the pendency of any appeal, the driver's permit shall be
immediately surrendered to the Police Department and it shall be unlawful for
the appellant to drive a taxicab within the town.
   (D)   During consideration of any appeal, the Town Manager and Town Board
shall limit their scope of review to findings of fact only. The Town Board's
decision shall be final and conclusive. The town may attach any conditions to
any decision or order which it deems appropriate.
(Ord. 00-08, passed 10-10-00)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 113.47 DISPLAY OF PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Every taxicab driver licensed under this chapter shall be required to post
his or her driver's permit in a place so to be in full view of all passengers
while the driver is operating a taxicab and in conformance with regulations
established by the Police Department.
(Ord. 00-08, passed 10-10-00)
OPERATION
§ 113.60 VEHICLE EQUIPMENT.
   All taxicabs operated within the town shall be equipped and maintained in a
satisfactory condition so as to comply with the State General Statutes and the
provisions of this code, and among other requirements shall:
   (A)   Have a body of the sedan or enclosed type and be of not less than four
passenger capacity;
   (B)   Have four doors, two leading into the passenger's compartment and two
leading into the driver's compartment, so constructed that they may be opened
from the inside and outside;
   (C)   Have all windows, vents and doors in proper working condition;
   (D)   Be equipped with a heater sufficient to heat the interior of the
taxicab adequately in cold weather;
   (E)   Have all windshields and side and rear glasses clear and free of
cracks and clear of dirt and obstructions to clear view;
   (F)   Have front and rear bumpers of original manufacturer's design and
attachments which shall be in place and in proper repair;
   (G)   Have headlights in good working condition and as installed by the
original manufacturer;
   (H)   Be equipped with a number of seatbelts equal to the passenger capacity
of the vehicle.
(Ord. 00-08, passed 10-10-00)
§ 113.61 CONDITION OF VEHICLE.
   Every vehicle operating under this chapter shall be kept in a clean and
sanitary condition. The interior and exterior of the vehicle shall be
maintained so as to be safe and clean, and its general appearance shall be kept
as close as possible to the manufacturer's original appearance with respect to
sheet metal and finish of the car, with normal wear and tear expected. Dents
and other exterior body damage shall be repaired as soon as practical.
(Ord. 00-08, passed 10-10-00)
§ 113.62 REPAIR OF VEHICLE.
   When any taxicab is wrecked, damaged or unsafe for taxicab operation,
repairs and alterations as may be necessary shall be made, and the vehicle
shall not be operated until the repairs and alterations have been completed.
(Ord. 00-08, passed 10-10-00)
§ 113.63 IDENTIFICATION OF VEHICLES.
   Every taxicab operating upon the streets of the town shall have the name of
the owner of the business thereof and, at his or her option, his or her address
and telephone number, painted in letters at least two inches in height upon
each side of the main portion of the vehicle's body in a manner so to be
plainly visible at all times.
(Ord. 00-08, passed 10-10-00)
§ 113.64 INSPECTIONS.
   In addition to the initial inspection by the Police Department, every
taxicab operated within the town shall be subject to an annual inspection
conducted by the Police Department. The purpose of the inspection will be to
determine that taxicabs are capable of providing safe and sanitary
transportation. The Police Department may also conduct unannounced inspections
at reasonable times in order to verify that at all times the condition of
taxicabs is in conformance with the rules and regulations specified in this
chapter.
(Ord. 00-08, passed 10-10-00)
CHAPTER 114: TEMPORARY SALES
Section
   
114.01   Yard sales
§ 114.01 YARD SALES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      YARD SALE. A sale of personal property which has been owned or used
previously by an individual residing on the premises where the sale is
conducted. The term GARAGE SALE is included within the definition of YARD SALE.
The incidental sale of one or two items of personal property is not a yard
sale.
   (B)   The conduct of general retail sales or commercial activities in
residential districts are prohibited except as otherwise expressly authorized
by this code.
   (C)   Yard sales are permitted only insofar as they are conducted consistent
with the limitations set out in this section.
   (D)   Not more than four yard sales per year may be conducted at any
location. No single sale shall be conducted longer than two consecutive days.
Yard sales shall be conducted during daylight hours only.
   (E)   Personal property offered for sale at a yard sale may be displayed on
a driveway, in a garage, in a front yard or in a rear yard. Yard sales shall
not be conducted in any public right-of-way.
   (F)   Signs used to advertise yard sales shall be displayed only on the
premises on which the sale is conducted, except that two off-site directional
signs are permitted. Signs advertising yard sales shall be removed within 24
hours and the site of the sale shall be cleared within 24 hours.
   (G)   Before holding a yard sale, a permit must be obtained.
(`94 Code, § 11-13) (Ord. passed 6-8-93)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      Chapter
         
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
         
131.   YOUTH PROTECTION
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Restrictions on advertising
   
130.02   Allowing minors to enter barrooms or billiard rooms after notification
by parents or guardians
   
130.03   Begging, panhandling, or soliciting contributions
   
130.04   Disorderly conduct
   
130.05   Shooting firearms within town limits
   
130.06   Injuring, cutting and destruction of trees, shrubs or flowers on
streets, parks and squares
   
130.07   Loafing or loitering on streets
   
130.08   Unauthorized carrying or use of police or fire whistles, sirens and
the like
   
130.09   Launching projectiles
   
130.10   Interfering with or damaging water, sewer, fire alarm or police alarm
systems
   
130.11   Possession of alcoholic beverages on town property
   
130.12   Public urination; defecation
§ 130.01 RESTRICTIONS ON ADVERTISING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to advertise or attempt to advertise by marking
or painting on any of the streets or sidewalks.
(`94 Code, § 11-1)
   (B)   No person shall post any bills, signs or advertisements on any
buildings, fences or other property belonging to another without the consent of
the owner thereof. The consent shall be secured in writing, and the written
consent shall be exhibited by the person having the same to any police officer
on demand.
(`94 Code, § 11-2)
   (C)   No person shall advertise any article of any kind for sale by crying
out the same on the streets or sidewalks. No person shall advertise any article
of any kind or any event of any kind by crying out the same or by using
therefor any megaphone, bell, horn or other noise making device on any street
or sidewalk.
(`94 Code, § 11-3)
Penalty, see § 10.99
Cross-reference:
   Parking for primary purpose of advertising prohibited, see §
72.08
Statutory reference:
   Unlawful posting, painting and the like of advertisements generally, see
G.S. § 14-145
§ 130.02 ALLOWING MINORS TO ENTER BARROOMS OR BILLIARD ROOMS AFTER NOTIFICATION
BY PARENTS OR GUARDIANS.
   If the manager or owner of any barroom, wherein beer, wine or any alcoholic
beverage is sold or consumed, or billiard room shall knowingly allow any minor
under 18 years of age to enter or remain in the barroom or billiard room when,
before the minor under 18 years of age enters or remains in the barroom or
billiard room, the manager or owner thereof has been notified in writing by the
parents or guardian of the minor under 18 years of age not to allow him or her
to enter or remain in the barroom or billiard room, the manager or owner shall
be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(`94 Code, § 11-4)
Penalty, see § 10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see G.S. § 14-317
§ 130.03 BEGGING, PANHANDLING, OR SOLICITING CONTRIBUTIONS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ACCOSTING ANOTHER PERSON.  Approaching or speaking to someone in such a
manner as would cause a reasonable person to fear imminent bodily harm or the
commission of a criminal act or damage to property in his immediate possession.
      BEG, PANHANDLE, OR SOLICIT CONTRIBUTIONS.  Includes, without limitation,
the spoken, written, or printed word or such other acts as are conducted in
furtherance of the purpose of obtaining contributions.
      DIRECT WRITTEN APPEAL. Begging, panhandling, or solicitation by handing
to a person or attempting to hand to a person a written solicitation for
immediate contributions.
      FORCING ONESELF UPON THE COMPANY OF ANOTHER PERSON.
         (a)   Continuing to request or solicit contributions in close
proximity to the person addressed after that person has responded negatively;
         (b)   Blocking the passage of the person addressed; or
         (c)   Otherwise engaging in conduct which reasonably could be
understood as intended to force a person to accede to demands.
      INTIMIDATE ANOTHER PERSON. Acting in such a way as would cause a
reasonable person to fear bodily harm and therefore to do something he or she
would not otherwise have done.
      NIGHTTIME. The time from dusk to dawn.
      PUBLIC PLACE.  Includes streets, highways, and roadways (including the
shoulders and medians), sidewalks, alleys, and other public property, as well
as town-owned and town-controlled property and private property open to the
public unless permission to solicit has been obtained from the town or from the
property owner or other person in authority.
      VOCAL APPEAL.  Begging, panhandling or solicitation of contributions by
spoken word or other verbal request. This shall not include the act of
performing music with a sign or other indication that a contribution is being
sought, without any vocal request other than in response to an inquiry.
   (B)   No person shall beg, panhandle, or solicit contributions in a public
place in a manner so as to intimidate another person or by accosting another
person, or by forcing oneself upon the company of another person.
   (C)   No person shall beg, panhandle, or solicit contributions from another
person within 20 feet of an entrance or exit of any bank or financial
institution or within 20 feet of any automated teller machine.
   (D)   No person shall beg, panhandle, or solicit contributions in any public
transportation vehicle inside the town or at any station for such vehicle or
within six feet of a bus stop sign, bus stop shelter, or bus stop bench.
   (E)   No person shall beg, panhandle, or solicit contributions while sitting
or standing on a roadway or the shoulder or median of a roadway.
   (F)   No person shall beg, panhandle, or solicit contributions in a public
place by vocal appeal or direct written appeal during nighttime.
   (G)   Penalty. Violation of this section shall constitute a Class 3
misdemeanor and shall subject the violator to a fine of not more than $50 or
imprisonment for not more than 30 days.
(`94 Code, § 11-5) (Am. Ord. 13-04, passed 8-13-13) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town to regulate begging, see G.S. § 160A-179
§ 130.04 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   Any person who shall do or engage in any of the following shall be guilty of
disorderly conduct and shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor:
   (A)   Acting in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another, whereby any
person is placed in danger of safety of life, limb or health;
   (B)   Acting in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another, whereby
public property or property of any other person is placed in danger of being
destroyed or damaged;
   (C)   Endangering lawful pursuits of another by acts of violence or threats
of bodily harm;
   (D)   Causing, provoking or engaging in any fight, brawl or riotous conduct
so as to endanger the life, limb, health or property of another or public
property;
   (E)   Assembling or congregating with another or others and causing,
provoking or engaging in any fight or brawl;
   (F)   Collect in bodies or in crowds and engaging in unlawful activities;
   (G)   Using “fighting words” directed towards any person who becomes
outraged and thus creates turmoil;
   (H)   Assembling or congregating with another or others, and doing bodily
harm to another;
   (I)   By acts of violence, interfering with another's pursuit of a lawful
occupation;
   (J)   Congregate with another or others in or on any public way so as to
halt the flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic and refusing to clear the
public way when ordered to do so by a peace officer or other person having
authority;
   (K)   Damaging, befouling or disturbing public property or the property of
another so as to create a hazardous, unhealthy or physically offensive
condition; and/or
   (L)   Using vulgar, obscene or profane language, whether or not the person
is located on his or her own premises at the time he or she is using vulgar,
obscene or profane language, in a voice loud enough that anyone more than 50
feet away can hear the vulgar, obscene or profane language.
(`94 Code, § 11-6) (Ord. passed 11-12-91)
Penalty, see § 10.99
Statutory reference:
   Disorderly conduct generally, see G.S. § 14-288.4
§ 130.05 SHOOTING FIREARMS WITHIN TOWN LIMITS.
   (A)    Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      FIREARM.  A weapon that propels shot, shells or bullets by the action of
an explosion within it. For purposes of illustration and not limitation, this
would include shotguns, rifles and pistols. This excludes air rifles or air
pistols, which are covered in § 130.09.
   (B)   State law provisions authorize city to prohibit discharge. The city,
as authorized by G.S. § 160A-174 and more specifically G.S. § 160A-189, hereby
exercises the authority to prohibit the discharge of firearms within the city.
   (C)   Declared unlawful. Subject to the provisions of this section, it is
declared unlawful and thereby prohibited for any person to discharge a firearm
at any time or place within the city.
   (D)   Exceptions. The provisions of this section shall not apply to the
following:
      (1)   Members of the armed forces of the United States, officers of the
government of the United States, the state or any political subdivision
thereof, when acting in the discharge of their official duties;
      (2)   Members of veterans’ organizations, including the Veterans of
Foreign Wars and the American Legion, when participating in the performance of
certain ceremonial activities such as holiday celebrations and military
funerals; and
      (3)   The discharge of firearms when used in defense of person or
property or pursuant to lawful directions of law enforcement officers per G.S.
§ 160A-189.
(`94 Code, § 11-7) (Am. Ord. 14-04, passed 4-8-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town to regulate discharge of firearms, see G.S. § 160A-189
§ 130.06 INJURING, CUTTING AND DESTRUCTION OF TREES, SHRUBS OR FLOWERS ON
STREETS, PARKS OR SQUARES.
   It shall be unlawful to pull down, cut, deface with signs, break or in any
way injure any of the trees, shrubs or flowers on the streets, parks or
squares.
(`94 Code, § 11-8)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 130.07 LOAFING OR LOITERING ON STREETS.
   No person shall habitually loaf or loiter on the streets. It shall be the
duty of any police officer who observes a violation of this section first to
warn the offender, and upon failure to heed the warning, to arrest the
offender.
(`94 Code, § 11-9)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 130.08 UNAUTHORIZED CARRYING OR USE OF POLICE OR FIRE WHISTLES, SIRENS AND
THE LIKE.
   No person, without special authority from the Police Department or Fire
Department, shall carry or use any whistle, bell, horn or siren similar in
appearance or sound to the whistles, horns or sirens used by the Police
Department or Fire Department.
(`94 Code, § 11-10)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 130.09 LAUNCHING PROJECTILES.
   No person shall shoot or project any stone, rock, shot or other hard
substance by means of a slingshot, bean shooter, shot shooter, air rifle, pop
gun, bow or other similar contrivance, provided that archery shooting may be
engaged in/on a premises that may be set aside and approved therefor by the
Board.
(`94 Code, § 11-11)
Penalty, see § 10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town to regulate use of mechanisms and the like designed or
used to project missiles    with less than deadly force, see G.S. § 160A-190
§ 130.10 INTERFERING WITH OR DAMAGING WATER, SEWER, FIRE ALARM OR POLICE ALARM
SYSTEMS.
   No person shall willfully or negligently damage or interfere with any valve,
valve box, meter, meter box, storm or sanitary sewer manhole cover, storm sewer
catch basin cover, fire hydrant, police or fire alarm box, traffic signal or
any other property used in the town's water, sewer, police or fire alarm
system.
(`94 Code, § 11-12)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 130.11 POSSESSION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES ON TOWN PROPERTY.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Alcohol, brandy, whiskey, bourbon, scotch, rum, gin,
beer, malt lager, ale, porter and wine, and in addition thereto any spirituous,
vinous, malt or fermented beverages, liquids and compounds, whether medicated,
proprietary, patented or not, and by whatever name called, containing .5% or
more alcohol by volume.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to display, possess or consume any alcoholic
beverage on any town- owned or maintained property.
   (C)   Exceptions are as follows:
      (1)   A restaurant, legally permitted to serve beer and wine, if they
have tables placed outside for dining purposes. Consumption of alcoholic
beverages must be within the confines of the restaurant or its outdoor dining
area only.
      (2)   A public festival or special event in which a valid special event
permit has been issued by the Town of Spencer in accordance with §
94.31 and only while the permit remains in good standing.
(`94 Code, § 11-14) (Ord. passed 9-14-93; Am. Ord. passed 6-27-95; Am. Ord. 18-
011, passed 6-12-18)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 130.12 PUBLIC URINATION; DEFECATION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      HUMAN WASTE MATERIAL. Human urine or fecal material discharged from the
body.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit, by means of urination
or defecation, any human waste material upon any public street, sidewalk,
right-of-way, alley or parking lot.
(`94 Code, § 11-15) (Ord. passed 9-14-93)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 131: YOUTH PROTECTION
Section
   
131.01   Purpose
   
131.02   Definitions
   
131.03   Offenses
   
131.04   Exceptions
   
131.05   Defense
   
131.06   Enforcement
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to protect juveniles from victimization and
exposure to criminal activity by establishing a curfew for juveniles under the
age of 16 years in the Town of Spencer. The Youth Protection Ordinance is
intended to reinforce and promote the role of the parent in training and
guiding children, and promote the health, safety, and welfare of both juveniles
and adults by creating an environment offering better protection and security
for all concerned.
(Ord. passed 1-10-12)
§ 131.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DIRECT ROUTE. The shortest reasonable path of travel or a commonly used
route to reach a final destination without any detour or stop along the way.
   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstance or the resulting state
that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited to, a
fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident, or any situation requiring
immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or death. This term also
shall include any action that is reasonably necessary in order to respond to
the medical needs of a family member of the juvenile regardless of whether the
juvenile’s action is taken in order to prevent death or serious bodily injury.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Any privately owned place of business operated for profit to
which the public has access or is invited including but not limited to any
place of amusement or entertainment.
   GUARDIAN. A person who is court-appointed to be the guardian of a juvenile.
   JUVENILE. Any person under the age of 16 years.
   OWNER/OPERATOR. Any individual, firm, association, partnership or
corporation, operating, managing or conducting any establishment, including the
employees, members or partners of an association or partnership and the
officers of a corporation.
   PARENT. A person who is a natural parent, adoptive parent, foster parent or
step-parent of another person, or a person to whom legal custody has been given
by court order.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any place that is generally open to and used by the public or
a substantial group of the public, whether it is publicly or privately owned,
including but not limited to, streets, sidewalks, highways, alleys, rights of
way, public vehicular areas and parking lots, transportation facilities,
theaters, restaurants, shops, bowling alleys, schools and school grounds, place
of business and amusement, playgrounds, parks, similar areas that are open to
the public, and other common areas open to or accessible to the public.
   REMAIN. To linger or stay in a public place, or to fail to leave the
premises when requested to do so by a police officer, or fail to leave the
premises of an establishment when requested to do so by the owner/operator or
employee of the premises.
   RESTRICTED HOURS. The time of night referred to herein is based upon the
prevailing standard of time, whether Eastern Standard Time or Eastern Daylight
Savings Time generally observed at that hour by the public in the Town of
Spencer, North Carolina. Restricted hours shall mean:
      (1)   11:01 p.m. on any Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, or Thursday
until 6:00 a.m. of the following day; and
      (2)   12:01 a.m. until 6:00 a.m. on any Friday or Saturday.
(Ord. passed 1-10-12)
§ 131.03 OFFENSES.
   Except as provided by §
131.04, the following offenses constitute a violation of this chapter.
   (A)   A juvenile commits an offense by being present in or remaining in any
public place or on the premises of any establishment within the town during the
restricted hours.
   (B)   A parent or guardian of a juvenile commits an offense if he or she
knowingly permits, or by insufficient control, allows the juvenile to remain in
any public place or on the premises of any establishment within the town during
the restricted hours. The term “knowingly” includes knowledge that a parent
should reasonably be expected to have concerning the whereabouts of a juvenile
in that parent’s legal custody. This requirement is intended to hold a
neglectful or careless parent up to a reasonable community standard of parental
responsibility through an objective test. It shall, therefore, be no defense
that a parent was completely indifferent to that activities or conduct or
whereabouts of such juvenile.
   (C)   The owner, operator, or any employee of an establishment commits an
offense if he or she knowingly allows a juvenile to remain upon the premises of
the establishment during the restricted hours. The term “knowingly” includes
knowledge that an operator or employer should reasonably be expected to have
concerning the patrons of an establishment. The standard for “knowingly” shall
be applied through an objective test: whether a reasonable person in the
operator’s or employee’s position should have known that the patron was a
juvenile in violation of this chapter.
   (D)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person 16 years of age
or older to aid or abet a juvenile in the violation of division (A) of this
section.
   (E)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for a parent or guardian to
refuse to take custody during the restricted hours of a juvenile for whom the
parent or guardian is responsible.
(Ord. passed 1-10-12) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.04 EXCEPTIONS.
   A juvenile who is in a public place or establishment during the restricted
hours shall not be in violation of this chapter if the juvenile is:
   (A)   Accompanied by his parent or guardian;
   (B)   Accompanied by an adult 18 years of age or older authorized by the
parent or guardian of such juvenile to lake the parent or guardian’s place in
accompanying the juvenile for a designated period of time and purpose within a
specified area;
   (C)   On an errand, using a direct route, at the direction of the juvenile’s
parent or guardian until the hour of 12:30 a.m.;
   (D)   In a motor vehicle with parental consent engaged in interstate travel
through the Town of Spencer or originating or terminating in the Town of
Spencer;
   (E)   Traveling in a motor vehicle with a parent or guardian, or traveling
in a motor vehicle with an adult 18 years of age or older authorized by the
parent or guardian of such juvenile to take the parent or guardian’s place in
accompanying the juvenile for a designated period of time and purpose within a
specified area;
   (F)   Engaged in a lawful employment activity, or using a direct route to or
from a place of employment;
   (G)   Reacting or responding to an emergency;
   (H)   Attending or traveling to or from, by direct route, an official
school, religious, or recreational activity that is supervised by adults and
sponsored by a public or private school, the Town of Spencer or other
governmental entity, a civic organization, or another similar entity that
accepts responsibility for the juvenile;
   (I)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly;
   (J)   Married or emancipated;
   (K)   When authorized by special permit from the Chief of Police or his or
her designee carried on the person of the juvenile thus authorized, as follows:
when necessary nighttime activities of a juvenile may be inadequately provided
for by other provisions of the chapter, then recourse may be directed to the
Chief of Police, or his or designee, either for a regulation as provided in
division (L) of this section or for a special permit as the circumstances
warrant. Upon the findings of reasonable necessity for the use of a public
place to the extent warranted by a written application signed by a juvenile,
and by a parent of the juvenile, if feasible, stating:
      (1)   The name, age and address of the juvenile;
      (2)   The name, address, and telephone number of the parent thereof;
      (3)   The height, weight, sex. color of eyes and hair and other physical
characteristics of the juvenile;
      (4)   The necessity that requires the juvenile to remain upon a public
place during the restricted hours otherwise applicable;
      (5)   The public place; and
      (6)   The beginning and ending of the period of time involved by date and
hour, the Chief of Police or his or her designee may grant and permit in
writing for the juvenile’s use of a public place at such hours as in the
opinion of the Chief of Police may reasonably be necessary and consistent with
the purposes of this chapter; or
   (L)   When authorized by regulation issued by the Chief of Police or his or
her designee in other similar cases of reasonable necessity, similarly handled
as set forth in division (K) of this section but adapted to reasonably
necessary nighttime activities of more juveniles than can readily be dealt with
on an individual special permit basis. Normally such regulation by the Chief of
Police or his or her designee permitting use of public places should be issued
sufficiently in advance to permit appropriate publicity through news media and
through other agencies such as the schools, and shall define the activity, the
scope of the use of the public places permitted, the period of time involved
not to extend more than one hour beyond the time for termination of the
activity, and the reason for finding that the regulation is reasonably
necessary and is consistent with the purpose of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 1-10-12)
§ 131.05 DEFENSE.
   It is a defense to prosecution under §
131.04(C) that the owner, operator, or employees of an establishment promptly
notify the Police Department that a juvenile was present on the premises of the
establishment during the restricted hours and refused to leave.
(Ord. passed 1-10-12)
§ 131.06 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Before taking any enforcement action under this chapter, a police
officer shall ask the apparent offender’s age and reason for being in the
public place or establishment during restricted hours.
   (B)   The officer shall not prepare a juvenile arrest report, issue a
citation, or make an arrest under this chapter unless the officer reasonably
believes that an offense has occurred and that, based on any response and other
circumstances, no exception or defense in §§
131.04 or
131.05 is present.
(Ord. passed 1-10-12)
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A juvenile who violates any provision of this chapter is subject to be
adjudicated delinquent. The Court may, in its discretion, impose any
dispositional alternative(s) that are provided in the North Carolina Juvenile
Code for any juvenile who is delinquent.
   (B)   Any person other than a juvenile who violates any provision of this
chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine not to
exceed $500; in accordance with G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. passed 1-10-12)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      Chapter
         
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; BUILDING CONSTRUCTION
         
151.   [RESERVED]
         
152.   COMMERCIAL MAINTENANCE CODE
         
153.   FLOOD HAZARD REGULATIONS
         
154.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
         
155.   ZONING
         
156.   [RESERVED]
         
157.   [RESERVED]
         
158.   [RESERVED]
         
159.   [RESERVED]
         
160.   HOUSING CODE
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS; BUILDING CONSTRUCTION
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   State Building Code adopted
   
150.02   Fire limits
Unsafe Buildings
   
150.15   Duty of Building Inspector
   
150.16   Duty of owner
   
150.17   Notification of owner; hearing
   
150.18   Order to remedy or demolish
   
150.19   Appeal of order
   
150.20   Report upon failure of owner to comply or appeal
   
150.21   Action by Board; Assessment of cost of removal; lien
   
150.22   Notice of hearing by the Board
   
150.23   Presumption of public danger necessitating summary abatement
   
150.24   Willful failure or refusal to comply with orders
Statutory reference:
   Building inspection, see G.S. §§ 160A-411 et seq.
   State Building Code and Building Code Council, see G.S. §§ 143-136 et seq.
   State minimum housing standards, see G.S. §§ 160A-441 et seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 STATE BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   The State Building Code, including regulations for building, residential
building, electricity, gas, heating and air conditioning, plumbing and other
subjects, is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be the Building Code
of the town.
(`94 Code, § 4-1)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to adopt codes, see G.S. §§ 143-138(e) and 160A-76
§ 150.02 FIRE LIMITS.
   The fire limits of the town shall include all territory embraced within the
corporate limits.
(`94 Code, § 4-2)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town as to establishment of fire limits and the like, see G.S.
§§ 160A-435 et seq.
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 150.15 DUTY OF BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   Any building, structure or part thereof, partially destroyed or
otherwise, which is found by the Building Inspector to be in such a dilapidated
state of disrepair or other substandard condition as to be dangerous to life,
health or other property, or to constitute a fire or safety hazard or a public
nuisance shall be declared by the Building Inspector to be unsafe.
   (B)   The unsafe condition may be caused by defective construction,
overloaded structural parts, decay, susceptibility to fire, exits or any other
hazardous conditions or circumstances.
   (C)   The Building Inspector shall have authority, and it shall be his or
her duty to declare all defective buildings or structures unsafe and to take
appropriate action to have the conditions corrected or removed.
   (D)   The declaration by the Building Inspector shall constitute an order of
condemnation for the purposes of this subchapter.
(`94 Code, § 4-20)
§ 150.16 DUTY OF OWNER.
   Whenever any building or structure has been condemned by the Building
Inspector and the existence of the building or structure in a dilapidated state
of disrepair or other substandard condition is found and determined by the
Building Inspector or, upon appeal from or report by the Building Inspector as
hereafter provided, by the Board to be dangerous to life, health or other
property, or is in a condition so as to constitute a fire or safety hazard or a
public nuisance, the owner of the building or structure shall be required to
demolish and remove the same and remedy the conditions under the regulations
and procedures herein provided. In the event the owner fails or refuses to do
so within the time directed by the Building Inspector or by the Board as
hereinafter provided, the Board of Aldermen may, in its judgment, cause the
same to be demolished and removed, or any other steps taken as it may find to
be necessary to suppress and abate the nuisance and remove the fire or safety
hazard and the danger to life, health or other property found to exist, and
specially assess the cost and expense of doing the work against the lot or
parcel of land on which the building or structure is located.
(`94 Code, § 4-21)
§ 150.17 NOTIFICATION OF OWNER; HEARING.
   Before any building or structure may be ordered to be demolished and removed
as provided in § 150.18, the Building Inspector shall notify the owner thereof,
in writing, by certified or registered mail to the last known address of the
owner, or by personal service of the notice by the Building Inspector or his or
her assistant, or by posting notice as hereinafter provided, that the building
or structure is in a condition as appears to constitute a fire or safety hazard
or danger to life, health or other property, or to be a public nuisance and
that a hearing will be held before the Building Inspector at a designated place
at a time not less than ten days after the date of the written notice, at which
time and place the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or by counsel
upon all legal or factual questions relating to the matter, and shall be
entitled to offer any evidence as the person may desire which is relevant or
material to the questions sought to be determined or the remedies sought to be
effected. If the name or whereabouts of the owner cannot, after due diligence,
be discovered, the notice herein referred to shall be considered properly and
adequately served if a copy thereof is posted on the outside of the building or
structure in question at least ten days prior to the date fixed for the
hearing, and a notice of the hearing is published one time in a newspaper
having general circulation in the town at least one week prior to the date
fixed for the hearing. The notice shall state the address or location of the
building or structure and the time, place and purpose of the hearing.
(`94 Code, § 4-22)
§ 150.18 ORDER TO REMEDY OR DEMOLISH.
   If, upon the hearing as provided in § 150.17, the Building Inspector shall
find that the building or structure in question is in such a dilapidated or
substandard state of disrepair as to constitute a fire or safety hazard or to
be dangerous to life, health or other property or is a public nuisance, the
Inspector shall make an order in writing, directed to the owner of the building
or structure, requiring the owner to remedy the conditions so found to exist by
demolishing and removing the building or structure, or taking any other steps
as may be necessary to abate the nuisance and remove the hazards, within a
period, not less than 60 days, as the Building Inspector may prescribe.
(`94 Code, § 4-23)
§ 150.19 APPEAL OF ORDER.
   The owner of any building or structure ordered by the Building Inspector to
be demolished and removed, or who is directed by the Building Inspector to take
any other steps to abate a nuisance or remove hazards found by the Building
Inspector to exist, shall have the right of appeal from the orders to the
Board, provided that the owner gives notice of appeal to the Building Inspector
at the time of the hearing at which the order is made or, within ten days after
the order is made files with the Building Inspector a written notice of the
appeal. Notice of appeal shall state the grounds therefor. Unless an appeal is
taken within the time and in the manner herein prescribed, the action of the
Building Inspector shall be deemed final, subject only to any action as the
Board may take as herein elsewhere provided. Where an appeal has been properly
taken and notice thereof given in accordance with the provisions of this
section, it shall be the duty of the Building Inspector to report the same to
the Town Manager, who shall cause the matter to be placed on the agenda for
action by the Board at its next ensuing regular meeting. The Board shall have
the right to continue the hearing of the appeal from time to time, in its
discretion.
(`94 Code, § 4-24)
§ 150.20 REPORT UPON FAILURE OF OWNER TO COMPLY OR APPEAL.
   In the event the owner does not appeal from the final order or direction of
the Building Inspector requiring that the building or structure be demolished
and removed, or the taking of any other steps as may be required to abate the
nuisance and remove the hazards, and fails or refuses to comply with the order
and direction, it shall be the duty of the Building Inspector to file a written
report thereof with the Town Manager, who shall cause the report to be placed
on the agenda for action by the Board of Aldermen at its next ensuing regular
meeting or to some subsequent meeting to which the Board may continue the same.
The Building Inspector shall mail a copy of the report by certified or
registered mail to the owner at the owner's last known address, or have a copy
of the report delivered to the owner. The report shall specify the date of the
meeting of the Board for which the matter will be docketed for action.
(`94 Code, § 4-25)
§ 150.21 ACTION BY BOARD; ASSESSMENT OF COST OF REMOVAL; LIEN.
   In all cases referred to in this chapter which reach the Board for action,
either upon appeal of the owner from the ruling of the Building Inspector or
upon report of the Building Inspector that the owner fails or refuses to comply
with the Inspector's order or direction, the Board shall hear the matter, and
if it finds and determines that the building or structure in question is in
such a dilapidated or substandard state of disrepair as to constitute a fire or
safety hazard, or to be dangerous to life, health or other property, or is a
public nuisance, and that the owner of the building or structure has failed or
refused to abate the nuisance and has failed or refused to have the building or
structure demolished and removed, or has failed or refused to take any other
steps as may be necessary to abate the nuisance and remove the hazards found to
exist, it may cause the demolition and removal of the building or structure to
be done or effect any other remedies as may be necessary to abate the nuisance
and remove the hazards and specially assess the cost of the work against the
lot or parcel of land on which the building or structure was situated. The
assessment shall constitute a specific lien upon the lot or parcel of land,
which may be enforced by an action instituted in the name of the town in the
nature of an action to foreclose a tax lien as provided by G.S. § 105-374 in
the case of ad valorem taxes and local improvement assessments.
(`94 Code, § 4-26)
§ 150.22 NOTICE OF HEARING BY THE BOARD.
   In cases in which the Building Inspector has been unable to give the owner
actual notice of hearing in the manner provided in this subchapter, and has
given the notice by posting and publishing the same as authorized in § 150.17,
and the owner has failed or refused to comply with the order or direction of
the Building Inspector to demolish and remove the building or structure or take
any other remedial action as will remove the hazards, and the case is referred
to the Board for action, the Board shall, before taking the action, cause to be
posted on the outside of the building or structure in question at least ten
days prior to the date fixed for the hearing, and published one time in a
newspaper having general circulation in the town at least one week prior to the
date fixed for the hearing, a written notice stating the address or location of
the building or structure involved, the time, place and purpose of the hearing
and any other information as the Board may deem advisable.
(`94 Code, § 4-27)
§ 150.23 PRESUMPTION OF PUBLIC DANGER NECESSITATING SUMMARY ABATEMENT.
   In all cases in which the Board, under authority of this subchapter, causes
the demolition and removal of any building or structure to be carried out, or
directs any other remedial steps to be taken as may be necessary to abate the
nuisance and remove the hazards, it shall be conclusively presumed that the
public nuisance and the fire and safety hazard and danger to life, health or
other property created and maintained by the continued presence of the building
or structure in a condition is found to constitute a clear and present danger
amounting to a situation of emergency involving the public health, safety and
general welfare, which requires entry upon private property for the summary
abatement and removal of the danger, in the public interest.
(`94 Code, § 4-28)
§ 150.24 WILLFUL FAILURE OR REFUSAL TO COMPLY WITH ORDERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully fail or refuse to comply
with any final order or direction of the Building Inspector or Board of
Aldermen made by virtue and in pursuance of this subchapter, and any person
violating this subchapter shall, upon conviction, be punished.
(`94 Code, § 4-29)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 151: [RESERVED]
CHAPTER 152: COMMERCIAL MAINTENANCE CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Definitions
   
152.02   Purpose
   
152.03   Scope
   
152.04   Applicability
   
152.05   Conflicting provisions
   
152.06   Compliance
   
152.07   Demolition of commercial buildings
   
152.08   Buildings and premises damaged
Duties and Responsibilities of Owner
   
152.20   Relationship of duties and responsibilities to occupancy
   
152.21   Nuisances and hazards
   
152.22   Condition of exterior of premises and structures
   
152.23   Soundness of floors, interior walls and ceilings
   
152.24   Structurally deficient building in rear
   
152.25   Removal of miscellaneous elements on building walls, roofs and
surrounding premises
   
152.26   Walls
   
152.27   Windows
   
152.28   Painting
   
152.29   Signs
   
152.30   Washrooms
   
152.31   Garbage
   
152.32   Appurtenances
Duties and Responsibilities of Operator
   
152.45   Ensuring compliance
   
152.46   Safe and sanitary condition of premises
   
152.47   Elimination of infestation
   
152.48   Maintenance of plumbing fixtures
   
152.49   Garbage containers
   
152.50   Repair of damage to public right-of-way
   
152.51   Notifying owner of defects
Administration and Enforcement
   
152.65   Maintenance Code Administrator
   
152.66   Board of Adjustments and Appeals
   
152.67   Appeals
   
152.68   Amendments
   
152.69   Violations
 
   
152.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
Amendments to these definitions shall apply only when all procedural
requirements are met, as described in § 152.68.
   BUILDING. Any covered structure intended for shelter, housing or enclosure
of persons, animals or chattels. The term BUILDING shall be construed to
include the term STRUCTURE; furthermore, it shall be construed as if followed
by the term OR PART THEREOF.
   BUILDING, ACCESSORY. A detached subordinate building located on a lot,
parcel or tract, the use of which is incidental to that of the principal
building. A building cannot be considered accessory unless it accompanies a
principal building on the same lot, parcel or tract.
   BUILDING CODE. The State Building Code.
   BUILDING OF HISTORICAL VALUE. A building within the town which is listed on
the national register, or constituting historical significance to the general
citizenry of the town due to age, architectural design or human occurrence.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A building in which the principal use of the lot,
parcel or tract is conducted.
   COMMERCIAL BUSINESS. Any business or enterprise which offers for sale foods
or services or which, in any manner, conducts commerce within the town limits.
   DETERIORATION. The condition of a building or part thereof, characterized by
holes, breaks, rot, crumbling, rusting, peeling paint or other evidence of
physical decay.
   DISTRICT. The primary zoning district containing a certain land area, and
shall not be construed to include an overlay district.
   FIRE HAZARD. Any thing or act which increases, or may cause an increase, of
the hazard or menace of fire to a greater degree than reasonable for the
conduct of the commercial business on the premises, or which may unreasonably
obstruct, delay or hinder, or may unreasonably become the cause of an
obstruction, a delay, a hazard or an unreasonable hindrance to the prevention,
suppression or extinguishment of fire.
   LOT. Includes the words PLOT and PARCEL.
   MAINTENANCE CODE ADMINISTRATOR. The person delegated as the same by the Town
Manager.
   MIXED OCCUPANCY.  Any building that is used for two or more occupancies
classified by different occupancy use groups.
   NUISANCE.
      (1)   Any public nuisance known at common law or in equity jurisprudence,
or as provided by the State General Statutes or the ordinances of the town.
      (2)   Any condition including an attractive nuisance which may prove
detrimental to human health or safety, whether in a building, on the premises
of a building or part of a building, or upon an occupied lot.
      (3)   A physical condition dangerous to human life or detrimental to
health of persons in, on or near the premises where the condition exists.
      (4)   An unsanitary condition or condition that is dangerous to public
health, well being or the general welfare.
      (5)   Fire hazard.
   OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care or control of premises or a part
thereof, whether with or without the knowledge and consent of the owner, or any
person, individually or jointly, entitled to possession regardless of whether
the premises is actually occupied.
   PHYSICAL VALUATION. The estimated cost to replace the building in kind.
   PLUMBING. Any of the following supplies, facilities and equipment: gas
pipes, gas burning equipment, water pipes, water heaters, garbage disposal
units, waste pipes, water closets, sinks, installed dishwashers, lavatories,
bathtubs, shower bath, installed clothes washing machines, catch basins, vents,
and other similar fixtures, together with all connections to water, sewer and
gas lines, and water pipes and lines utilized in conjunction with air
conditioning equipment.
   PREMISES. A lot, plot or parcel of land including the buildings or
structures thereon, under control by the same owner or operator and devoted to
or zoned for commercial use, together with all adjacent land.
   SANITARY SEWER. Any sanitary sewer owned, operated and maintained by the
town and available for public use for the disposal of sewage.
   SEWAGE. Waste from a flush toilet, bathtub, sink, lavatory, dishwashing or
laundry machine, or water-carried waste from any other fixture of equipment or
machine.
   STORY. That portion of a building between the surface of any interior floor
and the ceiling next above. A basement is considered a story only when its
ceiling is over six feet above the average level of the finished ground surface
adjacent to the exterior walls of the front entrance and/or side street
entrance of the building.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected which requires location on the
ground. The term STRUCTURE does not include the terms RETAINING WALL, FENCE,
UTILITY POLE or DRIVEWAY. Refer to the definition of BUILDING herein.
   USE. Includes arranged, designed, and/or intended for a use, activity and/or
purpose.
   WASHROOM. An enclosed space containing one or more bathtubs, showers or
both, and which also shall include any toilet, lavatory or fixture serving
similar purposes.
   WATER CLOSET COMPARTMENT. Enclosed space containing one or more toilets
which may also contain one or more lavatories, urinals and other plumbing
fixtures.
   ZONING MAP. The official zoning map of the town and its extraterritorial
jurisdiction.
(`94 Code, § 4-80) (Ord. passed 8-9-88)
§ 152.02 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of the provisions of this chapter to provide a just,
equitable and practicable method, whereby commercial buildings or structures
which from any cause, endanger the life, limb, health, morals, property, safety
or welfare of the general public or their occupants, diminish property values,
exhibit characteristics of abandonment or neglect, or detract excessively from
the appropriate appearance of the commercial area, may be required to be
repaired, vacated or demolished. The provisions of this code are cumulative
with and in addition to any other remedy provided by law, including the current
editions of standard codes adopted by the town.
(`94 Code, § 4-95) (Ord. passed 8-9-88)
§ 152.03 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this code shall apply to all commercial buildings and
structures which are now in existence or which may be built within the town
limits or annexed therein, and to all lands zoned commercial within the town
limits.
(`94 Code, § 4-96) (Ord passed 8-9-88)
§ 152.04 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Every commercial building or structure and the premises on which it is
situated, used or intended to be used for commercial business occupancy shall
comply with the provisions of this chapter, whether or not the building shall
have been constructed, altered or repaired before or after the enactment of
this chapter, and irrespective of any permits or licenses which shall have been
issued for the use or occupancy of the building, or for the installment or
repair of equipment or facilities prior to the effective date of this chapter.
   (B)   This chapter establishes minimum standards for the initial and
continual occupancy and use of all commercial buildings, and does not replace
or modify standards otherwise established for the construction, repair,
alteration or use of the building equipment or facilities contained therein
except as provided in § 152.05.
   (C)   Where there is mixed occupancy, any commercial business use therein
shall be nevertheless regulated by and subject to the provisions of this
chapter.
(`94 Code, § 4-97) (Ord passed 8-9-88)
§ 152.05 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   In any case where the provisions of this chapter impose a higher or lower
standard than that set forth in any other ordinance of the town or under the
laws of the state, the higher standard shall prevail. Interpretation shall be
the authority of the Commercial Maintenance Code Administrator.
(`94 Code, § 4-98) (Ord. passed 8-9-88)
§ 152.06 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of each owner and each operator of a commercial
building or premises within the town to comply with the regulations and
requirements set forth in this chapter. No license, permit or certification of
occupancy shall be issued unless and until all applicable sections of this
chapter have been complied with.
   (B)   No land or building or combination thereof shall be used in a manner
inconsistent with or in conflict with the requirements of this chapter.
(`94 Code, § 4-100) (Ord. passed 8-9-88)
Penalty, see § 152.99
§ 152.07 DEMOLITION OF COMMERCIAL BUILDINGS.
   Where a building is under the jurisdiction of the code, the building may be
demolished by the owner provided that the following requirements are met:
   (A)   The owner obtains a demolition permit from the County Building
Department.
   (B)   All sewer, gas, water and similar taps or connections are properly
closed and disconnected.
   (C)   All debris from the building is removed from the site. This
requirement is for the removal of all debris that is above the street level of
the building.
   (D)   The lot is graded to a smooth, even, finished grade, and free from
building material, debris, holes and/or depressions. Where building debris
remains on the site below street level, the owner must back fill the lot with
12 inches of clean fill which shall be graded to a smooth, even finished grade.
   (E)   Where walls of adjacent buildings become exposed as a result of the
demolition, the walls must have all doors, windows, vents or other similar
openings closed with material of the type comprising the wall. No protrusions
or loose material shall be in the wall. The exposed wall shall be painted,
stuccoed or bricked so as not to detract from the aesthetics and value of the
adjacent property and weather proofed to prevent deterioration of the wall.
(`94 Code, § 4-101) (Ord. passed 8-9-88)
§ 152.08 BUILDINGS AND PREMISES DAMAGED.
   (A)   Any building or premises damaged by fire, storm, collapse or an act of
nature to such an extent that the cost of repair and reconstruction does not
exceed 50% of the physical valuation of the entire structure at the time the
damage occurred, the damaged portions of the building or premises may be razed
or shall be secured to prevent unauthorized entry, and repaired in a manner
that complies in all respects with all ordinances of the town related to new
buildings.
   (B)   The razing or repair work shall begin within 120 days of the damage.
Extensions of this time requirement may be issued by the Commercial Maintenance
Board of Adjustments and appeals upon showing of cause by the property owner.
(`94 Code, § 4-102) (Ord. passed 8-9-88)
DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNER
§ 152.20 RELATIONSHIP OF DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES TO OCCUPANCY.
   The provisions of this chapter that apply to the exterior or exterior
components of a structure or building shall be complied with whether the
structure or building is occupied or vacant. All unoccupied or vacant
structures or buildings shall be secured by the owners to prevent the entry of
unauthorized persons or the formation of nuisance conditions such as
infestation, including roosting birds.
(`94 Code, § 4-110) (Ord. passed 8-9-88)
§ 152.21 NUISANCES AND HAZARDS.
   It shall be the duty and responsibility of the owner of commercial premises
to see that the commercial premises under the control of the owner are
maintained to ensure that there is compliance with the following provisions of
this section:
   (A)   The premises are free of all nuisances and any hazards to the safety
of the occupants, customers or other persons utilizing the premises or to
pedestrians passing thereby.
   (B)   The premises are free of loose and overhanging objects which, by
reason of location above ground level, constitute a danger of falling on
persons in the vicinity thereof.
(State Building Code Reference, § 105.12, Unsafe buildings)
   (C)   The premises are free of holes, excavations, breaks, projections, or
obstructions on walks, driveways, parking lots and parking areas, and other
parts of the premises which are accessible to and used by persons on the
premises. All the holes and excavations shall be filled and repaired, walks and
steps replaced and other conditions removed where necessary to eliminate
hazards or unsafe conditions with reasonable dispatch by the owner upon their
discovery.
(`94 Code, § 4-111) (Ord. passed 8-9-88)
§ 152.22 CONDITION OF EXTERIOR OF PREMISES AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   The exterior of the premises and structure shall be maintained in good
repair and free from deterioration so as not to constitute a nuisance.
   (B)   All surfaces shall be maintained free of cracked or broken glass,
loose shingles, loose wood, crumbling stone or brick, loose or broken plastic
or other similar hazardous conditions.
(State Building Code reference, § 105.12, Unsafe buildings)
   (C)   All structures and decorative elements of building exteriors shall be
repaired or replaced in a workmanlike manner to match as closely as possible
the original materials and construction techniques.
(`94 Code, § 4-112) (Ord. passed 8-9-88)
§ 152.23 SOUNDNESS OF FLOORS, INTERIOR WALLS AND CEILINGS.
   All floors, interior walls and ceilings of every structure shall be
structurally sound and shall be maintained in a good condition compatible with
its business use, and where open to the public shall be maintained in a
condition so as not to constitute a hazard to the public.
(`94 Code, § 4-113) (Ord. passed 8-9-88)
§ 152.24 STRUCTURALLY DEFICIENT BUILDING IN REAR.
   Structures at the rear of buildings attached or unattached to the principal
commercial structure, which are found by the Maintenance Code Administrator to
be structurally deficient, shall be properly repaired or demolished.
(`94 Code, § 4-114) (Ord. passed 8-9-88)
§ 152.25 REMOVAL OF MISCELLANEOUS ELEMENTS ON BUILDING WALLS, ROOFS AND
SURROUNDING PREMISES.
   All existing miscellaneous elements on building walls and roofs and
surrounding premises, such as empty electrical or other conduits, unused sign
brackets and the like shall be removed.
(`94 Code, § 4-115) (Ord. passed 8-9-88)
§ 152.26 WALLS.
   (A)   All foundation walls shall be kept structurally sound, and capable of
bearing imposed loads safely.
(State Building Code reference, § 1302.3, Concrete footings and § 1302.5,
Foundation walls)
   (B)   All material used to maintain or reconstruct a wall or part thereof,
including the application of sidings or other surfacing material, shall be of
standard quality.
   (C)   Where a wall of a building has become exposed as a result of
demolition of adjacent buildings the wall must have all doors, windows, vents
or other similar openings closed with material of the type comprising the wall.
No protrusions or loose material shall be in the wall. The exposed wall shall
be painted, stuccoed or bricked so as not to detract from the aesthetics and
value of adjacent property and weather proofed, if necessary, with construction
material to prevent deterioration of the wall.
(`94 Code, § 4-116) (Ord. passed 8-9-88)
§ 152.27 WINDOWS.
   (A)   All windows must be tight fitting and have sashes of proper size and
design. Sashes with rotten wood, broken joints, or broken or loose mullions or
muntins shall be replaced. All broken and missing windows shall be replaced
with glass or plexiglass. All exposed wood shall be repaired and painted.
   (B)   All windows shall be maintained free of broken glass. Where a window
glass larger than four square feet becomes cracked to an extent that the
largest single portion of the window free of a crack is less than 80% of the
total surface area of the window glass, the window glass shall be replaced by a
pane free of cracks.
   (C)   All openings originally designed as windows shall be maintained as
windows, complete with sills, lintels, frame and glass, unless specifically
approved by the Fire Chief for enclosure. Where the Fire Chief approves the
enclosure of a window, it must be so enclosed by either bricking the opening,
blocking the opening with concrete blocks and stuccoing the exterior, or by
boarding up the opening. When boarding is used, it shall be of trim fit, sealed
to prevent water intrusion and painted or stained to properly conform with the
other exterior portions of the building.
(`94 Code, § 4-117) (Ord. passed 8-9-88)
§ 152.28 PAINTING.
   (A)   All exterior surfaces which require paint or sealing in order to
protect the underlying surface from deterioration shall be so painted or
sealed.
   (B)   All exterior surfaces which have been painted shall be maintained free
of peeling and flaking. Where 15% or more of the aggregate of any painted wall
shall have peeling or flaking or previous paint worn away, the entire wall
shall be repainted.
(`94 Code, § 4-118) (Ord. passed 8-9-88)
§ 152.29 SIGNS.
   All advertising structures and awnings and their accompanying supporting
members shall be maintained in good repair and shall not constitute a nuisance
or safety hazard. All non-operative signs shall be repaired or shall, with
their supporting members, be removed forthwith. In the event the signs,
billboard, marquees or awnings are not properly maintained in accordance with
the foregoing, they shall, together with their supporting members, be removed
forthwith. In the event the awnings or marquees are made of cloth, plastic or
of a similar material, the awnings or marquees shall be maintained so as not to
show evidence of excessive tearing, ripping, or other holes which diminish
their function and cause unsightly conditions. Nothing herein shall be
construed to authorize any encroachments on streets, sidewalks or other parts
of the public domain.
(`94 Code, § 4-119) (Ord. passed 8-9-88)
§ 152.30 WASHROOMS.
   (A)   All washrooms and water closet compartment floors shall be surfaced
with water-resistant material and shall be kept in a dry and sanitary condition
at all times.
   (B)   All washrooms shall be provided with permanently installed artificial
lighting fixtures with a switch and wall plate so located and maintained that
there is not danger of short circuiting from water, from other bathroom
facilities or from splashing water.
(National Electrical Code reference, Protection against corrosion, § 300-6, and
Switches, § 380-4)
(`94 Code, § 4-120) (Ord. passed 8-9-88)
§ 152.31 GARBAGE.
   (A)   There shall not be stored or allowed to accumulate flammable or
combustible liquids or other materials on the premises unless they are of a
type approved for storage by the regulations of the National Fire Protection
Association, and then only in quantities as may be prescribed by the
regulations.
(Fire Protection Code reference, Order to eliminate injurious or hazardous
conditions, § 1.5, and State Building Code, § 407.4)
   (B)   No garbage or solid waste shall be stored or allowed to accumulate on
the premises unless contained in trash receptacles which are in accordance with
§ 50.05.
(`94 Code, § 4-121) (Ord. passed 8-9-88)
Penalty, see § 152.99
§ 152.32 APPURTENANCES.
   (A)   All chimneys, flues and vent attachments thereto shall be maintained
structurally sound. Chimneys, flues, gas vents or other draft-producing
equipment which are in use shall provide sufficient draft to develop the rated
output of the connected equipment, shall be structurally safe, durable, smoke-
tight and capable of withstanding the action of flue gases
(State Building Code reference, Chimneys, fireplace stoves, fireplaces and
venting systems)
   (B)   All exterior porches, landings, balconies, stairs and fire escapes
shall be provided with banisters or railings properly designed and maintained
to minimize the hazard of falling, and the same shall be kept structurally
sound, in good repair, and free of defects.
(State Building Code reference, Outside stairs and exterior balconies, § 1108,
and Fire escapes, § 1007.4)
   (C)   All cornices shall be made structurally sound, and rotten or weakened
portions shall be removed and/or replaced to match as closely as possible the
original patterns. All exposed wood shall be painted. (State Building Code
reference, § 710)
   (D)   Gutters and downspouts shall be replaced or repaired as necessary, and
shall be neatly located and securely installed.
   (E)   Where a parking lot is constructed as part of a commercial business or
as a business itself, the parking lot and all curbing, surfacing, sidewalks,
and other parts thereof shall be maintained free of broken surfaces, holes or
other similar conditions. All commercial parking lots so described herein shall
be repaired or replaced with like material.
   (F)   Where landscaping has been incorporated in the development plan of a
commercial business or where landscaping has been required by the town as part
of a development plan, including parking plan, the landscaped areas shall be
maintained in a manner to equal and reflect the original landscaping approved
for the development plan.
   (G)   Where curb cuts are abandoned due to new construction, change of
access or general discontinuous use, the curb cut shall be closed and replaced
with a standard sidewalk and curb and gutter arrangement.
   (H)   Damage to public sidewalks or curbs and gutters located in the public
right-of-way shall be repaired or replaced at no expense to the town when the
damage is caused by vehicles making deliveries to the commercial premises under
the control of the owner.
(`94 Code, § 4-122) (Ord. passed 8-9-88)
DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF OPERATOR
§ 152.45 ENSURING COMPLIANCE.
   It shall be the duty and responsibility of the operator to ensure compliance
with this subchapter.
(`94 Code, § 4-130) (Ord. passed 8-9-88)
§ 152.46 SAFE AND SANITARY CONDITION OF PREMISES.
   All parts of the premises under the control of the operator shall be kept in
a safe and sanitary condition consistent with the business use, and the
occupant shall refrain from performing any acts which would render other parts
of the premises unsafe or unsanitary, or which would obstruct any adjacent
owner or operator from performing any duty required, or from maintaining the
premises in a safe and sanitary condition.
(`94 Code, § 4-131) (Ord. passed 8-9-88)
§ 152.47 ELIMINATION OF INFESTATION.
   Every operator shall be responsible for the elimination of infestation in
and on the premises, subject to the operator's control.
(`94 Code, § 4-132) (Ord. passed 8-9-88)
§ 152.48 MAINTENANCE OF PLUMBING FIXTURES.
   Every operator shall maintain all plumbing fixtures in a safe and sanitary
condition.
(`94 Code, § 4-133) (Ord. passed 8-9-88)
§ 152.49 GARBAGE CONTAINERS.
   No garbage or other solid waste shall be stored or allowed to accumulate on
the premises unless contained in receptacles which are in accordance with §
50.05.
(`94 Code, § 4-134) (Ord. passed 8-9-88)
Penalty, see § 152.99
§ 152.50 REPAIR OF DAMAGE TO PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   Damage to public sidewalks or curb and gutter located in the public right-
of-way shall be repaired or replaced at no expense to the town when the damage
is caused by vehicles making deliveries to the business under the control of
the operator.
(`94 Code, § 4-135) (Ord. passed 8-9-88)
§ 152.51 NOTIFYING OWNER OF DEFECTS.
   Where the owner would not otherwise know of a defect of any facility,
utility or equipment required to be furnished hereunder and the same is found
to be defective or inoperable, the operator affected thereby shall, upon
learning of the defect, provide notice to the owner.
(`94 Code, § 4-136) (Ord. passed 8-9-88)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 152.65 MAINTENANCE CODE ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Maintenance Code Administrator is hereby established and shall be
the person delegated as the same by the Town Manager. It shall be his or her
duty and responsibility to enforce this chapter and to legally proceed against
each person found in violation of the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   All inspections, regulations and enforcement of violations of the
provisions of this chapter, unless expressly stated to the contrary, shall be
under the direction and supervision of the Administrator.
   (C)   All buildings and premises as set forth in this chapter are subject to
inspections by the Administrator or the Administrator's designated
representatives. Upon presentation of proper identification and credentials to
the owner, agent or occupant in charge of the property and/or premises, and
securing the person's oral or written permission, the Administrator and/or
representative may enter and make any inspections as necessary during all
reasonable hours.
   (D)   If permission for entry for the purpose of inspections is denied, and
no emergency exists, the Administrator shall, after presentation of probable
cause, procure a court order from the district court judge.
   (E)   In cases of emergency where extreme hazards are known to exist which
may involve potential loss of life or severe property damage, the above
limitations will not apply.
(`94 Code, § 4-81) (Ord. passed 8-9-88)
§ 152.66 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENTS AND APPEALS.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Board to be called the Commercial
Maintenance Board of Adjustments and Appeals.
(`94 Code, § 4-88) (Ord. passed 8-9-88)
   (B)   The Board of Adjustments and Appeals shall be that authorized,
established and appointed body responsible for hearing appeals and requests for
variance, created and authorized in Chapter 155 as the Board of Adjustment.
(`94 Code, § 4-89) (Ord. passed 8-9-88)
   (C)   The procedures, rules and processes established in Chapter 155 for the
Board of Adjustment shall apply.
(`94 Code, § 4-90) (Ord. passed 8-9-88)
   (D)   The duties of the Board of Adjustments and Appeals shall be to:
      (1)   Consider and determine appeals whenever it is claimed that the true
intent and meaning of this chapter or any of the regulations hereunder have
been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted or applied by the Maintenance Code
Administrator or the Administrator's representative.
      (2)   Grant, in cases where the application of the requirement of this
code in the allowance of the stated time for the performance of any action
required hereunder would appear to cause undue hardship on an owner, reasonable
extensions of time not to exceed six months from date of the notice. No
subsequent appeal shall be considered where an appeal has been previously
decided involving the same building or premises and the same citation, unless
the appellant can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Board a change in
circumstances sufficient to justify reopening the appeal.
(`94 Code, § 4-91) (Ord. passed 8-9-88)
   (E)   All decisions of the Board of Adjustments and Appeals which vary the
application of any provision of this chapter or modify an order of the
Administrator shall specify in what manner the variance or modification is to
be made, the conditions under which it may be made and the reasons therefor.
Every decision shall be in writing, and a copy of all decisions shall be
promptly filed in the office of the Commercial Maintenance Code Administrator,
and it shall be open to public inspection.
(`94 Code, § 4-92) (Ord. passed 8-9-88)
Cross-reference:
   Zoning Board of Adjustment, see §
155.137
§ 152.67 APPEALS.
   (A)   Within 30 days following receipt of a notice of violation, any person
receiving the notice, believing that the literal application of this chapter
will cause undue hardship or has been misconstrued, wrongly interpreted or
applied, may appeal in writing to the Board of Adjustments and Appeals for the
relief as may be granted, after investigation of the grounds thereof, by way of
a reasonable extension of time or a variation from strict compliance with the
provisions of this chapter. The circumstances justifying the findings related
to hardship are:
      (1)   Inability to immediately comply due to severe financial distress;
      (2)   The unavailability of services or equipment with which to comply,
without fault of the applicant; and/or
      (3)   Other extenuating circumstances showing a good faith intention on
the part of the applicant or another to comply when able to do so.
   (B)   The appeal shall be on a form provided by, and shall be addressed to
the Office of the Commercial Maintenance Code Administrator, where proper forms
will be prepared and forwarded to the Chairman of the Board of Adjustments and
Appeals, who will set the date and time of hearing and so notify the applicant.
This section shall not be construed to apply to any situation regarded by the
enforcement authority as a real and immediate threat to public safety and
health. Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Board may petition any
court of competent jurisdiction within the county. Any appeal of this sort must
be filed with the court within 15 days from the date of the Board's decision or
it shall be considered abandoned.
(`94 Code, § 4-93) (Ord. passed 8-9-88)
   (C)   To defray the cost of processing an appeal fees to be set by the Board
in the annual budget ordinance shall be required. All fees are payable to the
town and must be paid prior to processing the appeal.
(`94 Code, § 4-94) (Ord. passed 8-9-88)
§ 152.68 AMENDMENTS.
   The Board of Aldermen may from time to time amend, supplement, or change the
provisions and requirements of this code. Any amendment shall be by ordinance
of the Board. Initiation of any amendment may be by the Board of Aldermen,
Planning Board, Community Appearance Commission, staff, Commercial Maintenance
Board of Adjustments and Appeals or by a private citizen.
(`94 Code, § 4-99) (Ord. passed 8-9-88)
§ 152.69 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Whenever the Maintenance Code Administrator or any other authorized
official determines that there exists a violation of any provision of this
chapter, the Administrator shall give notice of the violation to the person
responsible therefor or to the person's agent or representative, and order
compliance.
(`94 Code, § 4-82) (Ord. passed 8-9-88)
   (B)   The notice and order shall be in writing; specify in detail the
violations, together with the respective sections of this chapter being
violated; setting forth 30 days within which to correct the violations; contain
an outline of remedial action which, if taken, will effect compliance.
(`94 Code, § 4-83) (Ord. passed 8-9-88; Am. Ord. 99-18, passed 8-10-99)
   (C)   Service of the notice shall be by delivery personally to the owner or
operator of the property or the person responsible; by leaving the notice at
the usual place of abode or business of the owner, operator or the person's
agent, or by depositing the notice in the United States post office addressed
to the owner or operator or the person's agent or person responsible at the
last known address with postage prepaid thereon, and certified or registered;
or in the event service of the notice cannot be obtained in one of the above
methods by posting and keeping posted for 24 hours a copy of the notice in a
conspicuous place on the premises where the violation has occurred and
published once a week for three weeks in a newspaper of general circulation in
the town any information as is necessary to inform an owner, operator or person
responsible of the location of the premises and the type of offense. No person
shall deface or remove the notice without the consent of the Administrator.
(`94 Code, § 4-84) (Ord. passed 8-9-88)
Penalty, see § 152.99
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, or any person's agent who shall violate a provision of
this chapter, or after due notice shall fail to comply with orders issued by
the Maintenance Code Administrator under the terms and provisions of this
chapter shall be subjected to a civil penalty in the following amounts:
      (1)   For the first notice, a fine of $150; and
      (2)   For the second notice, a fine of $300.
   (B)   The first notice citation shall be issued 1 day after the 120-day
notice and order to correct the violation has expired, if not corrected. The
second notice citation shall be issued 14 days after the first notice citation
if the first notice citation has not been paid and the violation has not been
corrected.
(`94 Code, § 4-85) (Ord. passed 8-9-88; Am. Ord. 96-6, passed 3-12-96)
   (C)   The Maintenance Code Administrator shall bring suit in small claims
court for recovery. The Administrator shall represent the town in this matter.
(`94 Code, § 4-86) (Ord. passed 8-9-88)
   (D)   Beginning on the fifth day after the issuance of the second notice,
each day of any violation of this chapter shall constitute a separate violation
punishable as separate violations of this chapter. Each day of violation will
carry a civil penalty in the amount of $75 per day.
(`94 Code, § 4-87) (Ord. passed 8-9-88; Am. Ord. passed 2-13-90; Am. Ord.
passed 9-8-92)
CHAPTER 153: FLOOD HAZARD REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Definitions
   
153.02   Statutory authorization
   
153.03   Findings of fact
   
153.04   Statement of purpose
   
153.05   Objectives
   
153.06   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
153.07   Basis for establishing the areas of special flood hazard
   
153.08   Development permit required
   
153.09   Compliance
   
153.10   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
153.11   Interpretation
   
153.12   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
153.13   Effect on rights and liabilities under existing chapter
Flood Hazard Reduction
   
153.25   General standards
   
153.26   Specific standards
   
153.27   Streams without established base flood elevations and/or floodways
   
153.28   Subdivision proposals
   
153.29   Areas of shallow flooding (AO zones)
Administration and Enforcement
   
153.40   Enforcement officer
   
153.41   Administrative procedures
   
153.42   Appeals and variances
 
   
153.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Floodway regulation, see G.S. §§ 143-215.51 et seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADDITION (TO ANY EXISTING BUILDING). Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter of a building in which the addition is connected by a common load-
bearing wall other than a fire wall. Any walled and roofed addition which is
connected by a fire wall or is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing
walls is NEW CONSTRUCTION.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Zoning Administrator's interpretation
of any provision of this chapter or a request for a variance.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or VO zone on a community's flood
insurance rate map (FIRM) with base flood depths from one to three feet where a
clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity flow may be evident.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASEMENT. The lowest level or story which has its floor subgrade on all
sides.
   BREAKAWAY WALLS. Any type of walls, whether solid or lattice, and whether
constructed of concrete, masonry, wood, metal, plastic or any other suitable
building material, which are not part of the structural support of the building
and which are so designed as to breakaway, under abnormally high tides or wave
action, without damage to the structural integrity of the building on which
they are used or any buildings to which they might be carried by flood waters.
   BUILDING. Any structure built for support, shelter or enclosure for any
occupancy or storage.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. A non-basement building built to have the lowest floor
elevated above the ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter
walls, pilings, columns (posts and piers), shear walls or breakaway walls.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. A parcel
or contiguous parcels of land divided into two or more manufactured home lots
for rent or sale for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lot
on which the manufactured home is to be affixed, including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, either final site grading or the pouring of concrete
pads, and the construction of streets, was completed before the effective date
of the ordinance from which this chapter is derived.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). An official map of a community, issued by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency, where the boundaries of the areas of
special flood hazard have been defined as zone A.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
the Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the areas of
special flood hazard and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The official report provided by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the flood
boundary floodway map and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   FLOOR. The top surface of an enclosed area in a building, including the
basement, such as the top of the slab in concrete slab construction or the top
of the wood flooring in wood frame construction. The term does not include the
floor of a garage used solely for parking vehicles.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT FACILITY. A facility which cannot be used for its
intended purpose unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to
water, such as a docking or port facility necessary for the loading and
unloading of cargo or passengers, shipbuilding, ship repair, or seafood
processing facilities. The term does not include long-term storage,
manufacture, sales or service facilities.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to construction, next to the proposed walls of the structure.
   LEVEE. A man-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM. A flood protection system which consists of a levee or levees,
and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area, including the
basement. An unfinished or floor resistant enclosure, useable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor, provided that the
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term also
includes park trailers, travel trailers, and similar transportable structures
placed on a site for 180 consecutive days or longer, and intended to be
improved property.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel or contiguous parcels of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. The average height of the sea for all stages of the tide. It
is used as a reference for establishing various elevations within the
floodplain. For purposes of this chapter, the term is synonymous with NATIONAL
GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD).
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD). As corrected in 1929, a vertical
control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the
floodplain.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of the ordinance from which this chapter is
derived.
   REFERENCE LEVEL. The bottom of the lowest horizontal structural member of
the lowest floor for structures within all special flood hazard areas. For the
purposes of this definition, the reference level for slab construction is
measured from the top of the lowest floor.
   REMEDY A VIOLATION. To bring the structure or other development into
compliance with state or local floodplain management regulations, or, if this
is not possible, to reduce the impacts of its noncompliance. Ways that impacts
may be reduced include protecting the structure or other affected development
from flood damages, implementing the enforcement provisions of this chapter or
otherwise deterring future similar violations, or reducing federal financial
exposure with regard to the structure or other development.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction or improvement was within 180 days of the permit date.
The actual start means the first placement of permanent construction of a
structure, including a manufactured home, on a site, such as the pouring of
slabs or footings, installation of piles, construction of columns, or any work
beyond the stage of excavation or the placement of a manufactured home on a
foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers
or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building that is principally above ground, a
manufactured home, a gas or liquid storage tank, or other man-made facilities
or infrastructures.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the
structure, either before the improvement or repair is started, or if the
structure has been damaged and is being restored, before the damage occurred.
For the purposes of this definition, SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is considered to
occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural
part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration affects the
external dimensions of the structure. The term does not, however, include
either any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing state
and local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which are solely
necessary to assure safe living conditions, or any alteration of a structure
listed on the National Register of Historic Places or a state inventory of
historic places. The effects of substantial improvement shall be cumulative for
20 years.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief to a person from the requirements of this
chapter which permits construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this
chapter where specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in this chapter is presumed to be in
violation until the time that the documentation is provided.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. A person appointed by the Town Manager whose duty is
to enforce and administer the provisions of this chapter.
(`94 Code, § 4-140) (Ord. passed 6-9-87; Am. Ord. passed 3-8-88; Am. Ord. 11-
10, passed 10-11-11)
§ 153.02 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The legislature of the state has in G.S. §§ 160A-174 et seq., 160A-381 et
seq., 160A-411 et seq. and 160A-456 et seq., delegated the responsibility to
local governmental units to adopt regulations designed to promote the public
health, safety, and general welfare of its citizenry. Therefore, the Board does
ordain as set out in this chapter.
(`94 Code, § 4-141) (Ord. passed 6-9-87)
§ 153.03 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the town are subject to periodic inundation
which results in loss of life, property, health and safety hazards, disruption
of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public expenditures for
flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base, all of which
adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities, and by the
occupancy in flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous to
other lands which are inadequately elevated, flood proofed, or otherwise
protected from flood damages.
(`94 Code, § 4-142) (Ord. passed 6-9-87)
§ 153.04 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety and
property due to water or erosion hazards, or which result in damaging increases
in erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve the uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(`94 Code, § 4-143) (Ord. passed 6-9-87)
§ 153.05 OBJECTIVES.
The objectives of this chapter are to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
floodplains;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of floodplain areas in a manner so as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
   (G)   Ensure that potential home buyers are notified that property is in a
flood area.
(`94 Code, § 1-144) (Ord. passed 6-9-87)
§ 153.06 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all special flood hazard areas within the
jurisdiction of the town including the extra territorial jurisdictions (ETJs)
therein.
(`94 Code, § 4-145) (Ord. passed 6-9-87; Am. Ord. 09-02, passed 6-15-09)
§ 153.07 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency in its flood insurance study for the town, dated March 1978,
with accompanying flood insurance rate maps, flood boundary and floodway maps
and other supporting data, and the county flood insurance study and
accompanying map dated January 1989, which covers the corporate limits and the
zoning map on the wall of the zoning office, dated March 13, 1980, which covers
the extraterritorial jurisdiction for the town, as well as any revisions
thereto, are adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter.
(`94 Code, § 4-146) (Ord. passed 6-9-87; Am. Ord. passed 7-11-89)
Editor’s note:
   Ordinance Amendment 09-01, adopted May 12, 2009, accomplished two things:
(1) the amendment updated via DFIRMs the existing FIRM flood maps and required
text; and (2) adopted an interlocal agreement with Rowan County to continue to
administer the town’s Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance.
§ 153.08 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   A development permit shall be obtained in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities.
(`94 Code, § 4-154)
   (B)   Application for a development permit shall be made to the Zoning
Administrator on forms furnished by the Administrator and may include, but not
be limited to, the following plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the
nature, location, dimensions and elevations of the area in question, existing
or proposed structures, fill, storage of materials, drainage facilities and the
location of the foregoing. Specifically, the following information is required:
      (1)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the proposed lowest
floor, including the basement, of all structures;
      (2)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any nonresidential
structure has been flood proofed;
      (3)   Provide a certificate from a registered professional engineer or
architect that the nonresidential flood proofed structure meets the flood
proofing criteria in § 153.26(B);
      (4)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development; and
      (5)   Provide a floor elevation or flood proofing certification after the
lowest floor is completed, or in instances where the structure is subject to
the regulations applicable to coastal high hazard areas, after placement of the
horizontal structural members of the lowest floor. Within 21 calendar days of
establishment of the lowest floor elevation, or flood proofing by whatever
construction means, or upon placement of the horizontal structural members of
the lowest floor, whichever is applicable, it shall be the duty of the permit
holder to submit to the Zoning Administrator a certification of the elevation
of the lowest floor, flood-proofed elevation, or the elevation of the bottom of
the horizontal structural members of the lowest floor, whichever is applicable,
as built, in relation to mean sea level. The certification shall be prepared by
or under the direct supervision of a registered land surveyor or professional
engineer, and certified by the same. When flood proofing is utilized for a
particular building, the certification shall be prepared by or under the direct
supervision of a professional engineer or architect and certified by the same.
Any work done within the 21-day calendar period and prior to submission of the
certification shall be at the permit holder's risk. The Zoning Administrator
shall review the floor elevation survey data submitted. Deficiencies detected
by the review shall be corrected by the permit holder immediately and prior to
further progressive work being permitted to proceed. Failure to submit the
survey or failure to make the corrections required hereby shall be cause to
issue a stop work order for the project.
(`94 Code, § 4-155) (Ord. passed 6-9-87)
§ 153.09 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted or
structurally altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and
other applicable regulations.
(`94 Code, § 4-147) (Ord. passed 6-9-87)
Penalty, see § 153.99
§ 153.10 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easement, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions
shall prevail.
(`94 Code, § 4-148) (Ord. passed 6-9-87)
§ 153.11 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the Board of Aldermen; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under the
State General Statutes.
(`94 Code, § 4-149) (Ord. passed 6-9-87)
§ 153.12 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within the areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the town or by any officer or
employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this
chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
(`94 Code, § 4-150) (Ord. passed 6-9-87)
§ 153.13 EFFECT ON RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES UNDER EXISTING CHAPTER.
   (A)   This chapter in part comes forward by re-enactment of some of the
provisions of the Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance enacted December 17, 1979,
as amended, and it is not the intention to repeal but rather to re-enact and
continue to enforce without interruption of such existing provisions, so that
all rights and liabilities that have accrued thereunder are reserved and may be
enforced. The enactment of Ord. 09-02 shall not affect any action, suit or
proceeding instituted or pending. All provisions of the Flood Damage Prevention
Ordinance of Rowan County enacted on December 17, 1979, as amended, which are
not re-enacted herein are repealed.
   (B)   The date of the initial Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance for each
municipal jurisdiction within Rowan County is as follows: Town of Spencer
Incorporated Area, dated December 17, 1979.
(Ord. 09-02, passed 6-15-09)
FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 153.25 GENERAL STANDARDS.
In all areas of special flood hazard the following provisions are required:
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
   (B)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or
lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to use
of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard shall be in
addition to and consistent with applicable state requirements for resisting
wind forces.
   (C)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
   (D)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damages.
   (E)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding.
   (F)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (G)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters.
   (H)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (I)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements to a structure
which is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, shall meet the
requirements of new construction, as contained in this chapter.
(`94 Code, § 4-160) (Ord. passed 6-9-87)
§ 153.26 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation data has
been provided, as set forth in § 153.08, the following provisions are required:
   (A)   New construction or substantial improvement of any residential
structure shall have the lowest floor, including the basement, elevated no
lower than one foot above the base flood elevation. Should solid foundation
perimeter walls be used to elevate a structure, openings sufficient to
facilitate the unimpeded movements of flood waters shall be provided.
   (B)   New construction or substantial improvement of any commercial,
industrial or nonresidential structure shall have the lowest floor, including
the basement, elevated not lower than one foot above the level of the base
flood elevation. Structures located in A zones may be flood proofed in lieu of
elevation, provided that all areas of the structure below the required
elevation are water tight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage
of water, using structural components having the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the effect of buoyancy. A registered
professional engineer or architect shall certify that the standards of this
division are satisfied. The certification shall be provided to the official as
set forth in § 153.08(B)(5).
   (C)   New construction or substantial improvements of elevated buildings
that include fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior walls
below the base flood elevation shall be designed to preclude finished living
space, and designed to allow for the entry and exit of flood waters to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls.
      (1)   Designs for complying with this requirement must either be
certified by a professional engineer or architect, or must meet the following
minimum criteria:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings having a total net area of not
less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be not higher than one foot
above grade; and
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices, provided they permit the automatic flow of flood waters
in both directions.
      (2)   Electrical, plumbing, and other utility connections are prohibited
below the base flood elevation.
      (3)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow
for parking of vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator).
      (4)   The interior portion of the enclosed area shall not be partitioned
or finished into separate rooms.
   (D)   Located within areas of special flood hazard established in § 153.07
are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway is an extremely hazardous
area due to the velocity of flood waters which carry debris, potential
projectiles and has erosion potential, the following provisions shall apply:
      (1)   Prohibit encroachments, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements and other developments unless certification, with
supporting technical data, by a registered professional engineer is provided
demonstrating that encroachments shall not result in any increase in flood
levels during occurrence of the base flood discharge.
      (2)   If division (D)(1) above is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of this division.
      (3)   Prohibit the placement of manufactured homes (mobile homes), except
in an existing manufactured home (mobile home) park or subdivision. A
replacement manufactured home may be placed on a lot in an existing
manufactured home park or subdivision, provided the anchoring standards of §
153.25(B), and the elevation standards of division (A) above are met.
(`94 Code, § 4-161) (Ord. passed 6-9-87)
§ 153.27 STREAMS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS AND/OR FLOODWAYS.
   Located within the areas of special flood hazard established in § 153.07,
where small streams exist but where no base flood data has been provided or
where no floodways have been provided, the following provisions apply:
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill material or structures, shall be
located within a distance of the stream bank equal to the width of the stream
at the top of the bank or 20 feet on each side from the top of the bank,
whichever is greater, unless certification by a registered professional
engineer is provided demonstrating that the encroachments shall not result in
any increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
   (B)   New construction or substantial improvements of structures shall be
elevated or flood proofed in accordance with elevations established in
accordance with § 153.40(B)(10). When base flood elevation data is not
available from a federal, state or other source, the lowest floor, including
the basement, shall be elevated at least two feet above the highest adjacent
grade.
(`94 Code, § 4-162) (Ord. passed 6-9-87)
§ 153.28 SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (D)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development, including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions, which are greater than the lesser of 50 lots or 5 acres.
(`94 Code, § 4-163) (Ord. passed 6-9-87)
§ 153.29 AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (AO ZONES).
   (A)   Located within the areas of special flood hazard, established in §
153.07, are areas designated as shallow flooding.
   (B)   These areas have special flood hazards associated with base flood
depths of one to three feet where a clearly defined channel does not exist and
where the path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate. Therefore, the
following provisions apply:
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures shall have the lowest floor, including the basement, elevated to the
depth number specified on the flood insurance rate map, in feet, above the
highest adjacent grade. If no depth number is specified, the lowest floor,
including the basement, shall be elevated at least two feet above the highest
adjacent grade.
      (2)   All new construction and substantial improvements of nonresidential
structures shall:
         (a)   Have the lowest floor, including the basement, elevated to the
depth number specified on the flood insurance rate map, in feet, above the
highest adjacent grade. If no depth number is specified, the lowest floor
including the basement shall be elevated at least two feet above the highest
adjacent grade; or
         (b)   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, be
completely floodproofed to or above that level and, so that any space below
that level is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water and with structural components having the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy.
(`94 Code, § 4-164) (Ord. passed 6-9-87)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 153.40 ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator is hereby appointed to administer and
implement the provisions of this chapter.
(`94 Code, § 4-152) (Ord. passed 6-9-87)
   (B)   Duties of the Zoning Administrator shall include, but not be limited
to:
      (1)   Review all development permits to assure that the permit
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
      (2)   Advise the permittee that additional federal or state permits may
be required, and if specific federal or state permits are known, require that
copies of the permits be provided and maintained on file with the development
permit;
      (3)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Department of Crime
Control and Public Safety, Division of Emergency Management, State Coordinator
for the National Flood Insurance Program prior to any alteration or relocation
of a watercourse, and submit evidence of the notification to the Federal
Emergency Management Agency;
      (4)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of the watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished;
      (5)   Prevent encroachments within floodways unless the certification and
flood hazard reduction provisions of §§ 153.25 through 153.29 are met;
      (6)   Verify and record the actual elevation, in relation to mean sea
level, of the lowest flood, including the basement, of all new or substantially
improved structures, in accordance with § 153.08(B)(5);
      (7)   Verify and record the actual elevation, in relation to mean sea
level, to which the new or substantially improved structures have been flood
proofed, in accordance with § 153.08(B)(5);
      (8)   When flood proofing is utilized for a particular structure, the
Zoning Administrator shall obtain certifications from a registered professional
engineer or architect in accordance with § 153.08(B)(2);
      (9)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard, for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions,
the Zoning Administrator shall make the necessary interpretation. The person
contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity
to appeal the interpretation, as provided in § 153.42;
      (10)   When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance
with § 153.07, then the Zoning Administrator shall obtain, review and
reasonably utilize any base flood elevation data, floodway data, and
preliminary maps available from a federal, state or other source, including
data developed pursuant to § 153.28(D), in order to administer the provisions
of this chapter; and
      (11)   All records pertaining to the provisions of this chapter shall be
maintained in the office of the Zoning Administrator and shall be open for
public inspection.
(`94 Code, § 4-153) (Ord. passed 6-9-87)
§ 153.41 ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   As the work pursuant to a permit progresses, the Zoning Administrator
shall make as many inspections of the work as may be necessary to ensure that
the work is being done according to the provisions of the local ordinance and
the terms of the permit. In exercising this power, the Administrator has a
right, upon presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises within
the territorial jurisdiction at any reasonable hour for the purposes of
inspection or other enforcement action.
   (B)   Whenever a building or part thereof is being constructed,
reconstructed, altered or repaired in violation of this chapter, the
Administrator may order the work to be immediately stopped. The stop order
shall be in writing and directed to the person doing the work. The stop order
shall state the specific work to be stopped, the specific reasons for the
stoppage, and the conditions under which the work may be resumed. Violation of
a stop order constitutes a misdemeanor.
   (C)   The Zoning Administrator may revoke and require the return of the
development permit by notifying the permit holder in writing, and stating the
reason for the revocation. Permits shall be revoked for any substantial
departure from the approved application, plans, or specifications; for refusal
or failure to comply with the requirements of state or local laws; or for false
statements or misrepresentations made in securing the permit. Any permit
mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable state or local law may also be
revoked.
   (D)   The Zoning Administrator and each member of the Inspections Department
shall have a right, upon presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any
premises within the territorial jurisdiction of the Department at any
reasonable hour for the purposes of inspection or other enforcement action.
   (E)   When the Zoning Administrator finds violations of applicable state and
local laws, it shall be the Administrator's duty to notify the owner or
occupant of the building of the violation. The owner or occupant shall each
immediately remedy the violations of law in the property he or she owns.
   (F)   If the owner of a building or property shall fail to take prompt
corrective action, the Administrator shall give the owner written notice, by
certified or registered mail or personal service to the owner's last known
address, that:
      (1)   The building or property is in violation of this chapter;
      (2)   A hearing will be held before the Zoning Administrator at a
designated place and time, not later than ten days after the date of the
notice, at which time the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or by
counsel, and to present arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter; and
      (3)   Following the hearing, the Zoning Administrator may issue an order
to alter, vacate, or demolish the building, or to remove fill as appears
appropriate.
   (G)   If, upon a hearing held pursuant to the notice prescribed above, the
Administrator shall find that the building or development is in violation of
this chapter, the Administrator shall make an order in writing to the owner,
requiring the owner to remedy the violation, within a period, not less than 60
days, as the Administrator may prescribe, provided that where the Administrator
finds that there is imminent danger to life or other property, the
Administrator may order that corrective action be taken in a lesser period as
may be feasible.
   (H)   Any owner who has received an order to take corrective action may
appeal the order to the Board of Aldermen by giving notice of appeal in writing
to the Administrator and the Town Clerk within ten days following issuance of
the final order. In the absence of an appeal, the order of the Administrator
shall be final. The Board of Aldermen hear an appeal within a reasonable time
and may affirm, modify and affirm or revoke the order.
   (I)   If the owner of a building or property fails to comply with an order
to take corrective action from which no appeal has been taken, or fails to
comply with an order of the Board of Aldermen following an appeal, the owner
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished in the discretion of the
court.
(`94 Code, § 4-156) (Ord. passed 6-9-87)
Penalty, see § 153.99
§ 153.42 APPEALS AND VARIANCES.
   (A)   The Board of Aldermen, as established by the town, shall hear and
decide appeals and requests for variances from the requirements of this
chapter.
   (B) The Board of Aldermen shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged
there is an error in any requirement, decision or determination made by the
Zoning Administrator in the enforcement and administration of this chapter.
   (C)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Board of Aldermen or any
taxpayer may appeal the decision to superior court, as provided in G.S. Chapter
7A.
   (D)   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Inventory of Historic Places without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this section.
   (E)   In passing upon the applications, the Board of Aldermen shall consider
all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, and all standards specified in
other sections of this chapter, and:
      (1)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (2)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of the damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (6)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (10)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
      (11)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
   (F)   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of
this chapter, the Board of Aldermen may attach any conditions to the granting
of variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of this chapter.
   (G)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   (H)   The following are conditions for variances:
      (1)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public
or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (3)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation and the
elevation to which the structure is to be built and a written statement that
the cost of flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk
resulting from the reduced lowest floor elevation. The notification shall be
maintained with a record of all variance actions.
   (I)   The Zoning Administrator shall maintain the records of all actions and
report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency upon request.
(`94 Code, § 4-157) (Ord. passed 6-9-87)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with grants of variance or special exceptions, shall constitute a
misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any
of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than $50
or imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both, and in addition shall pay all
costs and expenses involved in the case. Each day the violation continues shall
be considered a separate offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the
town from taking any other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy
any violation.
(`94 Code, § 4-151) (Ord. passed 6-9-87)
CHAPTER 154: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
154.01   Title
   
154.02   Purpose
   
154.03   Authority
   
154.04   Jurisdiction
   
154.05   Abrogation
   
154.06   Word interpretation
   
154.07   Definitions
Plat Review and Approval
   
154.20   Approval and recordation required
   
154.21   General requirements
   
154.22   Sketch design plan
   
154.23   Minor subdivisions
   
154.24   Major subdivisions and conservation subdivisions
   
154.25   Preliminary plat
   
154.26   Final plat
   
154.27   Exceptions
Design Standards; Improvements
   
154.40   Development design standards
   
154.41   Installation of improvements
   
154.42   Conservation subdivision standards
Administration
   
154.55   Amendments
   
154.56   Variances
   
154.57   Group development
 
   
154.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Subdivision regulations, see G.S. §§ 160A-371 et seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Subdivision Regulations
for the Town of Spencer, North Carolina,” and may be referred to as the
“subdivision regulations.”
(`94 Code, App. B, Art. I, § 1)
§ 154.02 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to support and guide the proper
subdivision of land within the jurisdiction of the town in order to promote the
public health, safety and general welfare of the citizens of the town.
   (B)   This chapter is designed to establish procedures and standards for the
development and subdivision of real estate within the jurisdictional area of
the town in an effort to, among other things, insure proper legal description,
identification, monumentation and recordation of real estate boundaries and
further, the orderly layout and appropriate use of the land; to provide safe,
convenient and economic circulation of vehicular traffic; to provide suitable
building sites which drain properly and are readily accessible to emergency
vehicles; to assure the installation of improvements; to promote the eventual
elimination of unsafe or unsanitary conditions; and to help conserve and
protect the physical and economic resources of the town and its environs and to
facilitate the further resubdivision of large tracts into smaller parcels of
land.
(`94 Code, App. B, Art. I, § 2)
§ 154.03 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is adopted under the authority of G.S. § 160A-371.
(`94 Code, App. B, Art. I, § 3)
§ 154.04 JURISDICTION.
   The regulations shall govern all subdivisions of land within the corporate
limits and the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the town, as now or hereafter
established.
(`94 Code, App. B, Art. I, § 4)
§ 154.05 ABROGATION.
   It is not intended that this ordinance repeal, abrogate, annul, impair or
interfere with any existing easements, covenants, deed restrictions,
agreements, rules, regulations, or permits previously adopted or issued
pursuant to law. However, where this chapter imposes greater restrictions, the
provisions of this chapter shall govern.
(`94 Code, App. B, Art. III, § 5)
§ 154.06 WORD INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Words used in the present tense include the future tense.
   (B)   Words used in the singular number include the plural.
   (C)   Words used in the plural number include the singular, unless the
natural construction of the wording indicates otherwise.
   (D)   Words used in the masculine include the feminine.
   (E)   The word PERSON includes a firm, association, corporation, trust and
company, as well as an individual.
   (F)   The words USED FOR shall include the meaning DESIGNED FOR.
   (G)   The word LOT shall include the words PLAT, PARCEL or TRACT.
   (H)   The word SHALL is always mandatory and not merely directory.
   (I)   The word MAY is permissive.
   (J)   The word STRUCTURE shall include the word BUILDING.
   (K)   The word TOWN shall mean the Town of Spencer, North Carolina.
(`94 Code, App. B, Art. IV, § 2)
§ 154.07 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A public or private thoroughfare which affords only a secondary means
of access to abutting property and is not intended for general traffic
circulation.
   BONA FIDE FARM. Agricultural, horticultural and forest land as defined by
G.S. §§ 105-277.1(1) through (3) and 105-277.3.
   BUFFER. A horizontal distance from the property line which may only be
occupied by screening, utilities, accessways and landscaping materials.
   BUILDING LINE or SETBACK LINE. A line set parallel to a lot line beyond
which a building cannot extend or be erected. Included are front, side and rear
lines.
   CLEAR VISION AREA. The triangular area formed by joining points, using
straight lines, of the centerlines of intersecting or intercepting streets 60
feet from their intersection/interception.
   CONSERVATION SUBDIVISION.
      (1)   These conservation provisions provide voluntary alternatives to
standard residential development practices. These land development techniques
involve placing clusters of home sites on smaller lots than those permitted
under conventional development regulations to preserve areas and to create
permanent open space.
      (2)   Conservation provisions provide flexible development options to:
         (a)   Protect open space areas;
         (b)   Allow for common open areas within a development project;
         (c)   Support reductions in development costs, reducing the amount of
grading and infrastructure needed; and
         (d)   Reduce the amount of impervious area for improved stormwater
run-off.
   DEDICATION. A gift, by the owner, of his or her property to another party
without any consideration being given for the transfer. Since a transfer of
property is involved, the dedication is made by written instrument and is
completed with an acceptance.
   DISTRICT. Any section of the town and its zoning jurisdiction, within which
regulations are uniform.
   DRAINAGE HEAD. A low depressed area which serves to remove excess water.
   EASEMENT. A grant by the property owner for use by the public, a corporation
or persons of a strip of land for specified purposes.
   EXCEPTION. A division of land specifically described in the definition of
SUBDIVISION as not being subject to the regulations prescribed by this chapter
other than those prescribed for review and approval, as noted in §§ 154.20 et
seq.
   EXTRATERRITORIAL JURISDICTION. That land lying within one mile in all
directions of the corporate limits and not located in any other town. In the
event of land lying within a distance of one mile of both the town and any
other municipality, the jurisdictions of the town and of each other
municipality shall terminate at a boundary line equidistant from the respective
corporate limits.
   FENCE. An outdoor structure placed around a parcel of land and constructed
of either masonry, metal or wood which provides either a physical barrier or
visual screen between properties.
   GROUP HOUSING DEVELOPMENT. One or more residential structures designed for
multi- family usage on a single plot, or a townhouse residential development,
or a unit ownership residential development.
   GROUP NONRESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT. A group of two or more principal
structures built on a single lot, tract, or parcel of land designed for
occupancy by separate firms, businesses or other nonresidential enterprises.
   LOT. A portion of a subdivision or any other parcel of land intended as a
unit for transfer of ownership or for development or both. The word LOT
includes the word PLOT or PARCEL.
      (1)   CORNER LOT. A lot which occupies the interior angle at the
intersection of two street lines which make an angle of more than 45 degrees
and less than 135 degrees with each other. The street line forming the least
frontage shall be deemed the front of the lot except where the two street lines
are equal, in which case the owner shall be required to specify which is the
front when requesting a zoning compliance permit.
      (2)   DOUBLE-FRONTAGE LOT. A lot of the same depth as the width of a
block containing two tiers of lots and which is accessible from both of the
streets upon which it fronts.
      (3)   INTERIOR LOT. A lot other than a corner lot.
      (4)   SINGLE-TIER LOT. A lot which backs upon a limited access highway, a
railroad, a physical barrier or a nonresidential use and to which access from
the rear is usually prohibited.
   LOT DEPTH. The mean distance between the front and rear lot lines.
   LOT LINE. A line dividing one parcel of property from another parcel of
property or from a street right-of-way.
      (1)   FRONT LOT LINE. The street right-of-way boundary at the front of
the lot. That is, the line which separates the lot from the street right-of-way
at the front of the lot.
      (2)   REAR LOT LINE. That line of a lot which is opposite and farthest on
average from the front lot line. Where a lot abuts a street along the rear of
the lot, the rear lot line shall be deemed to coincide with the street right-
of-way boundary.
      (3)   SIDE LOT LINE. Any lot line which meets an end of a front lot line.
Where a lot abuts a street along the side of a lot, the side lot line shall be
deemed to coincide with the street right-of-way boundary.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is part of a subdivision, a plat of which has
been recorded in the office of the County Register of Deeds, or a lot described
by metes and bounds, the description of which has been so recorded.
   LOT WIDTH. The distance between side lot lines measured at the front
building line.
   NONCONFORMANCE. Any use, structure, lot or sign which does not conform to
the regulations of Chapter 155 either at the effective date of the chapter or
as a result of subsequent amendments which may be incorporated into the
chapter.
   NONCONFORMING LOT. A lot which does not conform to the dimensions required
by Chapter 155.
   NONRESIDENTIAL PLANNED SITES DEVELOPMENT. A development of one or more
structures containing a total of two or more nonresidential units intended for
owner occupancy, where ownership of the land beneath each unit runs with that
unit, where units and the individually owned lands on which they rest do not
meet conventional lot requirements for street frontage and yard sizes, and
where walls between units are constructed in accordance with State Building
Code requirements.
   OBSTRUCTION. Any structure, fence, shrub, bush, tree, flower, plant, motor
vehicle or any other object that obscures, impairs, or prevents view or sight
through, over or across the CLEAR VISION AREA as herein defined.
   OFFICIAL MAPS OR PLANS. Any maps or plans officially adopted by the Town
Board of Aldermen as a guide to the development of the town.
   OPEN SPACE. An area of land and/or water generally lacking in man-made
structures and reserved for enjoyment in its unaltered state.
   PARKING SPACE. An area of appropriate dimensions, exclusive of drives, which
conforms to the geometric design standards of the Institute of Traffic
Engineering, and is capable of temporary storage of one private passenger
automobile.
   PLANNING BOARD. The Town Planning Board.
   PLAT. A map or plan of a parcel of land which is to be or has been
subdivided.
   PRINCIPAL USE. The primary purpose or function that a lot serves or is
intended to serve.
   PUBLIC SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. A single system of sewage collection,
treatment and disposal owned and operated by a sanitary district, a
metropolitan sewage district, a water and sewer authority, a county or
municipality or a public assembly.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY. Any water supply furnishing potable water so defined
and regulated by state statutes.
   RESERVATION. A RESERVATION of land does not involve any transfer of property
rights. It simply constitutes an obligation to keep property free from
development for a stated period of time.
   SCREEN. A wall, fence or a planted strip composed of deciduous or evergreen
trees or a mixture of trees and dense shrubs planted or constructed to block
one or more views.
   SETBACK. The required distance between any structure and the applicable lot
lines, such as front, rear and side, of the lot on which the structure is
located.
   SKETCH DESIGN PLAN. An informal drawing as required in § 154.22, for the
purpose of a preapplication and sketch plat review.
   STREET. A dedicated and accepted public right-of-way for vehicular traffic
which affords the principal means of access to abutting properties. The
following classifications shall apply:
      (1)   ARTERIAL. A street serving major metropolitan activity centers,
interconnecting and augmenting the thoroughfare system and carrying trips of
moderate lengths.
      (2)   COLLECTOR STREET. A street penetrating residential, commercial and
industrial areas that collects traffic from local streets and channels it into
the arterial and thoroughfare system.
      (3)   CUL-DE-SAC. A street having but one end open to traffic and the
other end being permanently terminated and a vehicular turnaround provided.
      (4)   INTERSTATE. Any of a system of major thoroughfares of, connecting,
or existing between two or more streets.
      (5)   LOCAL STREET. A street providing direct access to abutting land
where through traffic is deliberately discouraged and trip length is short.
      (6)   MARGINAL ACCESS/FRONTAGE. A minor street which parallels and is
adjacent to a major street or highway, and which provides access to abutting
properties and protection from through traffic.
      (7)   PRIVATE STREET. A privately owned and maintained street which
provides the principal means of vehicular access to abutting properties.
      (8)   SERVICE ROAD. A street that runs parallel to a principal arterial
or interstate and provides indirect access to and from properties or facilities
abutting the principal arterial or interstate via an interchange.
      (9)   STREET RIGHT-OF-WAY LINE. The street right-of-way boundary. That
is, the line which separates the street from the lot.
      (10)   THOROUGHFARE. A traffic artery designed primarily to carry heavy
volumes of through vehicular traffic.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person, firm or corporation who subdivides or develops any
land deemed to be a subdivision, as herein defined.
   SUBDIVISION.  
      (1)   Any division of a tract or parcel of land into two or more lots,
building sites, or other divisions when any one or more of those divisions are
created for the purpose of sale or building development, whether immediate or
future, and shall include all divisions of land involving the dedication of a
new street or a change in existing streets, but the following shall not be
included within this definition nor be subject to the regulations authorized by
statute:
         (a)   The combination or recombination of portions of previously
subdivided and recorded lots where the total number of lots is not increased
and the resultant lots are equal to or exceed the standards of the municipality
as shown in its subdivision regulations;
         (b)   The division of land into parcels greater than ten acres where
no street right-of-way dedication is involved;
         (c)   The public acquisition by purchase of strips of land for
widening or opening streets or for public transportation system corridors; and
         (d)   The division of a tract in single ownership whose entire area is
not greater than two acres into not more than three lots, where no street
right-of-way dedication is involved and where the resultant lots are equal to
or exceed the standards of the municipality, as shown in its subdivision
regulations.
(G.S. § 160A-376(a))
      (2)   MAJOR SUBDIVISION. The division of a tract or parcel of land:
         (a)   Involving four lots or more fronting on an existing approved
street;
         (b)   Involving any new street or prospectively requiring any new
street for access to interior property; and
         (c)   Requiring the extension of public sewage and/or water lines or
the creation of new drainage easements through lots to serve property at the
rear.
      (3)   MINOR SUBDIVISION. The division of a tract or parcel of land:
         (a)   Involving not more than three lots fronting on an existing
approved street;
         (b)   Not involving any new street or prospectively requiring any new
street for access to interior property; and
         (c)   Not requiring extension of public sewage or water lines or
creation of new drainage easements through lots to serve property at the rear;
         (d)   Not adversely affecting development of the remainder of the
parcel or adjoining property;
         (e)   Creating no new or residual parcels not conforming to the
requirements of these regulations and related controls.
   TECHNICAL REVIEW COMMITTEE. A staff review committee consisting of the Town
Manager, Town Planner, Zoning Officer, Superintendent of Public Works and
others as deemed necessary.
(`94 Code, App. B, Art. IV, § 3) (Am. Ord. 06-17, passed 2-13-07; Am. Ord. 10-
01, passed 3-9-10)
Statutory reference:
   Representation of extraterritorial area, see G.S. § 160A-362
   State law as to extraterritorial jurisdiction, see G.S. § 160A-360
PLAT REVIEW AND APPROVAL
§ 154.20 APPROVAL AND RECORDATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   No land shall be subdivided nor any construction or improvements such
as streets, storm drainage or grubbing and grading, as related to the
subdivision of land and the development thereof, be initiated until the
Subdivision Enforcement Officer has issued a subdivision permit for the work. A
valid tentatively approved preliminary plat of the land involved shall be
prerequisite to the issuance of a subdivision permit by the Subdivision
Enforcement Officer.
   (B)   Similarly, proposed subdivisions must comply in all respects with the
requirements of Chapter 155 in effect in the area to be subdivided, and any
other officially adopted plans.
(`94 Code, App. B, Art. II, § 1)
   (C)   Within six months after the final plat has been approved by the Board
of Aldermen, it shall have been recorded with the County Register of Deeds.
Should the six-month time limit expire before the plat is recorded, it must be
resubmitted. Upon the filing of the ordinance codified in this regulation with
the register of deeds, the register of deeds shall not thereafter file or
record a plat of a subdivision located within the territorial jurisdiction of
the town until the plat has been approved by the town. The filing or recording
of a subdivision plat without approval of the Board of Aldermen as required by
this regulation shall be null and void. The County Clerk of Superior Court
shall not order or direct the recording of a plat where the recording would be
in conflict with this regulation.
   (D)   The sale or transfer of land within a subdivision is prohibited until
the plat has been approved by the Board of Aldermen and has been properly
recorded.
(`94 Code, App. B, Art. II, § 2)
Penalty, see § 154.99
§ 154.21 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   No plat of a subdivision within the jurisdiction of the Town Planning Board
shall be accepted for record by the County Register of Deeds until final
approval has been given by the town. After the required preapplication/sketch
plan review, there are three procedures applicable to subdivision final plat
approval. They are a minor subdivision, a major subdivision or an exception.
(`94 Code, App. B, Art. V, § 1)
§ 154.22 SKETCH DESIGN PLAN.
   (A)   A preapplication/sketch plan review is required of all proposed land
use and subdivisions. This review is not binding on any party. It is to be held
between town representatives, such as the Town Manager, Planner and the like,
and the subdivider and/or his or her authorized agent. The purpose of this
review is to clarify the regulations as they apply to the particular parcel and
proposed subdivision. It helps to avoid misunderstandings and substantial
investment in surveys and drafting for a concept that may or may not be
accepted as proposed.
   (B)   The sketch may be informal (freehand), but drawn to an approximate
scale. Sketch plans shall conform to the following requirements:
      (1)   A minimum of two copies of a sketch design plan shall be submitted.
      (2)   No specific size requirements apply to sketch design plans, but it
is suggested that the requirements applicable to preliminary and final plats be
utilized.
      (3)   No administrative fees are charged in connection with the
submission of sketch design plans.
      (4)   The sketch design plan shall depict or contain the following
information:
         (a)   A sketch vicinity map showing the location of the subdivision in
relation to neighboring tracts, subdivisions, roads and waterways;
         (b)   The boundaries of the tract and the portion of the tract to be
subdivided;
         (c)   The total acreage to be subdivided;
         (d)   The existing and proposed uses of land within the subdivision
and adjoining it;
         (e)   The proposed street layout;
         (f)   The name, address and telephone number of the owner;
         (g)   Streets and lots of adjacent developed or platted properties;
and
         (h)   The zoning classification of the tract and of adjacent
properties.
      (5)   The review team shall review the sketch design plan for general
compliance with the requirements of this chapter and Chapter 155, and the
review team shall advise the subdivider or his authorized agent of the
regulations pertaining to the proposed subdivision and the procedures to be
followed in the preparation and submission of requirements for the determined
minor subdivision, major subdivision or exception proposal. Minor subdivisions,
as defined in the regulations, will proceed to the final plat review. Major
subdivisions will proceed to the preliminary plat review. This review shall in
no way be construed as constituting an official action of approval for
recording of the subdivision by the town, as required by this chapter.
      (6)   One copy shall be retained as a part of the files of the Town
Planning Department, with the other copy being returned to the subdivider or
his or her authorized agent.
(`94 Code, App. B, Art. V, § 2)
§ 154.23 MINOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   A plat of any proposed minor subdivision, as defined in § 154.22,
shall be submitted to the Town Manager or Town Planner for review by the
Technical Review Committee, which shall have the authority to approve or
disapprove the plat. The Technical Review Committee shall consist of the Town
Manager, Town Planner and Public Works Director.
   (B)   Minor subdivisions shall conform to the following requirements:
      (1)   A minimum of three copies of a minor subdivision plat shall be
submitted.
      (2)   The plat shall be at an appropriate engineering graphic scale but
no less than 1 inch equaling 200 feet. The title, date and north point arrow
shall be noted.
      (3)   A minor subdivision plat submitted for review shall be accompanied
by an application and review fee as per the town's schedule of fees.
      (4)   The following certification shall be lettered, rubber stamped or
affixed to the plat in a manner so as to insure that the certificate will be
legible on any prints made therefrom:
I hereby certify that this Minor Subdivision meets the requirements of § 154.22
of Chapter 154 of the Code of Ordinances of Spencer, North Carolina.
                           Signature and Title
                           _______________________________
      (5)   The following contents are required for minor subdivision plats:
         (a)   A sketch vicinity map showing the location of existing and
platted property lines, proposed subdivision lines, streets, rights-of-way,
buildings, water courses, railroad transmission lines, sewers, bridges,
culverts, drainage pipes, water mains, town limit lines, public utility
easements and north arrow declination;
         (b)   Boundaries of property concerned shown with bearings and
distance;
         (c)   Names of adjoining property owners or subdivisions;
         (d)   Zoning classification on the land to be subdivided and on
adjoining lands;
         (e)   Proposed minimum setback lines;
         (f)   Site data:
            1.   Acreage in total tract to be subdivided;
            2.   Average lot size;
            3.   Proposed street and lot layout;
            4.   Total number of lots existing and proposed; and
            5.   Existing and proposed property lines.
         (g)   The name of the owner, engineer, surveyor and/or planner;
         (h)   The title, with the name, date and scale, denoted graphically or
numerically; and
         (i)   An erosion control plan, if applicable.
      (6)   The Technical Review Committee shall review the minor subdivision
plat for general compliance with the requirements of this chapter and
Chapter 155, and make any recommendations necessary. The Technical Review
Committee shall advise the subdivider, in writing, of approval or disapproval
of the plat within 14 working days after it has been received.
(`94 Code, App. B, Art. V, § 3) (Ord. 96-10, passed 8-13-96)
§ 154.24 MAJOR SUBDIVISIONS AND CONSERVATION SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   A preliminary and a final plat of any proposed major subdivision as
defined in §
154.22 shall be submitted to the Town Manager or Town Planner for review by the
Technical Review Committee and the Planning Board.
   (B)   The Technical Review Committee shall have the authority to approve or
disapprove the preliminary plat. If the plat is approved, it shall be sent to
the Planning Board for review at the next regularly scheduled meeting.
   (C)   The Planning Board shall either approve or disapprove the preliminary
plat based on compliance with the requirements of this chapter,
Chapter 155 and the appropriateness of the plat to the needs of the town. If
the plat is approved, it shall be sent to the Board of Aldermen for review at
the next regularly scheduled meeting.
(`94 Code, App. B, Art. V, § 4) (Am. Ord. 10-01, passed 3-9-10)
§ 154.25 PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   Eight copies of the preliminary plat all be submitted. Copies shall be
distributed as provided in division (E) below.
   (B)   The plat shall be at an appropriate engineering graphic scale, but no
less than one inch equaling 200 feet. The title, date, and north point arrow
shall be noted.
   (C)   Submission of the preliminary plat must be accompanied by a filing
fee, as per the town's schedule of fees.
   (D)   No certifications are required in connection with the submission of
preliminary plats.
   (E)   The preliminary plat shall depict or contain the following
information, and plats not illustrating or containing the following data shall
be returned to the subdivider or his or her authorized agent for completion and
resubmission:
      (1)   The proposed name of the subdivision;
      (2)   A sketch vicinity map showing the relationship between the proposed
subdivision and the surrounding area;
      (3)   The boundaries of the tract or portion thereof to be subdivided;
distinctly and accurately represented, with all bearings and distances shown;
      (4)   Scale denoted both graphically and numerically;
      (5)   North arrow and declination;
      (6)   The plans for proposed utility layout including sanitary sewers,
storm sewers, water distribution lines, natural gas, telephone and electric
service, illustrating connections to existing systems. Plans for water supply
and/or sewage disposal must be accompanied by letters of preliminary approval
by the appropriate county and state authorities;
      (7)   Proposed street names;
      (8)   The zoning classification of the tract to be subdivided and of
adjoining properties;
      (9)   Proposed location and size of parks, school sites, or other
recreational or open spaces, if any, and their future ownership, such as
dedication for public use to governmental body, for owners to duly constituted
homeowners' or community association, or for tenants remaining in the
subdivider's ownership;
      (10)   Site calculations, including:
         (a)   Acreage in total tract to be subdivided;
         (b)   Acreage in parks and other nonresidential use;
         (c)   Total number of parcels created; and
         (d)   Linear feet in streets.
      (11)   Proposed minimum building setback lines;
      (12)   Any proposed riding trails, natural buffers, pedestrian, bicycle
or other rights-of-way, utility or other easements, their location, width and
purposes;
      (13)   Proposed streets, existing and platted streets on adjoining
properties and in the proposed subdivision, rights-of-way, pavement widths,
approximate grades, design engineering data for all corners and curves, and
typical street cross-sections. If any street is proposed to intersect with a
state maintained road, the plat shall be accompanied by an application for
driveway approval as required by the Department of Transportation, Division of
Highways' Manual on Driveway Regulations;
      (14)   Existing and proposed property lines, both on the tract to be
subdivided and on adjoining properties, buildings or other structures,
watercourses, railroads, bridges, culverts, storm drains, both on the land to
be subdivided and on the land immediately adjoining, corporate limits, township
boundaries, and county lines;
      (15)   Proposed lot lines, lot and block numbers, and approximate
dimensions;
      (16)   The preliminary plat shall be accompanied by a copy of any
proposed deed restrictions or similar covenants (mandatory when private
recreation areas are established);
      (17)   Date of plat preparation;
      (18)   The name of the township, county and state in which the
subdivision is located;
      (19)   The names, addresses and telephone numbers of the owners,
mortgagees, registered surveyors, land planners, architects, landscape
architects and professional engineers responsible for the subdivision;
      (20)   An environmental impact statement. Pursuant to G.S. Chapter 119,
the Planning Board may require the subdivider to submit an environmental impact
statement with his or her preliminary plat if:
         (a)   The development exceeds two acres in area; and
         (b)   If the Board deems it necessary due to the nature of the land to
be subdivided, or peculiarities in the proposed layout.
      (21)   Landscaping plans, such as plans for vegetating all road banks,
side ditches, water disposal systems, yards and the like, stating rates for
materials to be used; and
      (22)   Any other information considered by either the subdivider or the
Planning Board to be pertinent to the review of the preliminary plat. For
example, a topographic map showing vertical contours every five feet.
   (E)   The Planning Board and the Town Board of Aldermen shall review and
take action on each preliminary plat within 30 days after first consideration
by the Planning Board. First consideration shall be at the next regularly
scheduled meeting of the Planning Board that follows at least 14 days after the
plat is submitted. Before taking final action on the plat, the Planning Board
shall refer copies of the plat and any accompanying material to those public
officials and agencies concerned with new development, including but not
limited to the Town Manager, the County Health Department, the State Highway
Commission, the appropriate County Soil Conservation Service office and the
like, for review and recommendation.
   (F)   (1)   The following certification shall be lettered, rubber stamped or
affixed to the preliminary plat in a manner so as to insure that the
certificate will be legible on any prints made therefrom:
         I hereby certify that tentative approval was granted to this
preliminary plat by the:
         a)   Spencer Planning Board on the ______ day of ____________ , 20___.
                        ____________________________________
                        Chairman
         b)   Spencer Board of Aldermen on the______ day of ___________ ,
20___.
                        ____________________________________
                        Mayor
      (2)   The Planning Board and Town Board tentative approval for a
preliminary plat is valid for one year from date of approval. Tentative
approval authorizes developer improvements to be made upon the issuance of a
subdivision permit.
   (G)   Decisions on approval or denial of preliminary plats may be made only
on the basis of standards explicitly set forth in this chapter, in
Chapter 155, or in other land development ordinances adopted by the town.
Decisions requiring application of judgement shall also be based on the guiding
standards provided in the adopted ordinances and as provided in G.S. § 160A-
371.
   (H)   This chapter provides that newly subdivided lots shall not be
transferred or sold until approval of a final plat. However, an owner or its
agent may enter into pre-sale contracts to sell or lease by reference to an
approved preliminary plat, subject to final plat approval, if such contract
complies with all requirements of G.S. § 160A-375(b).
(`94 Code, App. B, Art. V, § 4-A) (Am. Ord. 06-17, passed 2-13-07)
§ 154.26 FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   Upon approval of the preliminary plat by the Planning Board and the
Town Board, the subdivider may proceed with the preparation of the final plat,
and the installation or arrangement for required improvements in accordance
with the approved preliminary plat and the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Prior to approval of a final plat, the subdivider shall have installed
improvements specified in this chapter or guarantee their installation as
provided.
   (C)   In lieu of prior construction of the improvements required by this
chapter the town may, for the purpose of approving a final plat, accept a
guarantee from the subdivider that the improvements will be carried out
according to the town's specifications at his or her expense. The guarantee may
be in the form of a surety bond made by a surety company licensed to do
business in the state, a certified check drawn in favor of the town, or cash
deposited with the town. The guarantee shall be in an amount of not less than
100% nor more than 125% of the estimated cost of the construction of the
required improvements. This amount shall be determined by the Town Board of
Aldermen. Performance guarantees shall run for a period of one year upon
written approval from the Board of Aldermen.
   (D)   The Town Board of Aldermen shall require a bond guaranteeing utility
taps, curbs, gutters, street pavement, sidewalks, drainage facilities, water
and sewer lines, and other improvements against defects for one year. This bond
shall be in the amount determined by the Town Manager or consulting engineer,
and shall be in cash or be made by a surety company authorized to do business
in the state.
   (E)   The Town Clerk shall secure from all subdividers a letter in which the
subdivider shall agree to maintain the backfill and any improvements located
thereon and therein, and any ditch which has been dug in connection with the
installation of the improvements. The letter shall be binding on the subdivider
for a period of one year after the acceptance of the improvements by the town.
   (F)   No final plat will be accepted for review by the Planning Board or
Town Board of Aldermen unless accompanied by written notice by the Town Manager
and/or the Town Planner acknowledging compliance with this chapter.
   (G)   The final plat will constitute only that portion of the preliminary
plat which the subdivider proposes to record and develop at the time, and the
portion shall conform to all requirements of this chapter.
   (H)   No final plat shall be approved unless and until the subdivider shall
have installed in that area represented on the final plat all improvements
required by this chapter or shall have guaranteed their installation as
provided for in divisions (A) through (D) above.
   (I)   The subdivider shall submit the final plat, so marked, to the Town
Planner not less than 14 days prior to the Planning Board Meeting, at which it
will be considered for approval. Further, the plat shall be submitted not more
than 12 months after the date on which the preliminary plat was approved,
otherwise the approval shall be null and void unless a written extension of
this time limit is granted by the Town Board on or before the one-year
anniversary of the approval.
   (J)   The final plat shall be prepared by a surveyor or professional
engineer licensed and registered to practice in the state. The final plat shall
substantially conform to the preliminary plat as it was approved. The final
plat shall conform to the provision of G.S. § 47-30. Decisions on approval or
denial of the final plat may be made only on the basis of standards explicitly
set forth in this chapter, in
Chapter 155, or in other land development ordinances adopted by the town.
Decisions requiring application of judgement shall also be based on the guiding
standards provided in the adopted ordinances and as provided in G.S. § 160A-
371.
   (K)   Five copies of the final plat shall be submitted. Two of these shall
be drawn in ink on linen or film suitable for reproduction, and three shall be
black or blue line paper prints.
   (L)   Final plats shall have an outside marginal size of not more than 24
inches by 36 inches nor less than 8½ inches by 11 inches. Final plats shall be
drawn at a scale of 1 inch equaling 200 feet, 0 inches or greater.
   (M)   Submission of the final plat must be accompanied by a filing fee as
per the town's schedule of fees.
   (N)   The following certificates shall be lettered or rubber stamped or
otherwise included on the final plat in a manner so as to insure that the
certificates will be legible on any prints made therefrom:
      (1)   Certificate of ownership and dedication.
I hereby certify that I am the owner of the property shown and described
hereon, which is located in the subdivision jurisdiction of the Town of Spencer
and that I hereby adopt this plan of subdivision with my free consent,
established minimum building setback lines, and dedicate all streets, alleys,
walks, parks, and other sites and easements to public or private use as noted.
Furthermore, I hereby dedicate all sanitary sewer, storm water and water lines
to the town.
   ________________________________      ______________________________________
   Date                     Owner(s)
      (2)   Certification of the approval of the installation and construction
of streets, utilities and other required improvements.
I hereby certify 1) that streets, utilities and other required improvements of
this subdivision have been installed in an acceptable manner and according to
Town specifications and standards or; 2) that a guarantee of the installation
of the required improvements in an amount or manner satisfactory to the Town of
Spencer has been received.
   ________________________________      1)   _________________________________
   Date                        Town Planner
   ________________________________      2)   _________________________________
   Date                        Town Clerk
      (3)   Certificate of survey and accuracy.
      (As required under G.S. § 47-30 as amended.)
      ________________________________      _____________________________________
      Date                              Town Clerk
   (O)   The final plat shall depict or contain the following information.
Plats not illustrating or containing the following data shall be returned to
the subdivider or his or her authorized agent for completion and resubmission:
      (1)   The name of the subdivision;
      (2)   The exact boundary lines of the tract to be subdivided fully
dimensioned by lengths and bearings and the location of intersecting boundary
lines of adjoining lands;
      (3)   Scale denoted both graphically and numerically;
      (4)   Street names;
      (5)   The location, purpose, and dimensions of areas to be used for
purposes other than residential;
      (6)   Minimum building setback lines;
      (7)   The location and dimensions of all rights-of-way, utility or other
easements, riding trails, natural buffers, pedestrian or bicycle paths, and
areas to be dedicated to public use with the purpose of each stated;
      (8)   Right-of-way lines and pavement widths of all streets, and the
location and width of all adjacent streets and easements;
      (9)   Property lines, buildings or other structures, watercourses,
railroads, bridges, culverts, storm drains, both on the land to be subdivided
and on the land immediately adjoining, corporate limits, township boundaries
and county lines;
      (10)   Sufficient engineering data to determine readily and reproduce on
the ground every straight and curved boundary line, street line, lot line,
right-of-way line, easement line and setback line, including dimensions,
bearings, or deflection angles, radii, central angles and tangent distances for
the centerline of curved streets and curved property lines that are not the
boundary of curved streets. All dimensions shall be measured to the nearest
one-tenth of a foot and all angles to the nearest minute;
      (11)   The accurate locations and descriptions of all monuments, markers
and control points;
      (12)   The blocks numbered consecutively throughout the entire
subdivision and the lots numbered consecutively throughout each block;
      (13)   The deed restrictions or any other similar covenants proposed for
the subdivision, if any;
      (14)   The date of the survey and plat preparation;
      (15)   North arrow and declination;
      (16)   All certifications required by this chapter;
      (17)   The name of the township, county, and state in which the
subdivision is located;
      (18)   The names, addresses and telephone numbers of the owners,
mortgagees, registered surveyors, land planners, architects, landscape
architects, and professional engineers responsible for the subdivision and the
registration numbers and seals of the professional engineers and registered
surveyors; and
      (19)   Any other information considered by either the subdivider or the
Planning Board to be pertinent to the review of the final plat.
      (20)   Final plats shall be reviewed according to the following
procedure:
      (21)   The Planning Board shall approve or disapprove the final plat
within 30 days of its first consideration.
         (a)   During its review of the final plat, the Planning Board may
appoint an engineer or surveyor to confirm the accuracy of the final plat. If
substantial errors are found, in the opinion of the Planning Board, the costs
shall be charged to the subdivider and the plat shall not be approved until the
errors have been corrected.
         (b)   If the Planning Board approves the final plat, the approval
shall be indicated on each copy of the plat by the following signed
certificate:
      Certification of Approval by the Planning Board
The Spencer Planning Board hereby approves the FINAL plat for the
______________ Subdivision.
      _______________            _____________________________________
      Date                     Chairman, Spencer Planning Board
         (c)   If the Planning Board disapproves the final plat, the Planning
Board shall state in writing its reasons for the action, specifying the
provisions of this chapter with which the plat does not comply. One copy of
this statement shall be transmitted to the subdivider within 15 days of
disapproval; one copy shall be retained by the Planning Board as a part of its
proceedings, and one copy shall be sent to the Town Clerk. If the final plat is
disapproved, the subdivider may make any changes as will bring the plat into
compliance with the provisions of this chapter and resubmit the same for
reconsideration by the Planning Board.
         (d)   If the Planning Board fails to approve or disapprove the final
plat within 30 days after first consideration, as previously defined in §
154.25(E), the failure shall be deemed approval and shall constitute grounds
for the subdivider to apply for final approval by the Town Board of Aldermen.
         (e)   The Board of Aldermen shall review the final plat with the
recommendations of the Planning Board and shall approve or disapprove the plat
within 45 days after it has been received from the Planning Board.
         (f)   If the Board of Aldermen approves the final plat, the approval
shall be shown on each copy of the plat by the following signed certificate:
      Certificate of Approval for Recording
I hereby certify that the subdivision plat shown hereon has been found to
comply with the Subdivision Regulations for Spencer, North Carolina, and that
this plat has been approved by the Town Board of Aldermen for recording in the
office of the Register of Deeds of Rowan County.
      _______________________         ____________________________________
      Date                  Town Clerk, Town of Spencer
         (g)   If the final plat is disapproved by the Town Board of Aldermen,
the reasons for the disapproval shall be stated in writing, specifying the
provisions of this chapter with which the final plat does not comply. One copy
of the reasons shall be retained by the Town Board of Aldermen as a part of its
proceedings, one copy shall be transmitted to the Planning Board, and one copy
shall be transmitted to the subdivider. If the final plat is disapproved, the
subdivider may make any changes that will bring the final plat into compliance
with this chapter and resubmit the same for reconsideration by the Planning
Board.
         (h)   The approval of a final plat shall not be deemed to constitute
or effect the acceptance by the town of the dedication of any street or other
ground, public utility line, or other public facility shown on the plat.
However, the town may, by resolution of the Town Board of Aldermen, accept any
dedication made to the public of lands or facilities for streets, parks, public
utility lines, or other public purposes, when the lands or facilities are
located within its subdivision regulation jurisdiction. Acceptance of
dedications of lands or facilities located within the subdivision regulation
jurisdiction but outside the corporate limits of the town shall not require the
town to open, operate, repair or maintain any street, utility line or other
land or facility, and the city shall in no event be responsible in any civil
action or proceeding for failure to open, repair or maintain any street located
outside its corporate limits.
         (i)   If the final plat is approved by the Board of Aldermen, the
original tracing and one print of the plat shall be returned to the subdivider.
One reproducible tracing and one print shall be filed with the Town Clerk, and
one print shall be retained by the Planning Board.
         (j)   The subdivider shall file the approved final plat with the
County Register of Deeds for recording within 60 days after the date of Board
of Aldermen approval. Otherwise, the approval shall be null and void.
         (k)   For any replatting or resubdivision of land, the same
procedures, rules and regulations shall apply as prescribed herein for an
original subdivision. Lot sizes may, however, be varied on an approved plan
after recording, provided that no lot or tract of land shall be created or sold
that is smaller than the size shown on the approved plan; drainage, easements
or rights-of-way shall not be changed; street alignment and block sizes shall
not be changed; the property line between the back of the lots shall not be
changed; the rear portion of lots shall not be subdivided from the front part;
and the character of the area shall be maintained.
(`94 Code, App. B, Art. V, § 4-B) (Am. Ord. 06-17, passed 2-13-07)
§ 154.27 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   An exception plat shall be drawn at an appropriate engineering scale
which will readily depict the existing conditions and the proposed change.
   (B)   The exception plat shall contain at least the following information:
      (1)   The location of existing and platted property lines, streets and
buildings, watercourses, railroads, transmission lines, sewers, bridges,
culverts, drainage pipes, water mains, town limit lines and public utility
easements;
      (2)   Boundaries of property concerned, shown with bearings and distance;
      (3)   Names of adjoining property owners or subdivisions;
      (4)   Zoning classification, if any, both on the land to be subdivided
and on adjoining lands;
      (5)   Existing lot and block numbers and approximate proposed block
numbers;
      (6)   Proposed minimum setback lines;
      (7)   Title, date, north point and graphic scale;
      (8)   Name of the owner, engineer, surveyor and/or planner;
      (9)   The following site data:
         (a)   Acreage in total tract;
         (b)   Acreage in other land use;
         (c)   Average lot size;
         (d)   Total number of lots existing and proposed; and
         (e)   Lineal feet of streets
      (10)   Sketch and vicinity map, showing relationship between the
exception and surrounding area; and
      (11)   The following certification shall be included on the exception in
a manner so as to insure that the certificate will be legible on any prints
made therefrom:
I hereby certify that this EXCEPTION plat meets the requirements of the
Subdivision Ordinance of the Town of Spencer, North Carolina.
      ____________________________
      Town Planner
(`94 Code, App. B, Art. V, § 5)
DESIGN STANDARDS; IMPROVEMENTS
§ 154.40 DEVELOPMENT DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   The location and width of all proposed streets shall be in conformity
with official plans or maps of the town and with existing or amended plans of
the Planning Board.
   (B)   The proposed street layout shall be coordinated with the street system
of the surrounding area and, where possible, existing principal streets shall
be extended.
   (C)   Where, in the opinion of the Planning Board, it is desirable to
provide for street access to an adjoining property, proposed streets shall be
extended by dedication to the boundary of the property and a temporary
turnaround (cul-de-sac) shall be provided.
   (D)   There shall be no private streets or reserve strips platted in any
subdivision.
   (E)   Where land is subdivided into larger parcels than ordinary building
lots, the parcels shall be so arranged as to allow for the opening of future
streets and logical further resubdivision.
   (F)   Double-frontage lots shall be avoided. Single-tier lots of greater
than minimum depth should be provided along thoroughfares or major streets,
railroads, physical barriers and nonresidential uses.
   (G)   If, in the opinion of the Planning Board or Town Board, the topography
or drainage characteristics of the tract of land to be subdivided warrant
special consideration, the subdivider shall submit, upon request, a contour map
of a specified interval.
   (H)   Proposed streets, which are obviously in alignment with others
existing and named, shall bear the assigned name of the existing streets. In no
case shall the name for proposed streets duplicate or be phonetically similar
to existing street names, irrespective of the use of the suffix street, avenue,
boulevard, drive, place, court and the like.
   (I)   All watercourses not situated within street rights-of-way but which
provide drainage for public streets shall be designated and improved in one of
the following ways:
      (1)   Wherever the storm drainage is to be conducted in an enclosed
subsurface drain, the pipe size, location and grade shall be as approved by the
town and an easement of approved width shall be clearly shown and located on
the plat. The easement shall be kept free and clear of any buildings or other
improvements which would interfere with the proper maintenance of the
underground pipes.
      (2)   Wherever a watercourse is too large to be accommodated in
subsurface drains, a dedication of land to public use for storm drainage and
park purposes shall be made except where an easement may be allowed as
specified below. For any area so dedicated to public use, at least 40% of its
total perimeter shall abut one or more public streets and the average width of
the area shall be at least 200 feet.
      (3)   In those situations where a watercourse cannot be accommodated in
an area dedicated to public use for storm drainage, a drainage easement on
private property having a minimum width of 100 feet or wider as required by the
town, unless channel improvements of a permanent nature will allow a lesser
width, may be permitted upon specific approval of the Planning Board.
   (J)   In subdividing property due consideration shall be shown by the
subdivider for public needs by the provision of lands for parks, schools and
other public uses.
      (1)   Where a school site may be required according to plans for the
development of an adequate school system, a reservation of land for this
purpose shall be shown on the preliminary plat, and the subdivider shall make
the school site available for acquisition by the appropriate school board for a
period of at least three years after the date of preliminary approval.
      (2)   It is hereby determined that at least 10% of the area of a
subdivision is necessary and appropriate to meet the needs of the subdivision
for park and recreation uses, exclusive of property required primarily for
storm drainage purposes and provided that the park’s land shall be established
within the limits of good design. Wherever land is subdivided and sufficient
appropriate and adequate space to meet the needs of the particular subdivision
for park and recreation purposes is made an integral part of the design, the
town will consider a proposal to reimburse the subdivider for the park land in
an amount not to exceed the raw land value, as established by competent
appraisal.
      (3)   Wherever park land is shown as a part of a subdivision, it shall
conform to the following:
         (a)   All land proposed for purchase as park sites shall be shown on
the preliminary plat and be subject to the approval of the Planning Board prior
to submission to the Town Board.
         (b)   Land dedicated for park purposes may be contiguous with an area
used primarily for drainage. However, park lands must be separate and apart
from floodplains, drainage and other easements. Consideration should be given
to park lands adjacent to proposed school sites. A fee simple deed granting to
the town the area on the plat dedicated for parks shall accompany all final
plats, provided that in the event the plat is not approved by the Town Board
the deeds shall be deemed to be not accepted by the town, and shall be returned
to the grantor or grantors.
   (K)   The design standards which shall apply to streets and alleys are as
follows:
      (1)   Minimum street right-of-way widths shall be as shown on the major
street plan and shall be not less than the following:
         (a)   For major streets and thoroughfares, 80 feet;
         (b)   For collector streets, 60 feet;
         (c)   For minor (residential) streets, 50 feet;
         (d)   For marginal access streets, 50 feet;
         (e)   For culs-de-sac, 50 feet; and
         (f)   For all streets located beyond the corporate limits of the town
and within one mile thereof, 60 feet.
      (2)   Pavement widths from back to back of curb shall be not less than
the following:
         (a)   For major streets and highways, 54 feet;
         (b)   For collector streets, 37 feet;
         (c)   For minor (residential) streets, 27 feet;
         (d)   For marginal access streets, 27 feet; and
         (e)   For culs-de-sac, 27 feet.
      (3)   Minimum road construction standards shall be as follows:
         (a)   Eight-inch compacted aggregate base course or four-inch
bituminous concrete base course, Type HB; and
         (b)   Two-inch bituminous concrete surface course, Type 1 or 2, to be
placed immediately upon final preparation of the base.
      (4)   Where a centerline deflection angle of more than 10 degrees occurs,
a circular curve shall be introduced, having a centerline radius of not less
than the following:
         (a)   For major streets, 300 feet;
         (b)   For collector streets, 200 feet; and
         (c)   For minor streets, 100 feet.
      (5)   All vertical curves shall have a length necessary to provide safe
sight distance, and shall be approved by the town.
      (6)   A tangent of at least 100 feet in length shall be provided between
curves on all streets.
      (7)   Street intersections shall be laid out as follows:
         (a)   Streets shall intersect as nearly as possible at right angles,
and no street shall intersect at less than 60 degrees.
         (b)   Intersections with a major street or highway shall be at least
800 feet apart measured from centerline to centerline.
         (c)   Property lines at street intersections shall be rounded with a
minimum radius of 20 feet.
         (d)   Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than 125 feet shall
be prohibited.
      (8)   Permanent dead-end streets shall not exceed 600 feet in length, and
shall be provided with a turnaround having a roadway radius of at least 45 feet
and a right-of-way radius of at least 50 feet. For all permanent culs-de-sac a
planted median is required to be placed in the center of the cul-de-sac, not to
exceed a 25-foot radius, leaving a minimum of 20 feet of road surface around
the planter. Temporary dead-end streets shall be provided with a turnaround
having a radius of at least one-half the right-of-way of the street. See the
diagram in the appendix to this chapter.
      (9)   Alleys of at least 20 feet in width shall be provided to the area
of all lots used for business purposes, and shall not be provided in
residential blocks unless approved or required by the Town Board. All dead-end
alleys shall be provided with a turnaround having a roadway diameter of at
least 80 feet.
   (L)   The length and width of blocks within subdivisions shall be as
follows:
      (1)   Block length shall not exceed 1,400 feet or be less than 400 feet.
Where deemed necessary by the Planning Board, a pedestrian crosswalk at least 5
feet in width may be required.
      (2)   Blocks shall have sufficient width to allow two tiers of lots of
minimum depth, except where a greater width is required to separate residential
development from through vehicular traffic.
   (M)   All lots shall front upon a public street and the size, shape and
orientation of lots shall be appropriate for the type of development and use
contemplated. Residential lots shall comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   All lots shall have minimum area as required by § 155.054. Larger
lots may be required as follows:
         (a)   Lots served only by a public water supply shall be not less than
15,000 square feet in area.
         (b)   Lots not served by a public water supply or sewer shall be not
less than one acre in area.
      (2)   All lots shall have a minimum width as required by § 155.054.
Greater lot width is required when:
         (a)   A lot is served by public water but not public sewer. In this
case the lot width at the building line shall be not less than 75 feet.
         (b)   A lot is not served by either public water or public sewer. In
this case the lot width at the building line shall be not less than 150 feet.
      (3)   All lots shall have a minimum mean depth of not less than 125 feet.
Greater lot depth is required when:
         (a)   A lot is served by public water but not public sewer. In this
case the mean lot depth shall be not less than 130 feet.
         (b)   A lot is not served by either public water or public sewer. In
this case the mean lot depth shall be not less than 150 feet.
      (4)   Side lot lines shall be substantially at right angles or radial to
street lines.
   (N)   The minimum setback from property lines shall adhere to the
requirements as set forth in § 155.054.
   (O)   Utility and other easements shall be provided as follows:
      (1)   Utility easements centered on rear or side lot lines shall be
provided where necessary and shall be at least ten feet in width.
      (2)   Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainageway,
channel or stream, there shall be provided a stormwater easement or drainage
right-of-way conforming substantially with the lines of the watercourse, and
the further width or construction, or both, as will be adequate for the
purpose. Parallel streets or parkways may be required in connection therewith.
      (3)   Lakes, ponds, creeks, and similar areas within the town will be
accepted for maintenance only if sufficient land is dedicated as a neighborhood
recreation area or park, or if the area constitutes a necessary part of the
drainage control system. The areas must be approved by the Planning Board
before approval of the final plat.
   (P)   (1)   In all districts a perimeter buffer zone at least 65 feet in
depth in addition to the normal lot depth required shall be provided along
railroads, roadways and property boundaries adjacent to developed properties. A
perimeter buffer zone at least 32 feet in depth in addition to the normal lot
depth required shall be provided along railroads, roadways and property
boundaries adjacent to undeveloped properties. Buffer zones shall be measured
from the outside boundary of any property, including property zoned for
residential and nonresidential use. This buffer zone shall be part of the
platted lots. In no case shall any specimen of tree of deciduous shrub be
harvested, altered or otherwise removed from any required perimeter buffer
zone, unless first approved by the Technical Review Committee.
      (2)   The requirements of this section shall not apply to normal forestry
activities on property taxed under the present use value standard or conducted
pursuant to a forestry management plan prepared or approved by a forester
registered pursuant to G.S. § 89B-9. Notwithstanding the provisions of this
division, the Technical Review Committee may deny a building permit or refuse
to approve a site or subdivision plan for a period of five years if the
applicant has caused perimeter buffer trees which should have been removed from
the tract of land for which the permit or plan approval is sought. In the case
of an applicant who bought the land from another, this denial or refusal period
shall be two years of the removal of perimeter buffer trees which should have
been protected.
   (Q)   Sewer and water utilities which do not come under the immediate
supervision of the municipality shall comply with the following:
      (1)   For community water systems, an acknowledgment from the Director,
Sanitary Engineering Division, State Board of Health to the town confirming
their authorization for a community water system.
      (2)   For central sewerage systems, an acknowledgment from the State
Stream Sanitation Committee to the town confirming their authorization for the
installation of a central sewage system.
      (3)   For individual sewer and water systems, an acknowledgment from the
health director in whose jurisdiction the subdivision falls indicating that the
water supply and sewage disposal system installed or proposed for installation
in the specific subdivision fully meets the requirement of the State Board of
Health.
   (R)   Refer to §§ 155.070 et seq. for additional requirements.
(`94 Code, App. B, Art. V-A, § 6) (Am. Ord. 01-17, passed 11-13-01; Am. Ord.
01-11, passed 8-14-01)
Cross-reference;
   Buffers strips, see §
155.073(B)(15)
§ 154.41 INSTALLATION OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Approval of the final plat shall be subject to the subdivider having
installed the improvements hereinafter designated or having guaranteed, to the
satisfaction of the town, the installation of the improvements.
   (B)   Where the required improvements have not been completed prior to the
submission of the plat for final approval, the approval of the plat shall be
subject to the subdivider guaranteeing the installation of the improvements in
one of the following methods:
      (1)   Filing a performance or surety bond in an amount to be determined
by the town;
      (2)   Depositing or placing in escrow a certified check or cash in an
amount to be determined by the town. Portions of the security deposit may be
released as work progresses; or
      (3)   Entering into an agreement with the town guaranteeing the
completion of the required work, the agreement to be binding on subsequent
purchasers of the property and to be recorded at the option of the town. The
agreement shall permit progressive development by sections, and shall provide
that satisfactory security be furnished the town guaranteeing the completion of
the necessary improvements before each section is developed.
   (C)   The following installation of improvements within the town limits are
required:
      (1)   The following requirements shall apply to all streets within the
corporate limits of the town:
         (a)   All streets shall be graded to their full right-of-way width.
Finished grade, cross- section and profile shall be approved by the town.
         (b)   Road base and paving shall be installed in accordance with the
provisions of §
154.40 and town policy.
         (c)   Combination curb and gutter shall be installed in accordance
with the provisions of §
154.40 and town policy.
      (2)   Sidewalks shall be constructed on any streets as the Town Board
considers necessary. Sidewalks shall be constructed within the street right-of-
way and installed in accordance with town policy.
      (3)   Storm sewers, sanitary sewers and water mains shall be installed in
accordance with the conditions of established town policy and shall be approved
by the town. Should private water and sewerage systems be provided, they shall
meet the requirements of the State Health Department or Board of Water and Air
Resources, as applicable.
   (D)   In the adoption of this chapter, the Town Board recognizes that under
the State General Statutes it may not be mandatory that a subdivision located
beyond the town limits shall comply with the requirements set forth in this
section as a condition precedent for final approval of a plat of the
subdivision. However, unless the requirements are complied with by the
subdivider, the town will not extend any public service and will not extend its
water or sewer mains to the subdivision or permit any connection thereto.
(`94 Code, App. B, Art. VI, § 7)
§ 154.42 CONSERVATION SUBDIVISION STANDARDS.
   Conservation subdivisions must also meet standards and requirements of
Chapters
154 and
155, except in situations conflicting with this section.
   (A)   Minimum size of tract; public water and sewer; open space areas.
Conservation developments may be established:
      (1)   In R-6 or R-8 districts if the tract is greater than 20 acres;
      (2)   Is served (or can be served) by public water and sewer;
      (3)   If at least 40% of the total acreage of the proposed conservation
development be dedicated as a common open space area.
   (B)   Detached single-family housing only. Only detached single-family
dwelling units are allowed.
   (C)   House size. The minimum house size shall be 1,400 square feet of
heated living space for a single-story house and 1,800 square feet of heated
living space for a two-story house.
   (D)   Exterior materials. Exterior materials shall be brick, stone, stucco,
or cementitious fiber board or shakes with no more than 50% of all houses
within the development being of material other than brick. Mortarless brick is
prohibited.
   (E)   Garages. All houses shall have a standard attached two-car garage. No
more than 50% of the lots shall have garages located closer to the public
street than the house itself.
   (F)   Driveways. All driveways shall be paved with concrete from the street
and should only be wide enough to accommodate two cars parked side by side.
Each lot shall have a driveway and each driveway shall accommodate four cars.
Garages count for required parking.
   (G)   Slab foundation. Any house built on a slab foundation shall have a
brick or stone veneer skirt on the exposed exterior of the foundation.
   (H)   Chimneys. All exposed chimneys shall have a brick or stone veneer.
   (I)   Roofs. Roof pitch shall be a minimum of 6/12. If fiber glass shingles
are uses, they must be “architectural shingles.” Three-tab shingles are
prohibited. In no case shall monopitch roofs be used.
   (J)   Mailboxes. Uniform mailboxes and posts shall be provided throughout
the development at each residence.
   (K)   Buffer requirements. A 25-foot buffer shall be required along all
peripheral boundaries of a conservation development. This buffer shall be a
natural undisturbed wooded area. In no case shall any specimen of tree or shrub
be harvested, altered or otherwise removed from any required perimeter buffer
zone, unless first approved by the Technical Review Committee.
   (L)   Accessory structures. Accessory structures and uses are permitted in
accordance with §
155.046; except notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter any
detached accessory structures must be located within the established rear yard.
   (M)   Recreational vehicles. Notwithstanding any other provision of this
chapter, any recreational vehicles must be located within an established rear
yard or within an enclosed building structure.
   (N)   Stormwater management. The subdivision design shall conform to the
existing site topography to minimize clearing, grading and associated run-off.
Stormwater management shall utilize the natural drainage patterns. Stormwater
shall not be diverted from existing topography under any circumstances.
   (O)   Pedestrian lighting. Decorative pedestrian lights shall be provided
throughout the neighborhood (any decorative upcharge shall be pain in advance
by the developer of the property).
   (P)   Dimensional requirements.
      (1)   Interior lots. Interior lots in conservation developments shall
meet the following standards:
Lot size (minimum):             10,000 square feet
Lot width at setback (minimum): 80 feet
Front setback (minimum):        30 feet
*Side setback (minimum):        8 feet
Side street setback (minimum):  12 feet
Rear setback (minimum):         30 feet
Building height (maximum):      35 feet
* Side setbacks for interior lots may vary as long as the total of both sides
combined equal 16 feet. However, no principal structure may be less than five
feet from the property line.
 
      (2)   Perimeter lots. 
         (a)   Perimeter lots (those along the property boundaries) shall be in
accordance with the standards for interior lots if a 25-foot buffer in
accordance with the buffer requirements above is provided. If no such buffer is
provided, then perimeter lots shall meet the following standards:
 
Lot size (minimum):             15,000 square feet
Lot width at setback (minimum): 100 feet
Front setback (minimum):        30 feet
Side setback (minimum):         15 feet
Side street setback (minimum):  20 feet
Rear setback (minimum):         40 feet
Building height (maximum):      35 feet
 
         (b)   Except where perimeter lots abut existing single-family lots
smaller than 20,000 square feet the following dimensional requirements shall
apply:
 
Lot size (minimum):             10,000 square feet
Lot width at setback (minimum): 80 feet
Front setback (minimum):        30 feet
Side setback (minimum):         10 feet
Side street setback (minimum):  12 feet
Rear setback (minimum):         35 feet
Building height (maximum):      35 feet
 
   (Q)   Streets and sidewalks.
      (1)   Streets shall be laid out to minimize crossing areas to minimize
the length of new streets. Cul-de-sacs shall be avoided except where needed to
protect open space areas and are limited to 600 feet in length, as are all
permanent dead-end streets.
      (2)   Streets and sidewalks shall be constructed in accordance with Town
of Spencer policy and
Chapter 154.
      (3)   Street lights installed by the developer shall be decorative. The
decorative upcharge shall be paid in advance by the developer.
   (R)   Open space preservation.
      (1)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         COMMON OPEN SPACE. Open space that is designated to serve the
residents of the immediate block or neighborhood. Ownership and maintenance of
such areas shall be in fee simple title to a homeowners association or similar
organization.
         IMPROVED OPEN SPACE. Open space that is improved with pedestrian
trails used for walking or jogging, biking trails, playgrounds or picnic areas.
         OPEN SPACE. All areas not covered by buildings or parking lots, dry
detention, streets or required setbacks.
         PASSIVE OPEN SPACE. Open space that is left natural and undisturbed.
      (2)   Standards for open space preservation.
         (a)   At least 40% of the total acreage of the proposed conservation
development shall be dedicated as common open space. Land that is located
within a floodway cannot be used as part of the required open space. Floodway
fringe may be used to provide not more than 50% of the required open space and
cannot be used as part of the required active open space. Steep slopes may be
used to provide not more than 25% of the required open space. Utility easements
can be located within the common open space areas, however, only those
easements 20 feet wide or greater may be counted as part of the required 20%.
Wetlands, and large mature stands of trees may be counted as 100% of open
space. The required perimeter buffer may be used to provide not more than 50%
of the open space. Where possible, the common open space shall be centrally
located within the development, rather than located on the periphery. Open
space shall also be located to:
            1.   Provide common green space in the development for aesthetic
and pedestrian use;
            2.   Adequately serve the needs of residents by its character,
amount and arrangement;
            3.   Be accessible from a public right-of-way.
         (b)   No more than 15%, and no less than 10% of the total amount of
common open space shall be improved open space.
         (c)   Open space shall be located to:
            1.   Provide common green space in the development for aesthetic
and pedestrian use by owners and their invitees;
            2.   Adequately serve the needs of residents by its character,
amount and arrangement;
            3.   Be centrally located within the development, rather than
located on the periphery to the extent reasonably feasible to do so.
         (d)   Any areas designated as common open space shall have a minimum
width of 20 feet.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 3-9-10)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 154.55 AMENDMENTS.
   The Town Board of Aldermen may from time to time amend the terms of this
chapter, but no amendment shall become effective until it shall have been
proposed by or shall have been submitted to the Planning Board for review and
recommendation. The Planning Board shall have 30 days within which to submit
its report. If the Planning Board fails to submit a report within the specified
time, it shall be deemed to have approved the amendment.
(`94 Code, App. B, Art. III, § 4)
Statutory Reference:
   Procedure for adopting, amending, or repealing ordinances under article, see
G.S. § 160A-364
§ 154.56 VARIANCES.
   Where, because of topographical or other conditions peculiar to the site,
strict adherence to the provisions of the regulations of this chapter would
cause an unnecessary hardship, the Planning Board may recommend and the Town
Board authorize a variance, if the variance can be made without destroying the
intent of this chapter. Any variance thus authorized is required to be entered
in writing in the minutes of the Planning Board and of the Town Board, and the
reasoning on which the variance was justified set forth.
(`94 Code, App. B, Art. VII, § 8)
§ 154.57 GROUP DEVELOPMENT.
   Subject to the approval of the Town Board, the standards and requirements of
this chapter may be modified by the Planning Board in the case of a plan and
program for a complete group development, which in the judgment of the Planning
Board provides adequate public spaces and improvements for the circulation,
recreation, light, air and service needs of the tract when fully developed and
populated, and which also provides any covenants or other legal provisions as
will assure conformity to and achievement of the plan.
(`94 Code, App. B, Art. VIII, § 9)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who, being the owner or agent of the owner of any land located
within the territorial jurisdiction of this chapter, subdivides his or her land
in violation of this chapter or transfers or sells land by reference to or
exhibition of, or any other use of a plat showing a subdivision of the land
before the plat has been properly approved under the terms of this chapter and
recorded in the office of the County Register of Deeds, shall be guilty of a
Class 1 misdemeanor. The description by metes and bounds in the instrument of
transfer or other document used in the process of selling or transferring land
shall not exempt the transaction from this penalty. The town may bring an
action for injunction of any illegal subdivision, transfer, conveyance, or sale
of land, and the court shall, upon appropriate findings, issue an injunction
and order requiring the offending party to comply with this section. Building
permits required pursuant to G.S. § 160A-417 may be denied for lots that have
been illegally subdivided. In addition to other remedies, the town may
institute any appropriate action or proceedings to prevent the unlawful
subdivision of land, to restrain, correct, or abate the violation, or to
prevent any illegal act or conduct as provided in G.S. § 160A-375(a).
(`94 Code, App. B, Art. III, § 1) (Am. Ord. 06-17, passed 2-13-07)
CHAPTER 155: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
155.001   Authority and enactment
   
155.002   Short title
   
155.003   Jurisdiction
   
155.004   Incorporation of the zoning map
   
155.005   Conflicting provisions
   
155.006   Word interpretation
   
155.007   Definitions
District Regulations
   
155.020   Purpose
   
155.021   Districts established
   
155.022   Description of districts
   
155.023   District boundaries shown on the zoning map
   
155.024   Due consideration given to district boundaries
   
155.025   Rules governing interpretation of district boundaries
   
155.026   Uses by district
General Regulations
   
155.040   Conformance required
   
155.041   Reduction of lot and yard areas prohibited
   
155.042   Relationship of building to lot
   
155.043   Street access
   
155.044   Uses prohibited
   
155.045   Intersection visibility
   
155.046   Location of accessory and temporary buildings on residential lots
   
155.047   Private swimming pools on residential lots
   
155.048   Lot of record, date and permitted use
   
155.049   Adjoining and vacant lots
   
155.050   Side yards on corner lots
   
155.051   Front and/or side yard setbacks
   
155.052   Conditions for modification of required yards
   
155.053   Exceptions to height limits
   
155.054   Dimensional requirements
   
155.055   Fences
   
155.056   Customary home occupations
   
155.057   Adult establishments
   
155.058   Nonconformances
   
155.059   Racetracks
   
155.060   Internet sweepstakes
   
155.061   Medical/infectious waste incinerators
   
155.062   Multiple permitted uses
   
155.063   Mailboxes within the historic district
Development Requirements
   
155.070   Intent
   
155.071   Applicability
   
155.072   General site arrangement
   
155.073   Development standards
   
155.074   Off-street parking and loading
   
155.075   CC commercial corridor overlay district
   
155.076   Telecommunications tower
   
155.077   Solar energy system (SES)
Sign Regulations
   
155.085   Purpose
   
155.086   Applicability
   
155.087   Prohibited signs
   
155.088   Permitted signs
   
155.089   Signs exempt from permits and fees
   
155.090   General sign regulations
   
155.091   Sign regulations for residential districts
   
155.092   Sign regulations for business districts
   
155.093   Political signs
   
155.094   Signs permitted in shopping centers and malls
   
155.095   Businesses set back 200 feet or more
   
155.096   Maximum sign area, number of signs permitted and setbacks
   
155.097   Administration
   
155.098   Enforcement
Interpretations, Appeals, Variances and Amendments
   
155.110   Interpretations
   
155.111   Appeal procedure
   
155.112   Stay of further action
   
155.113   Variances
   
155.114   Actions subsequent to decision
   
155.115   Further appeals to superior court
   
155.116   Fees for appeals of variances
   
155.117   Amendments
   
155.118   General district rezonings
   
155.119   Overlay district rezonings
   
155.120   Special use district rezoning process
   
155.121   Public notice and hearing required
   
155.122   Application submitted; advertising required
   
155.123   Decision
   
155.124   Protest petitions
   
155.125   Fees for amendments
Administration and Enforcement
   155.134   Town Board
   
155.135   Community Appearance Commission
   
155.136   Planning Board
   
155.137   Board of Adjustment
   
155.138   Zoning Enforcement officer
   
155.139   Building and zoning permit required
   
155.140   Application for zoning permit
   
155.141   Permits and certificate of occupancy required for development
   
155.142   Fees for administrative processes
   
155.143   Construction and use to comply with applications, plans, permits and
certificates of zoning compliance
   
155.144   Town Attorney may prevent violation
   
155.145   Liability
   
155.146   Project Review Committee
   
155.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A:     Culs-de-sac
   
Appendix B:     Commercial corridor overlay district (CC) - visual development
guide
Statutory reference:
   Zoning generally, see G.S. §§ 160A-381 et seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.001 AUTHORITY AND ENACTMENT.
   In pursuance of authority granted by the State General Assembly in the State
General Statutes, specifically G.S. §§ 160A-360 et seq., the town may enforce
zoning regulations to promote the public health, safety, morals and general
welfare; to promote the orderly development of the community; to lessen
congestion on the roads and streets; to secure safety from fire, panic, and
other dangers; to provide adequate light and air; to prevent the overcrowding
of land; and to avoid undue concentration of population and to facilitate the
adequate provision of transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks, and
other public facilities, all in accordance with a well-considered comprehensive
plan.
(`94 Code, App. C, Art. I, § 1)
§ 155.002 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as “The Zoning Ordinance of the Town of Spencer,
North Carolina,” and may be referred to as the “zoning ordinance.” The map
which is identified by the title “Official Zoning Map, Spencer, North
Carolina,” shall be known as the “zoning map.”
(`94 Code, App. C, Art. I, § 2)
§ 155.003 JURISDICTION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply within the corporate limits of
the town and within the territory beyond the corporate limits as shown on the
zoning map and/or described in the extraterritorial zoning resolution. The
extraterritorial boundary will follow physical features when possible, but at
no point will the outside boundary extend more than one mile from the corporate
limits in any direction.
(`94 Code, App. C, Art. I, § 3)
§ 155.004 INCORPORATION OF THE ZONING MAP.
   The official zoning map of the town, and all notations, references and other
information shown on the map are hereby incorporated by reference and made a
part of this chapter.
(`94 Code, App. C, Art. I, § 4)
§ 155.005 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   It is not intended that these regulations shall in any way repeal, annul or
interfere with the existing provisions of any other law or ordinance, except
any ordinance which these regulations specifically replace. It is not intended
that these regulations interfere with any easements, covenants or other
agreements between parties. However, if the provisions of these regulations
impose greater restrictions or higher standards for the use of a building or
land, then the provisions of these regulations shall control.
(`94 Code, App. C, Art. II, § 1)
§ 155.006 WORD INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Words used in the present tense include the future tense.
   (B)   Words used in the singular number include the plural.
   (C)   Words used in the plural number include the singular, unless the
natural construction of the wording indicates otherwise.
   (D)   Words used in the masculine include the feminine.
   (E)   The word PERSON includes a firm, association, corporation, trust and
company, as well as an individual.
   (F)   The words USED FOR shall include the meaning DESIGNED FOR.
   (G)   The word LOT shall include the words PLAT, PARCEL or TRACT.
   (H)   The word SHALL is always mandatory and not merely directory.
   (I)   The word MAY is permissive.
   (J)   The word STRUCTURE shall include the word BUILDING.
   (K)   The word TOWN shall mean the Town of Spencer, North Carolina.
(`94 Code, App. C, Art. IV, § 2)
§ 155.007 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT. A detached building or portion thereof designed to
accommodate visitors of a principal dwelling's resident on a temporary basis.
The temporary nature of the visit may be extended in cases of accommodating
family members or other medical caregivers, on site to provide medical and
supervisory care for an ill or elderly family member. In no case shall such
unit be constructed or used as rental property. This term shall include garage
apartments and guesthouses but does not include manufactured homes. ACCESSORY
DWELLING UNITS are permitted in all residential districts as customary
accessory uses so long as the following provision are met.
      (1)   A unit can only be located on the same parcel occupied by its
principal single-family dwelling, and shall clearly be incidental and
subordinate to the principal building.
      (2)   Only one unit is allowed per lot, located in accordance with §
155.046.
      (3)   The unit cannot exceed 50% of the gross floor area of the principal
dwelling or 1,000 square feet, whichever is less.
      (4)   If new construction, the unit must be compatible with the single-
family dwelling in terms of appearance, roof pitch, etc.
      (5)   No unit can be subdivided from the property of the single-family
dwelling, and shall be owned by the same owner of the single-family dwelling.
      (6)   A unit shall only be served by the same driveway that serves the
single-family dwelling, unless the unit is accessed from a different roadway
than the single-family dwelling.
      (7)   No unit may be used for a customary home occupation.
   ALLEY.  A public or private thoroughfare which affords only a secondary
means of access to abutting property and is not intended for general traffic
circulation.
   ALTERATION. Includes the following:
      (1)   Any addition to the height or depth of a building or structure;
      (2)   Any change in the location of any of the exterior walls of a
building or structure;
      (3)   Any increase in the interior accommodations of a building or
structure; and/or
      (4)   Any change that constitutes an alteration in the literal sense of
the word (“to make different without changing into something else”). This
includes but is not limited to sign face changes or any other such modification
to a sign or structure.
   APARTMENT.  A dwelling unit within an apartment building consisting of a
room or rooms intended, designed or used as a residence.
   APARTMENT HOUSE. A building or portion thereof used or designed as a
residence and consisting of three or more dwelling units including apartment
hotels, apartment houses, and group housing projects.
   APPRAISED VALUE.  An estimate or opinion of the value of real or personal
property or an interest or estate in that property, as determined by a
qualified appraiser.
   ASSESSED VALUE. The market value which has been last determined by the
county for ad valorem tax purposes.
   BASEMENT. That portion of any structure located partly or entirely below the
average adjoining lot grade.
   BED AND BREAKFAST. An establishment in a private dwelling that supplies
temporary accommodations to overnight guests for a fee.
   BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.  The Town Zoning Board of Adjustment.
   BOARDINGHOUSE. A building other than a hotel or restaurant where meals or
lodging are regularly furnished by prearrangement or compensation for four or
more persons not members of a family, but not exceeding 12 persons and not open
to transient customers.
   BUFFER. A horizontal distance from the property line which may only be
occupied by screening, utilities, accessways and landscaping materials.
   BUILDING. Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls used or
intended to be used for the shelter or enclosure of persons, animals,
equipment, machinery or materials. The connection of two or more buildings by
means of an open porch, breezeway, passageway, carport or other open structure,
with or without a roof, shall be deemed to make them one building. This term
does not apply to camping trailers, motorized homes, pickup campers, travel
trailers or self-contained travel trailers.
      (1)   ACCESSORY BUILDING.  A use or structure customarily incidental and
subordinate to the main or principal building and located on the same lot
therewith.
      (2)   PRINCIPAL BUILDING. See STRUCTURE, PRINCIPAL .
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance from the mean elevation of the
finished grade along the front of a building to the highest point of a flat
roof, or to the deck line of a mansard roof or the mean height level between
eaves and ridge for gable, hip, gambrel and pitch roofs.
   BUILDING LINE. A line fixed parallel to a lot line beyond which a building
cannot extend under the terms of this chapter. Included are front, side and
rear building lines.
   CAMPGROUNDS.  Land used or intended to be used for the renting of space for
temporary occupancy by recreational vehicles used as temporary living quarters
for outdoor recreational purposes. These properly licensed campgrounds must be
designed and operated in accordance with all applicable provisions of town
ordinances. This definition shall not include recreational vehicle sales lots
on which unoccupied recreational vehicles are parked for purpose of inspection
and sale.
   CARPORT.  A roofed structure open on at least one side and used for the
storage of private or pleasure-type vehicles.
   CERTIFICATE OF ZONING COMPLIANCE.  A statement, signed by the Zoning
Enforcement Officer, stating that the plan for a building, structure, or use of
land complies with this chapter.
   CLEAR VISION AREA. The triangular area formed by joining points, using
straight lines, of the centerlines of intersecting or intercepting streets 60
feet from their intersection/interception.
   CHAMPION TREE. A tree with a larger diameter than 18 inches, measured at
breast height.
   CLUB OR LODGE, PRIVATE. An incorporated or unincorporated association for
civic, social, cultural, religious, fraternal, literary, political,
recreational or like activities operated on a nonprofit basis for the benefit
of its members.
   COMMON OPEN SPACE. An area of land and/or water within a site designed and
reserved for the use and enjoyment of the residents. This does not include
streets or off-street parking areas. Common open space shall be substantially
free of structures but may contain improvements that are in the plan as finally
approved and which are appropriate for the benefit of residents of the
development.
   CONDITIONAL CASE PERMIT.  A permit issued for a use or development that
would not be generally appropriate within the zoning district without added
restriction to safeguard the health, safety, morals, general welfare, order,
comfort, convenience, appearance or prosperity of the neighborhood.
   CONDOMINIUM. A building or group of buildings in which units are owned
individually, and the structure, common areas and facilities are owned by all
the owners on a proportional, undivided basis.
   CREMATORIUM. A furnace or establishment, which may or may not be attached to
a funeral home for the incineration of human corpses.
   CUSTOMARY HOME OCCUPATION.  Any use customarily conducted entirely within a
dwelling and carried on by the occupants thereof which is clearly incidental
and secondary to the use of the dwelling for dwelling purposes and does not
change the character thereof, and in connection with which there is no display
from outside the principal structure, nor commodity sold upon the premises
except as may be produced by the occupants, provided that not more than 25% of
the total floor area of the dwelling, including the basement, may be devoted to
the occupation and that no person, other than a resident of the premises, shall
be employed in connection with the home occupation. Standard business hours
shall be adhered to.
   DAY CARE FACILITY.  Any day care center or child care arrangement that
provides day care for five or more children unrelated to the operator and for
which a payment, fee or grant is received. This definition shall not include
foster homes, public or private schools which provide a course of grade school
instruction to children of public school age, summer, day or residence camps or
Bible schools.
   DEPARTMENT STORE. An establishment selling or offering for sale a variety of
merchandise categorized into sections of similar items.
   DEVELOPMENTALLY DISABLED PERSON.  A person who has a severe or chronic
disability attributed to mental or physical impairment or a combination
thereof, resulting in substantial functional limitations in life activities.
Such limitations may affect the person's ability to self care, utilize
receptive and expressive language, learn, be mobile, self-direct, live
independently or be economically self-sufficient. Such persons may require a
combination or sequence of special, interdisciplinary, or genetic care,
treatment or other services which are lifelong, or extended duration and are
individually planned and coordinated.
   DISTRICT. Any section of the town and its zoning jurisdiction within which
regulations are uniform.
   DWELLING UNIT.  A habitable house, apartment, manufactured home, group of
rooms or a single room that is occupied as a separate living quarters and has
direct access from outside the building or through a common hall.
      (1)   DUPLEX. A building arranged or designed to contain two dwelling
units.
      (2)   MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING.  A building or portion thereof, designed to
contain two or more dwelling units. See APARTMENT HOUSE, CONDOMINIUM and
TOWNHOUSE .
      (3)   SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING.  A detached building designed to contain
one dwelling unit.
   EASEMENT. A grant by a property owner for a specified purpose and use by the
public, a corporation or individuals.
   EXTRATERRITORIAL JURISDICTION.  That land lying within one mile in all
directions of the corporate limits and not located in any other town. In the
event of land lying within a distance of one mile of both the town and any
other municipality, the jurisdictions of the town and of .
   FAMILY CARE UNIT.  A home with support and supervisory personnel that
provides room and board, personal care and habilitation services in a family
environment for not more than six resident handicapped persons. Application for
permit shall be accompanied by a map showing the nearest existing family care
units, with certification that the proposed home will be located no closer to
them than one-half mile.
   FENCE.  An outdoor structure placed around a parcel of land and constructed
of either masonry, metal or wood which provides either a physical barrier or
visual screen between properties.
   FLOOD, 100-YEAR. Determined from an analysis of floods which are generally
representative of those known to have occurred on a particular stream and other
streams in the same general region with an average recurrence interval of 100
years.
   FLOODPLAIN. The relatively flat area or low land adjacent to the channel of
a river, stream, watercourse, lake or other body of standing water which has
been or may be covered by floodwater.
   FLOODPLAIN OBSTRUCTION. Any dam, embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment,
spoil material, bridge, conduit, culvert, wire, fence, refuse, fill, structure,
or matter in, along, across, or projecting into any channel, watercourse or
regulated flood hazard area which may, by itself or by catching or collecting
debris carried by the water, impede, retard, or change the direction of the
flow of water. Obstructions may be artificial or naturally occurring.
   FLOOD PROOFING.  A combination of structural provisions, changes, or
adjustments to properties and/or structures subject to flooding, primarily for
the reduction or elimination of flood damage to properties, water and sanitary
facilities, structures and contents of buildings.
   FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION.  The elevation to which structures and uses
regulated by this chapter are required to be elevated or flood proofed.
   FLOODWAY.  The channel of a stream and adjacent land which is required to
carry and discharge the floodwaters and flows of any river or stream of a 100-
year flood.
   FRONTAGE. The distance between the two side lot lines as measured along the
front building line, also called LOT WIDTH .
   GAME ROOM. Any place of business that operates four or more mechanical games
or pay devices (excluding vending machines and photo laminating machines) for
which charge is made, either directly or indirectly.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE.  A building or a portion of a building in which only
private or pleasure-type motor vehicles used by the tenants of the building or
buildings on the premises are stored or kept.
   GROSS FLOOR AREA. The total floor area of a building including basements,
mezzanines and upper floors, exclusive of stairways and elevator shafts, and
excluding separate service facilities outside the main building such as boiler
rooms, and maintenance shops.
   GROUP HOME.  A facility providing 24-hour supervision for the custodial care
of physically or developmentally disabled children and adults but not including
family care homes as provided from in G.S. § 168-23. Group homes may include
supervised living facilities and residential treatment facilities that
primarily provide therapy for juveniles adjudicated as delinquent. All
applications for permit shall be accompanied by a map showing the nearest
existing group homes, with certification that the proposed group home will be
located no closer to them than one mile.
   GROUP HOUSING DEVELOPMENT.  One or more residential structures designed for
multi-family usage on a single plot, a townhouse residential development, or a
unit ownership residential development. Also called a PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT
.
   GROUP NONRESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT. A group of two or more principal
structures built on a single lot, tract or parcel of land and designed for
occupancy by separate firms, businesses or other nonresidential enterprises.
Also called a PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT .
   HOTEL (MOTEL).  A building or other structure kept, used, maintained,
advertised as or held out to the public to be a place where sleeping
accommodations are supplied for pay to transient or permanent guests or
tenants, where rooms are furnished for the accommodation of the guests and
which may have dining facilities in the same building.
   INTERNET SWEEPSTAKES. For profit business enterprise, whether as a principal
or an accessory use, where persons utilize electronic machines, including but
not limited to computers and gaming terminals, to conduct games of chance,
including sweepstakes, and where cash, merchandise or other items of value are
redeemed or otherwise distributed, whether or not the value of such
distribution is determined by electronic games played or by predetermined odds.
This term includes, but is not limited to internet cafes, internet sweepstakes,
beach sweepstakes or cybercafes. This does not include any lottery approved by
the State of North Carolina or any business enterprise that conducts the
foregoing activity for less than ten hours per week.
   JUNK. Any scrap, waste, reclaimable material or debris, whether or not
stored or used in conjunction with dismantling, processing, salvage, storage,
baling, disposal or other use or disposition.
   JUNKYARD.  Any area, lot, land, parcel, building or structure or part
thereof used for the storage, collection, processing, purchase, sale or
abandonment of wastepaper, rags, scrap metal or other scrap or discarded goods,
materials or machinery or two or more unregistered, inoperable motor vehicles
or other type of junk.
   JUVENILE ADJUDICATED AS DELINQUENT. A minor, less than 18 years of age, who
has, through the criminal justice system, been determined to have committed
offenses or violations of law. Such persons may be subject to, or court ordered
to participate in, varying degrees of therapy, treatment, or behavior
modification, including specialized living situations and/or incarceration.
   KENNEL. Any person, partnership or corporation currently licensed by the
State Department of Agriculture and engaged in the business of boarding,
breeding, buying, letting for hire, training for a fee or selling dogs and/or
cats.
   LOADING AREA. A completely off-street space or berth on the same lot as a
business or industry for the loading or unloading of freight carriers with
ingress and egress to a public street.
   LOT. A parcel or plot of land occupied or intended for occupancy by a
structure or group of structures together with any accessory structures or uses
including the open space required under this chapter.
      (1)   CORNER LOT. A lot which occupies the interior angle at the
intersection of two street lines which make an angle of more than 45 degrees
and less than 135 degrees with each other. The street line forming the least
frontage shall be deemed the front of the lot except where the two street lines
are equal, in which case the owner shall be required to specify which is the
front when requesting a zoning compliance permit.
      (2)   DOUBLE-FRONTAGE LOT. A lot of the same depth as the width of a
block containing two tiers of lots, and which is accessible from both of the
streets upon which it fronts.
      (3)   INTERIOR LOT. A lot other than a corner lot.
      (4)   LOT DEPTH.  The mean distance between the front and rear lot lines.
      (5)   LOT LINE. A line dividing one parcel of property from another
parcel of property or from a street right-of-way.
         (a)   FRONT LOT LINE. The street right-of-way boundary at the front of
the lot. That is, the line which separates the lot from the street right-of-way
at the front of the lot.
         (b)   REAR LOT LINE. That line of a lot which is opposite and
farthest, on average, from the front lot line. Where a lot abuts a street along
the rear of the lot, the rear lot line shall be deemed to coincide with the
street right-of-way boundary.
         (c)   SIDE LOT LINE.  Any lot line which meets an end of a front lot
line. Where a lot abuts a street along the side of a lot, the side lot line
shall be deemed to coincide with the street right-of-way boundary.
      (6)   LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is part of a subdivision, a plat of
which has been recorded in the Office of the County Register of Deeds, or a lot
described by metes and bounds, the description of which has been so recorded.
      (7)   LOT WIDTH. The distance between side lot lines measured at the
front building line.
   MANUFACTURED HOME.  A dwelling unit that is not constructed in accordance
with the standards of the State Uniform Residential Building Code for One- and
Two-Family Dwellings, is composed of one or more components, each of which was
substantially assembled in a manufacturing plant and designed to be transported
to the homesite in its own chassis, and exceeds 40 feet in length and 8 feet in
width.
      (1)   CLASS A MANUFACTURED HOME.  A manufactured home constructed after
July 1, 1976 that meets or exceeds the construction standards promulgated by
the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development that were in effect at the
time of construction and that satisfies the following additional criteria:
         (a)   The manufactured home has a length not exceeding four times its
width, with length measured along the longest axis and width measured at the
narrowest part of the other axis.
         (b)   The manufactured home has a minimum of 1,000 square feet of
enclosed heated living area.
         (c)   The pitch of the roof of the manufactured home has a minimum
vertical rise of 2.2 feet for each 12 feet of horizontal run, and the roof is
finished with a type of shingle that is commonly used in standard residential
construction.
         (d)   All roof structures shall provide an eave projection of no less
than six inches, which may include a gutter.
         (e)   The exterior siding consists predominantly of vinyl or aluminum
horizontal lap siding, whose reflectivity does not exceed that of gloss white
paint, wood or hardboard comparable in composition, appearance and durability
to the exterior siding commonly used in standard residential construction.
         (f)   The manufactured home is set up in accordance with the standards
set by the State Department of Insurance.
         (g)   Stairs, porches, entrance platforms, ramps and other means of
entrance and exit to and from the home shall be installed or constructed in
accordance with the standards set by the State Department of Insurance, and
attached firmly to the primary structure and anchored securely to the ground.
         (h)   The moving hitch, wheels and axles and transporting lights have
been removed.
         (i)   It is the intent of these criteria to insure that a CLASS A
MANUFACTURED HOME , when installed, shall have substantially the appearance of
an on-site, conventionally built, single-family dwelling.
      (2)   CLASS B MANUFACTURED HOME.  A manufactured home constructed after
July 1, 1976 that meets or exceeds the construction standards promulgated by
the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development that were in effect at the
time of construction, but which does not meet the definition of a class A
manufactured home. The following criteria must also be satisfied:
         (a)   The manufactured home is set up in accordance with the standards
set by the State Department of Insurance.
         (b)   Stairs, porches, entrance platforms, ramps and other means of
entrance and exit to and from the home shall be installed or constructed in
accordance with the standards set by the State Department of Insurance, and
attached firmly to the primary structure and anchored securely to the ground.
         (c)   The moving hitch, wheels and axles, and transporting lights have
been removed.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. Land used or intended to be used for occupancy by
manufactured homes used as living quarters designed and operated in accordance
with the applicable provisions of this chapter. This definition shall not
include manufactured home sales lots on which unoccupied manufactured homes are
parked for purpose of inspection and sale.
   MANUFACTURED HOME SALES. A properly licensed business engaged in the sale of
manufactured homes.
   MANUFACTURED HOME SPACE. Any parcel of ground within a manufactured home
park designed for the exclusive use of one manufactured home.
   MARQUEE. Any permanent rooflike structures projecting beyond a building or
extending along and projecting beyond a building or extending along and
projecting beyond the wall of the building, generally designed and constructed
to provide protection from the weather.
   MEDICAL/INFECTIOUS WASTE INCINERATOR. A facility used to incinerate
plastics, special waste, and waste containing pathogens or biologically active
material, which because of its type, concentration, and quantity, is capable of
transmitting disease to persons exposed to the waste.
   MODULAR HOME.  A dwelling unit constructed in accordance with the
construction standards of the State Uniform Residential Building Code for One-
and Two-Family Dwellings, and composed of components substantially assembled in
a manufacturing plant and transported to the building site for final assembly
and placement on a permanent foundation.
   NONCONFORMANCE.  Any use, structure, lot or sign which does not conform to
the regulations of this chapter either at the effective date of this chapter or
as a result of subsequent amendments which may be incorporated into this
chapter.
   NONCONFORMING LOT.  A lot which does not conform to the provisions of this
chapter.
   NONCONFORMING SIGN. A sign which does not conform to the provisions of this
chapter.
   NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE. A structure which does not conform to the height,
bulk or setback standards set forth in this chapter or which does not meet the
requirements for the type of structure allowed.
   NONCONFORMING USE. Any use of building or land which does not conform to the
use regulations of this chapter for the district in which it is located.
   OBSTRUCTION. Any structure, fence, shrub, bush, tree, flower, plant, motor
vehicle or any other object that obscures, impairs, or prevents view or sight
through, over or across the CLEAR VISION AREA as herein defined.
   OPEN STORAGE. Any unroofed storage area, whether fenced or not.
   PARKING SPACE.  A space for the parking of a motor vehicle within a public
or private parking area.
   PAWN SHOP. An establishment that engages, in whole or in part, in the
business of loaning money on the security of pledges of personal property, or
deposits or conditional sales of personal property, or the purchase or sale of
personal property.
   PHYSICALLY DISABLED PERSON. A person with any physical impairment that
substantially limits one or more of such person's major life activities. Such
impairments may include, but are not limited to, any physiological disorder or
condition, cosmetic disfigurement, or anatomical loss affecting one or more of
the following body systems: neurological; musculoskeletal; special sense
organs; respiratory; including speech organs; cardiovascular; reproductive;
digestive; genito-urinary; hemic and lymphatic; skin and endocrine.
   PICKET STYLE FENCES.  A style of fence that is constructed of vertical slats
spaced at regular intervals along horizontal supporting members.
   PLANNING BOARD.  The Planning Board of the Town of Spencer.
   PREDEVELOPMENT. Refers to the conditions that exist at the time that plans
for the land development of a tract of land are submitted for the plan
approval. See site grading (§
155.073(B)(6)).
   PRINCIPAL USE. The primary purpose or function that a lot serves or is
intended to serve. If certain, demarcated criteria are met, multiple uses may
be permitted on certain lots zoned business (NB, HB, CB). See §
155.062 Multiple Permitted Uses.
   PRIVATE SWIMMING POOL. Any structure that contains water over 24 inches in
depth and which is used or intended to be used for swimming or recreational
bathing in connection with an occupancy in a residential use district and is
available only to the family and guests of the householder. This includes in-
ground, above-ground and on-ground swimming pools, hot tubs and spas.
   PROFESSIONAL OFFICES. An office establishment which employs at least one
professional, typically possessing a certification in his or her field, issued
through a licensing agency.
   PROJECT REVIEW COMMITTEE.  A staff review committee consisting of the Town
Manager, Town Planner, Zoning Officer, Superintendent of Public Works, Police
Chief, Fire Marshal and when necessary a representative of the County Health
Department.
   PUBLIC SERVICE CORPORATION.  Any privately-owned entity which provides
electricity, natural gas, telephone service or cable TV to the general public.
   PUBLIC SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. A single system of sewage collection,
treatment and disposal owned and operated by a sanitary district, a
metropolitan sewage district, a water and sewer authority, a county or
municipality or a public assembly.
   PUBLIC UTILITIES.  Water and sewer production plants and distribution
systems owned by a government agency.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY.  Any water system so defined and regulated by the state
statutes.
   RACETRACK.  A closed course designed for speed competition between vehicles
or for vehicular time trials.
      (1)   DRAG STRIP.  A straight line RACETRACK designed for acceleration
contests between vehicles.
      (2)   GO KART TRACK. A RACETRACK designed for miniature open-wheeled four
wheeled racing vehicles, each having a maximum height of 50 inches, a maximum
length of 88 inches, a maximum wheelbase of 56 inches and a maximum engine
displacement of 253 cc. This definition shall include but not be limited to
quarter midget racecars sanctioned by the "Quarter Midgets of America" and go
karts sanctioned by the "World Karting Association".
      (3)   MOTOR SPEEDWAY OPERATION.  Any other closed-circuit RACETRACK
adhering to standards set forth by a professional sanctioning body, including
but not limited to the Sports Car Club of America (SCCA) or other such
official, sanctioning bodies.
   Where any standard within town ordinances conflicts with standards set forth
within such sanctioning bodies, the standards of greater restriction shall
prevail.
   RACETRACK, COUNTRY CLUB.  A RACETRACK that incorporates residential uses
into its overall site design. Any existing RACETRACK proposed for change to a
country club RACETRACK must file for permit under a new and separate
application.
   RECREATION FACILITIES, INDOOR. Uses or structures for active recreation
including gymnasiums, natatoriums, athletic equipment, indoor running tracks,
climbing facilities, court facilities and their customary accessory uses. This
definitions is inclusive of both non-profit and for-profit operations.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE DEALER. A properly licensed business engaged in the
sale of recreational vehicles.
   RECYCLING. The process by which recovered resources are transformed into new
products so that the original products lose their identity.
   RESIDENTIAL TREATMENT FACILITY. A facility that primarily provides 24-hour
supervision and Level I, II or III therapeutic treatment as licensed by the
North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services for adults and children
with behavioral disorders, or juveniles adjudicated in a court of law as
delinquent. Residential treatment facilities are allowed by Conditional Use
Permit in residential districts provided the following requirements are met. In
addition to satisfying the prescribed requirements and criteria for Conditional
Use Permit, the following documentation must also be shown for the application
to be considered complete:
      (1)   The proposed facility is located no less than one mile from any
existing Residential Treatment Facility.
      (2)   Licensure of the applicant. If unlicensed, the applicant shall have
the ability to obtain documentation showing that he or she is in the process of
obtaining, a license from the North Carolina Department of Health and Human
Services.
      (3)   Empirical data demonstrating a need for the facility.
      (4)   The facility shall house no more than six clients.
      (5)   The status of residents for which the facility is to provide
treatment (i.e. "the facility is intended to provide treatment for juveniles
adjudicated as delinquent", etc.).
      (6)   Provision for one parking space for each six patient beds, one for
each staff or visiting doctor, and one space for each four employees.
      (7)   The Conditional Use Permit shall be revocable with the loss of
state licensure, or if the property is vacated or its use discontinued -
regardless of the intent of the owner - for greater than 180 days. The licensee
shall apply for a review before the Board of Adjustment at least 30 days prior
to any proposed change in the management or operation of the facility. If the
Board deems that the change will substantially alter the impact of the
treatment facility on surrounding properties, or that any of the original
conditions are not met by the proposed management or operation, then the Board
shall make such findings in an amendment, repeal or issuance of a new
Conditional Use Permit, as applicable.
   RESOURCE RECOVERY. The process of obtaining material or energy resources
from discarded solid waste which no longer has any useful life in its present
form and preparing such solid waste for recycling.
   REST HOME. An establishment that provides housing and general care for the
aged or the convalescent.
   RESTAURANT.  A commercial establishment where food is prepared and served
for public consumption.
   RETAIL BUSINESS. An establishment selling commodities to consumers.
   RETAIL SERVICE. An establishment providing tangible services for immediate
use to the consumer.
   SCREEN.  A wall, fence or a planted strip composed of deciduous or evergreen
trees, or a mixture of trees and dense shrubs.
   SELF-CONTAINED TRAVEL TRAILER.  A travel trailer which may operate
independently of connections to electricity, water and sewer for a limited
period of time having its own battery or LP gas system or both, to operate
lights, refrigerator, stove and heater, and having a water tank with a pressure
system, and having a toilet with a holding tank.
   SERVICE STATION. A building or lot dedicated to the rendering of services
such as the sale of gasoline, oil, grease, and accessories and the minor repair
of automobiles, excluding body working, overhauling and painting.
   SETBACK. The required distance between any structure and the applicable lot
lines (front, rear and side) of the lot on which the structure is located.
   SHOPPING CENTER. A group of commercial establishments which are planned and
developed and owned or managed as a unit with off-street parking provided on
the premises.
   SIGHT TRIANGLE. A triangular area abutting two intersecting streets or the
intersection of a street and a driveway, where vision shall be unobstructed.
The sight triangle is formed by a line connecting the points along the
intersecting street lines which represent the distance from the intersection of
the unobstructed vision.
   SIGN AREA.  The area measured by the smallest square, rectangle, triangle,
circle or combination thereof which will encompass the entire advertising copy
area, excluding architectural trim and structural members. In computing area,
only one side of a double-faced sign shall be considered.
   SIGNS. Any form of publicity visible from any public street directing
attention to an individual activity, business, service, commodity or product
and conveyed by means of words, figures, numerals, lettering, emblems, devices,
designs, trademarks or trade names or other pictorial matter designed to convey
the information and displayed by means of bills, panels, posters, paints or
other devices erected on open framework, or attached or otherwise applied to
posts, stakes, poles, trees, buildings or other structures or supports.
      (1)   ANIMATED SIGN.  Any sign that uses movement or change of lighting
to depict action or create a special effect or scene.
      (2)   ATTACHED SIGN. Any sign physically attached to the principal or
accessory structure on a lot.
      (3)   BANNER SIGN. Any sign consisting of paper, plastic, fabric or
similar nonrigid material intended to be hung with or without frames. National
flags or flags of political subdivisions shall not be considered banners for
the purpose of this section.
      (4)   BENCH SIGN.  A sign located on any part of the surface of a bench
or seat.
      (5)   BILLBOARD. See OFF-PREMISES SIGN .
      (6)   BUSINESS SIGN.  See ON-PREMISES SIGN .
      (7)   CANOPY SIGN.  A sign suspended from or attached to the side, front
or underside of a canopy or awning.
      (8)   CONSTRUCTION SIGN.  A sign on the lot of a building to be
constructed or under construction, alteration or repair, stating, but not
limited to the purpose for which the building is intended, the names of the
architects, engineers, contractors, developers, financiers or others involved,
and the square footage of the structure or other pertinent data.
      (9)   CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN. A sign designed so that characters, letters,
or illustrations can be rearranged without altering the face, surface size or
shape of the sign.
      (10)   DIRECTORY SIGN.  A sign on which the names and locations of
occupants or the use of a building is given.
      (11)   EMERGENCY/WARNING SIGN. A sign warning the public of a danger to
public health and safety.
      (12)   FLAG.  A usually rectangular piece of fabric of distinctive design
that is used as a symbol of a nation, political subdivision or private
charitable, religious or public organization.
      (13)   FLASHING SIGN.  A sign which displays flashing, blinking, or
intermittent light of changing intensity.
      (14)   FREESTANDING SIGN. A sign which is supported from the ground and
which is wholly independent of any other structure for support.
      (15)   GASOLINE PRICE SIGN.  A sign which is displayed at a service
station and announces the price of motor fuel or kerosene.
      (16)   GASOLINE PUMP SIGN. A sign which is displayed on the pump or pump
island and announces the brand, grade of motor fuel or kerosene and/or whether
or not the pump or island is self-service or full service.
      (17)   HOLIDAY DECORATIONS.  Decorations associated with holiday seasons.
      (18)   HOME OCCUPATION SIGN. A sign identifying a permitted home
occupation conducted on the premises of the dwelling unit occupied by the
operator of the home occupation.
      (19)   ILLUMINATED SIGN.  A sign internally or externally illuminated in
any manner by an artificial light source.
      (20)   INDUSTRIAL DIRECTION SIGN. A sign giving directions to an
industrial or commercial site and which contains only an arrow and the name of
the business or industry.
      (21)   INSTITUTIONAL SIGN.  A sign denoting the name of and service
provided by a public, religious or charitable institution.
      (22)   INTEGRAL SIGN. A memorial sign or tablet indicating the name of a
building and/or the date of erection and cut into masonry or constructed of
bronze, brass, iron or other incombustible materials and mounted on the face of
a building.
      (23)   LOCAL INTEREST SIGN. A sign of a temporary nature used to
advertise or announce a particular event of normally local concern.
      (24)   NO LOITERING SIGN/NO TRESPASSING SIGN. A sign which is placed to
inform the public of regulations relating to the specific property on which the
sign is located.
      (25)   OCCUPANT/STREET NUMBER SIGN.  A sign bearing only the name of the
principal occupant of a residence and/or the street number of a structure.
      (26)   OFF-PREMISES SIGN.  A sign which advertises or publicizes a
product, service or event not available or not occurring on the premises or lot
upon which the sign is located.
      (27)   ON-PREMISES SIGN. A sign which directs attention to a business,
profession, commodity, service or entertainment sold or offered upon the
premises where the sign is located or to which it is attached.
      (28)   PAINTED WALL SIGN. A sign painted directly on the wall of a
structure.
      (29)   PERMANENT SIGN. A sign erected, located or affixed in a manner
enabling continued use of the sign for a relatively long, unspecified period of
time.
      (30)   POLITICAL CAMPAIGN SIGN. A sign pertaining to a candidate for
public office or to a political party and/or its views and beliefs.
      (31)   PORTABLE SIGN. A sign mounted on wheels, a trailer, truck bed, A-
frame or any other device capable of being readily moved from one location to
another.
      (32)   PROFESSIONAL NAMEPLATE. A sign on a commercial or professional
building or structure bearing only the name and/or profession of the occupant.
      (33)   PROJECTING SIGN.  A sign attached perpendicular to a building
wall.
      (34)   PUBLIC SERVICE SIGN.  A sign directing the public to a public
facility, such as a public telephone, restroom, hospital, school, historic or
scenic place.
      (35)   PUBLIC SIGN.  A sign erected by a government agency.
      (36)   REAL ESTATE SIGN. A sign offering for sale, lease, or rent the
property upon which the sign is located.
      (37)   ROOF SIGN.  A sign erected, constructed or displayed in whole or
in part upon or over the roof of a building.
      (38)   SIGNBOARD. A specific background upon which symbols are affixed or
the smallest rectangle which would completely enclose all parts of the sign.
      (39)   SPECIAL EVENT SIGN.  A sign erected on the premises of an
establishment having a grand opening or special event, including a yard sale.
      (40)   SUBDIVISION OR TRACT NAME SIGN. A sign located on a subdivision or
tract and identifying the name of the subdivision or tract.
      (41)   TEMPORARY SIGN. A sign intended to be displayed for a short period
of time.
      (42)   TIME AND TEMPERATURE SIGN.  An illuminated sign which displays
time and/or temperature by means of a light display.
      (43)   TRAFFIC DIRECTIONAL SIGN. A sign directing vehicular traffic
movement within the property on which the sign is located.
      (44)   WALL SIGN. A sign attached parallel to the face of a building wall
and confined within the limits of the wall.
      (45)   WIND ACTIVATED SIGN.  A sign, balloon, streamer, pennant, placard,
propeller or other device designed to attract attention to an activity through
sign movement caused by wind.
      (46)   WINDOW SIGN. A sign mounted on or attached to a window and visible
from a public street or right-of-way.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM (SES). The components and subsystems required to convert
solar energy into electric or thermal energy suitable for use. The area of the
system includes all the land inside the perimeter of the system, which extends
to any fencing. The term applies, but is not limited to, solar photovoltaic
(PV) systems, solar thermal systems, and solar hot water systems. A system fits
into one of three system types: Level 1 SES, Level 2 SES, and Level 3 SES. See
§
155.054 for dimensional requirements and setbacks and §
155.077 for development requirements.
      (1)   LEVEL 1 SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. Level 1 SESs include the following:
         (a)   Roof-mounted on any code-compliant structure.
         (b)   Ground-mounted on an area of up to 50% of the footprint of the
primary structure on the parcel but no more than one acre.
         (c)   Covering permanent parking lot and other hardscape areas.
         (d)   Building integrated solar (i.e. shingle, hanging solar, canopy
and the like).
      (2)   LEVEL 2 SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. Level 2 SESs are ground-mounted
systems not included in Level 1 that meet the area restriction below:
         (a)   Residential Low/Medium/High Density: SES ≤ 1/2 acre
         (b)   Commercial (HB & IB): SES ≤ 10 acres
         (c)   Light/Heavy Industrial: SES of any size
      (3)   LEVEL 3 SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. Level 3 SESs are systems that do not
satisfy the parameters for a Level 1 or Level 2 Solar Energy System.
   STORY.  That portion of a principal building included between the surface of
any floor and the surface of the next floor above or, if there is no floor
above, the space between the floor and the ceiling next above. A basement is
not counted as a story.
   STREET. A dedicated and accepted public right-of-way for vehicular traffic
which affords the principal means of access to abutting properties. The
following classifications shall apply:
      (1)   ARTERIAL.  A street serving major metropolitan activity centers,
interconnecting and augmenting the thoroughfare system and carrying trips of
moderate lengths.
      (2)   COLLECTOR STREET. A street penetrating residential, commercial and
industrial areas that collects traffic from local streets and channels it into
the arterial and thoroughfare system.
      (3)   CUL-DE-SAC.  A street having but one end open to traffic and the
other end being permanently terminated and a vehicular turnaround provided.
      (4)   INTERSTATE. Any of a system of major thoroughfares of, connecting,
or existing between two or more states.
      (5)   LOCAL STREET.  A street providing direct access to abutting land
where through traffic is deliberately discouraged and trip length is short.
      (6)   MARGINAL ACCESS/FRONTAGE.  A minor street which parallels and is
adjacent to a major street or highway, and which provides access to abutting
properties and protection from through traffic.
      (7)   PRIVATE STREET.  A privately owned and maintained street which
provides the principal means of vehicular access to abutting properties.
      (8)   SERVICE ROAD.  A street that runs parallel to a principal arterial
or interstate and provides indirect access to and from properties or facilities
abutting the principal arterial or interstate via an interchange.
      (9)   STREET RIGHT-OF-WAY LINE. The street right-of-way boundary; that
is, the line which separates the street from the lot.
      (10)   THOROUGHFARE.  A traffic artery designed primarily to carry heavy
volumes of through vehicular traffic.
   STRUCTURE.  Any object constructed or erected, the use of which requires
more or less permanent location on the ground or which is attached to an object
having more or less permanent location on the ground.
      (1)   PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE.  A building in which is conducted the main or
principal use of the lot on which the building is situated.
      (2)   TEMPORARY STRUCTURE. A structure intended for temporary offices,
headquarters, residence, classrooms and the like on the same lot or tract of
land being used or developed for a directly related permanent use.
   SUPERVISED LIVING FACILITY.  A facility providing a structured living
environment for developmentally disabled adults or children within the context
of a residential setting. Supervision may vary from full time to part time
depending on the severity of the developmental disability.
   TECHNICAL REVIEW COMMITTEE. A staff review committee consisting of the Town
Manager, Town Planner, Zoning Officer, Superintendent of Public Works and
others as deemed necessary. This Committee evaluates project applications of a
nature that doesn’t require the full staff of the Project Review Committee, to
insure compatibility with surrounding land uses and to promote the general
welfare of the town.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS TOWER. A structure, facility or location designed, or
intended to be used as, or used to support antennae, as well as antennae or any
functional equivalent equipment used to transmit or receive signals. It
includes without limit, freestanding towers, monopoloes and similar structures
that employ camouflage technology that is intended to mitigate the visual
impact of an antenna or the functional equivalent of such. It is a structure
intended for transmitting and/or receiving radio, television, cellular, paging,
personal telecommunications services, or microwave telecommunications, but
excluding those used exclusively for fire, police and other town-owned services
or facilities, or exclusively for private radio and television reception and
private citizen’s bands, amateur radio and other similar telecommunications.
   TOWN BOARD.  The Town Board of Aldermen of Spencer, North Carolina.
   TOWNHOUSE.  A single-family dwelling unit in a row of at least three single-
family dwelling units in which each unit has its own front and rear access to
the outside, no unit is located over another unit, and each unit is separated
from any other unit by one or more fire resistant walls.
   TRACT.  An area, parcel, site, piece of land or property which is the
subject of a development application.
   TRAILER, CAMPER (RECREATIONAL VEHICLE). A vehicle with or without its own
motor power, equipped or used for recreational purposes and mounted on wheels
or designed to be so mounted and transported.
   USE.  The purpose or activity for which a piece of land or its structures is
designed, arranged or intended, or for which it is occupied or maintained.
      (1)   ACCESSORY USE. A use customarily incidental and subordinate to the
principal use or building and located on the same lot with the principal use or
building.
      (2)   PRINCIPAL USE.  The main use of land or structures on a lot, as
distinguished from an accessory use.
   VARIANCE.  A modification of this chapter which is not contrary to the
public interest, where strict enforcement of this chapter would cause undue
hardship to the applicant because of circumstances unique to the individual
property, and not caused by the owner or applicant, on which the variance is
granted.
   VEGETATION.  All plant growth, especially trees, shrubs, vines, ferns,
mosses and grasses.
   VIDEO SALES AND RENTAL. A commercial establishment offering for sale or rent
video cassettes, video reproductions, photographs, films, motion pictures,
slides, or other visual representations. Adult video stores are separately
defined and regulated under Adult Establishments.
   WATERSHED.  An area in which natural ridge lines form the outer perimeter of
a basin which diverts rainfall and natural drainage into streams or rivers
which in turn drain to lower elevation. When the watersheds contain class I and
II reservoirs, the areas are regulated by the Rules and Regulations for the
Protection of Public Water Supplies as adopted by the State Board of Health.
   YARD.  A space on the same lot with a principal building which is open,
unoccupied and unobstructed by structures from ground to sky except where
encroachments and accessory structures are expressly permitted under this
chapter.
      (1)   FRONT YARD.  A yard extending the full width of the lot, situated
between the front lot line and a line parallel thereto passing through the
nearest point of the principal structure.
      (2)   REAR YARD.  A yard extending the full width of the lot, situated
between the rear lot line and a line parallel thereto passing through the
nearest point of the principal structure.
      (3)   SIDE YARD. A yard situated between the side lot line and a line
parallel thereto passing through the nearest point to the principal structure
and extending from the front yard to the rear yard.
   ZONING ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.  An official of or person designated by the town
charged with enforcing this chapter.
(`94 Code, App. C, Art. IV, § 3) (Am. Ord. 01-13, passed 8-14-01; Am. Ord. 01-
18, passed 11-13-01; Am. Ord. 01-19, passed 11-13-01; Am. Ord. 02-03, passed
10-8-02; Am. Ord. 02-04, passed 12-10-02; Am. Ord. 03-09, passed 5-13-03; Am.
Ord. 03-12, passed 9-9-03; Am. Ord. 03-14, passed 10-14-03; Am. Ord. 05-04,
passed 9-13-05; Am. Ord. 05-07, passed 12-13-05; Am. Ord. 06-10, passed 6-13-
06; Am. Ord. 06-11, passed 7-11-06; Am. Ord. 07-01, passed 3-13-07; Am. Ord.
10-05, passed 4-13-10; Am. Ord. 10-10, passed 8-10-10; Am. Ord. 10-11, passed
8-10-10; Am. Ord. 11-01, passed 6-14-11; Am. Ord. 11-06, passed 8-9-11; Am.
Ord. 12-01, passed 7-10-12; Am. Ord. 12-06, passed 12-11-12; Am. Ord. 14-02,
passed 4-8-14; Am. Ord. 14-05, passed 5-13-14; Am. Ord. 14-12, passed 9-9-14)
DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 155.020 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to list and describe the zoning districts
herein adopted. A person seeking to rezone a tract of land may choose to
petition for general use rezoning or special use rezoning. General use rezoning
would allow the petitioner to pursue any of the listed permitted uses for that
district. Special use rezoning would require the petitioner to specify the
actual use intended. That use must be a permitted or conditional use listed for
the corresponding general use district.
(`94 Code, App. C, Art. V, § 1)
§ 155.021 DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the town and its one-mile extraterritorial
jurisdiction are hereby divided into the following use districts:
   (A)   “R-20” residential district, low density;
   (B)   “R-15” residential district, low to medium density;
   (C)   “R-15(SU)” special use residential district, low to medium density;
   (D)   “R-8” residential district, medium to high density;
   (E)   “R-8(SU)” special use residential district, medium to high density
   (F)   “R-6” residential district, high density;
   (G)   “R-6(SU)” special use residential district, high density;
   (H)   “RM” manufactured home overlay residential district;
   (I)   “RMF” multi-family housing overlay residential district;
   (J)   “RMF(SU)” special use multi-family housing overlay residential
district;
   (K)   “NB” neighborhood business district;
   (L)   “NB(SU)” special use neighborhood business district;
   (M)   “CB” central business district;
   (N)   “CB(SU)” special use central business district;
   (O)   “HB” highway business district;
   (P)   “HB(SU)” special use highway business district;
   (Q)   “I” manufacturing and industrial district;
   (R)   “I(SU)” special use manufacturing and industrial district;
   (S)   “FP” floodplain district.
   (T)   “CC” commercial corridor overlay district;
   (U)   “CC(SU)” special use commercial corridor overlay district; and
   (V)   “IB” interstate business district.
(`94 Code, App. C, Art. V, § 1) (Am. Ord. 05-05, passed 10-11-05; Am. Ord. 07-
01, passed 3-13-07; Am. Ord. 09-05, passed 11-10-09)
§ 155.022 DESCRIPTION OF DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Residential district, low density; R-20. This district is established
as a low density district in which the principal use of land is for single-
family residences. Permitted uses are contained in § 155.026. Permitted
structures include those which meet the dimensional restrictions listed in §§
155.040 et seq. Manufactured homes and multi-family structures are permitted
structures only in areas shown on the zoning map as manufactured home and
multi-family housing overlay districts, respectively.
   (B)   Residential district, low to medium density; R-15 and R-15(SU). This
district is established to provide for medium density neighborhoods consisting
of single-family residences. Structures within this district are permitted
where both public water and sewerage are available. Permitted uses are
contained in § 155.026. Permitted structures include those which meet the
dimensional restrictions listed §§ 155.040 et seq. Manufactured homes and
multi-family structures are permitted structures only in areas shown on the
zoning map as manufactured home and multi-family housing overlay districts,
respectively.
   (C)   Residential district, medium to high density; R-8 and R-8(SU). The R-
8 residential district is established as a medium to high density district in
which the principal use of land for single-family residences. Structures within
this district shall have both public water and sewerage, where available.
Permitted uses are contained in § 155.026. Permitted structures include those
which meet the dimensional restrictions listed in §§ 155.040 et seq.
   (D)   Residential district, high density; R-6 and R-6(SU). The R-
S residential district is established as a high density district in which the
principal uses are single-family, duplex and multi-family residences.
Structures within this district shall have both public water and sewerage,
where available. Permitted uses are contained in § 155.026. Permitted
structures include those which meet the dimensional restrictions listed §§
155.040 et seq. Manufactured homes and multi-family structures are permitted
structures only in areas shown on the zoning map as manufactured home and
multi-family housing overlay districts, respectively.
   (E)   Residential district, manufactured home overlay; RM.
      (1)   The RM district, manufactured home overlay, is established as a
high density overlay zone in which manufactured homes may be located in
established manufactured home parks. This use is supplementary to the list of
permitted uses in the base district. For this reason, this district is not
listed in § 155.026.
      (2)   The purpose of the manufactured housing overlay district (RM) is to
provide for the development of affordable housing in established residential
zoning districts while maintaining the overall character of those districts.
The intent of the prescribed conditions herein is to insure compatibility with
existing housing stock. The manufactured home overlay shall be an overlay in
the residential district areas as shown on the zoning map. The manufactured
housing overlay district supplements the range of uses permitted in the
underlying district. All other uses and regulations for the underlying district
shall continue to remain in effect for properties classified under the overlay.
      (3)   The manufactured housing overlay district permits the use of class
A manufactured housing in established manufactured home parks, in addition to
the uses permitted by the underlying district. The following provisions
regulating the construction, location and design of manufactured home parks are
intended to further an orderly spatial development, secure an environment that
insures adequate health and safety and welfare standards, and insure that
adequate facilities for transportation, parking, water, sewerage and recreation
are provided:
         (a)   The lot area for a manufactured home park shall be at least two
acres. All areas to be included in the park shall be clearly shown on site
plans as required by this chapter.
         (b)   Each manufactured home in a home park shall occupy a designated
space having at least 8,000 square feet.
         (c)   All manufactured home park streets shall be paved to a width of
at least 18 feet.
         (d)   Each manufactured home shall be properly tied down in accordance
with the provisions of the State Regulations for Manufactured/Mobile Homes of
1989.
         (e)   Two off-street parking spaces shall be provided for each
manufactured home space.
Required parking spaces may be included within the minimum square footage
required for each manufactured home space.
         (f)   At least 800 square feet of recreation space for each
manufactured home space shall be reserved within each manufactured home park as
common recreation space for the residents of the park. The areas shall, along
with driveways and walkways, be adequately lighted for safety.
         (g)   No manufactured home or its ancillary structures shall be closer
than 40 feet to another manufactured home or its ancillary structures or to a
public road. Each home shall be supplied with public water and sewer.
         (h)   No manufactured home or its ancillary structures shall be
located closer than 20 feet from a manufactured home park street.
         (i)   All manufactured homes shall be set back at least 20 feet from
side and rear lots lines and at least 40 feet from the front lot line of the
park.
         (j)   All utilities, including electric, cable TV and telephone, shall
be placed underground. A centrally located postal pickup system shall be
provided for all residents.
         (k)   Site plans are required for all manufactured home parks and
shall be reviewed by the Project Review Committee, as outlined by this chapter.
The plans must show the area to be used for the proposed manufactured home
park; the ownership and use of neighboring properties; all proposed entrances,
exits, driveways, walkways, and off-street parking spaces; the location of
manufactured home spaces, recreation areas and service buildings; the location
of sanitary convenience including toilets, laundries, and refuse receptacles;
the proposed plan of water supply, sewage disposal and electric lighting.
         (l)   All manufactured homes abutting a public road shall be oriented
to insure that the longest side is parallel, or as close as possible, to the
centerline of the roadway. Any expansion of manufactured home parks in
existence on the effective date of this chapter shall comply with the
provisions of this chapter.
         (m)   Screening and/or buffering is required at the perimeter of a
manufactured home park, and between any home and a public street. Screening and
buffering shall conform to § 155.073(B)(15).
      (F)   Residential district, multi-family housing overlay; RMF and RMF
(SU).
         (1)   The RMF district, multi-family housing overlay is established as
a high density overlay zone in which multi-family housing may be located. The
use permitted in this district is supplementary to the list of permitted uses
in the base district. For this reason, this district is not listed on the
zoning map. The purpose of the multi-family housing overlay district is to
provide for the development of a variety of housing types in established
residential zoning districts while maintaining the overall character of those
districts. The intent of the prescribed conditions herein is to insure
compatibility with existing residential areas.
         (2)   The multi-family housing overlay district shall be an overlay on
the residential district areas as shown on the zoning map. The permitted uses
in the overlay district supplements the range of permitted uses in the
underlying or base district. All other uses and regulations for the underlying
district shall continue to remain in effect for properties classified under the
overlay district.
         (3)   The following requirements must be met in order for a multi-
family use to be allowed within any zoning district.
            (a)   The lot or tract must be zoned RMF, overlay district.
            (b)   Buffering and screening by the multi-family development is
required where the multi-family use abuts a preexisting single-family use.
            (c)   That part of the required front, side, and rear yards that
extends 15 feet from adjoining property lines shall be free of development and,
where possible and desirable, as determined by the Project Review Committee,
left in its natural state. If it is neither possible nor desirable to do so,
this area shall be used for buffering and screening, which shall conform to §
155.073(B)(15).
            (d)   Off-street parking shall be provided with sufficient capacity
to handle all residents of the multi-family structures and their guests.
            (e)   Automobile parking spaces shall not be located closer than 15
feet to the front, rear or side lot lines.
            (f)   All units must be provided public water and sewer.
            (g)   Buildings may be clustered on the site, but no structure
shall be located closer than 40 feet to any other structure. Orientation of all
buildings, one to the other and on the site, is subject to approval by the
Project Review Committee.
            (h)   At least one-twentieth of an acre per dwelling unit of the
total tract shall be dedicated for common open space, which shall be commonly
owned and maintained by the residents of the development. The land shall be so
located and of a condition to be determined by the Project Review Committee to
be usable for recreation purposes by the residents of the complex. No common
open space land shall include any required buffer area.
   (G)   Neighborhood business district; NB and NB(SU). This district is
established for those uses which normally require a location close to
residential areas and which provide merchandise and services to meet the
everyday needs of a limited residential area. Permitted uses are contained in §
155.026. Notwithstanding that list of uses, it is not the intent of this
district to utilize street-level floor space of a building clearly designed to
be commercial or retail street frontage with a use other than commercial,
retail or professional offices.
   (H)   Central business district; CB and CB(SU).  This district is the
central shopping area of the town. It is established for those uses which
normally require a central location and which provide merchandise and services
to be used by the entire town and its environs. It is intended that this
district shall develop and be maintained as a tightly knit core of commercial,
professional and governmental activity. Permitted uses are contained in § 
155.026. Notwithstanding that list of uses, it is not the intent of this
district to utilize street-level floor space of a building clearly designed to
be commercial or retail street frontage with a use other than commercial,
retail or professional offices.
   (I)   Highway business district; HB and HB(SU).  The highway business
district is established to provide areas within the community for businesses
which normally require a significant flow of traffic. The uses depend on
exposure to large flows of traffic associated with major thoroughfares. It is
intended that this district be developed with as little impact on surrounding
land uses and the thoroughfares as possible. Permitted uses are contained in §
155.026. Notwithstanding that list of uses, it is not the intent of this
district to utilize street-level floor space of a building clearly designed to
be commercial or retail street frontage with a use other than commercial,
retail or professional offices.
   (J)   Manufacturing and industrial district; I and I(SU). The industrial
district is established for those areas of the community where the principal
use of land is, or should be, industrial and warehousing. These uses, by their
nature, may create some nuisance and are not compatible with residential,
commercial and/or service establishments. These uses normally seek outlying
locations on large tracts of land where the operations involved do not detract
from the development potential of nearby undeveloped properties. It is not
intended to permit in this district any use which is inherently obnoxious
because of noise, odors, smoke, light, dust or dangerous materials. Permitted
uses are contained in §
155.026.
   (K)   Floodplain district; FP.  This district is established to protect
developers and property owners from investing in improvements which may be
subject to flooding or are located on lands which are otherwise unsuitable for
urban development due to natural conditions. Governing bodies are also assured
that it will not be necessary to spend public funds to protect private
investments. Permitted uses are contained in §
155.026.
   (L)   Commercial corridor overlay district; CC and CC(SU).
      (1)   This district is established along Salisbury Avenue/US Highway 29N,
in its entirety within the planning and zoning jurisdiction of the town and is
inclusive:
         (a)   Of all NB, CB and HB districts abutting Salisbury Avenue;
         (b)   To a depth of 125 feet or the depth of one parcel, whichever is
greater, in any residential district abutting Salisbury Avenue; and
         (c)   To a depth of 400 feet or the depth of one parcel, whichever is
greater but not to exceed 400 total feet, in any industrial district abutting
Salisbury Avenue.
      (2)   The commercial corridor overlay district shall be applied as an
overlay to current general zoning districts, some of which may or may not be of
a commercial, business or industrial area. The regulations contained in this
district shall be supplemental to those contained in the underlying general
zoning district. When conflicts between the two arise, the more restrictive
regulations shall apply. Photographic examples of development (a) currently
found in downtown Spencer, (b) preferred in the CC district both within and
adjoining the downtown, and (c) not preferred anywhere in the district are
shown below. Those pictures that depict development both preferred and not
preferred are for illustrative purposes only and are designed to give the
reader and property owners examples of how the development regulations
contained in the CC district can be applied.
   (M)   Guidelines. The following guidelines shall apply to all uses:
      (1)   Any use permitted shall be fully compatible with all surrounding
zoning districts.
      (2)   Any uses permitted shall be a type not appreciably damaged by
floodwater.
      (3)   Any structure permitted shall be designed, constructed and placed
on the land so as to offer the minimum obstruction to the flow of water.
      (4)   Any structure permitted shall be firmly anchored to prevent the
structure from floating away and thus restricting bridge openings and narrow
sections of the stream.
      (5)   Any structure permitted which is designed for human habitation
shall not provide a threat to the safety of persons by virtue of potential
floodwaters.
      (6)   Any permitted equipment, material or goods stored in the district
shall be fully enclosed within a fence of a quality, strength, and anchoring
and a height of at least six feet so as to prevent the equipment, material, or
goods from floating downstream.
      (7)   When a use is listed as conditional in the floodplain district the
Board of Adjustment shall require topographic data, engineering and other
studies necessary to determine the effects of flooding on a proposed structure
or use and/or the effects of the structure or use on the flow of water. The
reports shall be completed by a licensed engineer, registered surveyor,
hydrologist or other persons having sufficient technical knowledge.
      (8)   No structure, temporary or permanent, fill, including fill for
roads and levees, obstruction, storage of materials or equipment or other use
may be allowed which, acting alone or in combination with existing or future
uses, reduces the capacity of the floodway or increases flood heights.
Consideration of the effects of a proposed use shall be based on a reasonable
assumption that there may be an equal degree of encroachment extending for a
significant reach on both sides of the stream.
   (N)   Interstate business district; IB and IB(SU). The interstate business
district is established to provide an area of commerce within the community for
residents and interstate travelers alike. The business uses in this area depend
on exposure to large flows of traffic associated with major thoroughfares.
These uses normally seek outlying locations on large tracts of land where the
operations involved do not detract from the development potential of nearby
undeveloped properties. Permitted uses are contained in §
155.026. No commercial driveway entrances or commercial vehicle access points
are to allowed on Snider Street.
(`94 Code, App. C, Art. V, § 2) (Am. Ord. 04-03, passed 5-11-04; Am. Ord. 05-
05, passed 10-11-05; Am. Ord. 06-09, passed 6-13-06; Am. Ord. 06-12, passed 11-
14-06; Am. Ord. 07-01, passed 3-13-07; Am. Ord. 07-02, passed 5-8-07; Am. Ord.
07-05, passed 7-10-07; Am. Ord. 09-05, passed 11-10-09; Am. Ord. 10-04, passed
4-13-10)
§ 155.023 DISTRICT BOUNDARIES SHOWN ON THE ZONING MAP.
   (A)   The boundaries of the districts are shown on the zoning map. The
zoning map and all the notations, references and amendments thereto, and other
information shown thereon are hereby made a part of this chapter the same as if
the information set forth on the map were all fully described and set out
herein.
   (B)   The zoning map is posted at the Town Hall and is available for
inspection by the public.
(`94 Code, App. C, Art. V, § 3)
§ 155.024 DUE CONSIDERATION GIVEN TO DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   In the creation, by this chapter, of the respective districts, careful
consideration is given to the peculiar suitability of each district for the
particular uses and regulations applied thereto, and the necessary and proper
grouping and arrangement of various uses and densities of population in
accordance with a well considered comprehensive plan for the physical
development of the community.
(`94 Code, App. C, Art. V, § 4)
§ 155.025 RULES GOVERNING INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of any of the aforesaid
districts, as shown on the zoning map, the following rules shall apply:
   (A)   Where the district boundaries are indicated as approximately following
street, alley or highway lines, the lines shall be construed to be the
boundaries.
   (B)   Where district boundaries are so indicated that they approximately
follow lot lines, the lot lines shall be construed to be the boundaries.
   (C)   Where district boundaries are so indicated that they are approximately
parallel to the centerlines of streets, alleys, or highways, or the right-of-
way of the same, the district boundaries shall be construed as being parallel
thereto and at a distance therefrom as indicated on the zoning map.
   (D)   Where district boundaries are indicated as approximately following the
centerlines of streets or highways, street lines or railroad right-of-way lines
or these lines extended, the centerline, street lines or railroad right-of-way
lines shall be construed to be the boundaries.
   (E)   Where a district boundary line divides a lot or tract in single
ownership, the district requirements for the least restricted portion of the
lot or tract shall be deemed to apply to the whole thereof, provided the
extensions shall not include any part of a lot or tract more than 50 feet
beyond the district boundary line. The term “least restricted” shall refer to
all zoning restrictions.
   (F)   In unsubdivided property, the location of zoning boundaries shall be
determined by use of the scale appearing on the map.
   (G)   In subdivided property, the location of zoning boundaries shall be
construed to be the nearest parallel lot line. However, if the zoning
boundaries lie at a scaled distance greater than 25 feet from any parallel or
approximately parallel lot line, the boundary shall be determined by use of the
scale;
   (H)   In case any further uncertainty exists, the Board of Adjustment shall
interpret the intent of the zoning map as to location of the boundaries.
(`94 Code, App. C, Art. V, § 5)
§ 155.026 USES BY DISTRICT.
   The following are the conditional, permitted, special and temporary uses for
the zoning districts of the town.
Use Zoning District
Use                                        Zoning District
                                           R-20 R-15 R-8 R-6 NB CB HB I IB FP
Adult establishments                                                  C
Agriculture                                                                P
Agriculture equipment sales                                           P
Agriculture supplies (excluding equipment)                      C  C  P C
Antique shops                                                P  P  P    P
Art galleries                                                P  P  P    P
Art schools                                                  P  P  P    P
Arts and crafts shops                                        P  P  P    P
Automobile parking lots and related                             C  P  P
structures
Automobile parts and accessories                                      P
manufacturing
Automobile parts and supply stores                           C  P  P  P P
Automobile repair, painting and upholstery                      C  C  P     
 
Use Zoning District
Use                                        Zoning District
                                           R-20 R-15 R-8 R-6 NB CB HB I IB FP
Automobile sales                                                   C  P C
Bakeries, retail                                                P  P  P P
Bakeries, wholesale                                                C  P P
Barber and beauty colleges                                         P  P P
Barbershops and beauty shops                                    P  P  P P
Bed and breakfast establishments                C    C   C   P  C  C  C
Boardinghouses                                               C
Boat and trailer manufacture                                          P
Boat and trailer sales                                             C  P P
Book and magazine stores                                        P  P  P P
Bowling alleys                                                  C  C    P
Building material and specialties                                     P
manufacture
Building material sales                                                 C
Building materials storage and sales yards                         C  P
Bus stations                                                       C
Business colleges                                               P  P
Business machines and parts manufacture                               P
Camera supply stores                                         P  P  P
Campgrounds                                                     P  P
Carwash                                                         C  C  P
Cemeteries                                      C    C   C
Ceramic shops                                                P  P  P
Clothing and fabric stores                                   C  P  P
 
Use Zoning District
Use                                      Zoning District
                                         R-20 R-15 R-8 R-6 NB CB HB I IB FP
Contractor's offices                                          P  P  P P
Convenience stores                                         C  P  P  P P
Crematorium                                                      C
Customary home occupations               P    P    P   P   P  P  P
Dairy products distributing facilities                              P
Day care facilities                                P   P   P  C  P
Department stores                                          P  P  P    P
Drug stores                                                P  P  P    P
Dry cleaning and laundry pickup stations                   P  P  P    P
Dry cleaning and laundry plants                                  C  P
Dwelling, duplex                                       C
Dwelling, multi-family                                 SU  C  C  C    C
Dwelling, single-family (excluding       P    P    P   P   C  C  P    C
manufactured homes)
Electrical appliance and electrical                                 P
equipment manufacture
Electronics repair shops                                   P  P  P    P
Exterminators                                                    P  P
Family care units*                       P    P    P   P
Financial institutions                                     P  P  P    P
Floral shops                                               P  P  P    P
Flour and feed mills                                                P
Funeral homes                                                    P
Furniture manufacturing                                             P
Furniture sales                                               P  P  P P
Game rooms                                                 C  CB C    C
 
Use Zoning District
Use                                         Zoning District
                                            R-20 R-15 R-8 R-6 NB CB HB I IB FP
Gift shops                                                    P  P  P    P
Greenhouses                                                         C  P C
Grocery stores                                                P  P  P  P P
Hardware manufacturing                                                 P
Hardware stores                                               P  P  P    P
Hatcheries                                                             P
Heating and refrigeration shops                                     C  P
Hobby shops                                                   P  P  P    P
Horticultural nurseries                                                P    P
Housewares manufacturing                                               P
Ice and cold storage facilities                                     C  P
Indoor theaters                                                  P  P    P
Industrial supplies and equipment sales and                         C  P C
service
Industrial trade schools                                         C  C  P P
Insulation contractors                                              C  P
Internet sweepstakes                                                C  C
Jewel sales and repair                                        P  P  P    P
Jewelry manufacturing                                            C  C  P P
Kennels                                                       C  C  C  C
Laundromats                                                   C  C  C
Libraries                                   C    C    C   C   P  P  P    P
Lumber mills                                                           P
Machine and welding shops                                           C  P
Manufactured home manufacturing                                        I
 
Use Zoning District
Use                                   Zoning District
                                      R-20 R-15 R-8 R-6 NB CB HB I IB FP
Manufactured home parks               SU   SU   SU
Manufactured homes on individual lots T    T    T   T   T
Manufactured home sales                                       C  P
Medical/dental clinics                                  P  P  P    P
Medical/dental laboratories                                   P  P P
Medica/infectious waste incinerators                             C
Metal fabricating                                                P
Monument works and sales                                         P
Motels/hotels                                                 P    P
Museums                                                    P  P    P
Music and dance studios                                 P  P  P    P
Music stores                                            P  P  P    P
Musical instruments manufacturing                             C  P C
Office equipment sales and service                      P  P  P    P
Office supply stores                                    P  P  P    P
Optical goods                                              P  P    P
Outdoor recreation and entertainment                          P    P  P
(public)
Outdoor recreation and entertainment  C    C    C   C   C  C  C  C C  C
(private)
Outdoor sales of plants, fruits and                     P  P  P  P P
vegetables
Pallet manufacturing                                             P
Paper products manufacturing                                     P
Pawn shop                                                     P
Pet shops                                               C  C  P    P
Photographic studios                                    P  P  P    P
 
Use Zoning District
Use                                        Zoning District
                                           R-20 R-15 R-8 R-6 NB CB HB I IB FP
Places of worship                          C    C    C   C   C  C  C  C C
Plastic products manufacturing                                        P
Plumbing and heating supply                                  C  C  C    P
Precision instruments manufacturing                                C  P C
Print shops                                                     P  P    P
Private clubs and lodges (not for profit)                    C  C  C  C
Private clubs and lodges (for profit)                           C  C  C
Private schools                            C    C    C   C   P  P  P    P
Professional offices                                     C   P  P  P    P
Public buildings and facilities            C    C    C   C   P  P  P  P P  C
Public works and utilities service/storage                      C  C  P    C
yards
Racetrack, country club                                               C
Racetracks                                                            C
Radio stations                                                     P  P P
Recreation facilities, indoor                                P  P  P  P P
Recreational vehicle storage on individual P    P    P   P
lots
Recreational vehicle as permanent dwelling
Recreational vehicle sales                                         P  P C
Recycling                                                             C
Research labs                                                         P P
Residential treatment facility             C    C    C   C
Resource recovery                                                     C
Rest homes                                 C    C    C   C   C     C
 
Use Zoning District
                                                          Zoning District
Use                                                       R- R- R- R- NB CB HB I IB FP
                                                          20 15 8  6
Restaurants                                                       P  P  P  P P   
Roofing materials storage and sales                                   C  P    
Rubber and glass products manufacturing                                 P    
Service stations                                                  C  C  C  P P   
Sewing rooms                                                            P    
Shoe sales and repair                                             P  P  P   P   
Shopping centers                                                    C  P  C P   
Sign painting/fabricating                                             C  P    
Solar energy system, Level 1: roof-mounted, parking lot   P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P P   
cover, or building integrated
Solar energy system, Level 1: ground-mounted              C  C  C  C  P  P  P  P P   
Solar Energy System, Level 2: ground-mounted, ≤ ½ acre             C  C C   
Solar Energy System, Level 2 or 3: ground-mounted, ≤ 10             SU C SU  
acres
Solar Energy System, Level 2 or 3: ground-mounted, > 10               SU C SU  
acres
Sporting goods manufacturing                                            P    
Sporting goods stores                                             P  P  P   P   
Supervised living facility                                P  P  P  P            
Tailor shops                                                      P  P  P   P   
Tattoo and body art                                                   C  C    
Taxi stands                                                         C  C      
Telecommunications tower                                                C C   
Textile and cordage manufacturing                                       P    
Tobacco sales and warehousing                                           P    
Toy stores                                                        P  P  P   P   
Trucking terminals                                                      P    
Upholstery and drapery manufacturing                              C  C  C      
Video sales and rental                                            P  P  P   P   
Warehouse, mini                                                     C  C  P    
 
 
Use                          Zoning District
                             R-20 R-15 R-8 R-6 NB CB HB I IB FP
Warehousing and distribution                         C  P
Woodworking shops                              C  C  C
 
Notes to Table:
C - Conditional
P - Permitted
SU - Special use
T - Temporary use
   *The owner of any unlicensed family care unit or group home in operation on
September 9, 2003 that is made nonconforming by this chapter may continue its use
while following the procedures to attain compliance with this chapter for up to
180 days from its adoption. After that date, the property owner of any unlicensed
unit or home determined to be in operation for which no application has been filed
shall be notified by certified mail or personal service by the zoning enforcement
officer of the violation. The notice shall allow the owner no greater than 30 days
within to either file the appropriate application for permit or to discontinue the
use. Enforcement remedies shall be applied as outlined in §
155.999. Existing units and homes shall be exempt from the required separation
distances for the initial permit only; all provisions herein shall be applicable
to any subsequent review.
   ** Uses allowed in the CC district shall be governed by those allowed in the
underlying general zoning district.
 
(`94 Code, App. C, App. I) (Am. Ord. 96-14, passed 11-12-96; Am. Ord. 98-07,
passed 7-14-98; Am. Ord. 99-17, passed 8-10-99; Am. Ord. 02-03, passed 10-8-02;
Am. Ord. 02-04, passed 12-10-02; Am. Ord. 03-09, passed 5-13-03; Am. Ord. 03-
12, passed 9-9-03; Am. Ord. 03-13, passed 9-9-03; Am. Ord. 04-01, passed 1-13-
04; Am. Ord. 04-03, passed 5-11-04; Am. Ord. 05-05, passed 10-11-05; Am. Ord.
05-07, passed 12-13-05; Am. Ord. 06-01, passed 4-11-06; Am. Ord. 06-10, passed
6-13-06; Am. Ord. 06-11, passed 7-11-06; Am. Ord. 07-01, passed 3-13-07; Am.
Ord. 08-01, passed 2-12-08; Am. Ord. 08-04, passed 8-12-08; Am. Ord. 09-05,
passed 11-10-09; Am. Ord. 10-05, passed 4-13-10; Am. Ord. 10-09, passed 7-13-
10; Am. Ord. 10-10, passed 8-10-10; Am. Ord. 10-11, passed 8-10-10; Am. Ord.
11-01, passed 6-14-11; Am. Ord. 12-05, passed 11-13-12; Am. Ord. 12-06, passed
12-11-12; Am. Ord. 14-02, passed 4-8-14; Am. Ord. 14-05, passed 5-13-14; Am.
Ord. 14-06, passed 6-10-14; Am. Ord. 14-12, passed 9-9-14)
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 155.040 CONFORMANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No building or land shall hereafter be used and no building or part
thereof shall be erected, moved or altered except in conformity with the
regulations herein specified for the district in which it is located.
   (B)   No part of a yard or other open space required about any building for
the purpose of complying with the provisions of this chapter shall be included
as a part of a yard or other open space similarly required for another
building.
(`94 Code, App. C, Art. VI, § 1)
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.041 REDUCTION OF LOT AND YARD AREAS PROHIBITED.
   No yard or lot existing at the time of passage of this chapter shall be
reduced in size or area below the minimum requirements set forth herein, except
for street widening. Yards or lots created after the effective date of this
chapter shall meet at least the minimum requirements established by this
chapter.
(`94 Code, App. C, Art. VI, § 2)
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.042 RELATIONSHIP OF BUILDING TO LOT.
   Every building hereafter erected, moved or structurally altered shall be
located on a lot which conforms to the regulations herein specified and in no
case shall there be more than one principal building or structure and its
customary accessory buildings or structures on any lot, except in the case of a
planned unit development or a bona fide farm.
(`94 Code, App. C, Art. VI, § 3)
§ 155.043 STREET ACCESS.
   (A)   No building shall be erected on a lot which does not have access to a
paved street whether public or privately maintained.
   (B)   All private streets shall be constructed and maintained in accordance
with the specifications set forth by the State Department of Transportation's
Minimum Construction Standards for Subdivision Roads, July 1, 1985.
(`94 Code, App. C, Art. VI, § 4)
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.044 USES PROHIBITED.
   If a use or class of uses is not specifically indicated as being permitted
in a district either as a right or as a conditional use, then the use or class
of use is prohibited.
(`94 Code, App. C, Art. VI, § 5)
§ 155.045 INTERSECTION VISIBILITY.
   To insure safe sight distances where streets intersect and where driveways
intersect streets a minimum clear vision area shall be provided. On a corner
lot in residential and/or business districts, there shall be no obstruction to
vision by structures, grade or foliage other than power or utility poles
between a height of three feet and a height of ten feet, measured above the
average elevation of the existing surface of each street at the centerlines
thereof.
(`94 Code, App. C, Art. VI, § 6)
§ 155.046 LOCATION OF ACCESSORY AND TEMPORARY BUILDINGS ON RESIDENTIAL LOTS.
   (A)   On any residential lot, accessory and temporary buildings shall not be
located in any required front or side yard, shall not cover more than 30% of
any required rear yard and shall be at least 5 feet from any other building on
the same 20 feet from any buildings used for human habitation on adjoining
lots. Any part of the building, including the footings and roof overhang, shall
be a minimum of 5 feet from any lot line. Accessory buildings shall be allowed
in side yards by variance.
   (B)   Detached accessory or temporary buildings or structures designed or
used for human habitation as permitted by this chapter shall be located no
closer than 30 feet to any other building or structure on the subject property
and on adjoining lots, and shall meet the side yard requirements for the
district in which they are located.
(`94 Code, App. C, Art. VI, § 7) (Am. Ord. 03-14, passed 10-14-03; Am. Ord. 06-
02, passed 4-11-06)
§ 155.047 PRIVATE SWIMMING POOLS ON RESIDENTIAL LOTS.
   Private swimming pools shall not be located in any front or side yard and
shall not be less than 10 feet from any lot line. Access to private swimming
pools shall be limited by fencing, walling or another appropriate safety
barrier.
(Ord. 99-14, passed 6-8-99)
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.048 LOT OF RECORD, DATE AND PERMITTED USE.
   (A)   In any district in which residences are a permitted use, where a lot
has an area or width of less than the required area or width and was a lot of
record on or before the effective date of this chapter, the lot may be occupied
by a single-family dwelling, provided that the minimum front, rear and side
yard requirements for the district in which it is located are met and further
provided that the requirements of § 155.058 are followed. This provision shall
not apply to any lot to which the provisions of § 155.049 apply.
   (B)   In all other districts where a lot has an area or width of less than
the required area or width and was a lot of record on or before the effective
date of this chapter, the lot may be occupied by a permitted use, provided that
all other requirements of the district are met and further provided that the
requirements of § 155.058 are followed. This provision shall not apply to any
lot to which the provisions of § 155.049 apply.
(`94 Code, App. C, Art. VI, § 8)
§ 155.049 ADJOINING AND VACANT LOTS.
   If two or more adjoining and vacant lots of record are in single ownership
at any time after the effective date of this chapter, and the lots individually
have less area or width than the minimum requirements of the district in which
the lots are located, the lots shall be considered as a single lot which meets
the minimum requirements of this chapter for the district in which the lots are
located.
(`94 Code, App. C, Art. VI, § 9)
§ 155.050 SIDE YARDS ON CORNER LOTS.
   In any residential district the side yard requirements for corner lots along
the street side right-of-way line shall have an extra wide width of ten feet.
Measurement shall be made from the right-of-way line. If there is no recorded
right-of-way, add 25 feet to the minimum side yard requirement shown and
measure from the edge of the pavement. Accessory buildings in the rear yard
shall also comply with the side yard requirement.
(`94 Code, App. C, Art. VI, § 10) (Am. Ord. 03-08, passed 4-8-03)
§ 155.051 FRONT AND/OR SIDE YARD SETBACKS.
   (A)   The front and/or side yard requirements of this chapter shall not
apply to any lot where the front and/or side yard coverage on developed lots
located wholly or in part within 100 feet to each side of the lot and/or
located within the same block and zoning district and fronting on the same
street as the lot is less than the minimum required front and/or side yard. In
these cases, the front and/or side yard on the lot may be less than the
required yards but not less than the average of the existing front and/or side
yards on the developed lots, provided that the front and/or side yard on the
lot shall not be less than one-half of the required front and/or side yard.
   (B)   All measurements for front yard setback shall be made from the right-
of-way (§ 155.054). If there is no recorded right-of-way, add 15 feet to the
minimum front yard required as shown in § 155.054.
(`94 Code, App. C, Art. VI, § 11) (Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 1-9-01)
§ 155.052 CONDITIONS FOR MODIFICATION OF REQUIRED YARDS.
   Requirements for front, rear and side yards may be modified under the
following conditions:
   (A)   Cornices, eaves, steps, gutters, bay windows, fire escapes, fire
balconies, fire towers and similar features may project not more than 2½ feet
into any required yard.
   (B)   Necessary retaining walls and fences less than six feet in height,
when located in the rear yard, shall be exempt from the yard requirements of
this chapter, except that on a corner lot no fence more than three feet in
height shall be located within any yard or building setback required along the
side street line by any other provision of this chapter. The height of any
fence located within a yard abutting on a street line shall be measured from
the sidewalk, and if there is no sidewalk or curb, from the grade of the
centerline of the street. All other fence heights shall be measured from
natural grade. Terraces, steps and uncovered porches which are not in any part
more than four feet above the ground floor level and not within 2½ feet of any
lot line shall be exempt from the yard requirements of this chapter.
(`94 Code, App. C, Art. VI, § 12)
§ 155.053 EXCEPTIONS TO HEIGHT LIMITS.
   Penthouses or roof structures for the housing of elevators, stairways,
tanks, ventilating fans or similar equipment required to operate and maintain a
building, skylights, towers, steeples, flagpoles, chimneys, wireless masts,
water tanks, silos or similar structures may be erected above the height limits
herein specified if so approved by the Project Review Committee. The Project
Review Committee shall not approve the structures if they determine that these
structures may pose health, safety, or welfare risks to surrounding property.
No penthouse or roof structure or any space above the height limit shall be
allowed for the purpose of providing additional floor space.
(`94 Code, App. C, Art. VI, § 13)
§ 155.054 DIMENSIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   The following are dimensional requirements for the zoning districts of the
town.
 
         Min. Lot Size Min. Front Min. Side Min. Rear Min. Lot Max. Building
District Sq. Feet      Yard       Yard      Yard      Width    Height
                       Feet*      Feet**    Feet      Feet     Feet
CB       N/A           N/A        N/A       15        N/A      50
FP       N/A           20         10        20        N/A      35
HB       N/A           30         10        20        N/A      50
HM       N/A           30         10        20        N/A      50
I        N/A           50         15        20        N/A      50
IB       N/A           50         15        20        N/A      125
 
         Min. Lot Size Min. Front Min. Side Min. Rear Min. Lot Max. Building
District Sq. Feet      Yard       Yard      Yard      Width    Height
                       Feet*      Feet**    Feet      Feet     Feet
             Min. Lot Min. Front Min. Side     Min. Rear Min. Lot Max. Building
District     Size     Yard       Yard          Yard      Width    Height
             Sq. Feet Feet*      Feet**        Feet      Feet     Feet
NB           N/A      20         10            20        N/A      35
R-15         15,000   40         15            30        85       35
R-20         20,000   40         15            30        100      35
R-6          6,000    30         12            25        75       35
R-6                              10 (one side)
historic lot 5,000    25         12 (opposite  25        50       35
exception***                     side)
R-6          6,000    30         12            25        75       35
R-8          8,000    40         12            25        75       35
 
RM [See manufactured home overlay description in §
   155.022(E)]
 
RMF**** 5,000 per dwelling unit 40 20 30 100 35
Notes to Table:
* Front yard setback shall be as shown if measured from the right-of-way,
or 15 feet greater if measured from pavement edge or the average of the
front yard on either side of the lot. On corner lots add 10 feet. Every
principal use, other than a single-family or two-family dwellings, in the
NB and HB zoning districts shall observe a maximum front building setback
of 50 feet.
** On corner lots add ten feet to the minimum side yard setback from the
side street right-of-way line. (See §
155.050)
*** Lots created prior to April 13,1999. Site plans for lots claiming the
historic lot exception must be approved by the Technical Review
Committee.
**** Required minimum yards, width and building height are for the
complex as a whole.
 
(`94 Code, App. C, Art. VI, § 14) (Am. Ord. 99-08, passed 4-13-99; Am. Ord. 99-
10, passed 6-8-99; Am. Ord. 99-11, passed 6-8-99; Am. Ord. 03-08, passed 4-8-
03; Am. Ord. 05-05, passed 10-11-05; Am. Ord. 09-05, passed 11-10-09)
§ 155.055 FENCES.
   (A)   Fences shall be allowed on any lot, provided they meet the following
guidelines. A zoning permit is required for any fence within the zoning
jurisdiction of the town.
      (1)   Fencing erected in any front yard, or in any side yard abutting a
street right-of-way, shall not exceed four feet in height.
      (2)   Fencing in any other side and rear yard shall not exceed six feet
in height.
      (3)   Any fencing abutting a street right-of-way shall be of the
traditional picket or rail style.
      (4)   In no case shall any wire-based fencing be used along a street
right-of-way.
   (B)   Exceptions. The style and height requirements within this section
shall not apply to:
      (1)   Any nonresidential lot;
      (2)   Any property regulated by §§ 90.03 and 90.14 of this code; and
      (3)   Any residential lot greater than two acres in size. Two or more
contiguous but separate tax or zoning parcels shall not be considered one lot
for the purpose of determining fence style and height.
   (C)   All fencing must be erected and/or constructed such that no part of
the fence obstructs a clear vision area, as defined in § 155.007 and outlined
in § 155.045, nor encroaches into any public right-of-way, as outlined in §
94.01 of this code.
   (D)   As noted in § 155.054, if there is no right-of-way recorded, add 15
feet and measure from the edge of pavement.
(`94 Code, App. C, Art. VI, § 17) (Am. Ord. 99-02, passed 2-9-99; Am. Ord. 03-
07, passed 4-8-03; Am. Ord. 04-04, passed 7-13-04)
§ 155.056 CUSTOMARY HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   (A)   Customary home occupations, as defined in § 155.007, may be located in
districts provided for in § 155.026, with the other requirements as set forth
in this section.
   (B)   A customary home occupation may not be allowed if it has any
significant adverse impact on the surrounding neighborhood. A use may be
regarded as having a significantly adverse impact on the surrounding
neighborhood if:
      (1)   There is a window display or outside storage of goods, stock in
trade, or other commodities;
      (2)   Any on-premise retail sales occur except for the sale of products
or goods made on the residential lot as a result of the home occupation;
      (3)   Any person not a resident on the premises is employed in connection
with the purported home occupation;
      (4)   It creates unfavorable noise, fumes, smoke, odor, dust, glare,
vibrations or electrical interference;
      (5)   More than 25% of the total gross floor area of the dwelling,
including the basement, is used for the home occupation;
      (6)   Any accessory buildings or other structures on the premises are
additionally used for the home occupation;
      (7)   The home occupation is open to the public earlier than 7:00 a.m. or
later than 9:00 p.m.;
      (8)   Additional parking other than that associated with the residential
use is provided; and/or
      (9)   If a sign in excess of two square feet in size is located on the
premises.
   (C)   The Zoning Administrator may withdraw the home occupancy permit when
he or she finds that the home occupation has a significantly adverse impact on
the surrounding neighborhood.
(Ord. 00-01, passed 7-11-00)
§ 155.057 ADULT ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   It is recognized that there are some uses of property which, because
of their very nature, are recognized as having characteristics which impose
adverse effects on the neighborhood in which the use is located. Regulations
are necessary to minimize the adverse effects and to prevent a particular area
subject to the zoning jurisdiction of the town from a concentration of the
uses. It is not the intent of this section to conflict with state laws
regulating adult establishments, but rather to regulate the location of adult
establishments whose material or activities are legal.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ADULT ARCADE. Any place to which the public is permitted or invited
wherein coin- operated or slug operated or electronically, electrically or
mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors, or other
image-producing devices are maintained to show images to persons in booths or
viewing rooms where the images so displayed depict or describe specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT BOOKSTORE. A bookstore which:
         (a)   A majority of its gross income during any calendar month is
received from the sale of publications, including books, magazines and other
periodicals, which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on
matters depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas, as defined in G.S. § 14-202.10; or
         (b)   Has a preponderance of its publications, books, magazines and
other periodicals which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on
matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas, as defined in G.S. § 14-202.10.
      ADULT CABARET/CLUB. A nightclub, bar, restaurant, or other commercial
establishment that regularly features, exhibits or displays as one of its
principal business purposes:
         (a)   Persons who appear nude or semi-nude;
         (b)   Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities; and/or
         (c)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other
photographic reproductions which depict or describe specified sexual activities
or specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT ESTABLISHMENTS. Any structure or use of land that is defined in
G.S. § 202.10 and/or including the following:
         (a)   Adult arcades;
         (b)   Adult bookstores;
         (c)   Adult cabarets/clubs, such as “topless” dancing;
         (d)   Adult live entertainment;
         (e)   Adult live entertainment businesses;
         (f)   Adult motels or hotels;
         (g)   Adult motion picture theaters;
         (h)   Adult mini-motion picture theaters;
         (i)   Adult theaters;
         (j)   Adult video stores;
         (k)   Escort agencies;
         (l)   Massage businesses;
         (m)   Nude model studios; and
         (n)   Sexual encounter centers.
      ADULT LIVE ENTERTAINMENT. Any performance of, or involving the actual
presence of, real people which exhibits specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT LIVE ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESSES. Any establishment or business
wherein adult live entertainment is shown for observation by patrons.
      ADULT MOTEL OR HOTEL. A motel, hotel or similar commercial establishment
that:
         (a)   Offers accommodations to the public for any form of
consideration and provides patrons with closed-circuit television
transmissions, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other
photographic reproductions that depict or describe specified sexual activities
or specified anatomical areas as one of its principal business purposes;
         (b)   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is
less than ten hours; and/or
         (c)   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to subrent the
room for a period of time that is less than ten hours.
      ADULT MINI-MOTION PICTURE THEATER. An enclosed building with viewing
booths designed to hold patrons which is used for presenting motion pictures, a
preponderance of which are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
matter depicting, describing, or relating to specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas for observation by patrons therein.
      ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. An enclosed building or premises used for
presenting motion pictures, a preponderance of which are distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing, or relating to
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for observation by
patrons therein. ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER does not include any adult mini-
motion picture theater as defined above.
      ADULT THEATER. A theater, concert hall, auditorium or similar commercial
establishment which regularly features, exhibits or displays, as one of its
principal business purposes, persons who appear in a state of nudity or semi-
nude, or live performances that expose or depict specified anatomical areas or
specified sexual activities.
      ADULT VIDEO STORE. A commercial establishment which as one of its
principal business purposes offers for sale or rent for any form of
consideration any one or more of the following:
         (a)   Video cassettes, video reproductions, photographs, films, motion
pictures, slides or other visual representations that depict or describe
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas; and/or
         (b)   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia that are designed for use
in connection with specified sexual activities.
      ESCORT AGENCY. A person or business that furnishes, offers to furnish, or
advertises to furnish escorts as one of its principal business purposes, for a
fee, tip, or other consideration. An ESCORT means a person who, for tips or any
other form of consideration, agrees or offers to act as a date for another
person, or who agrees or offers to privately model lingerie or to privately
perform a striptease for another person.
      MASSAGE BUSINESS. Any establishment or business wherein massage is
practiced, including establishments commonly known as health clubs, physical
culture studios, massage studios, or massage parlors. In this context, MASSAGE
means the manipulation of body muscle or tissue by rubbing, stroking, kneading,
or tapping by hand or mechanical device. Health massage and body work
therapists shall not be deemed employees in a licensed MASSAGE BUSINESS as
defined here.
      NUDE MODEL STUDIO. Any place where a person who appears semi-nude, in a
state of nudity, or displaying specified anatomical areas is provided to be
observed, sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed or similarly
depicted by other persons who pay money or any other form of consideration.
NUDE MODEL STUDIO shall not include a proprietary school licensed by the state
or a college, junior college, or university supported entirely or in part by
public taxation; a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or in a
structure that has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and no
other advertising that indicates a nude or semi-nude person is available for
viewing; and where in order to participate in a class a student must enroll at
least three days in advance of the class; and where no more than one nude or
semi-nude model is on the premises at any one time.
      SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER. A business or commercial enterprise that, as one
of its principal business purposes, offers for any form of consideration
physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between persons of the
opposite sex, or activities between male and female persons and/or persons of
the same sex when one or more of the persons is in a state of nudity or semi-
nude.
   (C)   An adult establishment use shall only be allowed as a conditional use
in the industrial district.
   (D)   There shall be a spacing of 1,500 feet between adult establishment
uses. The 1,500-foot distance shall be measured on a straight line from
property line to property line, with no consideration as to intervening
structures, roads or land forms.
   (E)   No adult establishment shall be located within 1,500 feet of a church,
public or private school, child day care or nursery school, public park,
residences and/or residentially zoned property, or any establishment with an
on-premise ABC license. The 1,500-foot distance shall be measured on a straight
line from property line to property line, with no consideration as to
intervening structures, roads or land forms.
   (F)   The minimum setbacks, maximum building height and all other
dimensional requirements shall be the same as for uses in the highway business
district.
   (G)   The amount of parking spaces required shall be the same as for all
other commercial uses. Parking areas shall only be located in the front of the
principal building.
   (H)   There shall be no screening or buffers allowed in any form.
   (I)   Signs allowed shall be in compliance with highway business district
sign regulations. Any ground, wall, canopy or projection sign shall contain
only the name of the establishment. It shall not contain any advertising nor
identification of any product, service and the like.
   (J)   Customer or member entrances shall only be in the front of the
building facing the street. No side or rear entrances shall be allowed for use
by anyone patronizing an adult business.
   (K)   No printed material, slide, video, photograph, written text, live
show, or other visual presentation format shall be visible from outside the
establishment.
   (L)   There shall not be more than one adult business use, either the same
or another use, located on the same property, building or structure.
   (M)   Except for an adult motel or hotel, no adult establishment use may
have sleeping quarters.
   (N)   Other applicable regulations contained in this chapter shall be in
effect.
   (O)   Ancillary adult establishment uses. The minority purpose or function
that a lot serves or is intended to serve. NOTE: In situations where other
regulations of this section are more restrictive than the restrictions listed
below, the more restrictive regulations must be used.
      (1)   Purpose and findings.
         (a)   The Board of Aldermen of the Town of Spencer find that the
ordinance codified herein is necessary in order to protect the town from the
potential secondary effects of adult establishments including crime, the
protection of the town’s retail trade, the prevention of blighting of
neighborhoods and the maintenance of property values, protecting and preserving
the quality of the town’s neighborhoods and the town’s commercial districts,
the protection of the town’s quality of life, the increased threat of the
spread of sexually transmitted diseases, and the protection of peace, welfare
and privacy of persons who patronize adult establishments. Experience in cities
and counties within and outside of North Carolina including Concord, North
Carolina, the County of Los Angeles (1989), the City of Garden Grove (1991) and
the cities of Renton, Washington (1976); Seattle, Washington (1978); Detroit,
Michigan; Austin, Texas; Indianapolis, Indiana (1984); and Phoenix, Arizona
(1979) have demonstrated that such uses have objectionable secondary effects
upon immediately adjacent residential and commercial areas.
         (b)   Based on the experiences noted above, the following statements
are believed to be held true.
            1.   Crime rates tend to be higher in residential areas surrounding
adult establishments than in industrial areas surrounding sexually oriented
businesses;
            2.   Areas within close walking distance of single and multiple
family dwellings should be free of adult establishments; and
            3.   The existence of adult establishments in close proximity to
residential areas has been shown in some cities to reduce the property values
in those residential areas.
      (2)   Floor area. Buildings or structures associated with, and containing
this type of use shall not devote more than 10% of the gross floor area to the
use.
      (3)   Signage. Exterior signage shall be limited to five square feet
total and shall not contain lewd or offensive language, or any sort of sexually
explicit graphics.
      (4)   Displays. In no case shall printed materials, slides, videos,
photographs, written text, live shows, or any other visual presentation format
be visible from outside the building or structure.
      (5)   Gross sales. Buildings or structures associated with, and
containing this type of use shall not devote more than 10% of gross sales to
adult sales of any type.
(Ord. 96-3, passed 2-13-96; Am. Ord. 11-09, passed 10-11-11; Am. Ord. 11-11,
passed 11-15-11)
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.058 NONCONFORMANCES.
   Any parcel of land, use of land, building or structure existing at the time
of the adoption of this chapter, or any amendment thereto, that does not
conform to the requirements of the district in which it is located may be
continued and maintained subject to the following provisions:
   (A)   Nonconforming lots.
      (1)   Vacant lots. This category consists of vacant lots for which plats
or deeds have been recorded in the Office of the County Register of Deeds,
which at the time of adoption of this chapter fail to comply with the minimum
area and/or width requirements of the districts in which they are located. Any
nonconforming lot may be used for any of the uses permitted in the district in
which it is located, provided that:
         (a)   Where the lot area or width is not more than 20% below the
minimum specified in this chapter, and other dimensional requirements are
otherwise complied with, the Zoning Enforcement Officer is authorized to issue
a zoning compliance permit;
         (b)   Where the lot area or width is more than 20% below the minimum
specified in this chapter or other dimensional requirements cannot be met, the
Board of Adjustment is authorized to consider a variance of the dimensions as
shall conform as closely as possible to the required dimensions; and
         (c)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, whenever two or more adjoining
vacant lots of record are in single ownership at any time after the adoption of
this chapter and the lots individually have less area or width than the minimum
requirements of the district in which the lots are located, the lots shall be
combined to create a single lot or lots which meet the minimum requirements of
this chapter for the district in which the lots are located.
      (2)   Occupied lots. This category of nonconformance consists of lots,
occupied by buildings or structures at the time of the adoption of this
chapter, that fail to comply with the minimum requirements for area, width,
yard and setbacks for the district in which they are located. These lots may
continue to be used.
   (B)    Nonconforming uses.
      (1)   Uses of land. This category of nonconformance consists of lots used
for storage yards, used car lots, auto wrecking, junkyards and similar uses
where the only buildings on the lot are incidental and accessory to the open
use of the lot and where the use of the land is not permitted to be established
hereafter, under this chapter, in the district in which it is located. A
legally established nonconforming open use of land may be continued except as
follows:
         (a)   When a nonconforming open use of land has been changed to a
conforming use, it shall not thereafter revert to any nonconforming use;
         (b)   A nonconforming open use of land shall be changed only to a
conforming use;
         (c)   A nonconforming open use of land shall not be enlarged to cover
more land than was occupied by that use when it became nonconforming; and
         (d)   When any nonconforming open use of land is discontinued for a
period in excess of 180 days, any future use of the land shall be limited to
those uses permitted in the district in which the land is located. Vacancy and/
or non-use of the land, regardless of the intent of the owner or tenant, shall
constitute discontinuance under this provision.
      (2)   Uses of structures. This category of nonconformance consists of
buildings or structures used at the time of enactment of this chapter for
purposes or uses not permitted in the district in which they are located. The
uses may be continued as follows:
         (a)   An existing nonconforming use of a structure may not be changed
to another nonconforming use.
         (b)   When a nonconforming use of a structure has been changed to a
conforming use, it shall not thereafter be used for any nonconforming use.
         (c)   A nonconforming use of a structure may not be extended or
enlarged, nor shall a structure containing a nonconforming use be altered
except as follows:
            1.   Structural alterations as required by law or ordinance to
secure the safety of the structure are permissible.
            2.   Maintenance and repair necessary to keep a structure
containing a nonconforming use in sound condition are permissible.
            3.   Expansion of a nonconforming use of a building or structure
into portions of the structure which, at the time the use became nonconforming,
were already erected and arranged or designed for the nonconforming use is
permissible.
         (d)   When any nonconforming use of a building or structure is
discontinued for a period in excess of 180 days, the building or structure
shall not thereafter be used except in conformance with the regulations of the
district in which it is located. Vacancy and/or nonuse of the land, regardless
of the intent of the owner or tenant, shall constitute discontinuance under
this provision.
   (C)   Nonconforming structures. This category includes any structure not in
conformance with the restrictions of this chapter after the effective date of
adoption of this chapter. The nonconformances shall include, but not be limited
to height, bulk and setback. The nonconforming structures shall be allowed to
remain with the following conditions:
      (1)   A nonconforming structure may not be enlarged or altered except
where maintenance and repair are necessary to keep the structure in sound
condition.
      (2)   When any nonconforming structure is removed, it may not be replaced
with another nonconforming structure.
      (3)   When any nonconforming structure is damaged, repair must follow the
guidelines listed in division (D) below.
      (4)   Structural alterations as required by law or ordinance to secure
the safety of the structure are permissible.
   (D)   Reconstruction of damaged buildings or structures. Any nonconforming
structure or structure containing a nonconforming use which has been damaged by
fire, wind, flood or other causes may be repaired and used as before provided:
      (1)   Damage does not exceed 50% of assessed value; single-family
residences or nonconforming structures used by a not-for-profit organization(s)
may be repaired and rebuilt, and the use reestablished if damage exceeds 50% of
the structure’s assessed value but they must meet all other ordinance criteria.
Nonconforming manufactured homes may not be repaired or rebuilt under any
circumstances if damage exceeds 50% of assessed value;
      (2)   Repairs are initiated within 12 months and completed within two
years of the damage;
      (3)   The total amount of space devoted to a nonconforming use may not be
increased;
      (4)   Reconstructed nonconforming structures may not be made
nonconforming by the repairs; and
      (5)   Where possible, any nonconforming structure shall be repaired or
reconstructed in a manner so as to minimize or ameliorate the nonconformance.
   (E)   Continuation of manufactured home parks.
      (1)   Manufactured home parks that become nonconforming uses shall be
permitted to continue operation subject to the following stipulations:
         (a)   Nonconforming manufactured home parks may not be expanded or
increased in size nor shall any additional spaces be added to the site;
         (b)   When a site at a nonconforming manufactured home park is
vacated, another manufactured home may not be placed on that site;
         (c)   A nonconforming manufactured home park that is discontinued for
180 days shall not be reestablished. Vacancy and/or nonuse of the park,
regardless of the intent of the owner, shall constitute discontinuance under
this provision;
         (d)   If an existing nonconforming manufactured home on a conforming
lot is removed, it shall only be replaced with a conforming structure or
building; and
         (e)   If a nonconforming manufactured home is abandoned for a period
of more than 180 days, the rehabitation of the manufactured home shall be
prohibited. The date of abandonment shall be that date at which the abandonment
of the manufactured home becomes evident.
      (2)   Under no circumstances shall a conforming manufactured home park be
changed to become nonconforming.
   (F)   Continuation of manufactured homes on individual lots.
      (1)   Manufactured homes located on individual lots which become
nonconforming structures may be continued until a time as the home is replaced.
The replacement unit may not be another nonconforming structure. Manufactured
homes on nonconforming lots may be continued. At the time that they are
removed, the reestablishment of a manufactured home to any other structure on
that lot is prohibited until a time as the lot is made to conform to the
requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   If an existing manufactured home on a conforming lot is removed, it
shall only be replaced with a conforming structure or building.
      (3)   If a manufactured home is abandoned for a period of more than 180
days, the rehabitation of the manufacturing home shall be prohibited. The date
of abandonment shall be that date at which the abandonment of the manufactured
home becomes evident.
(`94 Code, App. C, Art. VI, § 15) (Am. Ord. 96-4, passed 2-13-96; Am. Ord. 09-
03, passed 7-14-09)
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.059 RACETRACKS.
   (A)   Lot size. The minimum lot size shall be 20 acres for a go-kart track
and shall be 50 acres for drag strips and motor speedways.
   (B)   Location. The racetrack facility shall be located on a lot which has
direct access to - or is contained in a commercial or industrial park which has
direct access to - a thoroughfare or collector street, arterial, interstate, or
service road.
   (C)   Lighting. Lighting of the racetrack, parking areas, or other property
lighting shall be designed, located and shielded to prevent glare spillover
onto any residential use or property. In no case shall any such lighting exceed
the height of a buffered tree line (see division (F)).
   (D)   Setbacks. Go kart tracks and stands shall be set back 300 feet from
the property line. All other operations, including parking, shall be set back
100 feet from the property line. Drag strip and motor speedway operations,
including parking, shall be set back 300 feet from side and rear property lines
and 100 feet from all front and side street property lines. These setbacks are
allowed to be reduced by the Zoning Board of Adjustment without constituting a
variance if, during the consideration of a conditional use permit, successful
demonstration certified by a public engineer can assure that all other safety
and noise standards would be met.
   (E)   Security fencing. A secure fence shall be provided to restrict entry
when the facility is not open.
   (F)   Buffer. Notwithstanding other provisions of this chapter, racetracks
shall utilize an 80 feet wide buffer (existing within setbacks) along all side
and rear property lines, unless the facility abuts a similar operation. This
buffer shall consist of screening with the use of large maturing trees spaced
not less than 10 feet nor more than 50 feet apart and 6 feet tall at the time
of planting, opaque fence a minimum of 6 feet tall and the remainder of the
buffer to remain in a natural state. Any existing vegetation surrounding a
proposed track that complies with this standard shall remain intact or be
replaced as necessary.
   (G)   Hours of operation. Hours of operation shall not exceed 7:00 a.m. to
10:00 p.m.
   (H)   Muffled race vehicles. All vehicles shall be equipped with mufflers.
   (I)   Noise standards. Noise resulting from the operation of a racetrack
shall not exceed 70 decibels on the A scale as measured by a sound level meter
which meets the specifications of the American National Standards Institute
placed on properties abutting, adjacent to, or within 100 yards of the
racetrack facility.
(Ord. 05-07, passed 12-13-05)
§ 155.060 INTERNET SWEEPSTAKES.
   The following specific provisions shall be met as minimum standards prior to
the approval of any business engaging in “internet sweepstakes”:
   (A)   Days/hours of operation. Businesses engaging in electronic gaming
operations activities may operate from 8:00 a.m. until 11:00 p.m. each day,
seven days per week.
   (B)   All applicable permits must be issued to the applicant prior to the
issuance of the conditional use permit and the opening of business.
   (C)   If food or beverage is served, the establishment must meet the
requirements of the Rowan County Health Department, including any and all
necessary permits and/or licenses.
   (D)   The establishment must be a minimum of 1,000 feet from any building
used as a dwelling and/or residentially-zoned property, church, public or
private school. See division (F) below.
   (E)   The establishment must be a minium of 1,000 feet from any other
organization engaged in an electronic gaming operations business. See division
(F) below.
   (F)   Measurement of distance separation shall be measured on a straight
line from property line to property line, with no consideration as to
intervening structures, roads or land forms.
(Ord. 10-05, passed 4-13-10)
§ 155.061 MEDICAL/INFECTIOUS WASTE INCINERATORS.
   The following specific provisions shall be met as minimum standards prior to
the approval of any business engaging in “medical/infectious waste
incineration”:
   (A)   The operation must be a minimum of 1,000 feet from any building used
as a dwelling and/or residentially-zoned property, church, public or private
school. See division (F) below;
   (B)   The operation must be a minimum of one mile from any other lot
containing municipal and hazardous waste incinerators. See division (F) below;
   (C)   A medical/infectious waste incinerator used to incinerate up to 225
pounds of waste per hour must be located:
      (1)   On a lot that is no smaller than one acre in size;
      (2)   At least 100 feet from the property line; and
      (3)   At least 1/4 mile from all lots containing main use medical/
infectious and pathological waste incinerators. See division (F) below;
   (D)   A medical waste incinerator used to incinerate more than 225 pounds of
waste per hour must be located:
      (1)   On a lot that is no smaller than five acres in size;
      (2)   At least 200 feet from the property line; and
      (3)   At least one mile from all lots containing main use medical/
infectious and pathological waste incinerators. See division (F) below;
   (E)   No outside storage is permitted in conjunction with this use; and
   (F)   Measurement of distance separation shall be measured on a straight
line from property line to property line, with no consideration as to
intervening structures, roads or land forms.
(Ord. 10-11, passed 8-10-10)
§ 155.062 MULTIPLE PERMITTED USES.
   In Business Zoning Districts (NB, HB, CB), multiple, permitted (simple) uses
may be allowed on individual lots within the town, if the following criteria
are met:
   (A)   Permitted (simple) uses may only be interchanged within Business
Zoning Districts (NB, HB, CB). There will be no interchange between conditional
or special uses; and
   (B)   The more stringent use’s relevant ordinances will apply to the entire
lot (example: off-street parking requirements, buffering requirements).
(Ord. 11-06, passed 8-9-11)
§ 155.063 MAILBOXES WITHIN THE HISTORIC DISTRICT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect a curbside mailbox inside the
Historic District (see also §
94.11, Mailboxes Outside of Historic District).
(Ord. 14-10, passed 9-9-14)
DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS
§ 155.070 INTENT.
   (A)   It is the intent of this chapter to provide general standards for
development in the town and its zoning jurisdiction to insure that the
development will be arranged and constructed in a safe, orderly and visually
harmonious manner and will reflect the basic character of the development site
and its surroundings.
   (B)   Any application for a zoning permit in which the proposed use,
construction or other improvement or land alteration would affect previously
undeveloped property shall be accompanied by a site plan of the property
identifying all champion trees in the areas to be affected, along with the
proposed location of the use, construction, improvement or alteration. The
Technical Review Committee shall review all site plans in accordance with the
standards set forth in division (A) above.
   (C)   New construction projects in any zoning district requiring a building
permit, except single- family residential construction or residential accessory
construction, are required to meet certain development standards to insure
compatibility with surrounding land uses, provide for attractive, well-planned
projects, and promote the public health, safety, and welfare of the town. All
new construction projects which, in the opinion of the Town Planner, will
impact surrounding land uses or public facilities or which are one acre or
larger must be approved prior to the start of construction by the Zoning
Enforcement Officer and/or the Project Review Committee, as established in §§
155.040 et seq.
   (D)   If the Project Review Committee deems it impractical for a developer
to comply with portions of this subchapter, the Project Review Committee shall
have the authority to modify or elect not to apply portions of this subchapter
so long as the modification or deletion of a requirement does not constitute a
variance.
   (E)   A site plan, once approved, must be resubmitted if construction has
not commenced within one year of approval. Construction is deemed to have
commenced if footers have been poured and approved.
(`94 Code, App. C, Art. VII, § 1) (Am. Ord. 01-18, passed 11-13-01)
§ 155.071 APPLICABILITY.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no land or structure shall be
used or occupied and no excavation, removal of soil, clearing or placing of
fill shall take place on land contemplated for development, and no structural
alteration of a building shall be constructed except in compliance with §
155.139 and the design standards contained within. Renovation or remodeling of
a building meeting or exceeding one-half its current assessed value, not
including land, shall comply with design standards outlined within this
chapter.
(`94 Code, App. C, Art. VII, § 2)
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.072 GENERAL SITE ARRANGEMENT.
   Structures shall be placed and arranged so as not to adversely affect
adjacent property. Adverse effects shall include, but not be limited to the
creation of hazards, nuisances, danger or inconveniences, the unreasonable loss
of light and air or solar access, or unreasonable loss of privacy.
(`94 Code, App. C, Art. VII, § 3)
§ 155.073 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   The area, yard, and height requirements shall be the same as those
established for each zoning district in §
155.054. Additional standards that apply exclusively to the CC commercial
corridor overlay district are found in § 155.075. In addition, maximum build-to
lines are also established in §
155.054 for all non-residential uses (except industrial uses) in the NB and HB
zoning districts.
   (B)   Site plans are required before the Zoning Enforcement Officer and/or
the Project Review Committee can render any decision. At least three copies of
all required plans, drawings and specifications shall be filed at the time of
application. These plans and specifications shall furnish the following
information:
      (1)   The applicant shall provide a boundary survey and vicinity map
showing the property's total acreage, zoning classifications, general location
in relation to major streets, railroads and/or waterways, date, north arrow,
existing easements, reservations and rights-of-way.
      (2)   Plans shall include topographical features, streams, vegetation,
soil types, flood prone areas, historic sites and other features, as required
by the town.
      (3)   The proposed schedule of development, including phases or stages
likely to be followed, shall be submitted with all plans.
      (4)   (a)   Plans shall show the location of public water and sewer lines
presently in existence, connections to these lines, manholes, pumping stations,
fire hydrants, and other necessary features as established by the part of the
town. All multi-family projects must have public water and sewer service or
approved treatment facilities as are required by the appropriate state or local
authorities.
         (b)   Where a public water and/or sewer service is not reasonably
available, individual water supply systems or subsurface sewage disposal
systems may be permitted subject to approval by the County Health Department
and the requirements stated in this code.
      (5)   Stormwater drainage system. The locations of natural drainage
systems and/or stormwater management installations are required on the plans.
These features shall be designed, constructed and maintained so as to:
         (a)   Provide for the natural infiltration of stormwater;
         (b)   Control the velocity of runoff flows;
         (c)   Extend the time of concentration of stormwater runoff; and
         (d)   Collect and transmit excess stormwater flows into either the
town drainage system or into a natural drainage system. The following criteria
shall also be considered:
            1.   To the extent practicable, all development shall conform to
the natural contours of the land and natural and preexisting man-made
drainageways shall remain undisturbed.
            2.   All storm drainage systems shall be designed to carry
stormwater from a ten-year frequency storm.
            3.   No surface water may be channeled or directed into a sanitary
sewer.
            4.   All development shall be constructed and maintained so that
adjacent properties are not unreasonably burdened with surface waters as a
result of the development. More specifically:
               a.   No development may be constructed or maintained so that the
development unreasonably impedes the natural flow of water from higher adjacent
properties across the development, thereby unreasonably causing substantial
damage to higher adjacent properties.
               b.   No development may be constructed or maintained so that
surface waters from the development are unreasonably collected and channeled
onto lower adjacent properties at locations and volumes so as to cause
substantial damage to lower adjacent properties; and
               c.   Concrete curb or curb and gutter is required to adequately
direct and control storm water in all paved parking lots. However, this
requirement may be waived if a professional engineer (P.E.) can certify that:
                  i.   Drainage from parking lot follows topography;
                  ii.   Parking lot does not create erosion or decay of
surroundings;
                  iii.   Parking lot drainage does not adversely impact
adjacent properties; and
                  iv.   Construction must be in compliance with all applicable
codes, including NPDES, Rowan County Erosion Control and zoning ordinances
      (6)   (a)   Predevelopment site grading, for the purpose of this chapter,
is any land disturbing activity of 6,000 square feet or more that is not
regulated by a site plan previously approved by the town.
         (b)   The grading may be considered a low impact or high impact
activity based on the table below.
 
Low Impact Activity                     High Impact Activity
Land disturbing activity is more than   Land disturbing activity is 100 feet or
100 feet from a residential district    less from a residential district
The steepness of the proposed slope at  The steepness of the proposed slope at
clearing limit is 3:1 horizontal to     clearing limit is greater or steeper
vertical or flatter                     than 3:1 horizontal to vertical
The height of the proposed grade change The height of the proposed grade change
from a cut or fill is less than equal   is greater than 3 feet
to 3 feet
 
         (c)   If one or more of the high impact activities exist, it is
considered high impact.
         (d)   For a low impact activity, a predevelopment site grading permit
can be secured following a review and approval by the Zoning Administrator. If
denied by the Zoning Administrator, he or she shall state in writing the
reasons for his or her denial. If the Zoning Administrator denies issuing the
permit, the matter can be appealed to the Board of Adjustment.
         (e)   For a high impact activity, a predevelopment site grading permit
shall be reviewed and recommended by the Technical Review Committee before
being considered for approval or denial by the Planning Board. In the case of
the high impact activity being a land disturbing activity which is 100 feet or
less from a residential district, property owners within 100 feet of any land
disturbing activity shall be notified in writing, by first class mail of a
public hearing to be conducted by the Planning Board prior to consideration of
issuance of the permit. If the Planning Board denies issuing the permit, the
matter can be appealed to the Board of Adjustment.
      (7)   The proposed location and design of streets, curbs and gutters and
streetlights shall be included on the site plans.
      (8)   Proposed street access, easements, monuments and property lines
shall be included as part of the site plans.
      (9)   The proposed location and design of sidewalks shall be included as
part of the site plans.
      (10)   The proposed location of all proposed structures shall be shown on
the site plans. For buildings located within the CC district, the site plan
shall include exterior faades of the proposed buildings (and/or additions) and
all other information necessary to show compliance with § 155.075.
         (a)   Buildings shall, after complying with all other applicable
regulations, be located as near the front property line as possible with
parking areas located either to the rear or sides of the principal building.
         (b)   In the event that it is not practicable to adhere to the
standards of subsection (a) above, the Project Review Committee shall require
that the parking area landscaping standards outlined in §
155.074 be increased by a factor of two.
      (11)   The type and arrangement of streets and driveways within the
development shall be in compliance with the Town Thoroughfare Plan.
         (a)   Principal vehicular access points to the development shall be
designed to encourage smooth traffic flow with minimum hazards to pedestrians,
bicycles and vehicular traffic. Accommodations for controlled turning movements
into and out of the development and improvement of the approach street shall be
provided where existing or anticipated heavy traffic flows indicate need.
         (b)   To insure safe sight distances where streets intersect and where
driveways intersect streets, a minimum clear vision area shall be provided at
the corners of the intersections. No structure or planting that would impede
visibility shall be established in the clear vision area. Grading of land may
be required where topography impedes the required clear vision area.
      (12)   (a)   Every principal use must have access to a source of electric
power and telephone service adequate to accommodate the reasonable needs of the
use.
         (b)   All new electric power lines, including primary and secondary
distribution lines and service laterals, telephone and cable television lines
necessary to provide service to a lot or development shall be placed
underground in a manner acceptable to the regulations and standards that govern
the utility.
      (13)   Except for single- and two-family dwellings, all streets,
driveways, sidewalks, parking areas and other common areas and facilities shall
be lighted where necessary to insure the security of property and the safety of
persons using the facilities. In no case shall sources cause direct light or
glare upon adjacent property or constitute a hazard to motorists using public
streets.
         (a)   Exterior lighting on any lot shall be designed and directed so
that light is confined primarily to that lot.
         (b)   The average intensity illumination for outdoor lighting on a
piece of property shall not exceed six foot candles as measured at grade.
         (c)   No searchlights or other high intensity lighting devices used
primarily to illuminate the night sky shall be permitted.
         (d)   No external lighting device shall exceed a height of 20 feet as
measured from the ground immediately below the light fixture.
      (14)   Every site upon which one or more dumpsters are to be placed shall
be located and constructed so as to facilitate collection and minimize any
harmful effect on persons occupying the development site, neighboring
properties or public rights-of-way. Those developments hereafter established
that are required to provide a refuse container shall locate the container on
the property it serves. The site shall be paved with concrete, asphalt or other
bituminous paving and shall be located abutting a driveway of sufficient width
to allow access by the town's solid waste collection equipment. Sites and means
of access shall be approved by the Town Planner. All dumpsters shall be
screened where, in the absence of screening, they would be clearly visible at
dumpster level to:
         (a)   All dumpsters shall be screened where, in the absence of
screening, they would be clearly visible at dumpster level to:
            1.   Persons located within any dwelling unit on residential
property other than that where the dumpster is located;
            2.   Occupants, customers or other invitees located within any
building on nonresidential property other than that where the dumpster is
located, unless the other property is used for purposes permitted exclusively
in the zoning district; and
            3.   Persons traveling on any public street, sidewalk, or bikeway
within the town.
         (b)   Enclosures shall be constructed of durable, weatherproof,
permanent materials. All solid waste dumpsters or other large containers for
external solid waste storage shall have a lid placed on the container to
minimize the potential contamination of stormwater runoff.
         (c)   Screening shall consist of a solid opaque device that is at
least six feet in height, or at least one foot higher than the height of the
dumpster, whichever is greater, and have latching gates to provide access.
Materials and color used on the exterior of said device shall be compatible and
consistent with those used on the principal structure(s) on the site.
         (d)   Enclosures shall be constructed of durable, weatherproof,
permanent materials.
         (e)   All solid waste dumpsters or other large containers for external
solid waste storage shall have a lid placed on the container to minimize the
potential contamination of stormwater runoff.
      (15)   (a)   In order to reduce the impacts of a use of land on adjacent
incompatible uses, buffers and screening shall be required at each boundary
between different zoning districts or different developments, for example, two
different shopping centers. Adult establishments may not have buffers or
screening of any kind.
         (b)   Within buffers, screening is required and shall consist of one
or a combination of the following materials, as deemed appropriate and
necessary by the Project Review Committee. The width of screening required will
vary depending on the type and effectiveness of screen used.
            1.   A row of deciduous trees and/or evergreen trees which are not
less than 8 feet high at the time of planting and are spaced no more than 20
feet apart;
            2.   A row of evergreen shrubs spaced not more than five feet apart
which will grow to form a continuous hedge at least six feet in height within
two years of planting. The shrubs shall be not less than two feet in height at
the time of planting;
            3.   Berms with lawn grass, low-growing evergreen shrubs, evergreen
ground cover and/or organic or rock mulch; and
            4.   Solid decorative brick walls and wood fences.
         (c)   Alternative methods of buffering and screening may be permitted
if, upon submission of detailed plans to the Project Review Committee, the
Committee finds that the alternative methods will afford a degree of buffering
and screening equivalent to that provided by the above requirements.
         (d)   The retention of existing vegetation shall be maximized to the
extent practicable wherever the vegetation contributes to required buffering
and screening or to the preservation of significant trees.
         (e)   All landscaping and screening required by this section shall be
maintained so as to continue its effectiveness.
      (16)   (a)   Outdoor storage areas ancillary to the principal use of the
lot shall not be used for the storage of any noxious and hazardous materials
including, but not limited to: construction wastes, scrap, salvage or debris;
flammable or explosive liquids or substances; substances creating noxious
fumes, vapors, dusts or wastes; automobile tires, and any other similar
materials deemed to constitute a health hazard or public nuisance. All outdoor
storage may be conducted in side or rear yard areas only.
         (b)   Outdoor storage areas must be maintained to prevent the
spillover of stored materials on abutting land or public rights-of-way,
preserve the safety of pedestrians on adjoining sidewalks, prevent fire
hazards, prevent the threat of breeding places for rats and vermin, prevent the
possible uses of the yards as hiding places for criminal activity, and to
eliminate the attraction of materials stored within to children playing. The
storage area shall be fenced with a strong, secure, visually impenetrable fence
of suitable materials of at least six feet in height.
         (c)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as to prevent the
town or other appropriate agencies from removing illegal junk and scrap yards
from any zoning district within its jurisdiction.
      (17)   Rooftop HVAC equipment shall be concealed by a parapet or via an
enclosure consisting of materials similar in nature to that contained elsewhere
on the structure. External ground level-mechanical appurtenances shall not be
located on teh lot so as to be visible from any adjoining public street.
      (18)   The following standards to apply to every non-industrial principal
structure located outside the CC district, but otherwise located in a NB or HB
zoning district; and visible from a public road:
         (a)   If the façade of any such principal structure is visible from a
public road, metal materials shall constitute less than 50% of the entire area
of such façade.
         (b)   Windows and building entrances shall comprise at least 50% of
the first floor length of any principal structure. On any ground floor level,
any window or door shall be horizontally separated by no greater than 15 feet
from the nearest other such window or door in the same façade level. If the
principal structure contains a second or higher story, each such story shall
contain windows that are spaced in a manner complementary to the second story
of nearby buildings.
         (c)   The outdoor placement of goods for sale at the retail level
shall be allowed, provided such goods are not placed in the street-right-of-
way. All such goods that are visible from a public street shall be subject to
the following regulations:
            1.   Such goods shall be limited to those that can be readily
carried without the assistance of a moving device (i.e., be less than 50 pounds
in weight);
            2.   Such goods shall be displayed during hours of operation only.
   All other goods that are visible from a public street shall be screened in
accordance with §
155.073(B)(15).
         (d)   The exterior color finish of all building faades visible from
the street shall be of low reflectance, subtle or neutral earth tone colors.
High intensity colors, metallic colors, black or fluorescent colors shall be
prohibited.
         (e)   Building faades for all new principal buildings which are
readily identifiable by shape, size, orientation, color or other constructed
features (irrespective of whether they meet all the other criteria contained in
this section) that readily identify that use contained in that building with a
national corporate image or logo, shall be prohibited (except for certain
signage allowances as contained in §
155.096). To aid the traveling public and further located businesses, HB-zoned
parcels located within a 2,000-foot radius from the centerline of the
intersection of Long Ferry Road and Interstate 85 will be exempt from this
prohibition.
      (19)   Demolition bonds shall be required for any individual retail
structure (irrespective of zoning district) built or expanded after the
effective date of this section. Demolition bond requirements shall be as
follows:
         (a)   A demolition bond shall be required to be issued by the Spencer
Town Board prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy by the town for
any new retail structure that has a gross leasable area of greater than 10,000
square feet or for an expansion to an existing retail structure by a factor of
50% or more, with such expansion resulting in a building gross leasable area of
10,001+ square feet.
         (b)   The value of the bond shall be determined by a demolition
professional licensed to do business in North Carolina and shall be equal to
125% of the then present cost of demolishing the building housing the use in
question. Such bond shall be valid for a period of ten years following its
approval by the Town Board. At the end of the ten-year period, the bond (and
certificate of occupancy) shall become null and void unless a new demolition
bond (in an amount equal to at least 125% of the cost of then demolishing the
use housing the structure) is approved by the Town Board. The town reserves the
right to use the proceeds from the bond to have the structure housing such use
to be demolished if such structure remains vacant (i.e., not used for any
allowable principal use for which a certificate of occupancy is required) for a
period of three consecutive years.
      (20)   The following standards apply to every principal structure located
in the IB district:
         (a)   Adjacent lots shall be interconnected via access drives to
alleviate traffic on the main thoroughfare, except in the case of steep
topography existing prior to any grading or development between the sites. Each
parking area that is interconnected may reduce their minimum parking
requirement by 5%. Access drives shall facilitate two-way vehicular traffic and
be composed of the same materials used for the principal parking area.
         (b)   Building front must face public right-of-way.
         (c)   No exterior metal walls are to be allowed if visible from public
rights-of-way. Architectural elements such as windows and doors, window hoods,
transoms, awnings, and canopies are encouraged. Windows and building entrances
shall comprise at least 25% of the first floor length facing the public right-
of-way on a principal structure. On any ground floor level, any window or door
shall be horizontally separated by no greater than 25 feet from the nearest
other such window or door on the facade wall. If the principal structure
contains a second or higher story, each such story shall contain windows that
are spaced in a manner complementary to the second story of nearby buildings.
         (d)   If goods are to be sold outside at the retail level, the goods
must be located within a contained area in the side yard or located under a
covered device, such as an awning or canopy affixed to the principal structure.
Other items larger than 75 pounds for sale at the retail level must be located
in the side yard.
         (e)   Backflow preventer screening is required if above-ground
backflow preventer is located in front yard. Screening materials shall be
vegetative in nature and be further specified by the Project Review Committee.
Screening must meet Salisbury-Rowan Utilities standards for accessibility to
maintain the preventer and allow accessibility for fire access, as determined
by the Fire Chief.
         (f)   Pedestrian accessibility to all principal structures within the
IB district is required. Accordingly:
            1.   For all principal buildings constructed after the effective
date of this chapter,
            2.   For all principal buildings that are physically expanded after
the effective date of this chapter, and
            3.   For all principal buildings whose exterior facades that face
or are visible from a public street are altered after the effective date of
this chapter, such buildings shall install a pedestrian entryway opening to a
public street. Access from the adjoining public sidewalk, street right-of-way
or driveway to the principal structure shall be provided through an improved
surface. All such new, expanded or altered principal structures shall be
furnished with direct entrance from the sidewalk.
(`94 Code, App. C, Art. VII, § 4) (Am. Ord. 96-3, passed 2-13-96; Am. Ord. 97-
02, passed 5-13-97; Am. Ord. 04-02, passed 2-10-04; Am. Ord. 04-06, passed 9-
14-04; Am. Ord. 05-05, passed 10-11-05; Am. Ord. 07-07, passed 10-9-07; Am.
Ord. 09-05, passed 11-10-09; Am. Ord. 11-05, passed 6-14-11)
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.074 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.
   The intent of this section to protect and promote the public health, safety
and general welfare by requiring the landscaping of parking lots. Landscaping
will serve to reduce wind and air turbulence, erosion, heat and noise, the
glare of automobile lights, the level of carbon dioxide and the blighted
appearance of parking areas. Landscaping will provide shade, conserve and
stabilize property values, and facilitate the creation of an attractive and
harmonious community.
   (A)   Off-street parking shall be provided for all uses of land, structures,
and buildings as well as for any expansion of the uses or change in use in
accordance with the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Parking areas shall, where possible and with the exception of the IB
district, be located at either the rear or sides of the principal building.
Parking areas for adult establishments shall only be in the front of the
principal building. Off-street parking of heavy equipment, storage trailers,
and “tractor trailers” shall not be allowed in the front yard of any property
in the IB district.
   (C)   The following parking area requirements shall apply within the zoning
jurisdiction of the town (except where noted):
      (1)   (a)   Except in the CC district and for non-industrial principal
uses in the NB and HB districts (see below), off-street parking areas shall be
set back a minimum of 20 feet from the front property line or edge of right-of-
way, whichever is greater. The setback area shall be occupied by a 20-foot
landscaped strip developed to the standards as established by the town. If the
setback area exceeds 20 feet, the landscaping strip shall be placed nearest the
front of the lot.
         (b)   The location of off-street parking in the CC district shall be
as provided in §
155.075.
         (c)   Notwithstanding the landscaping requirements cited above, any
non-industrial principal use located in the NB or HB zoning district (but not
in the CC overlay district) shall have no greater than one row of parking in
the front yard (i.e., between the front faade of the building and the adjoining
street right-of-way.)
      (2)   Parking areas shall be landscaped so that there is located within
the interior of the parking area a landscaped area equivalent to the area of 1
parking space for each 15 parking spaces (30 parking spaces in the IB district)
in the parking area. A parking area consisting of less than 15 spaces shall
have at least 1 of this type of landscaped area.
      (3)   Landscaped areas shall be surrounded by a concrete curb or other
material, such as brick and the like, in order to protect the landscaped area
and to define its borders.
      (4)   Landscaped areas shall be composed of materials determined by the
Project Review Committee to be appropriate in order to maintain the appearance
of the area.
   (D)   Every building or structure used for business, trade or industry
hereafter erected shall provide space for the loading and unloading of vehicles
off the street or public alley. The space shall be located, when possible, at
the rear of the business. In some cases the Town Planner may approve the
loading space at the end or side of a business. No vehicle shall be required to
back onto a right-of-way, street or public alley.
   (E)   Commercial, industrial and wholesale operations shall provide loading
in dimensions and quantities determined by the Project Review Committee to be
sufficient to allow normal loading and unloading operations of magnitude
appropriate to the use. All plans shall meet the requirements of the Americans
with Disabilities Act.
   (F)   The following parking space requirements shall apply within the zoning
jurisdiction of the town:
      (1)   For apartments and manufactured homes located within manufactured
home parks, two spaces for each dwelling unit;
      (2)   For motels, tourist homes and hotels, one space for each room or
unit to be rented, plus one space for each two employees on the work shift of
the largest employment;
      (3)   For hospitals, one space for each two beds intended for patient
use, exclusive of bassinets, plus one space for each staff or visiting doctor
and one space for each two employees on the largest work shift;
      (4)   For elementary schools and junior high schools, both public and
private, one space for each employee;
      (5)   For senior high schools, trade schools and technical institutes,
one space for each two students for whom the school was designed, plus one
space for each employee;
      (6)   For restaurants, one space for each three seats, plus one space for
each two employees on the shift of largest employment;
      (7)   For medical and dental clinics and offices, four spaces for each
doctor practicing at the clinic, plus one space for each employee;
      (8)   For auditoriums, theaters, stadiums, racetracks and similar uses
involving the assembling of persons, one space for each four seats in the place
of assembly, plus one space for each 100 square feet of floor or ground area
used for amusement or assembly, but not containing fixed seats;
      (9)   For bus terminals, one space for each employee and one space for
each bus loading ramp and track;
      (10)   For other office, business and commercial uses, one space for each
200 square feet of gross floor area or usage area;
      (11)   For industrial, warehousing and wholesaling uses, one space for
each vehicle used directly in the conduct of the use, and in addition, one
space for each two employees of the establishment at the maximum employment on
a single shift; and
      (12)   For nursing homes, one space for every four beds.
   (G)   All required parking or loading spaces shall be located on the same
zoning lot as the principal use it serves, except as approved by the Town
Planner. Parking spaces shall have minimum dimensions of 9 feet by 18 feet.
Off-site parking for a permitted use, as required by this chapter, can be
located by itself or combined with parking for other uses, subject to
certification by the Town Planner that the following requirements have been
met:
      (1)   The use being served by the off-site parking is a permitted
principal use in the zoning district within which the lot containing the
parking is located.
      (2)   The off-site parking spaces are located within a walking distance
of 500 feet to a public entrance to the structure or land area containing the
use for which the spaces are required.
      (3)   A safe, direct, attractive, lighted and convenient pedestrian route
exists or will be provided between the off-site parking and the use being
served.
      (4)   The continued availability of off-site parking spaces necessary to
meet the requirements of this section are insured by an appropriate restriction
on the title to the land providing the off-site parking spaces, in the form of
a declaration, covenant or contract. All required off-street parking areas,
except for single and two-family dwelling units shall be paved or surfaced with
asphalt, concrete, or similar paved surface. Overflow parking lots that are
specifically designed for use during special events only need not be paved.
Parking lots for outdoor-related event purposes (amusement parks, racetracks,
parks, and the like) that are one acre or less need not be paved, nor comply
with any listed requirements for off-street parking areas except (1) lots shall
be sufficiently lighted, (2) a landscaped strip extending 20 feet from the edge
of pavement or the edge of right-of-way, whichever is greater must be provided,
and (3) there must be a physical barrier between rows of parking that must be
maintained. For any off-street parking area that does not require a paved
parking area surface, whenever such area abuts a public street, the driveway
leading from such street to such unpaved parking area shall be paved for a
distance of at least 15 feet from the edge of the street paving. This latter
requirement shall not apply to single or two-family dwelling units.
   (H)   Up to one-half of the parking spaces required for one use may be used
to satisfy the parking requirements for either a second use on the same zoning
lot or a use for which the provisions of division (I) below are utilized,
subject to certification by the Town Planner that the joint usage of parking
complies with the following provisions:
      (1)   The peak usage of the parking facility by one use will be at night
or on Sundays, such as with theaters, assembly halls, or churches, and the peak
usage of the parking facility by the second use will be at other times; or
      (2)   The second use is an ancillary use to the first use, such as
restaurants and meeting rooms to hotels and motels.
   (I)   (1)   Use of required parking and loading areas. Parking areas shall
be used for parking automobiles, motorcycles and passenger trucks only, with no
sales, storage, repair work, dismantling or service of any kind permitted.
      (2)   Required loading space shall be available for the loading and
unloading of vehicles, and shall not be used for the storage of vehicles or
materials, or to meet off-street parking requirements.
   (J)   After the effective date of this chapter, buffers and screening shall
be required between all parking lots and abutting uses.
   (K)   Parking requirements for dwellings, and in residential districts. This
division (K) is hereby enacted to lessen the impacts of stormwater run-off due
to accelerated erosion from the parking of vehicles upon non-impervious
surfaces, and to promote the town’s residential districts.
      (1)   No front yard parking of motor vehicles will hereafter be allowed
at dwellings or in any residential district in the Town of Spencer unless
parking is situated upon an improved, prepared surface that extends from a
public right-of-way. No part of any sidewalk shall be counted towards a front
yard parking area. No more than 40% of the front yard may be used for parking.
Grass and bare earth shall not be acceptable parking surfaces. At a minimum, a
parking pad consisting of aggregate stone base of four inches is required. The
use of other materials, except concrete, bituminous asphalt and aforementioned
aggregate stone must be approved by the Technical Review Committee. The parking
pad must be delineated with appropriate materials with a physical edge that is
maintained.
      (2)   Properties having to comply with division (K)(2) shall do so by no
later than January 1, 2011.
      (3)   In order to protect property values and promote the general welfare
of the town’s citizens, parking for recreational vehicles, boats, and trailers
shall be restricted to the side or rear yards in the residential districts and
for dwellings in the town.
      (4)   Violations of this section will be enforced in accord with §
10.99.
(`94 Code, App. C, Art. VII, § 4) (Am. Ord. 96-3, passed 2-13-96; Am. Ord. 05-
05, passed 10-11-05; Am. Ord. 08-05, passed 11-18-08; Am. Ord. 08-06, passed
11-18-08; Am. Ord. 09-05, passed 11-10-09; Am. Ord. 10-06, passed 4-13-10; Am.
Ord. 10-08, passed 5-11-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Buffers and screening, see §
155.073(B)(15)
§ 155.075 CC COMMERCIAL CORRIDOR OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   The CC commercial corridor overlay district is established along
Salisbury Avenue/US Highway 29N, in its entirety within the planning and zoning
jurisdiction of the town and is inclusive:
      (1)   Of all NB, CB and HB districts abutting Salisbury Avenue;
      (2)   To a depth of 125 feet or the depth of one parcel, whichever is
greater, in any residential district abutting Salisbury Avenue; and
      (3)   To a depth of 400 feet or the depth of one parcel, whichever is
greater but not to exceed 400 total feet, in any industrial district abutting
Salisbury Avenue.
   (B)   Development encouraged in the CC district should be visually
harmonious, but not necessarily homogenous, with development located in and
around downtown Spencer.
   (C)   The regulations contained in this section are in addition to those
contained and which apply to buildings and uses in the underlying zoning
district. Unless specifically noted, whenever there is a difference between the
regulations contained herein and those prescribed in the underlying zoning
district, the more restrictive regulations shall apply. Unless otherwise
stated, the regulations shall apply to all new structures, any physical
alterations to existing principal structures, as well as to expansions to
existing principal structures.
   (D)   Setbacks. All buildings (except those located in the CB district)
shall have a minimum front yard setback of ten feet. Buildings located in the
CB district shall have a maximum front yard setback of ten feet. Outdoor
seating areas may be allowed in the front yard. In addition, the outdoor
placement of goods for sale at the retail level shall be allowed. All such
goods that are visible from a public street shall be subject to the following
regulations:
      (1)   Such goods shall be limited to those that can be readily carried
without the assistance of a moving device (i.e., be less than 50 pounds in
weight);
      (2)   Such goods shall be displayed during hours of operation only;
      (3)   Notwithstanding the above, the outdoor storage of tires and other
vehicular parts and equipment shall be prohibited unless such goods are
screened from the view of all public streets by screening in accordance with §
155.073(B)(15); and
      (4)   Such storage of retail goods may be placed on a sidewalk area
directly in front of the lot containing the use that stores such goods. The
goods may be placed on the sidewalk so long as they do not impede pedestrian
traffic along the sidewalk and do not pose visibility problems for automobiles.
   (E)   Off-street parking. The following regulations shall apply within the
CC commercial corridor overlay district:
      (1)   Notwithstanding the provisions of §
155.074, there shall be no required off-street parking within properties
located in the CB district. That notwithstanding, as part of a special use
permit approval, the Board of Adjustment may require that some or all of the
parking requirements of § 155.174 are met through the provision of on-street
parking and/or dedicated off-street parking facilities on the lot in question
or in a nearby location.
      (2)   Off-street parking shall be concentrated in the side and the rear
of the lot with preference given to the rear of the lot to minimize visibility
from adjacent public streets. Accordingly, no greater than two rows of parking
shall be located to the side of the principal structure. Notwithstanding, the
Zoning Administrator (or the Board of Adjustment in the issuance of a special
use permit) may waive this requirement if it is determined that the parking
area located in the side yard is adequately screened from the view of motorists
and pedestrians of the adjacent public street(s).
      (3)   Off-street parking areas shall be designed to allow pedestrians to
safely move from their vehicles to the buildings. This may be achieved by
providing a sidewalk at the perimeter of the lot or by having designated
corridors within the parking area that channel pedestrians from their cars to
building entryways.
   (F)   Building height.  The maximum height of any building shall be 50 feet.
   (G)   Massing. The following regulations shall apply only to buildings
located in the CB central business general zoning district:
      (1)   The maximum building height to width ratio shall be 1:3. (NOTE:
Thus, a building with a height of 20 feet can have a maximum building width (as
measured parallel to the adjoining public street) of 60 feet. (see also
"building articulation".)
      (2)   Faades of buildings having a massing ratio of greater than 1:3 that
faces a public street shall have an articulated wall plane that incorporated
plane projections or recesses to create an interesting and attractive
architectural design which is comprised of more than flat walls with minimal
features. Any wall offsets designed to meet this requirement shall have a
minimum projection or recess depth of two feet and a minimum width of two feet.
Door inserts shall not be counted as being a "wall offset."
   (H)   Building entrances/building orientation/fenestration. Any portion of a
building, other than a single or two-family dwelling, that faces an adjacent
street right-of-way shall be considered a building front and shall be subject
to the following entrance, orientation and fenestration requirements:
      (1)   Pedestrian accessibility to all principal structures within the CC
commercial district is strongly encouraged. Accordingly, (a) for all principal
buildings constructed after the effective date of this chapter, (b) for all
principal buildings that are physically expanded after the effective date of
this chapter; and, (c) for all principal buildings whose exterior faades that
face or are visible from a public street are altered after the effective date
of this chapter, such buildings shall install a pedestrian entryway opening to
a public street. Access from the adjoining public sidewalk, street right-of-way
or driveway to the principal structure shall be provided through an improved
surface. All such new, expanded or altered principal structures shall be
furnished with direct entrance from the sidewalk. Doors that open up from the
sidewalk shall be recessed to provide a sense of entry to the building.
      (2)   The first floor of all principal buildings constructed after the
effective date of this section shall be designed to encourage and to complement
pedestrian-scale activity by the use of windows and doors. These openings shall
be arranged so that the uses contained within the buildings are visible and
accessible to pedestrians from the public street.
      (3)   Windows and building entrances shall comprise at least 50% of the
first floor length of any principal structure. On any ground floor level, any
window or door shall be horizontally separated by no greater than 15 feet
(eight feet if located in the CB district) from the nearest other such window
or door in the same façade level. If the principal structure contains a second
or higher story, each such story shall contain windows that are spaced in a
manner complementary to the second story of nearby buildings.
      (4)   In all districts, frames and sashes for windows shall be of wood,
vinyl, or pre-finished metal and may have stone, brick, or cast concrete
lintels and stills. Window glass shall always be set back from the building
face rather than being flush.
   (I)   Building articulation. (Applies to all buildings except single- and
two-family dwellings) No wall that faces an adjacent public street shall have a
blank, uninterrupted length exceeding 30 feet. “Interruptions” shall include
changes in plane by more than one foot, changes in texture or masonry patterns
or one or more windows, each having a minimum area of ten feet. (see also
"Massing".)
   (J)   Awnings and canopies. (Applies to all buildings except single- and
two-family dwellings.) When used, awnings and canopies shall be placed at the
top of window openings and shall relate to the shape of the top of the window.
Awnings shall be made of canvas or treated canvas material, unless otherwise
approved by the Zoning Administrator (or by the Board of Adjustment as part of
a conditional use permit approval). Metal awnings are permitted in the
Commercial Corridor Overlay district. When being installed in the historic
district an approval of a certificate of appropriateness from the Historic
Preservation Commission is required. The style and type of metal awning shall
only be a standing seam shed (with or without a valance and with either open or
closed ends) with a powder coated or baked-on enamel finish in either a matte
or flat earth-tone color, except when in the historic district colors are to be
in keeping with approved historic preservation orders. Notwithstanding, vinyl
awnings are not permitted. No awning shall extend more than 2/3 the width of
the sidewalk or nine feet, whichever is less. Awnings and canopies must be
self-supporting from the wall; no supports shall rest on or interfere with the
use of pedestrian walkways or the street. In no case shall any awning extend
beyond the street curb or interfere with street trees or public utilities.
   (K)   Building materials. Additions and new construction of all structures
(including accessory buildings) shall use facing materials that are compatible
in quality, color, texture, finish, and dimension to those common in the
downtown area. Acceptable materials include brick, stone, wood, cast concrete,
or concrete based stucco. Notwithstanding the above, the Zoning Administrator
(or the Board of Adjustment in association with the issuance of a conditional
use permit) may authorize external materials other than those listed above
where it is judged that such materials are complimentary to the exterior faades
of other nearby buildings located in the CC commercial overlay district.
   (L)   Building colors. The exterior color finish of all buildings (except
for single- and two-family dwellings) in the CC commercial overlay district
shall compliment the color of buildings that predominated in the CC commercial
overlay district at the time of adoption of this chapter. In general, those
colors should be of low reflectance, subtle or neutral earth tone colors. High
intensity colors, metallic colors, black or fluorescent colors shall be
prohibited.
   (M)   Corporate logo exterior images. Downtown Spencer and areas immediately
adjoining it that comprise the CC district contain non-residential uses that
primarily are not distinguished by standard building colors, building designs
or signage that are readily associated with that use's national corporate image
or logo. Accordingly, building faades for all new buildings constructed in the
CC district which are readily identifiable by shape, size, orientation, color
or other constructed features (irrespective of whether they meet all the other
criteria contained in this section) that readily identify that use contained in
that building with a national corporate image or logo, shall be prohibited
(except for certain signage allowances as contained in §
155.096.
   (N)   Signage. Notwithstanding the standards contained in §
155.096, the following regulations shall apply within the CC commercial overlay
district:
      (1)   No freestanding signs shall be allowed on lots located within the
underlying CB district as provided division (2) below.
      (2)   Where freestanding signs are allowed, each use shall be allowed to
have a maximum of one freestanding sign. Such sign shall have a maximum height
of ten feet and a maximum area of 40 square feet. All such signs shall be
located outside the street right-of-way. Shopping centers/office buildings and
similar multi-tenant developments (outside the CB district) with a gross
leasable area of 50,000+ square feet shall be allowed to have one freestanding
sign per public street front, with each sign not exceeding 50 square feet.
      (3)   Lighting levels for canopies for non-residential uses shall be
adequate to facilitate the activities taking place in such locations and not to
be used to attract attention to such uses.
(Ord. 05-05, passed 10-11-05; Am. Ord. 06-12, passed 11-14-06; Am. Ord. 07-02,
passed 5-8-07; Am. Ord. 07-05, passed 7-10-07; Am. Ord. 13-02, passed 2-12-13;
Am. Ord. 17-003, passed 2-14-17)
Cross-reference:
   Visual development guide, see Ch. 155, Appendix B
§ 155.076 TELECOMMUNICATIONS TOWER.
   (A)   The applicant for a conditional use permit for a telecommunication
tower shall bear the burden of demonstrating by substantial evidence in a
written record that a bona tide need exists for the proposed telecommunication
tower and that no reasonable combination of locations, techniques or
technologies will obviate the need for, or mitigate the height or visual impact
of, the proposed telecommunication tower. Notwithstanding, in evaluating
applications or locations for wireless telecommunication facilities,
information regarding an applicant's business decisions about designed service
including customer demand for its service or quality of its service to or from
a particular area or site, shall not be considered or required by the town as
provided in G.S. § 160A-400.52(c).
   (B)   The applicant for a conditional use permit for a telecommunication
tower shall be required to notify by regular mail all property owners within a
one-quarter mile (1,320 feet) radius of the proposed location of any public
hearing on the application at least ten days prior to the hearing.
   (C)   In order to better inform the public, in the case of a new
telecommunication tower, the applicant shall prior to the public hearing on the
application, hold a “balloon test” as follows: Applicant shall arrange to fly,
or raise upon a temporary mast, a minimum three-foot diameter brightly colored
balloon at the maximum height of the proposed new tower. The dates, (including
a second date, in case of poor visibility on the initial date) times and
location of this balloon test shall be advertised, by the applicant, at seven
and 14 days in advance of the first test date in a newspaper with a general
circulation in town. The applicant shall inform the Zoning Board of Adjustment,
in writing, of the dates and times of the test, at least 14 days in advance.
Notice of the dates and times of such tests shall be mailed by the applicant to
all property owners within a one-quarter mile (1,320 feet) radius of the
proposed location at least ten days prior to the primary test date. The balloon
shall be flown for at least eight consecutive hours sometime between 7:00 a.m.
and 4:00 p.m. of the dates chosen. The primary date shall be on a weekend, but
the second date, in case of poor visibility on the initial date, may be on a
week day.
   (D)   If due to topography, existing vegetative canopy, or other local
conditions, the Zoning Board of Adjustment determines that a tower disguised as
a coniferous tree is a preferable aesthetic alternative to a simulated lighting
tower, it may require such camouflage treatment as a condition of approval.
   (E)   It is the policy of the town to encourage co-location and the use of
existing structures where appropriate. In furtherance of that policy objective,
a conditional use permit for a telecommunication tower shall not be approved
unless the tower is designed structurally, electrically, mechanically in all
respects to accommodate at least one additional user. An application shall not
be deemed complete until the applicant submits a letter of intent agreeing to
make all of its wireless telecommunication facilities (including existing
facilities) within the town available to providers of functionally equivalent
services at commercially reasonable rates. Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-400.53,
certain collocation applications are entitled to streamlined processing.
Qualifying applications will be deemed complete unless the town provides notice
in writing to the applicant within 45 days of submission or within some other
mutually agreed upon timeframe. Furthermore, the town may require information
necessary to determine whether collocation is reasonably feasible in certain
instances, per G.S. § 160A-400.52(c).
   (F)   No wireless telecommunication facility shall interfere with usual and
customary radio and television reception excepting broadcast facilities as
provided for in the regulations of the FCC.
   (G)   All telecommunication towers must comply with FCC and FAA regulations.
   (H)   A copy of the applicant’s FCC license must accompany its application.
If the applicant is not an FCC licensee, the applicant must demonstrate that it
has binding commitments from one or more FCC licensees to utilize the wireless
telecommunication facility and must submit a copy of each such wireless service
provider's FCC license. If FCC licenses have previously been filed with the
town in conjunction with other wireless telecommunication facilities, the
applicant may certify that such licenses remain in full force and effect.
   (I)   As part of its application, each applicant for a telecommunication
tower shall be required to execute a standard maintenance/removal agreement
binding the applicant and its successors and assigns to maintain properly the
exterior appearance of and ultimately remove the facility within 180 days of
the abandonment or cessation of operations of the facility. Such agreement
shall require the applicant to pay all costs for monitoring compliance with,
and enforcement of, the agreement and to reimburse the Town of Spencer for all
costs it incurs to perform any work required of the applicant by the agreement
that it fails to perform. The applicant will be required to execute and file
with the town a bond, or other form of security acceptable to the town as to
type of security and the form and manner of execution, in an amount equal to
150% of the cost to remove the proposed facility, the amount of such cost to be
certified by a qualified, licensed North Carolina engineer, to assure the
faithful performance of the terms and conditions of this article and conditions
of any conditional use permit issued pursuant to this section. The applicant
and its successors and assigns shall be required to continue such bond or other
security until such time as the facility has been removed and all other
requirements of the maintenance/removal agreement have been satisfied.
   (J)   All telecommunication towers shall comply with FAA lighting
requirements. In addition, in a specific instance, the town may impose lighting
requirements for a tower that is not required by FAA regulations to be lit.
   (K)   Except as otherwise provided herein, minimum setbacks for
telecommunication towers shall be based upon the underlying zoning district:
      (1)   The minimum setbacks in areas bordering residential zoning
districts shall be the height of the tower plus ten feet.
      (2)   The minimum setback in all other zones shall be the height of the
tower.
      (3)   All cell towers must be at least 500 feet from any residential
property boundary line.
      (4)   The Zoning Board of Adjustment may reduce the setback requirement
upon a showing by the applicant that there are special physical circumstances
or conditions affecting the proposed site such that the strict application of
the setback requirement would not allow the most effective use of the proposed
site to minimize the visual impact of the wireless telecommunication facility.
   (L)   Telecommunication towers shall be buffered from adjacent properties
with a buffer which meets the requirements of §
155.073(15)(b). The project review committee may require additional buffering,
if required, to minimize the impact of the tower.
   (M)   In cases where an applicant is required to perform an environmental
assessment (EA) or an environmental impact statement (EIS) under the National
Environmental Policy Act or the National Historic Preservation Act, such EA or
EIS shall be submitted as part of its application for a conditional use permit.
An application for a conditional use permit will not be deemed complete until
any required EA or EIS has been submitted to the town.
   (N)   Telecommunication towers shall not be constructed unless the company
erecting the tower has general liability coverage of at least $1,000,000. The
owner of a telecommunication tower shall provide the town with a certificate of
insurance showing evidence of its coverage and the certificate shall contain a
requirement that the insurance company notify the town 30 days prior to the
cancellation, modification or failure to renew the insurance coverage required.
   (O)   Telecommunication towers shall be designed to meet the following
standards if reasonably feasible under G. S. § 160A-400.52(c) and G.S. § 160A-
400.53:
      (1)   Towers and antennae shall be designed to blend into the surrounding
environment through the use of color and camouflaging architectural treatment.
The Zoning Board of Adjustment may condition approval on the use of specific
concealment techniques where it determines that doing so is necessary or
desirable.
      (2)   Guyed towers are prohibited. Commercial wireless telecommunication
towers shall be of a monopole design unless the Zoning Board of Adjustment
determines that an alternative design would better blend in to the surrounding
environment.
      (3)   Use of dual-polarized antennae which electronically combine the
functions of transmit and receive antennae (rather than spatial diversity
antenna arrays which rely on antennae being physically separated), dual-band/
multi-band antennae (allowing two or more providers of different types of
commercial wireless services to share a common antenna), and use of combiners
(allowing antenna sharing by providers using the same frequency band) are
encouraged.
      (4)   Antennae shall be mounted on telecommunication towers so as to
present the smallest possible silhouette, profile, or cross-section. Preferred
antenna mounting scenarios are, in order of descending preference:
         (a)   Compact dual-polarized antennae in a cylindrical unicell
arrangement extending no more than two feet from the sides of the supporting
structure and mounted atop the tower;
         (b)   Panel antennae flush-mounted against the tower;
         (c)   Antennae mounted at the end of straight or curved davit arms or
brackets extending from the sides of the tower.
      (5)   No telecommunication tower shall have constructed thereon, or
attached thereto in any way, any platform, catwalk, crow's nest, triangular
framework, or like structures or equipment, except during periods of
construction or repair. Curved or straight davit arms or brackets used for
antenna mounting shall be connected to the tower at the base of the arms or
brackets only and such arms or brackets (and any antennae or hardware mounted
thereon) shall not be physically interconnected with any similar arm or
bracket.
      (6)   All equipment enclosures and other improvements accessory to a
tower shall be architecturally designed to blend in with the surrounding
environment and shall be maintained in good appearance and repair. No equipment
enclosure may exceed 12 feet in height. Ground mounted equipment shall be
screened from view with a buffer as described in §
155.073(15)(b) of this chapter.
      (7)   Telecommunication towers, equipment enclosures and other
improvements shall be enclosed within a security fence consisting of chain link
fencing at least eight feet in height. The fence may be topped with barbed
wire. The Zoning Board of Adjustment may require as a condition of approval
that the fencing be screened by appropriate landscaping or other means. The
Zoning Board of Adjustment may waive or modify the fencing requirement if it
determines that doing so will enhance the overall appearance of the facility
without any compromise in safety or security.
      (8)   Telecommunication towers shall have a flat gray or galvanized
finish unless the Zoning Board of Adjustment determines another color scheme
would be a preferable aesthetic alternative.
      (9)   No two telecommunication towers shall he constructed within 1,320
feet of each other unless documentation is provided to the Zoning Board of
Adjustment to show that co-location on towers within the 1,320 feet is not
technically feasible.
      (10)   No telecommunication tower shall be permitted which exceeds 100
feet in height.
      (11)   Signage at any telecommunication tower site shall conform to the
following provisions:
         (a)   A sign listing the name of the wireless telecommunication
service provider operating the site, the site name or number and an emergency
telephone number shall be posted at or near the entrance to the site so as to
be readily visible to persons outside the site’s security fencing.
         (b)   Equipment hazard warning and informational signs are permitted.
         (c)   The posting of any other signs or advertising is prohibited at
any wireless telecommunication facility or upon any telecommunication tower.
      (12)   An access road and parking area shall be provided to assure
adequate emergency and service access. Use of existing roads, public or
private, shall be of first priority before new road construction is started.
      (13)   The Zoning Board of Adjustment may require any additional
conditions deemed necessary to ameliorate the impact of the tower on the
adjacent properties and uses. Such conditions shall include, but are not
limited to: the height of the tower; the construction or type of tower;
lighting; and co-location of the antennae and facilities of different parties
on a single tower.
      (14)   At the time that an applicant submits an application for a
conditional use permit for a new telecommunications tower, such person shall
pay a nonrefundable wireless telecommunications tower facility application fee
to the town that is concurrent with the town’s adopted schedule of fees.
      (15)   If the application seeks to locate additional antennae on an
existing wireless telecommunications facility, then the application fee shall
be one that is concurrent with the town’s adopted schedule of fees.
      (16)   No application fee is required in order to recertify a conditional
use permit, unless material modifications have been made since issuance of the
existing conditional use permit.
      (17)   An annual wireless telecommunications facility permit shall be
required for each wireless telecommunication facility located in the town.
Before a permit shall be issued or renewed an applicant or permittee must
certify that:
         (a)   It currently holds an FCC license to provide commercial wireless
services and that such license is in good standing or, if the permittee is not
an FCC licensee, that the license of each of its FCC tenants is in good
standing.
         (b)   The wireless telecommunications facility continues to be
operated by the permittee and that it has a continued need for the facility to
meet the requirements of its FCC license.
         (c)   That the facility continues to comply with all FCC and FAA rules
and regulations and all conditions of its conditional use permit.
         (d)   That the permittee currently has general liability insurance of
at least $1,000,000 in force covering the wireless telecommunications facility
as evidenced by a certificate of insurance attached to its renewal application.
         (e)   That it is in compliance with its maintenance/removal agreement
and that any bond or other security given in conjunction therewith remains in
full force and effect.
         (f)   That it has not constructed, maintained, modified or operated
any wireless telecommunications facilities in the town without the town’s
approval.
(Ord. 07-01, passed 3-13-07; Am. Ord. 07-09, passed 11-13-07)
§ 155.077 SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM (SES).
   (A)    This section applies to the construction of any new SES within the
zoning jurisdiction of the town.
   (B)   (1)   An SES established prior to the effective date of this chapter
shall be exempt.
      (2)   Exception: Modification to an existing SES that increases the SES
area by more than 5% of the original footprint or changes the solar panel type
(e.g. photovoltaic to solar thermal) shall be subject to this chapter.
   (C)   Maintenance and repair are not subject to this section.
   (D)   This chapter does not supersede regulations from local, state, or
federal agencies.
   (E)   Aviation notification. The following requirements apply only to Level
1, Level 2, and Level 3 systems over one-half an acre in size:
      (1)   A map analysis showing a radius of five nautical miles from the
center of the SES with any airport operations within this area highlighted
shall be submitted with permit application.
      (2)   For consideration of potential impacts to low altitude military
flight paths, notification of intent to construct the SES shall be sent to the
NC Commanders Council at least 30 days before the CUP/SUP hearing for Level 3
SESs and at least 45 days before starting construction for applicable Level 1
and Level 2 SESs. Notification shall include location of SES (i.e. map,
coordinates, address, parcel ID), technology (i.e. roof-mounted PV, ground-
mounted fixed PV, tracked PV, solar thermal, and the like), and the area of
system (e.g. five acres). Proof of delivery of notification and date of
delivery shall be submitted with permit application.
      (3)   The latest version of the Solar Glare Hazard Analysis Tool (SGHAT)
shall be used per its user’s manual to evaluate the solar glare aviation
hazard. The full report for each flight path and observation point, as well as
the contact information for the Zoning Administrator, shall be sent to the
authority indicated below at least 30 days before the CUP/SUP hearing for Level
3 SESs and at least 45 days before starting construction for Level 1 and Level
2 SESs. Proof of delivery of notification and date of delivery shall be
submitted with permit application.
         (a)   Airport operations at airports in the National Plan of
Integrated Airport Systems (NPIAS) within five nautical miles of the center of
SES: provide required information to the Federal Aviation Administration’s
(FAA) Airport District Office (ADO) with oversight of North Carolina.
         (b)   Airport operations at airports not in the NPIAS, including
military airports, within five nautical miles of the center of SES: provide
required information to the NC Commanders Council for military airports and to
the management of the airport for non-military airports.
      (4)   Any applicable SES design changes (e.g. module tilt, module
reflectivity, and the like) after initial submittal shall be rerun in the SGHAT
tool and the new full report shall be sent without undue delay to the contact
specified in divisions (E)(3)(a) and (E)(3)(b) above for accurate records of
the as-built system.
   (F)   Level 1 SESs are a permitted use provided they meet the applicable
height, setback, aviation notification, and related district standards.
   (G)   Level 2 and Level 3 solar energy system requirements. These
requirements are in addition to height, setback, aviation notification, and
applicable district standards.
      (1)   Site plan. A site plan shall be submitted to the Zoning
Administrator demonstrating compliance with setback and height limitations,
applicable zoning district requirements such as lot coverage, and applicable
solar requirements per this chapter.
      (2)   Visibility.
         (a)   Level 1 SESs shall be constructed with buffering as required by
the applicable zoning district or development standards.
         (b)   Level 2 & 3 SESs shall be constructed with buffering as required
by the applicable zoning district or development standards such that a complete
visual separation is achieved from adjoining uses of a lower intensity (or
residential uses).
         (c)   Public signage (i.e. advertising, educational, and the like) as
permitted by local signage ordinance, including appropriate or required
security and safety signage.
         (d)   If lighting is provided at site, lighting shall be shielded and
downcast such that the light does not spill onto the adjacent parcel or the
night sky. Motion sensor control is preferred.
      (3)   Decommissioning.
         (a)   A decommissioning plan signed by the party responsible for
decommissioning and the landowner (if different) addressing the following shall
be submitted with the permit application.
            1.   Defined conditions upon which decommissioning will be
initiated (i.e. end of land lease, no power production for 12 months, and the
like).
            2.   Removal of all non-utility owned equipment, conduit,
structures, fencing, roads, and foundations.
            3.   Restoration of property to condition prior to development of
the SES.
            4.   The timeframe for completion of decommissioning activities.
            5.   Description of any agreement (e.g. lease) with the landowner
regarding decommissioning.
            6.   The party currently responsible for decommissioning.
            7.   Plans for updating this decommissioning plan.
         (b)   Prior to the issuance of a building permit, the owner of a SES
site shall provide a surety or performance bond that renews automatically or
irrevocable letter of credit in favor of the town in an amount equal to the
estimated removal cost of the solar collectors, cabling, electrical components,
and any other associated facilities, less the salvage value of the equipment
prior to construction. A bond certificate must be submitted to the Land
Management Department each year verifying the bond has been properly renewed.
If the SES owner elects to use a letter of credit, it shall be issued by a
federally chartered bank with a branch office in central North Carolina. The
bond or letter of credit shall remain in full force and effect until any
necessary site restoration is completed to restore the site to a condition
comparable to that which existed prior to the issuance of the conditional use
permit.
         (c)   Before final electrical inspection, provide evidence that the
decommissioning plan was recorded with the Register of Deeds.
      (4)   Parcel line setbacks. Dimensional requirements and setbacks to SES
equipment, excluding any security fencing, poles, and wires necessary to
connect to facilities of the electric utility, must comply with the underlying
zoning district requirements in §
155.054. However:
         (a)   Sight distance. Ground-mounted SES must also not impair sight
distance for safe access to or from the property or other properties in the
vicinity.
         (b)   Screening. Level 1 SESs are subject to screening requirements
typically applied to accessory utility systems (HVAC, dumpsters, and the like).
         (c)   Height. The height of systems will be measured from the highest
natural grade below each solar panel. Height limitations exclude utility poles
and any antennas constructed for the project.
            1.   Roof-mounted. Per underlying zoning district.
            2.   Ground-mounted Level 1. Ground-mounted Level 1 systems shall
be limited to ten feet maximum height.
            3.   Ground-mounted Level 2 &3. Ground-mounted Level 2 & 3 systems
shall be limited to 20 feet maximum height.
         (d)   The following table provides the parcel line setback to ground-
mounted SES equipment, excluding any security fencing, poles, and wires
necessary to connect to facilities of the electric utility:
District Level 2              Level 3
                            Front Side Rear
          
          
         Per Zoning District*
District Level 2              Level 3
                             Front   Side    Rear
   R-20                                   
   R-15                                  
   R-8                                   
   R-6                                   
   HB Per Zoning District*    30   15   25'*
   I                          30   15   25'*
   IB                         30   15   25'*
* 100' setback for SES equipment, excluding any security fencing, to any
residential dwelling unit. If the SES is on a working farm where the
primary residential structure of the farm is on an adjacent lot then this
100' setback will not apply to this primary residential structure.
 
      (5)         Prevention of clustering.
         (a)   No new SES shall be allowed within one geodesic mile of an
existing or previously permitted SES within the corporate limits of the town or
within the town's extraterritorial jurisdiction.
         (b)   No new SES will be allowed inside the corporate limits of the
town or within the town's extraterritorial jurisdiction, within 400 feet of a
main entrance corridor into the town. For the purposes of this division, the
main entrance corridors are defined as N US 29 Hwy/Salisbury Ave, Long Ferry
Rd. 3rd Street/Hollywood Dr. and 7th Street/7th Street Extension.
(Ord. 14-05, passed 5-13-14; Am. Ord. 14-12, passed 9-9-14; Am. Ord. 17-002,
passed 3-14-17)
SIGN REGULATIONS
§ 155.085 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to encourage and permit signs that will by
reason, size, location, construction, or manner of display promote the public
health, safety, and well being; be compatible with and supportive of the
requirements for traffic safety; be consistent with the visual quality and the
historic and scenic character of the town by regulating signs in a way so as to
support and complement the above stated purposes and other legitimate
objectives as set forth in this chapter.
(`94 Code, App. C, Art. VIII, § 1)
§ 155.086 APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter shall apply to all signs located within the corporate limits
and zoning jurisdiction of the town.
(`94 Code, App. C, Art. VIII, § 2)
§ 155.087 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   The following signs are prohibited in all zoning districts:
   (A)   Any sign not included under the types of signs specifically permitted
in a zoning district;
   (B)   Any wind activated sign, except as permitted under the provisions of
this subchapter;
   (C)   Any portable sign, except as permitted under the provisions of this
subchapter;
   (D)   Any sign which displays flashing, blinking or intermittent light or
light of changing intensity, except as permitted under the provisions of this
chapter;
   (E)   Any sign which moves or has parts or sections which move;
   (F)   Any sign which obstructs or blocks the clear vision area, as defined
by § 155.045;
   (G)   Any roof sign;
   (H)   Any off-premises sign which advertises or publicizes a product,
service or event not available or not occurring on the premises or lot upon
which the sign is located;
   (I)   Any sign painted upon the pavement of any public street or right-of-
way except traffic-control signs provided by governmental agencies;
   (J)   Any sign which imitates in any way or appears similar to official
traffic-control signs or devices;
   (K)   Any sign placed in a public right-of-way except those placed by a
governmental agency;
   (L)   Any temporary sign except as provided by this subchapter;
   (M)   Any sign, light or floodlight erected or maintained in a manner so as
to cast direct light onto a public street or right-of-way or adjacent
properties;
   (N)   Any sign which obstructs or blocks another permitted sign;
   (O)   Any sign containing obscene or offensive words, pictures, or symbols;
and/or
   (P)   Any sign which does not comply with the provisions of state law.
(`94 Code, App. C, Art. VIII, § 3)
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.088 PERMITTED SIGNS.
   (A)   One each of the following signs shall be permitted per zoning lot in
addition to other permitted signs:
      (1)   Construction signs;
      (2)   Directory signs;
      (3)   Institutional signs;
      (4)   Integral signs;
      (5)   Home occupation signs;
      (6)   Window signs;
      (7)   Real estate signs; and
      (8)   Political signs.
   (B)   The following signs are permitted as needed in addition to other
permitted signs:
      (1)   Emergency or warning signs or lights including blinking or flashing
lights erected or installed by government agencies;
      (2)   Flags;
      (3)   Holiday decorations;
      (4)   No trespassing/no loitering/keep out signs;
      (5)   Traffic directional signs;
      (6)   Public signs; and
      (7)   Banners displayed for a public or charitable purpose.
   (C)   Public buildings, churches, clubs and lodges are permitted one wall
sign, excluding painted wall signs, and one freestanding sign.
(`94 Code, App. C, Art. VIII, § 4)
§ 155.089 SIGNS EXEMPT FROM PERMITS AND FEES.
   The following signs are exempt from permits and fees:
   (A)   Political signs;
   (B)   Construction signs;
   (C)   Real estate signs;
   (D)   Special event signs;
   (E)   Flags;
   (F)   Institutional signs;
   (G)   Public signs;
   (H)   Public service signs;
   (I)   Integral signs;
   (J)   Occupant/street number signs;
   (K)   Professional nameplates;
   (L)   No trespassing/no loitering signs; and/or
   (M)   Emergency warning signs.
(`94 Code, App. C, Art. VIII, § 5)
§ 155.090 GENERAL SIGN REGULATIONS.
   (A)   All signs must be erected and/or constructed so that no part of the
sign or structure extends into or over a public right-of-way.
   (B)   Two or more contiguous, but separate and distinct zoning lots or
parcels shall not be considered one lot or parcel for the purpose of
determining sign area or setback requirements.
   (C)   (1)   The sign area of a sign consisting of letters, figures, numbers,
or symbols only, without a background, shall be the area of the smallest
rectangle which would enclose all letters, figures, numbers or symbols which
constitute the sign.
      (2)   The area of all other signs shall be the entire surface area or
signboard upon which letters, numbers, figures, symbols or copy of any sort
could be placed. When a sign has more than one face, only one side shall be
considered the sign area. Structure, bracing or support shall not be considered
part of the sign area unless the structure is part of the sign face.
   (D)   Freestanding signs shall be separated by a distance equal to the
minimum lot width permitted in the zoning districts in which the freestanding
signs are located. Freestanding sign support structures shall be located at
least one foot from any public right-of-way or easement.
   (E)   (1)   A political sign shall not be erected more than five weeks prior
to the election for which the sign pertains and shall be removed within ten
days following that election. Political signs must be erected at least ten feet
from the edge of the pavement.
      (2)   The Board of Aldermen shall designate a location for the posting of
political signs near each polling site. This area will be in compliance with
the regulations of the State Board of Elections. Political signs will be
allowed in this area for the period of 24 hours before the election, the day of
the election, and for 24 hours after the day of election. This area shall be
exempt from the setback requirement. The Board of Aldermen shall make this
designation at the regularly scheduled Board meeting in the month prior to the
election or primary.
   (F)   Construction signs shall not include any promotional material.
   (G)   Institutional signs and home occupation signs shall be located only on
the zoning lot occupied by the institution or home.
   (H)   Gasoline service stations are permitted gasoline pump signs, a
gasoline price sign, and one attached sign indicating the type of services
offered in addition to other permitted signs.
   (I)   Official governmental flags, as defined in G.S. § 144-7.1 are not
subject to these regulations, if properly flown in a manner that does not
impair vision on the streets or otherwise threaten the public safety.
(`94 Code, App. C, Art. VIII, § 6) (Am. Ord. 99-01, passed 2-9-99; Am. Ord. 06-
16, passed 2-13-07)
§ 155.091 SIGN REGULATIONS FOR RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   All signs listed in § 155.088 are permitted in residential zoning
districts.
   (B)   Subdivisions may have two subdivision signs per entrance.
   (C)   Height, area, setback and number of signs permitted are indicated in §
155.096.
(`94 Code, App. C, Art. VIII, § 7)
§ 155.092 SIGN REGULATIONS FOR BUSINESS DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The following regulations apply to neighborhood business districts,
central business districts and highway business districts:
      (1)   All signs listed in §§ 155.088 and 155.089 are permitted in all
business zoning districts.
      (2)   Wall signs, freestanding signs, canopy signs or projecting signs
are permitted. Each business may choose two signs.
      (3)   Projecting signs and canopy signs must be at least eight feet from
the sidewalk at their lowest point.
      (4)   Illuminated signs are permitted, except as prohibited in § 155.087.
      (5)   Height, area, setback and number of signs permitted are indicated
in § 155.096.
      (6)   Industrial direction signs are permitted.
(`94 Code, App. C, Art. VIII, § 8)
   (B)   The following regulations apply to industrial business districts:
      (1)   All provisions of this subchapter apply to industrial business
districts.
      (2)   Signs for retail uses in industrial zoning districts shall comply
with height, area and setback requirements of business zoning districts.
      (3)   Height, area, setback and number of signs permitted are indicated
in § 155.096.
      (4)   Industrial direction signs, wall signs, illuminated signs,
freestanding signs, projecting signs and canopy signs are permitted.
(`94 Code, App. C, Art. VIII, § 9)
§ 155.093 POLITICAL SIGNS.
   (A)   A political sign shall be erected on the thirtieth day prior to the
beginning date of “one stop” early voting and shall be removed within ten days
following the primary or election day. Political signs must be erected at least
three feet from the edge of the pavement.
   (B)   The Board of Aldermen shall designate a location for the posting of
political signs near each polling site. This area will be in compliance with
the regulations of the State Board of Elections. Political signs will be
allowed in this area for the period of 24 hours before the election and for 24
hours after the day of election. This area shall be exempt from the setback
requirement. The Board of Aldermen shall make this designation at the regularly
scheduled Board meeting in the month prior to the election or primary.
   (C)   Sign placement. The permittee must obtain the permission of any
property owner of a residence, business, or religious institution fronting the
right-of-way where a sign would be erected.
(Ord. 99-01, passed 2-9-01; Am. Ord. 13-03, passed 4-9-13)
§ 155.094 SIGNS PERMITTED IN SHOPPING CENTERS AND MALLS.
   (A)   Shopping centers and malls are permitted one freestanding sign to
identify the mall or shopping center and are permitted one directory sign
listing only the names of the businesses occupying the premises. The directory
sign shall be attached to the same sign structure as the permitted freestanding
sign.
   (B)   Each separate architecturally distinguishable storefront within a mall
or shopping center may have one primary wall mounted sign conforming to §
155.096. If width of individual business frontage is comprised of successive
architecturally distinguishable storefronts, then one secondary sign may be
utilized per storefront. Each secondary sign may not exceed 50% of the primary
sign area.
   (C)   For business frontages of less than 20 feet, sign area is limited to a
maximum of two square feet per lineal frontage of storefront, subject to the
additional provisions of §
155.095 where applicable.
   (D)   Height, area, setback and number of signs permitted are indicated in §
155.096.
(`94 Code, App. C, Art. VIII, § 10) (Am. Ord. 05-02, passed 5-10-05)
§ 155.095 BUSINESSES SET BACK 200 FEET OR MORE.
   A business set back from its major road frontage right-of-way line by over
200 feet may increase the permitted size of attached wall signs by 10% for each
50 feet beyond 200 feet, up to a maximum increase of 100%.
(`94 Code, App. C, Art. VIII, § 11)
§ 155.096 MAXIMUM SIGN AREA, NUMBER OF SIGNS PERMITTED AND SETBACKS.
   The following are the maximum sign area, number of signs permitted and
setbacks for the zoning jurisdiction of the town.
Zoning         Max. Area Per Max. Number Max. Area Per Max. Height Min. Setback
Districts and  Lot           Signs Per   Sign          Feet        Feet
Permitted Uses Square Feet   Frontage    Square Feet
Zoning        Max. Area Per Max. Number Max. Area Per
Districts and Lot           Signs Per   Sign          Max. Height Min. Setback
Permitted     Square Feet   Frontage    Square Feet   Feet        Feet
Uses
All
residential   4             2           2             3           1
districts
CB            50            2           25            10          10
Construction  32 (4 in                  32 (4 in      8 (4 in
and real      residential   1           residential   residential 1
estate signs  districts)                districts)    districts)
FP            100           2           50            10          10
HB            100           2           100           15          15
I             200           2           50            10          10
                                        100 (50%
                                        increase if
IB (Wall)     400 (IB)      2           no            20          N/A
                                        discernible
                                        background)
IB (Ground)   See above     1           100           30          10
IB (Pylon:                              See table     See table   See table
See table     See above     1           below         below       below
below)
IB (Canopy)   75            2           75            N/A         N/A
Individual
businesses
within a mall 50**          1           50            DNA         DNA
or shopping
center*
Mall and
shopping      200           2           100           15          10
centers
NB            50            2           50            10          10
Political     DNA           DNA         6             DNA         3 from edge
signs                                                             of pavement
Public
building,
churches,     20            2           16            4           1
clubs and
lodges
Notes to Table:
* Section
155.094 provides for additional provisions
** Section
155.095 provides for an increase in maximum sign area for buildings set back
over 200 feet from the road.
DNA = Does Not Apply
 
 
PLYON SIGNS WITHIN 2,500-FOOT RADIUS OF INTERSTATE 85 AND LONG FERRY ROAD
INTERSECTION (WITHIN IB DISTRICT)
Maximum Size    Maximum Height Maximum Height* Setback
75 square feet  50 feet        120 feet        15 feet
100 square feet 60 feet        120 feet        15 feet
150 square feet 70 feet        120 feet        15 feet
200 square feet 80 feet        120 feet        See below
* Signs over 80 feet tall shall be set back an amount equaling height of
sign plus ten feet. One pylon sign is permitted per lot.
 
(`94 Code, App. C, Art. VIII, § 14) (Am. Ord. 99-01, passed 2-9-99; Am. Ord.
05-02, passed 5-10-05; Am. Ord. 09-05, passed 11-10-09; Am. Ord. 13-03, passed
4-9-13)
§ 155.097 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   A permit shall be issued for all signs hereafter erected, attached,
installed, modified or relocated unless exempted by the provisions of §
155.089.
   (B)   Application for a permit shall be made to the Zoning Enforcement
Officer, who shall prescribe the forms upon which applications are to be made
as well as prescribing any other materials or information which may be
necessary to insure compliance with this subchapter.
   (C)   A completed permit application shall describe the location, dimension,
height, type of construction and a drawing, plan or photograph of the sign for
which application is being made together with maps or other explanation as is
necessary to properly and precisely describe the sign in question. The Zoning
Enforcement Officer may require additional information or description at his or
her discretion.
   (D) The town charges a fee for each sign permit. Inspection fees will be
charged for each inspection. Fee schedules are set by the Town Board and are
subject to change.
   (E)   A copy of an approved permit application, with required signatures
affixed, shall constitute a Zoning Compliance Permit.
(`94 Code, App. C, Art. VIII, § 12)
§ 155.098 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Every sign, including those specifically exempt from this subchapter
with respect to permits and fees shall be maintained in good structural
condition at all times. The Zoning Enforcement Officer shall have the authority
to cause the repair, repainting, alteration or removal of a sign which
constitutes a hazard to safety, health, or public welfare, by reason of
inadequate maintenance, dilapidation or abandonment.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, any sign that is
located on property that becomes vacant and is unoccupied or unused for the
conduct of normal business for a period of 90 days or more, or any sign that
pertains to a time, event, or purpose that no longer applies, shall be deemed
to have been abandoned. Permanent signs applicable to a business temporarily
suspended due to a change of ownership or management of the business shall not
be deemed abandoned unless the property remains vacant or unused for the
conduct of normal business for 180 days or more. An abandoned sign shall be
removed by the owner of the sign or owner of the premises.
   (C)   (1)   The Zoning Enforcement Officer shall cause to be removed any
sign that endangers the public safety or any sign for which no permit has been
issued, except those listed in § 155.089. The Zoning Enforcement Officer shall
prepare a notice which shall state that the sign is to be removed within 30
days. The sign shall be removed at the expense of the sign owner or property
owner in accordance with the provisions of this section.
      (2)   All notices mailed by the Zoning Enforcement Officer shall be sent
by certified mail. Any time periods provided in this section shall be deemed to
commence on the date of the notice.
      (3)   Any persons having a financial interest in a sign for which a
notice has been prepared may appeal to the Zoning Board of Adjustment by filing
a notice of appeal within ten days after the receipt of the notice.
      (4)   Notwithstanding the above, in cases of emergency, the Zoning
Enforcement Officer may cause the immediate removal of a sign posing imminent
danger to public welfare or safety without notice and at the owner's expense.
      (5)   Costs of removal or repair, court costs and attorney fees incurred
by the town shall be assessed against the owners of the sign or property.
      (6)   Existing signs, except off-premises signs such as billboards, which
are made nonconforming by this subchapter but are not abandoned or do not pose
a hazard to the public may continue to be used by the present owner. At the
time that the zoning lot upon which the sign is located is sold, or at the time
that the business to which the sign pertains is closed or sold, any existing
sign must be removed or must be made to comply to all the provisions of this
section within 180 days of the sale or business closure.
   (D)   If a sign owner fails to remove a sign which violates the provisions
of this subchapter within the time period allotted for removal, the Zoning
Enforcement Officer shall cause the sign to be removed and all costs of the
removal shall be assessed against the owner of the sign or property.
   (E)   A nonconforming sign which sustains damage exceeding 50% of its value
or sustains damage to more than 50% of the sign area may not be reconstructed
unless the reconstruction will make the sign conform to all provisions of this
subchapter.
(`94 Code, App. C, Art. VIII, § 13)
Cross-reference:
   Persistent violations, see §
155.999(C)
INTERPRETATIONS, APPEALS, VARIANCES AND AMENDMENTS
§ 155.110 INTERPRETATIONS.
   (A)   Where there is any uncertainty as to the intent or actual meaning of
any provision of this chapter, or as to the intended location of any zoning
district boundary shown on the zoning map, the Zoning Enforcement Officer shall
make an interpretation of the provision or boundary on request of any person.
Any person aggrieved by the interpretation may appeal the interpretation to the
Board of Adjustment in accord with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   In making an interpretation of any zoning district boundary, or in
deciding any appeal thereof, the Town Planner or Board of Adjustment shall
apply the standards outlined § 155.025.
(`94 Code, App. C, Art. IX, § 1)
§ 155.111 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   All questions arising in connection with the enforcement of this chapter
shall be presented first to the Zoning Enforcement Officer, and these questions
shall be presented to the Board of Adjustment only on appeal from a ruling of
the Zoning Enforcement Officer. Any order, requirement, decision or
determination made by the Zoning Enforcement Officer may be appealed to the
Board of Adjustment pursuant to the procedure found § 155.137.
(`94 Code, App. C, Art. IX, § 2)
§ 155.112 STAY OF FURTHER ACTION.
   An appeal to the Board of Adjustment stays all actions seeking enforcement
of, or compliance with, the decision being appealed, except where the Zoning
Enforcement Officer certifies to the Board of Adjustment that, based on
findings stated in the certificate, a stay would cause imminent peril to life
or property, or that because the situation appealed from is transitory in
nature, an appeal would seriously interfere with enforcement of this chapter.
(`94 Code, App. C, Art. IX, § 3)
§ 155.113 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Rules governing the granting of variances are as outlined in §
155.137.
(`94 Code, App. C, Art. IX, § 4)
   (B)   Applications for appeal or for a variance shall be filed with the Town
Planner. The Town Planner shall prescribe the forms on which applications are
made, as well as any other material which may reasonably be required to make
the determinations called for in the particular case, with sufficient copies
for necessary referrals and records.
   (C)   No application shall be accepted by the Town Planner unless it
complies with all requirements of this chapter. Applications which are not
complete shall be returned forthwith to the applicant, with a notation of the
deficiencies in the application.
   (D)   On receipt of a complete application, the Town Planner shall transmit
the application to the Board of Adjustment. In the case of applications for
appeal, the Town Planner shall also transmit to the Board all documents
constituting the record on which the decision being appealed was based. All
appeals to the Board of Adjustment shall be final.
(`94 Code, App. C, Art. IX, § 5)
§ 155.114 ACTIONS SUBSEQUENT TO DECISION.
   (A)   The Town Planner shall cause notice of the disposition of all
applications for appeals and variances to be delivered to the applicant by
personal service or by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested,
and shall cause a copy of the decision to be filed in the office of the Town
Planner.
   (B)   If a variance is granted, the nature of the variance and any
conditions attached thereto shall be entered on the face of any necessary
zoning permit.
(`94 Code, App. C, Art. IX, § 6)
§ 155.115 FURTHER APPEALS TO SUPERIOR COURT.
   A decision by the Board of Adjustment on an application for appeal or for a
variance may be appealed to the superior court by an aggrieved party. The
appeal shall be in the nature of certiorari and must be filed within 30 days of
the filing of the decision in the Office of the Town Planner.
(`94 Code, App. C, Art. IX, § 7)
§ 155.116 FEES FOR APPEALS OF VARIANCES.
   Fees sufficient to cover the cost of the appeal or variance process shall be
charged to the petitioner at the time of application. The fees are set by the
Town Board and are subject to change from time to time. Public agencies shall
be exempt from all fees.
(`94 Code, App. C, Art. IX, § 8)
§ 155.117 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The Town Board may, from time to time, on its own motion or on
petition, after public notice and hearing as provided by this chapter, amend,
supplement, change, modify or repeal the zoning regulations and restrictions
and zone boundaries herein or subsequently established. No amending action
shall be taken until the proposal has been submitted to the Planning Board for
review and recommendation. A statement analyzing the reasonableness of a
proposed rezoning shall be prepared for each petition for a rezoning to a
special use district or other small scale rezoning. The Town Planner shall
determine in such cases whether a proposed rezoning is of small scale for the
purposes of this statutory requirement, and may require that the petitioner
prepare the statement of reasonableness as provided in G.S. § 160A-382(b).
   (B)   If no recommendation has been received from the Planning Board within
45 days after submission of the proposal to the Chairman of the Planning Board,
the Town Board may proceed as though a favorable report had been received. The
Town Board is not bound by recommendations, if any, of the Planning Board as
provided in G.S. § 160A-387.
   (C)   If the outcome of a final decision on a proposed zoning map or text
amendment is reasonably likely to have a direct, substantial and readily
identifiable financial impact on any member of the Planning Board or the Town
Board, that member shall not vote on any recommendation, question or decision
regarding the proposed amendment as provided in G.S. § 160A-381(d).
   (D)   The Planning Board shall advise and comment on whether any proposed
zoning map or text amendment is consistent with any comprehensive plan that has
been adopted by the town, and any other officially adopted plan that is
applicable. The Planning Board shall provide a written recommendation to the
Town Board that addresses plan consistency and other matters as deemed
appropriate by the Planning Board, but a comment by the Planning Board that a
proposed amendment is inconsistent with the comprehensive plan shall not
preclude consideration or approval of the proposed amendment by the Town Board
as provided in G.S. § 160A-383.
(`94 Code, App. C, Art. X, § 1) (Am. Ord. 06-16, passed 2-13-07)
§ 155.118 GENERAL DISTRICT REZONINGS.
   (A)   All petitions for general use rezoning of any parcel or tract within
the town limits and zoning jurisdiction of the town by any person or group
other than the Town Board shall be filed with the Town Planner 20 days prior to
the Planning Board meeting at which the petition is to be considered. The
petition shall include:
      (1)   The current zoning classification of the tract;
      (2)   The requested zoning classification of the tract;
      (3)   The current zoning classification of all contiguous parcels of
land;
      (4)   The names of the property owners of all contiguous tracts;
      (5)   The names of the property owners of the tract to be rezoned;
      (6)   The location of the tract to be rezoned; and
      (7)   A map showing the tract to be rezoned and all contiguous tracts and
streets.
   (B)   The Town Board may rezone any parcel or tract of land from one use
district to any other use district as described within this chapter after
declaring its intent to do so and following all regulations regarding public
notice and hearing.
(`94 Code, App. C, Art. X, § 2)
§ 155.119 OVERLAY DISTRICT REZONINGS.
   (A)   The overlay district process is hereby established to provide greater
flexibility and increased alternatives for the construction and siting of
multi-family and manufactured housing units in the town as well as in the CC
commercial corridor overlay district. It is the intent of these provisions to
ensure that all new construction in these zoning districts is done in such
manner so as to conform to the greatest extent possible to the character of the
surrounding area.
   (B)   All uses and regulations for an overlay district are supplemental to
those use regulations in the underlying district, except where the regulations
conflict. In these cases of conflict, the more stringent regulations shall
apply.
   (C)   All rezonings to a manufactured housing or multi-family housing
overlay district shall follow the procedure required for general use district
rezonings. However, no tract or parcel of land that is less than two acres in
size will be considered for a multi-family or manufactured housing overlay
district rezoning.
(`94 Code, App. C, Art. X, § 3) (Am. Ord. 05-05, passed 10-11-05)
§ 155.120 SPECIAL USE DISTRICT REZONING PROCESS.
   (A)   A person petitioning for rezoning of a tract of land, where special
use districts are authorized by this chapter, may elect to request special use
district designation.
   (B)   (1)   If the petitioner elects to petition for special use district
zoning, he or she must specify the actual use intended for the property among
those permitted in the parallel general use district. The Town Board shall
follow quasi-judicial procedures to approve or disapprove the petition based on
the specific use requested. If approved, the Town Board shall, by majority
vote, issue a special use permit, as provided in G.S. 160A-381(c). The Town
Board may impose reasonable conditions which it determines necessary to promote
the public health, safety, and general welfare. Any conditions imposed shall be
in addition to other requirements specified by this chapter. Only those
conditions mutually approved by the town and the petitioner may be incorporated
into the zoning regulations or permit requirements. Conditions and site-
specific standards imposed in a special use district shall be limited to those
that address the conformance of the development and use of the site to town
ordinances and any officially adopted comprehensive or other plan and those
that address the impacts reasonably expected to be generated by the development
or use of the site, as provided in G.S. § 160A-382(b).
      (2)   A member of the Town Board shall not participate in or vote on any
special use district rezoning in a manner that would violated affected persons’
constitutional rights to an impartial decision maker. Impermissible conflicts
include, but are not limited to, a member having a fixed opinion prior to
hearing the matter that is not susceptible to change, undisclosed ex parte
communications, a close familial, business, or other associational relationship
with an affected person, or a financial interest in the outcome of the matter.
If an objection is raised to a member’s participation and that member does not
recuse himself or herself, the remaining members shall by majority vote rule on
the objection, as provided in G.S. § 160A-388(e)(2).
   (C)   The special use district rezoning process is established to address
those situations when a particular use may be acceptable but where other uses
in the general zoning district which would allow that use would not be
acceptable. It allows the Town Board to approve a proposal for a specific use
with reasonable conditions to assure the compatibility of the use with
surrounding properties. Any use permitted under this process must also conform
to the development regulations for the corresponding general zoning district.
   (D)   This is a voluntary procedure which is intended for firm development
proposals. It is generally not intended or suited for securing early zoning for
tentative proposals which may not be undertaken for some time.
   (E)   No special use permit shall be approved by the Town Board unless the
following findings are made concerning the proposed special use:
      (1)   The use or development is located, designed, and proposed to be
operated so as to maintain or promote the public health, safety and general
welfare.
      (2)   The use or development complies with all regulations and standards
of this chapter.
      (3)   The use or development will not adversely impact surrounding
property.
      (4)   The granting of the permit would not violate the spirit or intent
of this chapter.
      (5)   The special use permit along with all attached conditions to the
permit shall be recorded with the County Register of Deeds within 30 days of
permit approval.
   (F)   In order to rezone a parcel of land to a special use district, a
petition must be submitted requesting rezoning to a special use district. The
procedure and requirements for submittal of the petition shall be the same as
that required for rezonings to a general use district. A special use permit
application shall accompany any request for special use district rezoning.
Applications shall be submitted to the Town Planner and shall include the name
and address of the applicant, the name and address of the owner of each zoning
lot involved, and the relationship of the applicant and property owner in
connection with the application. If the applicant or property owner is an
entity other than an individual, the application shall also include detailed
information regarding the principals of the entity. The Town Planner may
request additional information needed to determine compliance with this
chapter, with sufficient copies for necessary referrals and records. No
application shall be accepted by the Town Planner unless it complies with the
requirements of this chapter. Applications which are not complete shall be
returned to the applicant, with a notation of the deficiencies in the
application.
   (G)   Uses which may be proposed and considered for a special use district
shall be restricted to those uses permitted in the underlying general zoning
district.
   (H)   The Town Planner shall notify the applicant, in writing, of the
proposal's deficiencies. The Planner shall also notify the applicant of the
opportunity to discuss alternatives to correct those deficiencies. If the
applicant joins in these discussions, the application may be modified, further
discussions may be held, or additional information may be requested by the Town
Planner.
   (I)   (1)   Every petition for the reclassification of property to a special
use district shall be accompanied by a site plan, drawn to scale, and all
necessary supporting text as listed for all site plans required by this
chapter. The Project Review Committee shall review the site plan to determine
compliance with this chapter and all applicable regulations within the town.
      (2)   The Project Review Committee has the authority to waive any
application requirement where the type of use or scale of proposal makes
providing that information unnecessary or impractical.
      (3)   In the course of evaluating the proposed use, the Town Planner,
Planning Board or Project Review Committee may request additional information
from the petitioner. A request for the information shall stay any time limits
for staff review of the petition and shall stay any further consideration of
the petition by the Planning Board or Town Board.
      (4)   Following approval of a special use district rezoning petition and
special use permit, a site plan shall be submitted to the Project Review
Committee for a final review and final approval. The site plan shall conform to
the site plan submitted as part of the rezoning petition and to any changes
made at the time of hearing.
      (5)   The Project Review Committee shall have the authority to work out
minor details, as defined by the Committee or the Town Board, with the
developer during the final review.
   (J)   In approving a petition for the reclassification of property to a
special use district, the Town Board may attach reasonable and appropriate
conditions to approval of the special use permit. The conditions should relate
to the relationship of the proposed use to surrounding property, proposed
support facilities such as parking areas and driveways, pedestrian and
vehicular circulation systems, screening and buffer areas, the timing of
development, street and right-of-way improvements, water and sewer
improvements, stormwater drainage, the provision of open space and other
matters that the Town Board may find appropriate. The conditions for approval
of the petition may include dedication to the town of any rights-of-way or
easements for streets, water, sewer or other public utilities necessary to
serve the proposed development. In no case shall the conditions placed upon the
special use permit be less restrictive than the requirements for a general use
rezoning.
   (K)   The Town Planner shall submit a written analysis of the application
including any recommendations based on the finding required by this chapter to
the Planning Board within 25 working days after he or she accepts the
application or within the time consented to in writing by the applicant.
   (L)   (1)   The Planning Board shall review the application and the Town
Planner's report and shall submit to the Town Board a written recommendation
based on the findings required in this subchapter.
      (2)   The Planning Board shall prepare its recommendations within 45 days
of the meeting at which the Town Planner's report is submitted to it or within
a further time consented to in writing by the applicant or by Town Board
resolution.
      (3)   If the Planning Board fails to prepare its recommendation to the
Town Board within this time limit, or extensions thereof, the Planning Board
shall be deemed to recommend approval of the application.
      (4)   The Town Planner shall then forward his or her report and the
Planning Board's recommendation to the Town Board at the next available Board
meeting.
   (M)   (1)   The Town Planner shall present for consideration by the Town
Board, both the petition for rezoning and the application for a special use
permit. The Board shall consider the rezoning petition first.
      (2)   The Town Board may approve the reclassification of property to a
special use district only upon determining that the proposed use will meet all
standards and requirements in these regulations that are applicable to the
proposed use.
      (3)   The Town Board shall review the Planning Board's recommendation and
the Town Planner's report and at the same public hearing shall act on both the
petition for rezoning and the application for a special use permit based on the
findings required in this subchapter. All findings shall be based on competent
material and substantial evidence presented at the public hearing.
      (4)   Action on the petition shall be either approval or disapproval.
      (5)   If the rezoning petition for the special use district is approved
and the application for the special use permit meets all requirements and
regulations, and the applicant agrees to meet the conditions as may be attached
to the permit, then a special use permit subject to conditions shall be issued
by the Town Board.
      (6)   The applicant shall record the approved permit in the Office of the
County Register of Deeds within 30 days.
   (N)   (1)   If a petition for rezoning is approved under this subchapter,
the district that is established, the approved petition, the approved special
use permit and all conditions which may have been attached to the permit are
binding on the property as an amendment to these regulations and to the zoning
map. All subsequent development and use of the property shall be in accordance
with the standards for the approved special use district, the approved
petition, and all conditions attached to the special use permit.
      (2)   If a special use permit is approved, the Town Planner shall deliver
copies of the approved special use permit and all conditions attached to the
Zoning Enforcement Officer in order to facilitate the review of applications
for certificates of zoning compliance, building permits and certificates of
occupancy needed to complete the approved development.
      (3)   If a special use permit is approved, the petitioner shall comply
with all requirements established in this chapter for obtaining a certificate
of zoning compliance, building permit, and certificate of occupancy. In
applying for these forms of development approval, the approved development
shall be processed as a “use permitted under prescribed conditions” in the
approved special use district. Only those uses and structures indicated in the
approved permit and site plan shall be allowed on the subject property. Any
development in the district shall comply with all provisions of and conditions
to the approved permit and site plan. Any uses and structures on the subject
property shall also comply with all standards and requirements for development
in the underlying general zoning district.
      (4)   Following the approval of the petition, the subject property shall
be identified on the zoning map by the appropriate district designation.
   (O)   Changes to the special use permit shall be treated the same as
amendments to these regulations or to the zoning map and shall be processed in
accordance with the procedures set forth in this chapter. Minor changes in the
detail of the approved permit or site plan which will not alter the basic
relationship of the proposed development to surrounding properties or the
standards and requirements of these regulations or to any conditions attached
to the permit may be approved by the Project Review Committee without going
through the amendment process. The Project Review Committee shall forward any
application for major changes in detail to the site plan to the Planning Board
and the Town Board for their consideration as an amendment to the special use
permit or to the zoning map.
   (P)   It is intended that property shall be reclassified to a special use
district only in light of firm plans to develop the property. Therefore, from
the date of approval of the special use permit, the Zoning Enforcement Officer
shall periodically examine the progress made toward developing the property in
accordance with the special use permit and any conditions attached to it. If a
building permit has not been secured within nine months of issuance of the
special use permit or if a building permit, once secured, is allowed to expire
or is revoked, the special use permit shall be revoked. If a special use permit
is revoked, the Town Board may choose to reexamine the property to determine
whether or not the property should be rezoned.
   (Q)   After a certificate of occupancy has been issued for development
within a special use district, the Zoning Enforcement Officer shall
periodically inspect the use and maintenance of the subject property to insure
continued compliance with these regulations, the approved petition and any
conditions attached by the Town Board to approval of the petition.
   (R)   All the provisions herein are hereby made applicable to the erection,
construction, and use of buildings by the state of North Carolina and its
political subdivisions. No land owned by the state of North Carolina may be
included within a special use district without approval of the Council of State
or its designate, as provided in G.S. § 160A-392.
(`94 Code, App. C, Art. X, § 4) (Am. Ord. 06-16, passed 2-13-07)
§ 155.121 PUBLIC NOTICE AND HEARING REQUIRED.
   (A)   Before adopting, amending, or repealing this chapter, the Town Board
shall hold a public hearing on it. A notice of the public hearing shall be
given once a week for two successive calendar weeks in a newspaper having
general circulation in the area. The notice shall be published for the first
time not less than ten days nor more than 25 days before the date fixed for the
hearing. Prior to a public hearing for any proposed map amendment, the owners
of all properties adjacent to the subject property shall be notified by first-
class mail of the place, date, time and nature of the hearing. The person
mailing these notices shall certify in writing that he/she has done so.
Provided, however, that the first class mail notice required under this section
shall not be required if the zoning map amendment directly affects more than 50
properties, owned by a total of at least 50 different property owners, and the
town elects to use the expanded published notice provided for in this section.
In this instance, the town may elect either to make the mailed notice provided
for in this section or may as an alternative elect to publish notice of the
hearing for two consecutive weeks in a newspaper of general circulation in the
town as required by G.S. § 160A-364, but provided that each advertisement shall
not be less than one-half of a newspaper page in size. The advertisement shall
only be effective for property owners who reside in the area of general
circulation of the newspaper that publishes the notice. Property owners who
reside outside of the newspaper circulation area, according to the address
listed on the most recent property tax listing for the affected property, shall
be notified individually as provided above and in G.S. § 160A-384(b).
   (B)   If the adoption or modification of the ordinance would result in
changes to the zoning map or would change or affect the permitted uses of land
located five miles or less from the perimeter boundary of a military base, the
Town Board shall provide written notice of the proposed changes by certified
mail, return receipt requested, to the commander of the military base not less
than ten days nor more than 25 days before the date fixed for the public
hearing. If the military provides comments or analysis regarding the
compatibility of the proposed ordinance or amendment with military operations
at the base, the Town Board shall take the comments and analysis into
consideration before making a final determination on the ordinance.
(`94 Code, App. C, Art. X, §5) (Am. Ord. 06-16, passed 2-13-07)
Statutory reference:
   For similar provisions, see § G.S. 160A-364
§ 155.122 APPLICATION SUBMITTED; ADVERTISING REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every proposed amendment or repeal to this chapter shall be referred
to the Planning Board for its recommendation and report. The proposals shall be
submitted on application forms to be secured from the Town Planner.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Zoning Enforcement Officer to post a sign
on the property proposed for rezoning in a conspicuous place for two weeks
preceding the date of public hearing concerning the property. The sign shall be
approximately 18 inches by 28 inches and state the requested zoning change and
the date, time and place of the public hearing. When multiple parcels are
included within a proposed zoning map amendment, a posting on each individual
parcel is not required, but the town shall post sufficient notices to provide
reasonable notice to interested persons, as provided in G.S. § 160A-384(c).
(`94 Code, App. C, Art. X, § 6) (Am. Ord. 06-16, passed 2-13-07)
§ 155.123 DECISION.
   (A)   The Town Board shall make a decision on the proposed amendment within
60 days after the public hearing. Prior to adopting or rejecting any zoning
amendment, the Town Board shall adopt a statement describing whether its action
is consistent with any adopted comprehensive plan and explaining why the Board
considers the action taken to be reasonable and in the public interest, as
provided in G.S. § 160A-383.
   (B)   Only two petitions for rezoning of any parcel or tract will be heard
by the Town Board within a 12-month period. This time period shall begin on the
date the first petition is heard by the Planning Board.
(`94 Code, App. C, Art. X, § 7) (Am. Ord. 06-16, passed 2-13-07)
§ 155.124 PROTEST PETITIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Protest petitions may be filed in response to any amendment,
supplement, change, modification or repeal of this chapter or the zoning map.
The changes shall not become effective except by favorable vote of three-
fourths of all the members of the Town Board. Vacant positions on the Board and
members who are excused from voting shall not be considered ‘members of the
Board’ for calculation of the requisite three-fourths supermajority. To qualify
as a protest under this section, the petition must be signed by the owners of
either (1) 20% or more of the area included in the proposed change or (2) 5% of
a 100-foot-wide buffer extending along the entire boundary of each discrete or
separate area proposed to be rezoned. A street right-of-way shall not be
considered in computing the 100-foot buffer area as long as that street right-
of-way is 100 feet wide or less. When less than an entire parcel of land is
subject to the proposed zoning map amendment, the 100-foot buffer shall be
measured from the property line of that parcel. In the absence of evidence to
the contrary, the city may relay on the county tax listing to determine the
‘owners’ of potentially qualifying areas. The foregoing provisions concerning
protests shall not be applicable to any amendment which initially zones
property added to the territorial coverage of the ordinance as a result of
annexation or otherwise, or to an amendment to an adopted (1) special use
district, (2) conditional use district, or (3) conditional district if the
amendment does not change the types of uses that are permitted within the
district or increase the approved density for residential development, or
increase the total approved size of nonresidential development, or reduce the
size of any buffers or screening approved for the special use district,
conditional use district, or conditional district, as provided in G.S. § 160A-
385(a).
      (2)   All protest petitions shall be on a form prescribed and furnished
by the town. Such form shall prescribe any reasonable information deemed
necessary to permit the town to determine the sufficiency and accuracy of the
petition. A person who has signed a protest petition may withdraw his or her
name from the petition at any time prior to the vote on the proposed zoning
amendment. Only those protest petitions that meet the qualifying standards set
forth in G.S. § 160A-385 at the time of the vote on the zoning amendment shall
trigger the supermajority voting requirement.
   (B)   No protest against any change in or amendment to this chapter or
zoning map shall be valid or effective unless:
      (1)   It is in the form of a written petition actually bearing the
signatures of the requisite number of property owners and stating that the
signers do protest the proposed change or amendment; and
      (2)   It shall have been received by the Town Clerk in sufficient time to
allow the town at least two normal workdays, excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and
legal holidays, before the date established for a public hearing on the
proposed change or amendment to determine the sufficiency and accuracy of the
petition.
(`94 Code, App. C, Art. X, § 8)
§ 155.125 FEES FOR AMENDMENTS.
   An application fee shall be filed with the Town Clerk at the time of
application for any zoning change or amendment to this chapter. The fees are
set by the Town Board to cover the cost of processing and advertising. These
fees are subject to change from time to time.
(`94 Code, App. C, Art. X, § 9)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 155.134 TOWN BOARD.
   (A)   The Town Board of Aldermen, as the governing body of the town, acts in
its legislative capacity when considering proposed amendments to the text of
this chapter or to the zoning maps, and shall observe the procedural
requirements set forth in this chapter.
   (B)   When considering amendments to this chapter or the zoning map, the
Town Board shall follow the regular voting procedure and other requirements as
set forth in other provisions of this code, the Town Charter or general law.
(`94 Code, App. C, Art. III, § 1) (Am. Ord. 15-04, passed 4-14-15)
§ 155.135 COMMUNITY APPEARANCE COMMISSION.
   (A)   A Community Appearance Commission is hereby created as provided in and
governed by G.S. § 160A-451. The Commission shall consist of seven members. Six
members shall be residents of the town and one member shall be appointed from
the extraterritorial jurisdiction area, as provided in G.S. § 160A-362.
   (B)   The term of office of the members shall be for three years, except the
terms may be staggered so as to ensure continuity of experience on the
Commission. All members shall have equal rights and privileges in all matters.
Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term only.
   (C)   The Commission shall have all powers listed in G.S. § 160A-452,
including subsections (6) a-h.
(Ord. 15-04, passed 4-14-15)
§ 155.136 PLANNING BOARD.
   (A)   A Planning Board is hereby created, as provided in G.S. § 160A-361.
The Board shall consist of seven members. Five regular members and two
alternate members. Four of the regular members and one of the alternate members
shall be residents of the town shall be appointed by the Town Board. One
regular member and one alternate member shall be appointed as provided in G.S.
§ 160A-362. The term of office of the members shall be for three years, except
the terms may be staggered so as to insure continuity of experience on the
Board. All members shall have equal rights and privileges in all matters.
   (B)   Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term only. Members may be
removed for cause by the Town Board of Aldermen upon written charges after a
public hearing.
   (C)   The Planning Board members and the Board of Adjustment members are the
same.
   (D)   The Planning Board shall have the powers listed below:
      (1)   Make studies of the area within its jurisdiction and surrounding
areas;
      (2)   Determine objectives to be sought in the development of the study
area;
      (3)   Prepare and adopt plans for achieving these objectives;
      (4)   Develop and recommend policies, ordinances, administrative
procedures and other means for carrying out plans in a coordinated and
efficient manner;
      (5)   Advise the Board of Aldermen concerning the use and amendment of
means for carrying out plans;
      (6)   Exercise any functions in the administration and enforcement of
various means for carving out plans that the Board of Aldermen may direct;
      (7)   Perform all of the duties of a Board of Adjustment; and
      (8)   Perform any other related duties that the Board of Aldermen may
direct.
(`94 Code, App. C, Art. III, § 2) (Am. Ord. 96-15, passed 11-12-96; Am. Ord.
16-13, passed 12-13-16)
§ 155.137 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   (1)   Creation. A Board of Adjustment is hereby created as provided in
G.S. § 160A-388. The Board shall consist of seven members; five regular members
and two alternate members. Four of the regular members and one of the alternate
members shall be residents of the town and shall be appointed by the Town
Board. One regular member and one alternate member shall be residents of the
extraterritorial jurisdiction and shall be appointed by the Rowan County Board
of Commissioners. The terms for regular members and alternate members shall be
three years, except the terms may be staggered so as to insure continuity of
experience on the Board. All members, including alternate members while
attending any meeting of the Board and serving on behalf of any regular member,
shall have equal rights and privileges in all matters, as provided in G.S. §
160A-388(a).
      (2)   Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term only. Members may
be removed for cause by the Town Board or Board of Commissioners upon written
charges after a public hearing.
      (3)   The Board of Adjustment members and the Planning Board members are
the same.
      (4)   A member of the Board of Adjustment shall not participate in or
vote on any quasi-judicial matter in a manner that would violate affected
persons’ constitutional rights to an impartial decision maker. Impermissible
conflicts include, but are not limited to, a member having a fixed opinion
prior to hearing the matter that is not susceptible to change, undisclosed ex
parte communications, a close familial, business, or other associational
relationship with an affected person, or a financial interest in the outcome of
the matter. If an object is raised to a member’s participation and that member
does not recuse himself or herself, the remaining members shall by majority
vote rule on the objection, as provided in G.S. § 160A-388(e)(2).
   (B)   (1)   The Board shall have the powers listed below:
         (a)   To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged that there is
error in any order, requirement, decision or determination made by the Zoning
Enforcement Officer;
         (b)   To hear and decide applications for decisions on conditional and
temporary use permits; and
         (c)   To authorize, upon appeal in specific cases, a variance from the
terms of this chapter that will not be contrary to the public interest, where,
owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of this
chapter will result in undue hardship and so that the spirit of this chapter
will be observed and substantial justice done.
      (2)   The concurring vote of four-fifths of the members of the Board
shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination
of the Zoning Enforcement Officer or to decide in favor of the applicant any
matter upon which it is required to pass under this chapter or to effect any
variance authorized. Vacant positions on the Board and members who are
disqualified from voting on a quasi-judicial matter shall not be considered
‘members of the Board’ for calculation of the requisite four-fifths majority if
there are no qualified alternates available to serve on their behalf. Active
members absent from the meeting, if otherwise qualified to participate, shall
be counted toward membership of the Board, even when no alternate is available
to serve in their place, as provided in G.S. § 160A-388(e).
      (3)   The Board shall not grant a variance, or issue a conditional use
permit or a temporary use permit until a public hearing is held. Notice of the
public hearing shall be posted on the property for which the petition is sought
and in a local newspaper at least ten days prior to the public hearing. This
legal notice shall describe the request and appear at least once weekly for two
consecutive weeks.
   (C)   Consideration of proposed variance. No change in permitted uses may be
authorized by variance. Appropriate conditions, which must be reasonably
related to the condition or circumstance that gives rise to the need for a
variance, may be imposed on any approval issued by the Board, as provided in
G.S. § 160A-388(d). The Board shall not grant a variance until a public hearing
is held. Before a variance is granted, the following finds must have been
demonstrated:
      (1)   There are practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships in the
way of carrying out the strict letter of the ordinance. This finding shall be
based upon the following five subfindings:
         (a)   If the property owner complies with the provisions of the
ordinance, he or she can secure no reasonable return from, or make no
reasonable use of, his or her property.
         (b)   The hardship results from the application of the ordinance.
         (c)   The hardship is suffered by the applicant’s property.
         (d)   The hardship is not the result of the applicant’s own action.
         (e)   The hardship is peculiar to the applicant’s property.
      (2)   The variance is in harmony with the general purpose and intent of
this chapter and preserves its spirit.
      (3)   The granting of the variance secures the public safety and welfare
and does substantial justice.
      (4)   The requested variance is a minimum one that will make possible the
reasonable use of the land and structures.
      (5)   The reasons set forth in the application justify the granting of
the variance.
   (D)   (1)   The Zoning Board of Adjustment has the power and duty to grant,
in particular cases and subject to appropriate conditions and safeguards,
permits for conditional uses as authorized by this chapter and set forth as
conditional uses under the various use districts. The Board shall not grant a
conditional use permit until a public hearing is held. The Board shall not
grant a conditional use permit unless and until:
         (a)   A written application for a conditional use permit is submitted;
and
         (b)   Notice of the public hearing is posted on the property for which
the conditional use permit is sought and in a local newspaper at least ten days
prior to the public hearing, describing the request and appearing at least once
weekly for two consecutive weeks.
         (c)   The conditional use permit is reviewed by the Project Review
Committee per §
155.146 once a complete conditional use permit application has been submitted
to the Town Planner. The Project Review Committee shall have up to 30 days
after submission of a complete application to make a recommendation. The public
hearing shall be conducted as scheduled without a recommendation if a
recommendation is not produced by that time.
      (2)   No conditional use permit shall be approved by the Board of
Adjustment unless the following findings are made concerning the proposed
conditional use:
         (a)   The use or development is located, designed, and proposed to be
operated so as to maintain or promote the public health, safety and general
welfare;
         (b)   The use or development complies with all regulations and
standards of this chapter;
         (c)   The use or development will not adversely impact surrounding
property;
         (d)   The granting of the permit would not violate the spirit or
intent of this chapter or of the zoning district in which it is located.
         (e)   For all developments that are located in the CC commercial
overlay district and are subject to the issuance of a conditional use permit,
finding the use or development is in architectural harmony with the surrounding
land uses must also be made in the affirmative prior to the issuance of the
conditional use permit.
   (E)   (1)   Temporary use permits can be issued by the Board of Adjustment
for manufactured homes in all districts except the floodplain district, where
they will be used for temporary office purposes during the construction of any
permanent building or for temporary classrooms for public schools.
      (2)   (a)   Temporary use permits can be issued by the Board of
Adjustment for manufactured homes in all districts except the floodplain
district, where they will be used for temporary office purposes during the
construction of any permanent building. Temporary use permits may be issued for
a period of six months, and may be renewed for one additional six-month period
provided that the hardship continues to exist.
         (b)   Temporary use permits can also be issued by the Board of
Adjustment for temporary classrooms for public schools during the planned
construction of a permanent addition or building. These permits may be issued
for a period of one year, and may be renewed for two additional annual periods
provided that the hardship continues to exist. In no case shall such permit be
extended past a three-year period.
         (c)   Application for renewal of a temporary use permit shall be made
30 days prior to the expiration date of the permit. All applications shall be
made to the Zoning Enforcement Officer and in turn shall be reviewed by the
Board of Adjustment to determine relative need. All applications must be
accompanied by plans for the permanent construction as well as a proposed
timetable for its completion. Any manufactured home permitted as an accessory
use on a temporary basis shall be removed by 12:00 a.m. on the day of the
expiration of the temporary use permit.
      (3)   Any manufactured home permitted as an accessory use on a temporary
basis shall be removed by 12:00 a.m. on the day of the expiration of the
temporary use permit.
   (F)   (1)   Any person aggrieved by any decision of the Board of Adjustment,
any taxpayer or any officer, department, board or bureau of the town may,
within 30 days after the filing of the decision of the Board of Adjustment, but
not thereafter, present to a court of competent jurisdiction a petition for a
writ of certiorari, duly verified, setting forth that the decision is illegal,
in whole or in part, specifying the grounds of illegality. Thereupon the
decision of the Board shall be subject to review as provided by law.
      (2)   An appeal from the decision of the Zoning Enforcement Officer may
be taken to the Board of Adjustment by any person aggrieved or by any officer,
department, board or commission of the town affected by the decision. The
appeal shall be made in writing to the Board and to the Zoning Enforcement
Officer specifying the grounds therefor. The Zoning Enforcement Officer shall
forthwith transmit to the Board all papers constituting the record upon which
the action appealed from was taken.
      (3)   An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed, unless the officer from whom the appeal is taken certifies to the
Board after the notice of appeal has been filed with him or her, that by reason
of facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in his or her opinion, cause
imminent peril to life or property. In this case, proceedings shall not be
stayed otherwise than by a restraining order which may be granted by the Board
or by a court of record on application of notice of the officer from whom the
appeal is taken and upon due cause shown. The Board shall fix a reasonable time
for hearing the appeal and give notice thereof to the parties and shall decide
the same within a reasonable time. At the hearing, any party may appear in
person, by agent or by attorney.
(`94 Code, App. C, Art. III, § 3) (Am. Ord. 96-15, passed 11-12-96; Am. Ord.
01-05, passed 4-10-01; Am. Ord. 01-16, passed 12-11-01; Am. Ord. 03-05, passed
4-8-03; Am. Ord. 03-06, passed 4-8-03; Am. Ord. 05-05, passed 10-11-05; Am.
Ord. 06-13, passed 11-14-06; Am. Ord. 06-16, passed 2-13-07; Am. Ord. 16-13,
passed 12-13-16)
§ 155.138 ZONING ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   The Zoning Enforcement Officer is hereby authorized, and it shall be his or
her duty to enforce and administer the provisions of this chapter. If a ruling
of the Zoning Enforcement Officer is questioned, the aggrieved party or parties
may, within 30 days after the filing of the ruling or decision of the Zoning
Enforcement Officer, appeal the ruling or decision to the Board of Adjustment.
(`94 Code, App. C, Art. III, § 4)
§ 155.139 BUILDING AND ZONING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No building or other structure shall be erected, moved, extended, enlarged
or structurally altered, nor shall any excavation or filling of any lot for the
construction of any building, except for single-family residential, be
commenced until a site plan has been submitted to and reviewed by the Project
Review Committee and the Zoning Enforcement Officer has issued a building and
zoning permit for the work.
(`94 Code, App. C, Art. III, § 5)
§ 155.140 APPLICATION FOR ZONING PERMIT.
   (A)   Each application to the Zoning Enforcement Officer for a zoning permit
shall be accompanied by plot plans in duplicate showing:
      (1)   The actual dimensions of the lot to be built upon;
      (2)   The size of the building to be erected;
      (3)   The location of the building on the lot;
      (4)   The location of existing structures on the lot, if any;
      (5)   The number of dwelling units the building is designed to
accommodate;
      (6)   The approximate setback lines of buildings on adjoining lots;
      (7)   The intended use of the property; and
      (8)   Any other information as may be essential for determining whether
the provisions of this chapter are being observed.
   (B)   Any zoning permit issued shall expire and be canceled unless the work
authorized by it is begun within six months of its date of issue, or if the
work authorized by it is suspended or abandoned for a period of one year.
Written notice thereof shall be given to the persons affected, including notice
that further work as described in the canceled permit shall not proceed unless
and until another building and zoning permit has been obtained.
(`94 Code, App. C, Art. III, § 6)
§ 155.141 PERMITS AND CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY REQUIRED FOR DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   A certificate of occupancy issued by the Zoning Enforcement Officer
and the County Inspections Office is required in advance of:
      (1)   Occupancy or use of a building hereafter erected, altered or moved;
or
      (2)   A change of use of any building or land.
   (B)   In addition, a certificate of occupancy shall be required for each
nonconforming use or structure created by the passage and subsequent amendments
to this chapter. The owner of the nonconforming use or structure shall obtain a
certificate of occupancy within 90 days of the date of passage or amendments.
   (C)   A certificate of occupancy, either for the whole or part of a
building, shall be applied for coincident with the application for a zoning
permit and shall be issued within ten days after the erection or structural
alteration of the building or part shall have been completed in conformity with
the provisions of this chapter. A certificate of occupancy shall not be issued
unless the proposed use of a building or land conforms to the applicable
provisions of this chapter. If the certificate of occupancy is denied, the
Zoning Enforcement Officer shall state in writing the reasons for refusal, and
the applicant shall be notified of the refusal. A record of all certificates
shall be kept on file in the office of the Zoning Enforcement Officer and
copies shall be furnished on request to any person having a proprietary or
tenancy interest in the building or land involved.
(`94 Code, App. C, Art. III, § 7)
§ 155.142 FEES FOR ADMINISTRATIVE PROCESSES.
   Reasonable fees sufficient to cover the costs of administration, inspection,
publication of notice, and similar matters may be charged to applicants for
project review and zoning permits, conditional use permits, zoning amendments,
appeals, variances and other administrative relief. The amount of the fees
shall be fixed by the Town Board. Public agencies shall be exempt from all
fees.
(`94 Code, App. C, Art. III, § 8)
§ 155.143 CONSTRUCTION AND USE TO COMPLY WITH APPLICATIONS, PLANS, PERMITS AND
CERTIFICATES OF ZONING COMPLIANCE.
   Building permits or certificates of zoning compliance issued on the basis of
plans and applications approved by the Project Review Committee or the Zoning
Enforcement Officer authorize only the use, arrangement and construction set
forth in the approved plans and applications, and not other uses, arrangements
or construction. Use, arrangement or construction at variance with that
authorized shall be deemed a violation of this chapter.
(`94 Code, App. C, Art. III, § 9)
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.144 TOWN ATTORNEY MAY PREVENT VIOLATION.
   If any structure is erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered, repaired,
converted or maintained in violation of this chapter, or any structure or land
is used in violation of this chapter, the Zoning Enforcement Officer shall
inform the Town Attorney and the Town Attorney, in addition to other remedies,
may institute any appropriate action or proceeding to prevent the unlawful
erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair, conversion,
maintenance or use to restrain, correct or abate the violation, to prevent the
occupancy of the structure or land or to prevent any illegal act, conduct,
business or use in or about the premises.
(`94 Code, App. C, Art. III, § 10)
§ 155.145 LIABILITY.
   The owner, tenant, or occupant of any land or structure, or part thereof,
and any architect, engineer, builder, contractor, agent or other person who
participates in, assists, directs, creates or maintains any situation that is
contrary to the requirements of this chapter may be held responsible for the
violation and be subject to the penalties and remedies provided herein.
(`94 Code, App. C, Art. III, § 11)
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.146 PROJECT REVIEW COMMITTEE.
   (A)   Development, except for single-family, nonmanufactured residential
development, must be approved by the Project Review Committee prior to the
start of construction. Approval of a required plan by the Project Review
Committee shall be a prerequisite to the issuance of a zoning permit.
   (B)   The Project Review Committee shall review all applications for
conditional use permits, zoning permits, special use permits, temporary use
permits, and building permits to determine whether or not the proposed
development meets the standards established in this chapter and all other
applicable regulations within the town and, where applicable, to provide
recommendations to the Board of Adjustment (conditional use permits, variances,
etc.) and the Planning Board and Board of Aldermen (special use zoning
districts). This review shall be of a technical nature only, and shall not
involve negotiation with developers or the exercise of discretionary authority.
   (C)   (1)   The owner or developer of the property designated in the
application shall submit the application to the Zoning Enforcement Officer for
project review. The application shall include all data required by this
chapter.
      (2)   Three copies of all required plans, drawings and specifications
shall be filed at the time of application. After review by the Project Review
Committee, one copy shall be attached to the building permit and kept on file
in the Town Hall, one copy shall be returned to the developer for his or her
records, and one copy shall be kept by the Zoning Enforcement Officer.
      (3)   After receipt of the application by the Zoning Enforcement Officer,
a meeting of the Project Review Committee shall be called by the Chairman to
review the project. Meetings of the committee shall be held at the call of the
chairman. The developer may request a preliminary staff review prior to formal
review. The Town Planner or Town Manager may conduct the staff review. All
meetings of the Committee shall be open to the public. At the hearing, any
party may appeal in person or by agent.
      (4)   (a)   The Project Review Committee shall have up to 30 days from
the date a complete application was submitted to make a recommendation to the
Planning Board or Board of Adjustment. If the Project Review Committee fails to
make a recommendation during said time period, the application shall be
forwarded to the Planning Board or Board of Adjustment without a
recommendation.
         (b)   The Project Review Committee shall otherwise have 45 days from
submittal of a complete application to render a decision on all other matters
that come before it. If the Project Review Committee does not make a decision
within such time period, the application shall be deemed approved. If the
Project Review Committee finds that such proposed project does not meet all of
the standards of this chapter, a copy of the application, with deficiencies
noted, shall be returned to the developer for modification and resubmittal.
      (5)   In the event of failure to comply with the plans approved by the
Project Review Committee, any permit issued for that project shall immediately
become void. No building permits for further construction or certificates of
occupancy shall be issued until such a time as the owner or developer meets
with the Project Review Committee and presents plans and specifications to
correct project deficiencies.
      (6)   An application fee of $100 shall be paid to the town for each
application to the Project Review Committee to help cover the necessary
administrative costs.
(`94 Code, App. C, Art. III, § 13) (Am. Ord. 01-19, passed 11-13-01; Am. Ord.
05-05, passed 10-11-05)
§ 155.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to §
10.99 or Chapter 35, as applicable. Each day that a violation continues to
exist shall constitute a separate violation and a separate offense for the
purpose of the penalties specified herein.
   (B)   For violations of §§
155.085 et seq., a property owner shall be deemed to have persistently violated
the provisions of that subchapter when two sign violations have been noted
within any given six-month period. Upon a third violation of the provisions of
§§
155.085 et seq. within that six-month period, a citation of $100 will be
issued. The six-month period shall commence on the date the first notice of the
timeline was prepared, and end on a date 180 days following. After that date,
violations shall be measured under a new and separate six-month deadline.
(Am. Ord. 01-07, passed 5-8-01; Am. Ord. 02-05, passed 12-10-02)
APPENDIX A: CULS-DE-SAC
[Click_here_to_view_image.]
(`94 Code, Diagram 6.01.10(i))
APPENDIX B: COMMERCIAL CORRIDOR OVERLAY DISTRICT (CC) - VISUAL DEVELOPMENT
GUIDE
§
1   Existing and past development in the CC district
§
2   Preferred development design standards in the CC district
§
3   Development styles to be avoided in the CC district
§ 1 EXISTING AND PAST DEVELOPMENT IN THE CC DISTRICT. 
   (A)   Two-story building fronts the street and is constructed with features
that echo the town’s past. Streetscape is inviting and includes turn of the
century lighting along pedestrian walkways.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/33154e9f2bd52dcfb5a79c904b079676c7a4a240/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1442.gif]
 
   (B)   Homes are reasonably set back from the road, well landscaped and
mirror development from an earlier time.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/33154e9f2bd52dcfb5a79c904b079676c7a4a240/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1444.gif]
 
   (C)   Spencer Shops prominently symbolizes the town’s architecture theme. It
is a two-story brick building, with ample fenestration.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/33154e9f2bd52dcfb5a79c904b079676c7a4a240/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1446.gif]
 
   (D)   An example of Spencer’s original downtown architectural style: two and
three story attached brick buildings; fenestration on all stories; awnings and
canopies intermittently utilized; recessed doorways and articulated masonry
patterns.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/33154e9f2bd52dcfb5a79c904b079676c7a4a240/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1448.gif]
 
   (E)   Public buildings with well designed entrance and landscaping; uses
earth tone building materials and is both oriented and located close to the
street.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/33154e9f2bd52dcfb5a79c904b079676c7a4a240/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1450.gif]
 
(Ord. 05-05, passed 10-11-05)
§ 2 PREFERRED DEVELOPMENT DESIGN STANDARDS IN THE CC DISTRICT.
   (A)   A non-traditional convenience store/gas station that contains a
“railroad-themed” architecture style (picture (A)(1)). Note how the wide roof
soffits, roof brackets supports and natural materials used in the exterior of
the convenience store are similar to that of the depot (picture (A)(2)).
      (1)   
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/33154e9f2bd52dcfb5a79c904b079676c7a4a240/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1452.gif]
 
      (2)   
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/33154e9f2bd52dcfb5a79c904b079676c7a4a240/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1454.gif]
 
   (B)   Modern buildings. A large retail use that has a significant amount of
fenestration including arched windows and brick faade (picture (B)(1)). This
building has architectural features similar in nature to structures at Spencer
Shops (picture (B)(2)).
      (1)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/33154e9f2bd52dcfb5a79c904b079676c7a4a240/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1456.gif]
 
      (2)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/33154e9f2bd52dcfb5a79c904b079676c7a4a240/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1458.gif]
 
   (C)   On street parking, buildings compliment others along entire street
frontage.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/33154e9f2bd52dcfb5a79c904b079676c7a4a240/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1460.gif]
 
   (D)   Streetscape is alive. Earth tone building materials, reasonable scale
relative to sidewalk; tasteful signage; ample fenestration; and recessed entry.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/33154e9f2bd52dcfb5a79c904b079676c7a4a240/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1462.gif]
 
   (E)   Walkable, pedestrian amenities including street trees, benches, trash
receptacles and decorative lighting.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/33154e9f2bd52dcfb5a79c904b079676c7a4a240/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1464.gif]
 
   (F)   Building addresses the street and is welcoming to the pedestrian with
appropriate fenestration. Signage and awnings cater to “walkability”. Corporate
image is present, but subdued.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/33154e9f2bd52dcfb5a79c904b079676c7a4a240/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1466.gif]
 
   (G)   Combination of building materials and architectural treatment echo
history of Spencer and architectural elements present “railroad style”
architecture.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/33154e9f2bd52dcfb5a79c904b079676c7a4a240/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1468.gif]
 
(Ord. 05-05, passed 10-11-05)
§ 3 DEVELOPMENT STYLES TO BE AVOIDED IN THE CC DISTRICT.
   (A)   Loud colors, scale, and non-complimentary building materials contrast
harshly with adjacent buildings.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/33154e9f2bd52dcfb5a79c904b079676c7a4a240/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1470.gif]
 
   (B)   Inadequate landscaping and lack of fenestration. Large blank wall does
not relate well to the pedestrian.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/33154e9f2bd52dcfb5a79c904b079676c7a4a240/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1472.gif]
 
   (C)   Stylistic architecture that is out of place with Spencer’s character.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/33154e9f2bd52dcfb5a79c904b079676c7a4a240/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1474.gif]
 
   (D)   Strip center with loud colors, signage not coordinated, lack of
building articulation, off-street parking with no landscaping dominates
development.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/33154e9f2bd52dcfb5a79c904b079676c7a4a240/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1476.gif]
 
   (E)   Metal building materials, signage is internally lit and dominates;
inadequate pedestrian space on sidewalk.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/33154e9f2bd52dcfb5a79c904b079676c7a4a240/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1478.gif]   
 
   (F)   Classic strip development. Deep setback from the road, inadequate
landscaping, uncoordinated signage, visible infrastructure on roof.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/33154e9f2bd52dcfb5a79c904b079676c7a4a240/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1480.gif]
 
(Ord. 05-05, passed 10-11-05)
CHAPTER 156: [RESERVED]
CHAPTER 157: [RESERVED]
CHAPTER 158: [RESERVED]
CHAPTER 159: [RESERVED]
CHAPTER 160: HOUSING CODE
Section
General
   
160.01   Housing code established; title
   
160.02   Findings
   
160.03   Purpose of chapter
   
160.04   Scope
   
160.05   Definitions
   
160.06   Conflicting provisions
   
160.07   Buildings unfit for human habitation declared nuisance
   
160.08   Responsibilities of owners and occupants
   
160.09   Access by owner
Minimum Housing Inspector
   
160.26   Creation of office
   
160.27   Qualifications
   
160.28   Appointment
   
160.29   General duties
   
160.30   Powers
   
160.31   Right of entry
   
160.32   Duties with regard to buildings and construction
   
160.33   Conflict of interest
Minimum Housing Standards
   
160.51   Applicability of subchapter; compliance
   
160.52   Minimum standards of fitness; unsafe conditions
   
160.53   Minimum standards of fitness; minor violations
Vacant, Neglected, Abandoned Residential Properties
   
160.61   Vacant, neglected and abandoned residential properties
   
160.62   Regulation of boarded up residential structures
Inventory of Residential Structures
   
160.71   Inventory of vacant residential structures
Boarding/Rooming Houses
   
160.76   Applicability of chapter
   
160.77   Water closet, lavatory and bath facilities
   
160.78   Minimum floor area for sleeping purposes
   
160.79   Maintenance of sanitary conditions
Enforcement
   
160.86   Compliance with orders; violations
   
160.87   Preliminary investigation; notice; minimum housing hearing
   
160.88   After the minimum housing hearing
   
160.89   Structures in the historic district
   
160.90   Intent to repair order
   
160.91   Violations, penalties, appeal
   
160.92   Failure to comply with order
   
160.93   Appeals
   
160.94   Petition to Superior Court
   
160.95   Service of complaints and orders
   
160.96   In rem action by inspector; placarding of buildings
   
160.97   Costs of repairs, demolition, etc., to constitute lien
   
160.98   Action to remove occupant
Charter reference:
   Economic development projects, §
8.50.
State Law reference:
   Fair housing, G.S. Ch. 41A; North Carolina Housing Finance Agency, G.S. Ch.
122A; North
    Carolina Housing Trust and Oil Overcharge Act, G.S. Ch. 122E; minimum
housing standards,
    G.S. 160A-441 et seq.; right of handicapped to housing, G.S. 168-9.
Cross reference:
   Administration, Ch. 2; buildings, Ch. 7; fire prevention and protection, Ch.
9; "rooming house" defined, § 1-2.
GENERAL
§ 160.01 HOUSING CODE ESTABLISHED; TITLE.
   There are hereby established rules and regulations for the repair or
elimination of unfit and/or unsafe housing conditions in the Town of Spencer,
North Carolina, which shall be known as "The Housing Code of the Town of
Spencer," and will be referred to hereafter as "Code."
(Ord. 16-12, passed 11-15-16)
§ 160.02 FINDINGS.
   (A)   Pursuant to G.S. 160A-441, it is hereby found and declared that there
exist in the town dwellings which are unfit for human habitation due to
dilapidation, defects increasingthe hazards of fire, accidents and other
calamities, and lack of ventilation, light and sanitary facilities, and due to
other conditions rendering such dwellings unsafe or insanitary, and dangerous
and detrimental to the health, safety and morals and otherwise inimical to the
welfare of the residents of the town.
   (B)   There also exist abandoned, vacant, and neglected dwellings which the
Town Board of Aldermen finds to be a health or safety hazard as a result of the
attraction of insects or rodents, conditions creating a fire hazard, dangerous
conditions constituting a threat to children or frequent use by vagrants as
living quarters in the absence of sanitary facilities. Buildings unfit for
human habitation and unsafe to the public are hereby declared to be a public
nuisance and shall be repaired or rehabilitated to the standards of this
subchapter or demolished in accordance with the procedures set forth herein.
(Ord. 16-12, passed 11-15-16)
§ 160.03 PURPOSE OF CHAPTER.
   In order to protect the health, safety and welfare of the residents of the
town as authorized by G.S. 160A, Art. 19, Part 6 (G.S. 160A-441 et seq.), it is
the purpose of this chapter to establish minimum standards of fitness for the
initial and continued occupancy of all buildings used for human habitation, as
expressly authorized by G.S. 160A-443 and 160A-444.
(Ord. 16-12, passed 11-15-16)
§ 160.04 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this code are applicable to all existing dwellings and all
dwellings hereafter constructed within the town which are used or intended for
use for human habitation. Demountable dwellings or demountable dwellings being
moved and temporarily stored prior to relocation, when used or intended for use
for human habitation with the town, shall be subject to the applicable
provisions of this code.
(Ord. 16-12, passed 11-15-16)
§ 160.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this
chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
      ABANDONED RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURE and ABANDONED RESIDENTIAL DWELLING UNIT.
A residential structure or dwelling unit on a parcel which is:
         (a)   Vacant for 30 days;
         (b)   No residential use or habitable occupancy of the structure by
its owner or by some person acting under the authority of its owner during this
period of time or longer;
         (c)   In violation of one or more minimum housing standards of the
town code; and
         (d)   The Minimum Housing Inspector has determined the structure to be
unfit for human habitation or occupancy based upon the standards as set forth
in this chapter.
      AREA. Area as applied to the dimensions of a dwelling shall mean the
maximum horizontal projected area of the dwelling at grade. Area as applied to
the dimensions of a room, shall mean the total square footage of floor area
between finished walls.
      BASEMENT. A portion of a building which is located partly underground,
having direct access to light and air from windows located above the level of
the adjoining ground.
      BOARD UP. The boarding up of any means of egress and ingress, including,
without limitation, windows and doors, access points to crawl space, etc. to an
abandoned residential structure. The accepted method to board up a property is
listed in this chapter of the code.
      BOARDING HOUSE (OR ROOMING HOUSE). Any dwelling, or that part of any
dwelling containing one or more rooming units, in which space is let by the
owner or operator to three or more persons who are not husband and wife, son or
daughter, mother or father or sister or brother of the owner or operator, or
any part thereof.
      BUILDING. That which is built or constructed, an edifice or building of
any kind, or any piece of work artificially built up or composed of parts
joined together in some definite manner. The term "building" shall be construed
as if followed by the words "or part thereof."
      CEILING HEIGHT. The clear vertical distance from the finished floor to
the finished ceiling.
      CELLAR. A portion of a building located partly or wholly underground
having an adequate access to light and air from windows located partly or
wholly below the level of the adjoining ground.
Inspector is any person appointed by the Town Manager and sworn under oath to
enforce the Town of Spencer Code of Ordinances, which include all regulations
and standards in this chapter.
      DEFLECTION. The sagging of a structural member.
      DEMOLISH. The tearing down and disposal of the entire dwelling in a
lawful manner, leaving the property free and clear of any debris and without
holes or pockets.
      DETERIORATED. A dwelling that is unfit for human habitation and can be
repaired, altered or improved to comply with all of the minimum standards
established by this chapter, at a cost not in excess of 50% of its value, as
determined by finding of the inspector.
      DILAPIDATED. A dwelling that is unfit for human habitation and cannot be
repaired, altered or improved to comply with all of the minimum standards
established by this chapter except at a cost in excess of 50% of its value, as
determined by finding of the inspector.
      DWELLING. Any building, structure or part thereof which is wholly or
partly used or intended to be used for living, sleeping or habitation by human
occupants, and includes any outhouses and appurtenances belonging thereto or
usually enjoyed therewith. Temporary housing shall not be regarded as a
dwelling. The term shall include within its meaning the terms "rooming house"
and "rooming unit."
      DWELLING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms located within a dwelling and
forming a single habitable unit with facilities which are used or intended to
be used for living, sleeping, cooking and eating, or any part thereof.
      EXIT. A clear and unobstructed way of departure from the interior of a
dwelling to the exterior at street or grade level.
      EXTERMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rodents or other
pests by removing or making inaccessible materials that may serve as their
food, by poisoning, spraying, fumigating or trapping, or by any other
recognized and legal pest elimination methods approved by the inspector.
      GARBAGE. The organic waste matter, both animal and vegetable, from
houses, kitchens, restaurants, hotels, hospitals and the like, and comprises
chiefly waste food, but also includes ashes, dirty rags and the like. The word
GARBAGE does not include liquid that may be drained into the sewer.
      HABITABLE ROOM. A room or enclosed floor space used or intended to be
used for living, sleeping, cooking or eating purposes, excluding bathrooms,
water closet compartments, laundries, heater rooms, foyers or communicating
corridors, closets and storage spaces.
      INFESTATION. The presence, within or around a dwelling, of any insects,
rodents or other pests in such number as to constitute a menace to the health,
safety or welfare of the occupants or to the public.
      MINIMUM HOUSING INSPECTOR. A minimum housing inspector of the town or any
other inspector so designated by the town manager, also referred to as
"inspector."
      MULTIPLE DWELLING. Any building containing more than two dwelling units.
      NEGLECTED. A residential structure on a parcel which has been issued one
or more violations of the town's nuisance and/or zoning codes within the past
12 months.
      NORTH CAROLINA STATE BUILDING CODE or NORTH CAROLINA BUILDING CODE. Any
or all volumes of the North Carolina State Building Code as promulgated by the
North Carolina State Building Code Council.
      OCCUPANT. Any person over one year of age living, sleeping, cooking or
eating in, or having actual possession of a dwelling unit or rooming unit.
      OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care or control of a building, or
part thereof, in which dwelling units or rooming units are let.
      OWNER. Any person who alone, jointly or severally with others:
         (a)   Has title to any property, dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming
unit with or without accompanying actual possession thereof;
         (b)   Is listed as the owner of record, trustee, heir, responsible
person, party of interest with the Rowan County Register of Deeds;
         (c)   Is a mortgagee of record for any property, dwelling, dwelling
unit or rooming unit; or
         (d)   Has charge, care or control of any dwelling, dwelling unit or
rooming unit as owner or agent of the owner, or as executor, administrator,
trustee or guardian of the estate of the owner. Any such person thus
representing the actual owner shall be bound to comply with the provisions of
this chapter, and of rules and regulations adopted pursuant thereto, to the
same extent as if he were the owner.
      PARTIES IN INTEREST. All persons who have interests of record in a
dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming unit and any persons who are in possession
thereof.
      PERFORMANCE PERIOD. The period of time issued by the minimum housing
inspector for the owner or designee to comply with code violations, which
allows the officer to see efforts toward compliance or not.
      PIER. A post, pole or column of masonry, concrete, steel or pressure-
treated wood extending from a concrete or masonry footing to and supporting the
building or portion thereof.
      PLUMBING. The water supply system, sanitary drainage system, vent system,
fixtures, and traps and shall include their respective connections, devices,
appliances, and appurtenances within the property lines of the premises.
      PROPERTY. When referred to in this chapter of the code, shall refer only
to residential properties and not include nonresidential properties.
      PUBLIC AUTHORITY. The town housing authority or any officer who is in
charge of any department or branch of the government of the town, the county or
the state relating to health, fire, building regulations or other activities
concerning dwellings in the town.
      PUBLIC SPACE or COMMON SPACE. That space within any dwelling which is
open to use by the general public or to occupants of more than one dwelling.
      RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURE. Any building, structure, manufactured home or
mobile home, or part thereof, intended to be used as a dwelling, dwelling unit,
rooming unit, for human habitation and includes any appurtenances therewith.
      ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
used or intended to be used for living and sleeping, but not for cooking or
eating purposes.
      RUBBISH. Combustible and noncombustible waste materials, except garbage
and ashes, and includes paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior, rubber,
leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin cans, metals, mineral matter,
glass, crockery and dust.
      STORY. That part of the dwelling comprised between a floor and the floor
or roof next above having the required amount of ceiling height.
      SUPPLIED. Paid for, furnished or provided by or under the control of the
owner or operator.
Temporary housing means any tent, trailer or other structure used for human
shelter which is designed to be transportable and which is not attached to the
ground, to another structure or to any utilities system on the same premises
for more than 30 consecutive days.
      TENANT. Any person who alone or jointly or severally with others occupies
a dwelling under an oral or written lease or holds a legal tenancy in a
dwelling.
      UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION. That conditions exist in a dwelling which
violate or do not comply with one or more of the minimum standards of fitness
or one or more of the requirements established by this chapter.
         VACANT. A residential structure on a parcel which lacks the habitual
presence of human beings who have a legal right to be on the premises or at
which substantially all residential occupancy has ceased.
   (B)   Whenever the words "dwelling," "dwelling unit," "rooming house,"
"rooming unit" or "premises" are used in this chapter, they shall be construed
as though followed by the words "or any part thereof."
(Ord. 16-12, passed 11-15-16)
Cross-reference:
   Administration, Ch.2; Buildings, Ch. 7; Fire Prevention and Protection; Ch.
9 “rooming house” defined; § 1-2
§ 160.06 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If any provision, standard or requirement of this chapter is found to be in
conflict with any provision of this code or any other ordinance or code of the
town, the provision which establishes the higher standard or more stringent
requirement for the promotion and protection of the health and safety of the
residents of the town shall prevail.
(Ord. 16-12, passed 11-15-16)
§ 160.07 BUILDINGS UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION DECLARED NUISANCE.
   All buildings or portions of buildings which are used or intended for use as
places of habitation and which are, under this chapter, unfit for human
habitation are hereby declared to be a public nuisance and shall be repaired or
rehabilitated to the standards of this chapter or demolished in accordance with
the procedure set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 16-12, passed 11-15-16)
§ 160.08 RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS.
   Generally. The relative responsibilities of the owners, operators and
occupants of places of habitation shall be as follows:
   (A)   Public areas. Every owner of a dwelling containing two or more
dwelling units shall be responsible for maintaining in a clean and sanitary
condition the shared or public areas of the dwelling and premises thereof.
   (B)   Cleanliness. Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall keep
in a clean and sanitary condition that part of the dwelling, dwelling unit and
premises thereof which he occupies and controls.
   (C)   Rubbish and garbage. Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit
shall dispose of all his rubbish and garbage in a clean and sanitary manner by
placing it in the supplied storage facilities. In all cases the owner shall be
responsible for the availability of rubbish and garbage storage facilities.
   (D)   Infestation. Every occupant of a dwelling containing a single dwelling
unit shall be responsible for the extermination of any insects, rodents or
other pests therein or on the premises; and every occupant of a dwelling unit
in a dwelling containing more than one dwelling unit shall be responsible for
such extermination whenever his dwelling unit is the only one infested.
Whenever infestation is caused by failure of the owner to maintain a dwelling
in a rodent-proof or reasonably insect-proof condition, extermination shall be
the responsibility of the owner. Whenever infestation exists in two or more of
the dwelling units in any dwelling or in the shared or public parts of any
dwelling containing two or more dwelling units, extermination shall be the
responsibility of the owner.
   (E)   Plumbing. Every owner or operator shall be responsible for providing
adequate operable plumbing facilities, including an adequate water heater, and
for maintaining such facilities in efficient operating condition; every
occupant shall be responsible for exercising reasonable care in the use of such
facilities and for maintaining such facilities in a clean and sanitary
condition.
   (F)   Heating. Every owner or operator shall be responsible for providing
adequate operable facilities and appliances supplying heat throughout the
dwelling unit, rooming unit or lodging unit in compliance with the standards of
fitness; every occupant shall be responsible for exercising reasonable care in
the use of such facilities and appliances.
   (G)   Care of premises. No occupant shall willfully destroy, deface or
otherwise impair any of the facilities or equipment of the owner on the
premises which he occupies and controls, or any part of the building itself.
(Ord. 16-12, passed 11-15-16)
§ 160.09 ACCESS BY OWNER.
   Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall give the owner thereof,
or his agent or employee, access to any part of such dwelling or dwelling unit
and its premises at all reasonable times for the purpose of making such repairs
or alterations as are necessary to effect compliance with the provisions of
this chapter or with any lawful order issued pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 16-12, passed 11-15-16)
MINIMUM HOUSING INSPECTOR
§ 160.26 CREATION OF OFFICE.
   There is hereby created the office of minimum housing inspector in the land
management department and for the town.
(Ord. 16-12, passed 11-15-16)
§ 160.27 QUALIFICATIONS.
   The person appointed minimum housing inspector shall have a competent
knowledge of building construction and be a Certified Housing Code Official.
(Ord. 16-12, passed 11-15-16)
§ 160.28 APPOINTMENT.
   The office of minimum housing inspector shall be assigned to the Land
Management Director by the town manager or his designee.
(Ord. 16-12, passed 11-15-16)
§ 160.29 GENERAL DUTIES.
   The minimum housing inspector is hereby designated as the officer to enforce
the provisions of this chapter and to exercise the duties and powers prescribed
in this chapter. The minimum housing inspector is authorized to exercise such
powers as may be necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the
purpose and provisions of this chapter. It shall be the duty of the minimum
housing inspector to:
      (A)   Investigate the dwelling conditions, and to inspect dwellings and
dwelling units, including abandoned dwellings, located in the town, in order to
determine which dwellings and dwelling units are unfit for human habitation,
and for the purpose of carrying out the objectives of this chapter with respect
to such dwellings and dwelling units.
      (B)   Take such action, together with other appropriate departments and
agencies, public and private, as may be necessary to effect rehabilitation of
housing which is deteriorated or dilapidated.
      (C)   Keep a record of the results of inspections made under this
subchapter and an inventory of those dwellings that do not meet the minimum
standards of fitness prescribed in this chapter.
      (D)   Perform such other duties as may be prescribed in this chapter.
(Ord. 16-12, passed 11-15-16)
§ 160.30 POWERS.
   (A)   General. The minimum housing inspector is authorized to exercise such
powers as may be necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the
purpose and provisions of this chapter, including the following powers in
addition to others granted in this chapter:
      (1)   To inspect and investigate residential structures and the dwelling
conditions in the town in order to determine which dwellings therein are unfit
for human habitation and unsafe for the public.
      (2)   To administer oaths and affirmations, examine witnesses and receive
evidence.
      (3)   To obtain, serve, and execute administrative inspection warrants,
if necessary, as provided in G.S. 15-27.2.
      (4)   To enter upon premises for the purpose of making examinations and
inspections; provided that such entries shall be made between 8:00 a.m. - 8:00
p.m. and in such manner as to cause the least possible inconvenience to the
persons in possession.
      (5)   To issue notices of violation and impose civil penalties.
      (6)   To abate the violations if uncorrected by the owner.
   (B)   Inspections.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the minimum housing inspector to
periodically examine the dwellings located in the town for the purpose of
determining the fitness of dwellings for human habitation, and for the
enforcement and administration of this code.
      (2)   Except as provided in G.S. 160A-424(b), the minimum housing
inspector may make periodic inspections only when there is reasonable cause to
believe that unsafe, unsanitary, or otherwise hazardous or unlawful conditions
may exist in a residential building or structure. For purposes of this section,
the term "reasonable cause" means any of the following: (i) the landlord or
owner has a history of more than two verified violations of the housing
ordinances or codes within a 12-month period; (ii) there has been a complaint
that substandard conditions exist within the building or there has been a
request that the building be inspected; (iii) the land management department
has actual knowledge of an unsafe condition within the building; or (iv)
violations of the local ordinances or codes are visible from the outside of the
property.
      (3)   If, during the course of an inspection, the minimum housing
inspector finds evidence of construction in progress that would require a
permit (or permits) pursuant to G.S. § 160A-417, the owner shall produce
evidence that such permit(s) have been obtained.
      (4)   It shall be the responsibility of the owner to relocate any
moveable obstructions (furniture, boxes, appliances and construction materials,
for example) that would otherwise interfere with a complete minimum housing
inspection.
(Ord. 16-12, passed 11-15-16)
§ 160.31 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   In the discharge of his official duties or for the purpose of making
inspections, re-inspections and tests, the inspector is hereby authorized to
enter, examine and survey at all reasonable times, all buildings, dwellings,
dwelling units, rooming units and premises, including abandoned, vacant, and
neglected residential structures and/or dwellings. The owner or occupant of
every dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming unit, or the person in charge thereof,
shall give the inspector free access to such dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming
unit and its premises at all reasonable times for the purposes of such
inspection, examination and survey. Reasonable times as described herein shall
be between the hours of 8:00 a.m. - 8:00 p.m.
(Ord. 16-12, passed 11-15-16)
§ 160.32 DUTIES WITH REGARD TO BUILDINGS AND CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   The Rowan County Building Inspections Department issues all building,
electrical, mechanical, and plumbing permits within the town. The Building
Inspector referred in this section shall be referencing this department.
   (B)   The building inspector shall inspect all buildings and other
structures in the town during and after construction or alteration and see that
the provisions of
Chapter 150 are enforced.
   (C)   The building inspector shall make a monthly report to the town Manager
of all permits issued, inspections and reinspections made, fees collected and
other official work performed in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 150.
   (D)   The building inspector shall keep complete records of all permits
issued, inspections and reinspections made, fees collected and other official
work performed in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 150.
(Ord. 16-12, passed 11-15-16)
§ 160.33 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   While holding office, the minimum housing inspector shall not engage in or
be interested in business in the town or county as an architect, engineer or
builder, or in the sale of building materials, or accept a fee or other
compensation for engineering advice on plans and specifications submitted.
(Ord. 16-12, passed 11-15-16)
State law reference:
   Building inspection, G.S. 160A-411 et seq.
MINIMUM HOUSING STANDARDS
§ 160.51 APPLICABILITY OF SUBCHAPTER; COMPLIANCE.
   Every dwelling and dwelling unit used as a human habitation or held out for
use as a human habitation shall comply with all of the minimum standards of
fitness for human habitation and all of the requirements of this subchapter. No
person shall occupy as owner-occupant, or let to another for occupancy or use
as a human habitation, any dwelling or dwelling unit which does not comply with
all of the minimum standards of fitness for human habitation and all of the
requirements of this subchapter.
(Ord. 16-12, passed 11-15-16)
§ 160.52 MINIMUM STANDARDS OF FITNESS; UNSAFE CONDITIONS.
   (A)   If any of the following unsafe conditions exist, the inspector shall
determine that a dwelling is unsafe and represents an immediate threat to life
and property. The owner shall, within 48 hours of being notified in writing or
in person, have the unsafe conditions corrected or be in violation of this
subchapter.
      (1)   Unsafe fuel containers present inside the dwelling or dwelling unit
and not stored properly.
      (2)   Egress path or exit point is blocked or is not operable as was
originally intended and does not meet requirements set forth in International
Residential Code Section R311.4.4 (This includes, but is not limited to,
windows and doors that open to the exterior of the dwelling).
      (3)   Presence of raw sewage or open sewer in or near the dwelling,
whether from broken, plugged or inoperative fixtures or pipes inside the
dwelling. Improperly operating or no sanitary facilities.
      (4)   No operable smoke and/or CO detectors installed in the dwelling per
the International Residential Code Section R313.
      (5)   Internal accumulation of garbage.
      (6)   Presence of uncontained flammable or combustible liquids or gases,
poisonous solids, liquids or gases or life- or health-threatening depletion of
oxygen.
   (B)   If any of the following unsafe conditions exist, the inspector shall
determine that a dwelling is unsafe and represents an immediate threat to life
and property. The owner shall, within 48 hours of being notified in writing or
in person, have the unsafe conditions corrected or present a compliance plan in
writing to the inspector, otherwise being in violation of this subchapter. The
compliance plan must state the reason for being unable to correct the unsafe
conditions within 48 hours, who will be performing the repair work and whether
or not a permit will be required to complete the work.
      (1)   No operating heating facilities between November 1 and March 30 of
any year.
      (2)   No potable water service. Every dwelling shall be furnished with a
potable water supply system. "Potable water supply" means direct connection to
a well, to a public water utility or equivalent water service delivery system,
and does not include water delivered through a hose or via containers.
      (3)   No electricity.
      (4)   Unsafe or inoperable mechanical equipment (i.e., heating unit for
dwelling, water heating unit) which does not meet the standards as set forth in
International Property Maintenance Code Sections 505.4 and 602.2.
      (5)   Unsafe cooking equipment. (All cooking equipment and facilities
shall be installed in an approved manner and shall be maintained in safe
working condition. Portable cooking equipment employing flame is prohibited as
a substitute for approved cooking equipment. Portable cooking equipment is
prohibited outside the kitchen area of a boarding or rooming house.)
      (6)   Failing or failed primary structural members that threaten the
stability of the dwelling and/or visible structural defects that appear to
render the structural members ineffective; there exists a physical threat due
to immediate possibility of collapse.
      (7)   Overloaded, non-isolatable electrical circuits or unsafe or exposed
electrical wiring.
      (8)   Missing roof, or part of roof missing.
      (9)   Chimney flues kept in unsafe manner.
         (a)   Chimneys must comply with the following:
            1.   Chimneys must be safe for use as specified and intended.
"Specified" means use in connection with specific heating appliances or
systems, or limitations of such use.
            2.   "Intended" means use in connection with combustion of fuel,
for which the following minimum chimney standards apply:
               A.   Flue liner intact;
               B.   Chimney mortar and bricks secure;
               C.   Flue unobstructed;
               D.   Fireplace firebricks intact;
               E.   Stove piping placed and secured with clearances as follows:
                  i.   Minimum twelve-inch brick clearance separation from
combustibles;
                  ii.   Minimum nine-inch air separation for insulated listed
stove piping;
                  iii.   Minimum one-inch air clearance surrounded by six-inch
glass fiber insulation and ventilated thimble assembly; or
                  iv.   Minimum two-inch air separation for insulated listed
stove piping with one-inch air space between inner and outer chimney
components; and as otherwise described in National Fire Protection
Association's Standard 211, "Chimneys, Fireplaces, Vents and Solid Fuel-Burning
Appliances," 1992 edition.
            F.   Heating appliance clearances maintained at 36 inches from
combustible materials and/or surfaces, except that clearances may be reduced as
provided in National Fire Protection Association's Standard 211. "Chimneys,
Fireplaces, Vents and Solid Fuel-Burning Appliances," 1992 edition.
         (b)   Chimneys that do not meet these standards shall be either
repaired or sealed.
      (10)   Interior wall sheathing or sheeting that is not present, or has
been removed, to a point where there is little or no protection from spread of
fire from story to story, or from other habitable spaces to bedrooms.
      (11)   Holes in flooring large enough and located as such to create a
hazard or loose flooring that could cause collapse.
      (12)   Five or more minor violations exist as set forth in § 160.53.
   (C)   The inspector shall give priority enforcement to any dwelling that
falls within these provisions.
(Ord. 16-12, passed 11-15-16)
Cross reference:
   Fire prevention and protection, Ch. 9.
§ 160.53 MINIMUM STANDARDS OF FITNESS; MINOR VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Without excluding other ways and means of determining that a dwelling
is unfit for human habitation, the inspector shall apply the minimum standards
of fitness set forth in this code in determining whether a dwelling is unfit
and/or unsafe.
      (1)   General requirements.
         (a)   Foundation. The building foundation system shall be maintained
in a safe manner and capable of supporting the load which normal use may cause
to be placed thereon. Beneath the dwelling, there must be firm, reasonably dry
ground ("reasonably dry" means no mud, standing water, running water or
evidence of same). Every foundation wall, exterior wall and exterior roof shall
be substantially weather tight and rodent-proof and shall be kept in sound
condition and good repair. Mobile homes shall be set up and secured as required
by the state building code's regulations for manufactured/mobile homes.
         (b)   Exterior walls.
            1.   Every exterior wall shall be reasonably weather tight, (free
of holes, breaks, loose or rotting boards or timbers, and any other conditions
which might admit rain, dampness, vermin or air to the wall cavity or to the
occupied spaces of the building). Every exterior wall shall be protected with
paint or other protective covering to prevent the entrance or penetration of
moisture or the weather. All siding material shall be kept in repair. "Kept in
repair" includes maintenance of painted surface areas where the protective
paint surface no longer protects the wood or other organic building materials
from weather damage, repair of cracks or holes exceeding one-quarter-inch in
width and replacement of wood or other organic components that show visual
signs of rot, or are soft to the touch or otherwise show evidence of rotting.
            2.   Existing skirting shall be maintained free from broken or
missing sections, pieces or cross members which compromise the insulation
characteristics of the skirting. Skirting shall be securely attached and sized
from the ground to the lower outside perimeter of the structure. If skirting is
not provided, or if existing skirting is removed, water lines and drain lines
shall be insulated to prevent freezing.
            3.   Replacement or new skirting shall be constructed of materials
intended for exterior use and properly sized and mounted to prevent free access
to the crawl space of the dwelling. Adequate means to gain access to the
dwelling crawl space, via inside or outside, shall be furnished. Adequate means
to gain access to heating or other mechanical equipment, via inside or outside,
shall be furnished.
         (c)   Roofs. Roofs shall be structurally sound and maintained in a
safe manner and have no defects which might admit rain or cause dampness in the
walls or interior portion of the dwelling. The following may constitute
evidence of defects:
            1.   Missing shingles;
            2.   Flashing(s) missing;
            3.   Roof deflection deeper than one-sixth of the depth of the
rafter and/or rafters cracked;
            4.   Damage to ceilings (ceiling plaster loose or falling, brown
spots, etc.), sheet rock hanging, etc. in rooms below roof;
            5.   Fire damage;
            6.   No more than three layers of roofing materials (shingles,
shakes, roofing) shall be permitted without certification by an architect or
engineer registered in North Carolina that the roof will safely support all
required live and dead loads pursuant to requirements of the North Carolina
State Building Code.
         (d)   Attics. All attics shall be adequately ventilated per Volume VII
Section 806 of the North Carolina State Building Code.
         (e)   Insulation. Insulation rated at least R-ll (or minimum thickness
of four inches) and consisting of rock wool (glass), fiberglass or other
material exhibiting fire resistance and insulation capacities equal to (or
greater than) rock wool or fiberglass shall be required in the accessible
ceiling or attic of the highest story containing habitable rooms in all
dwellings.
         (f)   Means of egress.
            1.   Every dwelling unit shall be provided with adequate means of
egress as required by the state building code.
            2.   In multi-family houses having two or more dwelling units above
the first story, every dwelling unit above the first story shall have access to
at least two exit ways. One common exit is permitted provided that all of the
following conditions are met:
               A.   Maximum distance of travel to reach the exit or stairs from
the entrance door to any dwelling unit shall not exceed 30 feet.
               B.   Maximum number of dwelling units served by the exit shall
not exceed four per floor.
               C.   Maximum gross area of the dwelling units shall not exceed
3,500 square feet per floor.
               D.   Maximum building height shall be one story above the level
of exit discharge.
            3.   Security bars. When security bars exist, one grill in each
room used for sleeping should be equipped with a release device designed for
emergency escape. Occupancies below grade, windows fitted with security grills
intended for emergency escape should have a vertical measurement of no more
than 44 inches from the sill or any fixed portion of the grill to the finished
floor. Exception: If a room used for sleeping has a door leading directly to
the outside of the building at or to grade level.
         (g)   Stairs, porches and appurtenances.
            1.   Every inside and outside stair, porch and any appurtenance
thereto shall be safe to use and capable of supporting the load that normal use
may cause to be placed thereon and shall be kept in sound condition and good
repair. Stairs and steps shall be free of holes, grooves and/or cracks large
enough to constitute accident hazards. Risers shall be reasonably uniform in
height. Stair coverings shall be securely mounted and shall not interfere with
safe use of the stairs.
            2.   A minimum of three feet by three feet landing shall be
required on each side of an egress door provided the door swings out over the
stairs. The floor or landing shall not be more than one-and-a-half inches lower
than the top of the threshold.
         (h)   Protective railings. Every porch, terrace or entrance platform
30 inches or more in height, above adjacent finish grade shall be equipped with
railings or guards not less than 36 inches high. Handrails, continuous on all
open sides of stairs exceeding four risers, leading to a platform, porch or
terrace, shall be installed at least 30 inches high. Interior stairs exceeding
four risers, open on both sides, including basement stairs, shall have a
continuous handrail and railing on one side and railing on open portion of
other side. Stairs open on one side exceeding four risers shall have a
continuous handrail and railing on the open side. Stairs exceeding four risers,
enclosed on both sides, shall have a minimum of one continuous handrail. When
exterior stairwell step flight has total rise of 30 inches or more, a
continuous, durable handrail must be maintained. Handrails or protective
railings shall be capable of bearing normally-imposed loads and be maintained
in good and safe condition. Adjacent horizontal or vertical rails or rail
members shall be spaced no more than six inches apart for protection of
children when such protective railing is along a platform or stair 30 inches or
more in height above finished grade.
         (i)   Windows and window assemblies.
            1.   Each window shall be weather tight, watertight and rodent-
proof, and shall be kept in sound working condition and good repair. If
daylight can be seen around the inside or outside perimeter of the window
casing, that window does not meet this standard. Every operable window shall be
equipped with an effective locking mechanism or other mechanism that functions
as a lock.
            2.   Each window sash shall be fully supplied with glass window
panes or an approved substitute which are without open cracks or holes. Wood,
cardboard or polyethylene or other plastic film are not approved substitutes. A
window pane with a crack or hole must be replaced or the crack or hole sealed
with clear silicone seal. A broken window (pieces missing or exposed glass
edge) must be replaced.
            3.   Each window sash shall be properly fitted and weather tight
within the window frame. If daylight can be seen around the inside or outside
perimeter of the window sash, that window does not meet this standard.
            4.   Each window required for ventilation for habitable rooms shall
be capable of being easily opened or closed and secured in position by window
hardware.
            5.   Security bars. When security bars exist one grill in each room
used for sleeping should be equipped with a release device designed for
emergency escape. Occupancies below grade, windows fitted with security grills
intended for emergency escape should have a vertical measurement of no more
than 44 inches from the sill or any fixed portion of the grill to the finished
floor. Exception: If a room used for sleeping has a door leading directly to
the outside of the building at or to grade level.
         (j)   Interior floors, walls and ceilings. Every floor, interior wall
and ceiling shall be substantially vermin-proof, shall be kept in sound
condition and good repair and shall be safe to use and capable of supporting
the load which normal use may cause to be placed thereon. Interior finish shall
be free of excessive holes and cracks. No cardboard or other highly combustible
or improper wall finish or ceiling finish shall be allowed. No rotted, fire-
damaged, or loose flooring shall be allowed. All floors shall be level enough
so as not to present a tripping hazard. Every bathroom floor surface and
kitchen floor surface shall be constructed and maintained so as to be
reasonably impervious to water and so as to permit such floor to be readily
kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
         (k)   Structural supports. Every structural element of the dwelling
shall be maintained in a structurally sound condition and show no evidence of
deterioration which would render it incapable of carrying normal loads.
Termites, termite damage, fire damage, absence of footings or cracked or split
wood structural supports are examples of evidence of deterioration. When
additional direct support is required, piers shall be used under girders, at
walls or other primary support points. Stiff knees shall not be used under
girders, at walls or at other primary support points, but may be used for
indirect support only.
         (l)   Interior door hardware. Every interior door shall be provided
with proper hardware, securely attached and maintained in good condition. Hasp
lock assemblies are not permitted on any side of the door of habitable rooms.
         (m)   Bathroom access. Bathroom access shall be provided in a manner
that does not require an occupant to leave the dwelling to gain access. Privacy
of bathrooms shall be afforded by doors complete with privacy hardware intended
by the manufacturer for that purpose.
         (n)   Water closet, lavatory and bath facilities for boarding houses.
At least one flush water closet, lavatory basin, and bathtub or shower,
properly connected to a water and sewer system and in good working condition,
shall be supplied for each four rooms within a rooming house wherever such
facilities are shared. All such facilities shall be located on the floor they
serve within the dwelling so as to be private and reasonably accessible from a
common hall or passageway to all persons sharing such facilities.
         (o)   Exterior doors.
            1.   Every exterior door, basement or cellar door and hatchway
shall be substantially weather tight, watertight, and rodent-proof, and shall
be kept in sound working conditions and good repair. "Good repair" includes no
delamination or splitting of wood doors.
            2.   Every exterior door to a dwelling shall be provided with
properly-installed hardware that is maintained to insure reasonable ease of
operation to open, close or secure in an open or closed position, as intended
by the manufacturer of the door and the attached hardware. Properly installed
hardware shall consist of knob, bib and operating lock with sufficient strength
to prevent unauthorized entry in all situations short of disassembly, force or
use of a key or pick. All exterior doors shall be capable of being locked from
the inside and outside in a manner that will provide for the safety and
security of the occupant(s).
         (p)   Exterior door frames.
            1.   Exterior door frames shall be properly maintained and shall be
equipped with weather stripping and thresholds as required to be substantially
weather tight, watertight, and rodent and insect restrictive when the door is
in a closed position. If daylight can be seen from inside around the inner
perimeter of an exterior door frame, that door frame does not meet this
standard.
            2.   Exterior door jambs, stops, headers and moldings shall be
securely attached to the dwelling, maintained in good condition without
splitting or deterioration that would minimize the strength and security of the
door in a closed position. If daylight can be seen from inside around the outer
perimeter of an exterior door frame, that door frame does not meet this
standard.
         (q)   Protective treatment. All exterior wood surfaces (other than
decay-resistant woods, such as cedar, redwood, cypress or pressure-treated
lumber) shall be protected from the elements and decay by painting or other
protective covering or treatment. Minimal chipping or peeling of surfaces not
directly exposed to the elements and not reasonably expected to contribute to
decay of wood surfaces is not required to be treated. All siding shall be
weather-resistant and watertight. All masonry joints shall be sufficiently tuck
pointed to insure water and air tightness. "Sufficiently tuck pointed" means
that mortar shall not be removable by finger pressure.
         (r)   Outbuildings. Garages, storage buildings and all other accessory
structures shall be structurally sound. When the condition of plumbing,
heating, structural or electrical facilities present an imminent danger to
occupants, or to the public, if such outbuilding is accessible to the public,
those facilities shall be made safe in a manner consistent with this code.
         (s)   Use of other areas for living purposes. No cellar shall be used
for living purposes. No basement shall be used for living purposes unless:
            1.   The floor and walls are substantially watertight.
            2.   The total window area, total openable window area and ceiling
height are equal to those required for habitable rooms.
            3.   The required minimum window area of every habitable room is
entirely above the grade adjoining such window area, except where the windows
face a stairwell, window well or accessway.
      (2)   Light, ventilation and space limitations.
         (a)   Calculation of floor area. For purposes of this subchapter,
floor area shall be calculated on the basis of habitable room area. However,
closet area and wall area within the dwelling unit may count for not more than
10% of the required habitable floor area. The floor area of any part of any
room where the ceiling height is less than four-and-a-half feet shall not be
considered as part of the floor area in computing the total area of the room to
determine maximum permissible occupancy.
         (b)   Room sizes.
            1.   Every dwelling unit shall contain at least the minimum room
size in each habitable room as required by the state residential building code.
            2.   Every dwelling unit shall contain at least 150 square feet of
habitable floor area for the first occupant, at least 100 square feet of
additional habitable area for each of the next three occupants and at least 75
square feet of additional habitable floor area for each additional occupant.
            3.   In every dwelling unit and in every rooming unit, every room
occupied for sleeping purposes by one occupant shall contain at least 70 square
feet of floor area, and every room occupied for sleeping purposes by more than
one occupant shall contain at least 50 square feet of floor area for each
occupant 12 years of age and over and at least 35 square feet of floor area for
each occupant under 12 years of age.
         (c)   Ceiling height. At least one-half of the floor area of every
habitable room shall have a ceiling height of not less than seven feet six
inches.
         (d)   Windows. Every window, exterior door, basement or cellar door
and hatchway shall be substantially weather tight, watertight and rodent-proof,
and shall be kept in sound working condition and good repair. Every habitable
room shall have at least one window or skylight facing directly to the
outdoors. The minimum total window area, measured between stops, for every
habitable room shall be 10% of the floor area of such room. Whenever walls or
other portions of structures face window of any such room and such light-
obstruction structures are located less than five feet from the window and
extend to a level above that of the ceiling of the room, such a window shall
not be deemed to face directly to the outdoors and shall not be included as
contributing to the required minimum total window area. Whenever the only
window in a room is a skylight-type window in the top of such room, the total
window area of such skylight shall equal at least 15% of the total floor area
of such room.
         (e)   Screens. In order to provide for safe ventilation and provide
for the safety of children, dwelling units which do not have central air
conditioning systems shall have fitted screens in good repair for all operable
windows in rooms where the floor level is eight or more feet above finished
grade. Windows in rooms used for sleeping purposes must have screens. One
window or skylight facing directly outdoors must be provided in all habitable
rooms and must have a screen. "Good repair" means screens providing a
continuous barrier to insects.
         (f)   Ventilation.
            1.   Every habitable room (except kitchens with exhaust fans in
good working order) shall have at least one window or skylight which can be
easily opened. The total of openable window area in every habitable room shall
be equal to at least 45% of the minimum window area size or minimum skylight-
type window size, as required, or shall have other approved, equivalent
ventilation.
            2.   Year-round mechanically ventilating conditioned air systems
may be substituted for windows, as required herein, in rooms other than rooms
used for sleeping purposes. Window-type air conditioning units are not included
in this exception.
         (g)   Bathrooms. Every bathroom with tub and/or shower shall comply
with light and ventilation requirements herein, for habitable rooms except that
no window or skylight shall be required in adequately ventilated bathrooms
equipped with an operable ceiling electrical exhaust fan.
      (3)   Plumbing facilities and fixture requirements.
         (a)   Sanitary. Every dwelling shall contain not less than a kitchen
sink, lavatory, tub or shower, and a water closet all in good working condition
and properly connected to an approved water and sewer system. Every plumbing
fixture and water and waste pipe shall be properly installed and maintained in
good sanitary working condition free from defects, leaks, and obstruction.
"Properly connected" means connected with approved plumbing materials (no
radiator hose, duct tape, etc.). "Properly installed" means continuous piping
that met the North Carolina State Building Code in effect at the time of
installation. Any new, additional or repair plumbing must meet the current
requirements of the North Carolina Building Code. Provided, however, that the
kitchen sink standards enumerated herein shall not apply to hotels, motels and
other transient places unless kitchen sinks are otherwise required.
         (b)   Location of sanitary facilities. All required plumbing fixtures
shall be located within the dwelling and be accessible to the occupants of
same. The water closet, tub or shower and lavatory shall be located in a room
(or adjoining rooms) affording privacy to the user. Required bathrooms shall be
accessible from habitable rooms, hallways, corridors or other protected or
enclosed areas.
         (c)   Hot and cold water supply. Every dwelling shall have connected
to the kitchen sink, lavatory, and tub or shower an adequate supply of both
cold and hot water. All water shall be supplied through an approved
distribution system connected to a potable water supply.
      (4)   Mechanical and electrical requirements.
         (a)   Electric service. Adequate electric service must be provided to
the dwelling. "Adequate" means a minimum of 60-ampere service with no more than
five two-wire branch circuits connected and a total connected load of less than
ten kilowatts. If a service has six or more two-wire branch circuits, 100-
ampere service at a minimum must be provided. If the connected electrical load
exceeds the capacity of a 100-ampere service, a service of sufficient ampere
capacity to safely bear the connected electrical load shall be furnished.
"Edison base" fuses shall not be permitted as components of any electrical
service, and no more than one two-wire branch circuit shall be connected to any
fuse, circuit breaker or other approved over-current protection device. Drop
cords from a neighboring source, generator or similar source are not "adequate"
for purposes of this code.
         (b)   Every new or additional electrical outlet and fixture required
by the code shall be installed, maintained and connected to a source of
electric power in accordance with the provisions of the North Carolina Building
Code.
         (c)   Lights and outlets.
            1.   Every habitable room or space shall contain at least two
separate and remote duplex receptacle outlets.
            2.   Bedrooms shall have, in addition, at least one wall switch
controlled lighting outlet or ceiling light fixture or permanent fixture
controlled by a pull-chain.
            3.   In kitchens, three separate, remote and accessible receptacle
outlets shall be provided, and a wall or ceiling light outlet controlled by a
wall switch or fixture pull-chain shall be provided. An outlet dedicated to
powering an appliance and/or not easily accessible because it is blocked by an
appliance shall not be counted as a separate outlet. In kitchens with less than
six linear feet of counter top, two of the three required outlets may be within
the counter top space.
            4.   Exception. When an existing kitchen area is less than 70
square feet of floor area, two separate, remote and accessible receptacle
outlets shall be provided, and a wall or ceiling light outlet controlled by a
wall switch or fixture pull-chain shall be provided.
            5.   Every hall, water closet compartment, bathroom, laundry room
or furnace room shall contain at least one ceiling-mounted or wall-mounted
fixture outlet. For purposes of this section a laundry closet shall not be
considered a laundry room.
            6.   In bathrooms, the lighting outlet shall be controlled by a
wall switch or fixture pull-chain. In addition to the lighting outlet in every
bathroom and laundry room, there shall be provided at least one receptacle
outlet.
            7.   All outlets, switches, wiring and light fixtures shall be safe
and operable. No extension cords shall be spliced or used as fixed wiring of a
dwelling. Electrical odor, flickering lights, visibly frayed wiring, broken
switch plates or outlet plates or failure of circuit-tester check shall be
evidence of an unsafe electrical system.
         (d)   Lighting in halls and stairway. Every hall and stairway of every
dwelling, shall be lighted, including exterior stairways and stairways in halls
and public space.
         (e)   Dryer vents. Dryer vents shall be installed per Volume VII
(CABO) Chapter 18, Section 1801, of the North Carolina State Building Code.
This requirement shall become effective July 1, 2004.
         (f)   Range hoods. Range hoods, if installed, shall be vented to the
outdoors per Volume VII (CABO) Chapter 18, Section 1802, of the North Carolina
State Building Code. Vents serving range hoods shall not terminate in an attic
or crawl space or other areas inside the building. Unvented range hoods must be
installed per manufacturer's recommendations.
(Ord. 16-12, passed 11-15-16)
VACANT, NEGLECTED, ABANDONED RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES
§ 160.61 VACANT, NEGLECTED AND ABANDONED RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The Town of Spencer Board of Aldermen recognizes
that residential properties exist within the town limits that are vacant,
neglected and abandoned. The purpose of this regulation is to focus on
neglected and abandoned residential properties that will continue to
deteriorate into a condition that cannot be repaired if not addressed
immediately. These properties are vulnerable to break-ins, criminal activity,
destruction, fire and other unsafe activities. In addition, they attract and/or
cause blight to surrounding properties. For these reasons, it is essential to
public health, safety and welfare that the town set standards that will not
allow a residential property to remain in a deteriorated or dilapidated
condition for an extended period of time.
   (B)   Broken window theory. That theory states that "one broken window, left
unrepaired, leads to more broken windows as it gives the appearance that no one
cares for or protects the property; that the building becomes increasingly more
deteriorated, and that the deterioration may have a ripple effect on other
parts of the neighborhood."
   (C)   Maintenance and determination. Investigation, determination,
inventory, maintenance, and violations of Vacant, Neglected and Abandoned
Residential Properties are located in §§
160.71,
160.72,
160.86 -
160.98.
(Ord. 16-12, passed 11-15-16)
§ 160.62 REGULATION OF BOARDED UP RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this section to promote the health,
safety and welfare of the citizens of the town by establishing reasonable
regulations for boarded up residential structures in order to prevent their
detrimental effects in the town's neighborhoods.
   (B)   Standard requirements.
      (1)   The owner of a residential structure that is boarded up shall give
notice to the town to have the property added the vacant residential structure
inventory, maintained by the town;
      (2)   The residential structure shall be boarded up as prescribed herein
in division (D);
      (3)   A residential structure shall not be allowed to be boarded up for a
period greater than two years. After six months, the owner shall notify the
town of their intent to repair the structure and agree to an "Intent to Repair"
plan prepared by the land management department, described herein.
      (4)   A residential structure will be allowed to remain on the vacant
residential structure inventory for six months, renewing every six months for a
period of time not greater than two years, so long as the following conditions
are met:
         (a)   The property owner or agent thereof has signed an "intent to
repair" letter as provided by the land management department;
         (b)   The property owner or agent thereof is actively working on
repairs with visible progress being made as determined by the land management
director;
         (c)   If permits are required for the repairs being performed, they
have been obtained by the property owner or agent thereof;
         (d)   The structure meets all other minimum housing standards as
defined in this chapter and remains unoccupied; and
         (e)   The property owner has filed a claim with their insurance
company due to fire or other type of damage, and the owner can produce
documents thereof as proof of filing.
      (5)   Guidelines for boarding up a structure. In boarding up a
residential structure, the following guidelines shall be used, unless approval
is given otherwise by the land management director:
         (a)   Cut treated plywood, or approved substitute, to fit over the
window and door openings, flush with outside of the molding.
         (b)   Place the plywood over the exterior opening and use a minimum
234 inch exterior screw to secure to the frame of the opening. Screws should be
placed every 12 inches around the perimeter of the board. If the frame is
unable to be used to secure plywood to the opening, the method of using 2 x 4s
and carriage bolts may be a substituted process.
         (c)   Paint the plywood as specified for each specific opening:
            1.   For doors, paint the plywood white.
            2.   For windows, paint the plywood black. Then paint a white
crosshair in the middle of the plywood to resemble a four-pane window. White
duct tape may be substituted for white paint if approved by the land management
director.
   (C)   Grace period. Any owner who has boarded up a residential structure
prior to the effective date of this chapter shall comply with the regulations
contained herein within 90 days after the effective date of this chapter. If
after 90 days, an owner has failed to board up a residential structure in
compliance with this chapter shall be in violation of this code.
(Ord. 16-12, passed 11-15-16)
INVENTORY OF RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES
§ 160.71 INVENTORY OF VACANT RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES
   (A)   No owner shall board up a residential structure without notifying the
inspector for the town, no later than 48 hours after boarding it up in
compliance with this chapter and to list the structure on the vacant
residential structure inventory.
   (B)   Notification must be made by the owner or designee of the residential
structure on a form prescribed by the land management department, and submitted
to the inspector. The completed form shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The full name and mailing address of the owner;
      (2)   If the owner lives out of state, list the name and address of the
caretaker of the property;
      (3)   The property address, tax parcel number, deed book and page of the
residential structure to be boarded;
      (4)   A valid telephone number to reach the owner(s) and caretakers of
the property;
      (5)   If the owner is a partnership or corporation, the owner shall
designate one of its general partners or officers to act as its agent and
provide their residence and business addresses and valid telephone numbers for
the agent;
      (6)   The owner's plan for the occupancy, repair or demolition of the
residential structure;
      (7)   The owner's plan for regular maintenance during the period the
residential structure is boarded up; and
      (8)   Such other information as the land management department shall from
time to time deem necessary.
   (C)   The owner or designee shall have a continuing duty to promptly
supplement inventory information required by this section in the event that
said information changes in any way from what is stated on the original form
submission.
   (D)   A residential structure listed on this vacant structure inventory does
not excuse the owner from compliance with any other applicable ordinance,
regulation, code, or statute of the Town of Spencer Code of Ordinances. By
accepting an owner's inventory submission, the land management department has
not determined that the residential structure being listed is in compliance
with any applicable local or state regulation or law including a designation as
a neglected or abandoned structure as defined.
   (E)   Grace period. Any owner who has boarded up a residential structure
prior to the effective date of this chapter shall comply with the regulations
contained herein within 90 days after the effective date of this chapter. If
after days, an owner has failed to notify the inspector and have their property
added to the vacant residential structure inventory, the owner shall be in
violation of this code.
(Ord. 16-12, passed 11-15-16)
2017 S-10
BOARDING/ROOMING HOUSES
§ 160.76 APPLICABILITY OF CHAPTER.
   All of the provisions of this chapter shall be applicable to boarding/
rooming houses and to every person who operates a rooming house or who occupies
or lets to another for occupancy any room unit in any rooming house, except as
provided in the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 16-12, passed 11-15-16)
§ 160.77 WATER CLOSET, LAVATORY AND BATH FACILITIES.
   (A)   At least one water closet, lavatory basin and bathtub or shower,
properly connected to an approved water and sewer system and in good working
condition, shall be supplied for each four rooms within a rooming house
wherever such facilities are shared. All such facilities shall be located
within the residence building served and shall be directly accessible from a
common hall or passageway and shall be not more than one story removed from any
of the persons sharing such facilities. Every lavatory basin and bathtub or
shower shall be supplied with hot and cold water at all times. Such required
facilities shall not be located in a cellar.
   (B)   Every water closet, flush urinal, lavatory basin and bathtub or shower
required by division (A) of this section shall be located within the rooming
house and within rooms which afford privacy and are separate from the habitable
rooms, and which are accessible from a common hall and without going outside
the rooming house or through any other room therein.
(Ord. 16-12, passed 11-15-16)
§ 160.78 MINIMUM FLOOR AREA FOR SLEEPING PURPOSES.
   Every room occupied for sleeping purposes in a rooming house by one occupant
shall contain at least 70 square feet of floor area, and every room occupied
for sleeping purposes by more than one occupant shall contain at least 50
square feet of floor area for each occupant 12 years of age and over and at
least 35 square feet of floor area for each occupant under 12 years of age.
(Ord. 16-12, passed 11-15-16)
§ 160.79 MAINTENANCE OF SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   The operator of every rooming house shall be responsible for the sanitary
maintenance of all walls, floors and ceilings, and for the sanitary maintenance
of every other part of the rooming house; and he shall be further responsible
for the sanitary maintenance of the entire premises where the entire structure
or building within which the rooming house is contained is leased or occupied
by the operator.
(Ord. 16-12, passed 11-15-16)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 160.86 COMPLIANCE WITH ORDERS; VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dwelling or dwelling unit,
including abandoned, vacant, or neglected residential structures, to fail,
neglect or refuse to repair, alter or improve the dwelling or dwelling unit or
to vacate and close and remove or demolish the dwelling or dwelling unit, upon
order of the inspector duly made and served as provided in this chapter, within
the time specified in such order, and each day that any such failure, neglect
or refusal to comply with such order continues shall constitute a separate and
distinct offense. It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dwelling or
dwelling unit, with respect to which an order has been issued pursuant to §§
160.51 - 160.53 to occupy or permit the occupancy of the dwelling or dwelling
unit after the time prescribed in such order for its repair, alteration or
improvement or its vacation and closing, and each day that such occupancy
continues after such prescribed time shall constitute a separate and distinct
offense.
   (B)   Responsibility for violations. Every owner shall remain ultimately
responsible for violations of responsibilities imposed upon him by this chapter
or any other ordinance, although a similar responsibility may also be imposed
upon the occupant and although the occupant may have agreed to bear the
responsibility imposed by ordinance upon the owner.
(Ord. 16-12, passed 11-15-16)
§ 160.87 PRELIMINARY INVESTIGATION; NOTICE; MINIMUM HOUSING HEARING.
   (A)   Reporting a code violation. A code violation can be reported to a
inspector through a petition, by a public authority, by any citizen, or
discovery of a violation by the inspector on patrol of a suspected dwelling or
dwelling unit that may be unfit for human habitation, contain violations of any
code in this chapter. When reported, an investigation will be conducted within
48 hours, notwithstanding a public safety hazard, which will be investigated
immediately.
   (B)   Preliminary investigation. The inspector will conduct a detailed
investigation and document their findings. Attempt to make a face-to-face
contact with the owner of record with the Rowan County Register of Deeds,
heirs, parties of interest, or tenant and request to inspect the property. If
access to the property is denied, seek an Administrative Inspection Warrant to
investigate any possible code violations as prescribed herein.
   (C)   Filing complaint with the owner of record. Whenever it appears to the
inspector, upon inspection, that any dwelling or dwelling unit contains
violations of the minimum housing standards in this chapter, unfit for human
habitation, or unsafe to the general public, he shall issue and cause to be
served upon the owner of record, heirs, parties of interest, and tenants in
such dwelling or dwelling unit, a complaint stating the sections violated and a
notice of hearing that will be held before the land management director.
   (D)   Service of process.
      (1)   Complaints or orders issued by a public officer pursuant to an
ordinance adopted under this chapter shall be served upon persons either
personally or by registered or certified mail. When service is made by
registered or certified mail, a copy of the complaint or order may also be sent
by regular mail. Service shall be deemed sufficient if the registered or
certified mail is unclaimed or refused, but the regular mail is not returned by
the post office within ten days after the mailing. If regular mail is used, a
notice of the pending proceedings shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the
premises affected.
      (2)   Service by publication. If the identities of any owners or the
whereabouts of persons are unknown and cannot be ascertained by the public
officer in the exercise of reasonable diligence, or, if the owners are known
but have refused to accept service by registered or certified mail, and the
public officer makes an affidavit to that effect, then the serving of the
complaint or order upon the owners or other persons may be made by publication
in a newspaper having general circulation in the city at least once no later
than the time at which personal service would be required under the provisions
of this chapter. When service is made by publication, a notice of the pending
proceedings shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises thereby
affected.
   (E)   Minimum housing hearing. The minimum housing hearing shall occur not
less than ten nor more than 30 says after serving a complaint. The owner or any
party of interest shall have the right to file an answer to the complaint and
to appear in person, or otherwise, and give testimony at the place and time
fixed in the complaint. Notice of such hearing shall also be given to at least
one of the persons which reported the violation to code enforcement relating to
such dwelling. Any person desiring to do so may attend such hearing and give
evidence relevant to the matter being heard. The rules of evidence prevailing
in courts of law or equity shall not be controlling in hearings before the
inspector.
(Ord. 16-12, passed 11-15-16)
§ 160.88 AFTER THE MINIMUM HOUSING HEARING.
   At the completion of the minimum housing hearing as provided in §
160.87, the director shall state in writing his determination of the following:
   (A)   A findings of fact of existing code violations, remedies, maintenance
standards required, maintenance standards during performance period, and
timeline for compliance;
   (B)   If it is determined that the dwelling or dwelling unit is
deteriorated, he shall state in writing his findings of fact in support of such
determination, and shall issue and cause to be served upon the owner or
designee thereof an order directing and requiring the owner to repair, alter,
and improve such dwelling or dwelling unit to comply with the minimum standards
of fitness established by this chapter within a specified performance period,
not to exceed 90 days. Such order may also direct and require the owner to
vacate and close such dwelling or dwelling unit until such repairs, alterations
and improvements have been made.
   (C)   If it is determined that the dwelling or dwelling unit is dilapidated,
he shall state in writing his findings of fact to support such determination,
and shall issue and cause to be served upon the owner or designee thereof an
order directing and requiring the owner either to repair, alter or improve such
dwelling or dwelling unit to comply with the minimum standards of fitness
established by this chapter, or else to vacate, remove or demolish the dwelling
or dwelling unit within a specified performance period not to exceed 90 days.
   (D)   If the structure meets the criterion of a neglected, vacant, or
abandoned structure, prepare an "Intent to Repair Order" and include the
maintenance standards required during the performance periods.
(Ord. 16-12, passed 11-15-16)
§ 160.89 STRUCTURES IN THE HISTORIC DISTRICT.
   (A)   Structures in the historic district. Whenever a dwelling is located in
a designated historic district of the town and the historic preservation
commission in a public hearing has determined that the dwelling is of a
particular significance or value toward maintaining the character of the
district, and the dwelling has not been condemned as unsafe, the inspector may
issue an order that the dwelling be vacated and closed consistent with G.S.
160A-400.14(a).
   (B)   If a structure located within a historic district or other area of the
town has historical significance as defined herein, the Historic Preservation
Commission may grant additional time for the purpose of brining the property
into full compliance as follows:
      (1)   If, at the end of the time granted by the inspector as prescribed
in §
160.88(A)(2), active efforts are being made to complete the work and at least
50% of the work is completed, the commission can grant up to 12 months
additional time.
      (2)   Progress reports will be made to the commission within the time
period prescribed by the commission. Failure of the property owner to make
these reports or to complete the work according to the schedule by the board
will constitute a violation of this special provision, and all other provisions
of the housing code shall apply.
   (C)   Before the inspector grants the additional time prescribed in §
160.89(A)(1), the historic preservation commission shall find the following:
      (1)   That the structure is included on the town's inventory of historic
architecture, or is determined to be more than fifty (50) years old and of
equivalent architectural or historical significance as determined by the
Spencer Historic Preservation Commission;
      (2)   That the owner or other individual or agency has indicated interest
in actively pursuing the preservation of the structure; and
      (3)   That in the case of a vacant structure, it has been properly
boarded up and made secure and does not pose an unsafe or hazardous condition,
as determined by the housing inspector.
(Ord. 16-12, passed 11-15-16)
§ 160.90 INTENT TO REPAIR ORDER.
   (A)   As directed herein, the owner must agree to an "Intent to Repair
Order" prepared by the inspector within five days of the minimum housing
hearing conducted in this chapter.
   (B)   If the owner fails to do so, proceed with the procedure in §
160.92. The following information shall be in the order:
      (1)   Name, phone number, e-mail address (if available), and mailing
address of the property owner;
      (2)   If owner lives more than 50 miles from property, a property manager
18 years of age or older must be listed with the same contact information
required for the owner;
      (3)   Plans outlining how often the owner or property manager will
physically visit the property to ensure it remains in compliance with the
town's code of ordinances (i.e. high grass, trash, debris, windows and doors
secured and unbroken, etc.) which shall be at a minimum of every 15 days.
      (4)   Copy of most recently executed deed.
      (5)   Statement regarding the future plans for the property (i.e. make
repairs by certain date, to be used as a rental or owner occupied property, why
property is in the current condition).
   (C)   Supplement. The owner shall have a continuing duty to promptly
supplement the information in the "Intent to Repair" order in the event any of
the information changes.
   (D)   Notice of change. The owner shall give a 15-day written notice to the
inspector by certified mail or hand-delivered to the Land Management Director
at Town Hall 600 S. Salisbury St Spencer, NC 28159 if they intend to discharge,
sale, donate, or otherwise change the owner of the property as filed with the
Rowan County Register of Deeds.
   (E)   Responsibility. Having submitted and agreed to an "Intent to Repair"
order does not excuse the property owner from maintaining compliance with any
other applicable ordinance, codes, regulations, or statutes regarding the same
property.
   (F)   Maintenance standards for residential structures (not deemed neglected
and abandoned structures).
      (1)   The owner of record, responsible person, tenant or parties of
interest must meet with the inspector once every 15 days on site for an
inspection of progress completed during the previous performance period. A
record of these inspections shall be maintained and become part of the
investigation record.
      (2)   If compliance is continuing, an additional 15-day performance
period may be granted by the inspector. The property owner or designee and
inspector shall meet no less than 15 days apart until compliance is achieved,
however a total performance period shall not be greater than 90 days from the
date the Intent to Repair Order.
      (3)   The property owner is required to keep the exterior of the dwelling
and its surrounding property in compliance with all town codes and maintained
so as not to cause a negative impact on neighboring properties.
      (4)   The property owner shall make every attempt to keep the dwelling in
a condition that does not appear to be vacant and therefore an attractant to
vagrants or criminal activity.
      (5)   The property owner shall keep all vegetation and overgrowth on the
property trimmed appropriately to deter criminal activity. This includes, but
is not limited to, keeping shrubbery trimmed so it does not create a screen or
blind spot for vagrants and other unwanted persons to hide behind.
      (6)   All windows, doors and other openings shall be secure and unbroken
as to not allow unwanted persons to enter the dwelling. If unsecured, the land
management department will secure and the cost will be the responsibility of
the property owner.
   (G)   Maintenance standards for residential structures (deemed to be
neglected and abandoned structures).
      (1)   The owner of record, responsible person, tenant or parties of
interest shall inspect the property once every 15 days. A record of these
inspections, photos, and work completed should be maintained and provided to
the inspector not more than 15 days apart to justify the continuance of a 15-
day performance periods. Failure to provide this required update by the set
deadlines, shall constitute a violation, and will require the owner to meet on-
site with the inspector, instead of submitting a report. A second violation of
not providing this required information will result in no further performance
periods granted and an abatement process shall begin as deemed appropriate by
the land management director.
      (2)   The property owner is required to keep the exterior of the dwelling
and its surrounding property in compliance with all town codes and maintained
so as not to cause a negative impact on neighboring properties.
      (3)   The property owner shall make every attempt to keep the dwelling in
a condition that does not appear to be vacant and therefore an attractant to
vagrants or criminal activity.
      (4)   The property owner shall keep all vegetation and overgrowth on the
property trimmed appropriately to deter criminal activity. This includes, but
is not limited to, keeping shrubbery trimmed so it does not create a screen or
blind spot for vagrants and other unwanted persons to hide behind.
      (5)   All windows, doors and other openings shall be secure and unbroken
as to not allow unwanted persons to enter the dwelling. If unsecured, the land
management department will secure and the cost will be the responsibility of
the property owner.
   (H)   Exemptions. The land management director may exempt a property for a
specific period of time that has suffered extensive fire damage or catastrophic
damage. An "Intent to Repair Order" must be completed and returned within 30
days of the date mailed outlining any plans for repair. Any exemption granted
shall be for a specific period of time, not to exceed 90 days.
   (I)   This section also applies to buildings in which the new construction,
renovation or rehabilitation that has not been completed after one year from
the issuance of a zoning and/or building permit authorizing such work. All
necessary permits must be obtained from the town and county as required and
shall be proceeding diligently toward completion.
(Ord. 16-12, passed 11-15-16)
§ 160.91 VIOLATIONS, PENALTIES, APPEAL.
   (A)   Violations.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for the property owner, heirs, responsible
person, parties of interest, tenant to fail to comply with a lawful compliance
order issued by a inspector regarding a violation of this chapter.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for the property owner, heirs, responsible
person, parties of interest, tenant to fail to comply with any conditions set
forth in this chapter.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for the property owner, heirs, responsible
person, parties of interest of a vacant residential structure to fail to give
notice to the town to have the property added the vacant residential structure
inventory, within 15 days of the structure becoming vacant.
      (4)   It shall be unlawful for the property owner, heirs, responsible
person, parties of interest of a vacant residential structure to leave the
structure boarded up beyond six months with non-compliance of this chapter or
beyond two years as identified by the land management department.
      (5)   It shall be unlawful for an owner to board up a residential
structure in a manner that does not comply with the guidelines in §
160.62(B), unless the owner has obtained the land management director's prior
written approval for an alternative method of boarding up a residential
structure.
   (B)   Penalties for violations.
      (1)   Any person determined to be in violation of any of the provisions
in this chapter shall receive a civil citation as prescribed herein, if the
violation(s) remain after notification by the inspector. Neither this chapter
nor any of its provisions shall be construed to impair or limit in any way the
power of the town to define and declare nuisances and to cause their abatement
by summary action or otherwise, to prevent the enforcement of any other remedy
provided in this chapter or in other ordinances or laws, including, but not
limited to:
         (a)   Civil citation. Any owner who fails to correct the violation(s)
of this chapter before a specified deadline set by the inspector shall be
subject to a civil penalty of $250 for the first day of non-compliance. If
after a specified period of time set by the Minimum Housing Inspector, has
expired and the structure remains in noncompliance, the civil penalty shall
automatically activate in the amount of $50 for each day thereafter until the
structure is in compliance. Each day the violation exist shall constitute a
violation. Legal action and collection of the civil penalty shall be in the
manner specified in Chapter 35 of the Town of Spencer Code of Ordinances.
         (b)   If a person fails to pay the civil penalty within ten days after
being notified of the amount due, the town may recover the penalty together
with all costs by filing a civil action in the general court of justice or
small claims court for amounts $5,000 or less, in the nature of a suit to
collect a debt and the land management director shall represent the town in
small claims court.
         (c)   Abatement of unsecured structures. At any time after the initial
performance period of a notice of violation, the inspector may cause the
structure to be brought into compliance with a structure which is unsecured and
in need of boarding up, in addition to the issuance of a civil penalty process.
The cost of such abatement and fees associated with the same shall constitute a
tax lien against the premises.
      (2)   Vacant structures. A property that is determined to be vacant which
is not in violation of any provisions of this chapter or any other applicable
town code is not subject to any penalties, fees or fines in this chapter.
      (3)   Neglected structures. A property that is determined to be neglected
as defined in this chapter is subject to civil penalties as set forth herein
until all requirements, guidelines and maintenance standards have been complied
as prescribed herein.
         (a)   After the property has not had any additional nuisance or zoning
violations within the most recent twelve-month period ending the last day of
the previous month, as identified by the inspector, the property will be deemed
compliant, and no longer meet the definition of a neglected structure. If the
property becomes occupied by a person or person(s), the property will no longer
meet the definition of a negligent property but may still have unresolved code
violations subject to the Town of Spencer Code of Ordinances. The inspector
shall continue to enforce applicable code violations as identified in the Code
of Ordinances.
         (b)   All other chapters of the town code must be followed and may be
pursued in addition to the penalties herein.
      (4)   Abandoned structures. A property that is determined to be abandoned
as defined in this chapter is subject to all penalties as described herein.
         (a)   Compliance. The property must be brought into compliance with
all minimum housing code violation within a time period of no more than 90 days
as identified by the minimum housing inspector.
         (b)   Non-compliance. If the property isn't brought into compliance
after the 90- day period, any violations not in compliance shall be abated by
the land management department, or a contractor thereof.
         (c)   Cost of abatement. All costs of abatement will be the
responsibility of the property owner and if unpaid after ten days of service of
a "Notice of Bill" by the inspector, shall be a lien against the real property
upon which the cost was incurred as provided by G.S. § 160A-443(6).
         (d)   After the property has not had any additional minimum housing,
nuisance or zoning violations within the most recent 12-month period, ending
the last day of the previous month, as identified by the inspector, the
property will be deemed compliant, and no longer meet the definition of an
abandoned structure. The property may not be occupied until all minimum housing
violations are corrected if the inspector deems the dwelling unit or rooming
units to be unfit for human habitation and posted as same. Occupancy of such
property is considered a misdemeanor as provided in G.S. 14-4.
(Ord. 16-12, passed 11-15-16)
§ 160.92 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ORDER.
   (A)   In personam remedy. If the owner of any deteriorated dwelling or
dwelling unit shall fail to comply with an order of the inspector to repair,
alter or improve the dwelling or dwelling unit within the time specified
therein, or if the owner of a dilapidated dwelling shall fail to comply with an
order of the inspector to vacate and close and remove or demolish the dwelling
or dwelling unit within the time specified therein, the inspector shall submit
to the Town Board of Aldermen at its next regular meeting a resolution
directing the town attorney to petition the superior court for an order
directing such owner to comply with the order of the inspector, as authorized
by G.S. 160A-446(g).
   (B)   In rem remedy. After failure of an owner of a deteriorated dwelling or
dwelling unit, or of a dilapidated dwelling, to comply with an order of the
inspector within the time specified therein, if injunctive relief has not been
sought or has not been granted as provided in division (A) of this section, the
inspector shall submit to the Town Board of Aldermen an ordinance ordering the
inspector to cause such dwelling or dwelling unit to be repaired, altered,
improved or vacated and closed and removed or demolished, as provided in the
original order of the inspector, and pending such removal or demolition, to
placard such dwelling as provided by G.S. 160A-443 and § 160-57.
   (C)   In addition to other penalties, any person who fails to comply with an
order of the inspector to repair, alter or improve or to vacate and close and
remove or demolish the dwelling or dwelling unit within the time specified
therein, shall be subject the civil penalties described in this chapter.
(Ord. 16-12, passed 11-15-16)
§ 160.93 APPEALS.
   (A)   Procedure.
      (1)   An appeal from any decision or order of the inspector may be taken
by any person aggrieved thereby or by any officer, board or commission of the
town. Any appeal from the inspector shall be taken within ten days from the
rendering of the decision or service of the order, and shall betaken by filing
with the land management director, which will file with the Zoning Board of
Adjustment, a notice of appeal which shall specify the grounds upon which the
appeal is based. Upon the filing of any notice of appeal, the inspector shall
forthwith transmit to the board all the papers constituting the record upon
which the decision appealed from was made.
      (2)   Refusing to allow an aggrieved person to do any act. When an appeal
is from a decision of the inspector refusing to allow the person aggrieved
thereby to do any act, his decision shall remain in force until modified or
reversed.
      (3)   Requiring an aggrieved person to do any act. When any appeal is
from a decision of the inspector requiring the person aggrieved to do any act,
the appeal shall have the effect of suspending the requirement until the
hearing by the board, unless the inspector certifies to the board, after the
notice of appeal is filed with him, that, by reason of the facts stated in the
certificate, a copy of which shall be furnished the appellant, a suspension of
his requirement would cause imminent peril to life or property, in which case
the requirement shall not be suspended except by a restraining order, which may
be granted for due cause shown upon not less than one day's written notice to
the inspector, by the board, or by a court of record upon petition made
pursuant to G.S. 160A-446(f) and §
160.93.
      (4)   The board shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of all
appeals, shall give due notice to all the parties, and shall render its
decision within a reasonable time. Any party may appear in person or by agent
or attorney. The board may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify
the decision or order appealed from, and may make any decision and order that
in its opinion ought to be made in the matter, and to that end it shall have
all the powers of the inspector, but the concurring vote of four members of the
board shall be necessary to reverse or modify any decision or order of the
inspector. The board shall have power also in passing upon appeals, when
practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships would result from carrying out
the strict letter of the ordinance, to adapt the application of the ordinance
to the necessities of the case to the end that the spirit of the ordinance
shall be observed, public safety and welfare secured and substantial justice
done.
      (5)   If a structure located within a historic district or other area of
the town has historical significance as defined herein, the board may grant
additional time for the purpose of bringing the property into full compliance
as follows:
         (a)   If, at the end of the time granted by the inspector as
prescribed herein, active efforts are being made to complete the work and at
least 50% of the work is completed, the commission can grant up to twelve
months additional time.
         (b)   Progress reports will be made to the board within the time
period prescribed by the board. Failure of the property owner to make these
reports or to complete the work according to the schedule set by the board will
constitute a violation of this special provision, and all other provisions of
the housing code shall apply.
      (6)   Every decision of the board shall be subject to review by
proceedings in the nature of certiorari instituted within 15 days of the
decision of the board, but not otherwise.
   (B)   Powers and duties of Zoning Board of Adjustment. All appeals which may
be taken from decisions or orders of the inspector pursuant to division (A) of
this section shall be heard and determined by the Zoning Board of Adjustment.
As the appeals body, the board shall have power to fix the times and places of
its meetings and to adopt necessary rules of procedure and any other rules and
regulations which may be necessary for the proper discharge of its duties. The
board shall perform the duties prescribed by division (A) of this section and
shall keep an accurate journal of all its proceedings.
(Ord. 16-12, passed 11-15-16)
§ 160.94 PETITION TO SUPERIOR COURT.
   Any person aggrieved by an order issued by the inspector or a decision
rendered by the Zoning Board of Adjustment under this subchapter shall have the
right, within 30 days after issuance of the order or rendering of the decision,
to petition the superior court for a temporary injunction restraining the
inspector pending a final disposition of the cause, as provided by G.S. 160A-
446(f).
(Ord. 16-12, passed 11-15-16)
§ 160.95 SERVICE OF COMPLAINTS AND ORDERS.
   Complaints or orders issued under this chapter by the minimum housing
inspector shall be served upon persons either personally or by registered or
certified mail. If the identities of any owners or the whereabouts of persons
are unknown and cannot be ascertained by the inspector in the exercise of
reasonable diligence, and the inspector makes an affidavit to that effect, then
the serving of the complaint or order upon the unknown owners or other persons
may be made by publication in a newspaper having general circulation in the
town at least once no later than the time at which personal service would be
required under the provisions of this subchapter. When service is made by
publication, a notice of the pending proceedings shall be posted in a
conspicuous place on the premises thereby affected.
(Ord. 16-12, passed 11-15-16)
§ 160.96 IN REM ACTION BY INSPECTOR; PLACARDING OF BUILDINGS.
   (A)   After failure of an owner of a dwelling or dwelling unit to comply
with an order of the inspector issued pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter, and upon adoption by the Town Board of Aldermen of an ordinance
authorizing and directing him to do so, as provided by G.S. 160A-443(5) and
prescribed herein, the inspector shall proceed to cause such dwelling or
dwelling unit to be repaired, altered or improved to comply with the minimum
standards of fitness established by this chapter, or to be vacated and closed
and removed or demolished, as directed by the ordinance of the Town Board of
Aldermen, and shall cause to be posted on the main entrance of such dwelling or
dwelling unit a placard with the following words: "This building is unfit for
human habitation; the use or occupation of this building for human habitation
is prohibited and unlawful." Occupation of a building so posted shall
constitute a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Each such ordinance shall be recorded in the office of the register of
deeds in the county wherein the property is located, and shall be indexed in
the name of the property owner in the grantor index as provided by G.S. 160A-
443(5).
(Ord. 16-12, passed 11-15-16)
§ 160.97 COSTS OF REPAIRS, DEMOLITION, ETC., TO CONSTITUTE LIEN.
   As provided by G.S. 160A-443(6), the amount of the cost of any repairs,
alterations or improvements, or vacating and closing or removal or demolition,
caused to be made or done by the inspector pursuant to §
160.57, shall be a lien against the real property upon which such cost was
incurred. Such lien shall be filed, have the same priority, and be enforced and
the costs collected as provided by G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 10 (G.S. 160A-216 et
seq.). If the dwelling is removed or demolished by the inspector, he shall sell
the materials of the dwelling, and any personal property, fixtures or
appurtenances found in or attached to the dwelling, and shall credit the
proceeds of the sale against the cost of the removal or demolition and any
balance remaining shall be deposited in the superior court by the inspector,
shall be secured in a manner directed by the court, and shall be disbursed by
the court to the persons found to be entitled thereto by final order or decree
of the court. Nothing in this section shall be construed to impair or limit in
any way the power of the town to define and declare nuisances and to cause
their removal or abatement by summary proceedings, or otherwise.
(Ord. 16-12, passed 11-15-16)
§ 160.98 ACTION TO REMOVE OCCUPANT.
   (A)   Procedure. If any occupant fails to comply with an order to vacate a
dwelling, the minimum housing inspector may file a civil action in the name of
the town to remove such occupant. The action to vacate the dwelling shall be in
the nature of summary ejectment and shall be commenced by filing a complaint
naming as parties-defendant any person occupying such dwelling.
   (B)   Summons issuance. The Clerk of Superior Court shall issue a summons
requiring the defendant to appear before a magistrate at a certain time, date
and place not to exceed ten days from the issuance of the summons to answer the
complaint.
   (C)   Summons service. The summons and complaint shall be served as provided
in G.S. 42-29. The summons shall be returned according to its tenor, and if on
its return it appears to have been duly served and if at the hearing the
inspector produces a certified copy of an ordinance adopted by the Town Board
of Aldermen pursuant to G.S. 160A-443(5) authorizing the inspector to proceed
to vacate the occupied dwelling, the magistrate shall enter judgment ordering
that the premises be vacated and that all persons be removed.
   (D)   Judgment. The judgment ordering that the dwelling be vacated shall be
enforced in the same manner as the judgment for summary ejectment entered under
G.S. 42-30. An appeal from any judgment entered under this section by the
magistrate may be taken as provided in G.S. 7A-228, and the execution of such
judgment may be stayed as provided in G.S. 7A-227.
   (E)   Tenant of the owner. An action to remove an occupant of a dwelling who
is a tenant of the owner may not be in the nature of a summary ejectment
proceeding pursuant to this section unless such occupant was served with notice
at least 30 days before the filing of the summary ejectment proceeding that the
Board of Aldermen has ordered the inspector to proceed to exercise his duties
under G.S. 160A-443(4) and (5) to vacate and close or remove and demolish the
dwelling.
(Ord. 16-12, passed 11-15-16)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to North Carolina General Statutes
References to 1994 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTES
G.S. Cite Code Section
G.S. Cite                  Code Section
5A-1340.23(c)              92.03
Chapter 7A                 153.42
7A-227                     160.98
7A-228                     160.98
Chapter 8C                 93.49
Title 9                    32.21
11-7.1(a)(7)               31.01
11-11                      93.49
Chapter 14, Art. 27A       92.03
                           94.36 ,
14-4                       131.99,
                           160.91
                           10.99,
                           91.99,
14-4(a)                    92.03,
                           93.99,
                           94.99
14-4(b)                    70.99
14-127                     94.05
14-145                     130.01
14-202.10                  155.057
14-286                     93.06
14-288.1 et seq.           Ch. 34
14-288.4                   130.04
14-317                     130.02
15-27.2                    160.30
Chapter 20                 113.45
20-1 et seq.               Ch. 71
20-4.01(32)                72.06
20-134                     72.11
20-137.6 et seq.           Ch. 90
20-140.2                   71.07
20-141 et seq.             71.36
20-153                     71.22
20-156                     71.47
20-157                     93.01
20-158 et seq.             Ch. 71
20-160                     71.42
20-161                     72.01
20-161 et seq.             Ch. 72
20-162                     72.04
20-169                     Ch. 71
20-219.11                  90.09
Chapter 42, Art. 2A        93.51
Chapter 42, Art. 5         93.51
Chapter 42, Art. 6         93.51
42-29                      160.98
42-30                      160.98
44A-1 et seq.              90.11
47-30                      154.26
58-79-1 et seq.            Ch. 93
58-82-1                    93.01
Chapter 66                 112.01
67-1 et seq.               Ch. 91
Chapter 87                 111.01
89B-9                      154.40
105-33 et seq.             Ch. 110
105-277.1(1)–(3)         91.03,
                           154.07
105-277.3                  91.03,
                           154.07
105-374                    150.21
Chapter 119                154.25
130A-309.10                50.05
136-143                    90.03
143-33B                    32.36
Ch. 143, Art. 33C          32.46
143-136 et seq.            Ch. 150
143-138(e)                 150.01
143-215.51 et seq.         Ch. 153
143-318.11(a)              30.18,
                           Ch. 30, Appendix
                           30.18,
143-318.11(a)(1)           30.26,
                           Ch. 30 Appendix
143-318.11(a)(3)           30.26,
                           Ch. 30 Appendix
143-318(a)(3)              30.18
144-7.1                    155.090
147-85                     33.01
159-1 et seq.              33.02
159-24 et seq.             31.01
160-57                     160.92
160A-3                     Charter
160A-16 et seq.            110.04
Ch. 160A, Art. 10          160.97
Ch. 160A, Art. 19, Part 3C 32.35,
                           32.40
Ch. 160A, Art. 19, Part 6  160.03
160A-76                    150.01
160A-77(b)                 Ch. 71
160A-102                   Charter § 2
160A-103                   Charter § 2
160A-147 et seq.           Charter § 1
160A-171                   31.01
160A-173                   31.02
160A-174                   130.05
160A-174 et seq.           153.02
160A-175                   10.99,
                           111.99
160A-179                   130.03
160A-184                   93.26
160A-186                   Ch. 91
160A-187                   Ch. 91
160A-188                   91.01
160A-189                   130.05
160A-190                   130.09
160A-193                   93.21
160A-193 et seq.           93.25
160A-194                   Ch. 110,
                           111.01
160A-206                   33.02
160A-209                   33.02
160A-211                   Ch. 110
160A-216 et seq.           160.97
160A-291                   31.02
160A-291 et seq.           Ch. 93
160A-292                   32.21
160A-296                   Ch. 94
160A-300                   Ch. 71
160A-301                   Ch. 72
160A-302                   Ch. 72
160A-303                   90.01
160A-303 et seq.           Ch. 90
160A-303.1                 Ch. 50
160A-303.2                 90.01
160A-304                   Ch. 113
160A-307                   Ch. 94
160A-312                   Ch. 50
160A-319                   110.04
160A-360                   154.07
160A-360 et seq.           155.001
160A-361                   155.136
                           154.07,
160A-362                   155.135,
                           155.136
160A-364                   154.55,
                           155.121
160A-371                   154.03
160A-371 et seq.           Ch. 154
160A-375(a)                154.99
160A-375(b)                154.25
160A-376(a)                154.07
160A-381 I                 153.02,
                           Ch. 155
160A-381(c)                155.120
160A-381(d)                155.117
160A-382(b)                155.117,
                           155.120
160A-383                   155.117,
                           155.123
160A-384(b)                155.121
160A-384(c)                155.122
160A-385                   155.124
160A-385(a)                30.23,
                           155.124
160A-387                   155.117
160A-388                   155.137
160A-388(a)                155.137
160A-388(d)                155.137
160A-388(e)                155.137
160A-388(e)(2)             155.120,
                           155.137
160A-392                   155.120
160A-400.52(c)             155.076
160A-400.53                155.076
                           Ch. 150,
160A-411 et seq.           153.02 ,
                           160.26 -
                           160.33
160A-417                   154.99,
                           160.30
160A-424(b)                160.30
160A-435 et seq.           150.02
160A-441                   160.02
160A-441 et seq.           Ch. 150 ,
                           160.03
160A-443                   160.03,
                           160.92
160A-443(4)                160.98
160A-443(5)                160.96,
                           160.98
160A-443(6)                160.91,
                           160.97   
160A-444                   160.03
160A-446(f)                160.93,
                           160.94
160A-446(g)                160.92
160A-451                   155.135
160A-452                   155.135
160A-456 et seq.           153.02
Chapter 163, Subch. IX     30.03
163-292                    Charter § 2
166A-1 et seq.             Ch. 34
168.23                     155.007
202.10                     155.057
                           
 
REFERENCES TO 1994 CODE
1994 Code Section 2003 Code Section
1994 Code Section       2003 Code Section
1-144                   153.05
2-27                    31.02
2-28                    31.02
2-30                    31.01
2-31                    31.01
3-1                     91.01
3-3                     91.02
3-7                     91.04
3-21                    91.21
3-22                    91.22
3-23                    91.23
3-28                    91.25
4-1                     150.01
4-2                     150.02
4-20                    150.15
4-21                    150.16
4-22                    150.17
4-23                    150.18
4-24                    150.19
4-25                    150.20
4-26                    150.21
4-27                    150.22
4-28                    150.23
4-29                    150.24
4-80                    152.01
4-81                    152.65
4-82                    152.69
4-83                    152.69
4-84                    152.69
4-85                    152.99
4-86                    152.99
4-87                    152.99
4-88                    152.66
4-89                    152.66
4-90                    152.66
4-91                    152.66
4-92                    152.66
4-93                    152.67
4-94                    152.67
4-95                    152.02
4-96                    152.03
4-97                    152.04
4-98                    152.05
4-99                    152.68
4-100                   152.06
4-101                   152.07
4-102                   152.08
4-110                   152.20
4-111                   152.21
4-112                   152.22
4-113                   152.23
4-114                   152.24
4-115                   152.25
4-116                   152.26
4-117                   152.27
4-118                   152.28
4-119                   152.29
4-120                   152.30
4-121                   152.31
4-122                   152.32
4-130                   152.45
4-131                   152.46
4-132                   152.47
4-133                   152.48
4-134                   152.49
4-135                   152.50
4-136                   152.51
4-140                   153.01
4-141                   153.02
4-142                   153.03
4-143                   153.04
4-145                   153.06
4-146                   153.07
4-147                   153.09
4-148                   153.10
4-149                   153.11
4-150                   153.12
4-151                   153.99
4-152                   153.40
4-153                   153.40
4-154                   153.08
4-155                   153.08
4-156                   153.41
4-157                   153.42
4-160                   153.25
4-161                   153.26
4-162                   153.27
4-163                   153.28
4-164                   153.29
5-1                     34.01
5-2                     34.02
5-3                     34.03
5-4                     34.04
5-5                     34.05
6-1                     33.01
6-20                    33.02
6-21                    33.02
7-1                     93.01
7-2                     93.02
7-3                     93.03
7-4                     93.04
7-5                     93.06
7-20                    32.20
7-21                    32.21
7-22                    32.21
7-23                    32.22
7-24                    32.23
7-26                    32.24
7-27                    32.25
8-1                     93.20
8-2                     93.21
8-3                     93.23
8-4                     93.24
8-5                     93.24
8-6                     93.25
8-7                     94.10
8-8                     93.26
8-9                     93.26
8-10                    93.27,
                        93.99
9-1                     50.01
9-150                   50.03
9-151                   50.04
9-154                   50.07
9-156                   50.08
9-157                   50.09,
                        50.99
9-158                   50.10
9-160                   50.02
10-1                    110.01
10-2                    110.02
10-3                    110.03
10-4                    110.04
10-5                    110.05
10-6                    110.06
10-7                    110.07
10-8                    110.07
10-9                    110.08
10-10                   110.09
10-11                   110.10
10-12                   110.11
10-13                   110.12
10-14                   110.13
10-15                   110.14
10-16                   110.15
10-17                   110.16
10-18                   110.17
10-19                   110.18
10-20                   110.19
10-30                   111.01
10-31                   111.02
10-32                   111.03
10-33                   111.04
10-35                   111.05
10-36                   111.06
10-37                   111.07
10-38                   111.08,
                        111.99
10-50                   112.01
11-1                    130.01
11-2                    130.01
11-3                    130.01
11-4                    130.02
11-5                    130.03
11-6                    130.04
11-7                    130.05
11-8                    130.06
11-9                    130.07
11-10                   130.08
11-11                   130.09
11-12                   130.10
11-13                   114.01
11-14                   130.11
11-15                   130.12
11-20                   94.20
11-21                   94.21
11-22                   94.22
11-23                   94.23
11-24                   94.24
11-25                   94.25
11-26                   94.25
11-30                   94.26
11-31                   94.27
11-32                   94.28
11-33                   94.29
12-1                    92.01
12-2                    92.02
12-3                    92.02
13-1                    94.01
13-2                    94.01
13-3                    94.01
13-4                    94.01
13-5                    94.02,
                        94.04
13-6                    94.03,
                        94.05
13-7                    94.06
13-8                    94.07
13-9                    94.07
13-12                   94.08,
                        94.99
13-13                   94.09
13-20                   94.40
13-21                   94.41,
                        94.42
13-30                   94.55
13-31                   94.55
13-32                   94.55
13-33                   94.56
13-34                   94.57
13-40                   94.70
13-41                   94.70
13-42                   94.71
13-43                   94.72
13-44                   94.73
15-1                    71.01
15-2                    71.02
15-3                    71.03
15-4                    71.04
15-5                    71.05
15-6                    71.06
15-7                    71.07
15-20                   71.20
15-21                   71.21
15-22                   71.22
15-23                   72.02
15-30                   71.35
15-31                   71.36
15-32                   71.37
15-33                   71.38
15-34                   71.39
15-35                   71.40
15-36                   71.41
15-37                   71.42
15-38                   71.43,
                        71.44
15-40                   71.45
15-41                   71.42
15-42                   71.46
15-43                   71.47
15-44                   71.48
15-45                   71.49
15-46                   71.50
15-47                   71.50
15-48                   71.51
15-49                   71.52
15-50                   71.53
15-51                   71.54
15-60                   72.01
15-61                   72.03
15-62                   72.04
15-63                   72.05
15-64                   72.06
15-65                   72.07
15-66                   72.08
15-67                   72.08
15-68                   72.09
15-69                   72.07
15-70                   72.10
15-71                   72.10
15-72                   72.10
15-73                   72.10
15-74                   72.11
15-75                   72.10
15-76                   72.12
15-90                   70.01,
                        90.01
15-91                   90.02
15-92                   90.04
15-93                   90.05
15-94                   90.06
15-95                   90.07
15-96                   90.08
15-97                   90.07
15-98                   90.09
15-99                   90.10
15-100                  90.11
15-101                  90.12
15-102                  90.13
15-103                  90.03,
                        90.14
App. B, Art. I, § 1    154.01
App. B, Art. I, § 2    154.02
App. B, Art. I, § 3    154.03
App. B, Art. I, § 4    154.04
App. B, Art. II, § 1   154.20
App. B, Art. II, § 2   154.20
App. B, Art. III, § 1  154.99
App. B, Art. III, § 4  154.55
App. B, Art. III, § 5  154.05
App. B, Art. IV, § 2   154.06
App. B, Art. IV, § 3   154.07
App. B, Art. V, § 1    154.21
App. B, Art. V, § 2    154.22
App. B, Art. V, § 3    154.23
App. B, Art. V, § 4    154.24
App. B, Art. V, § 4-A  154.25
App. B, Art. V, § 4-B  154.26
App. B, Art. V, § 5    154.27
App. B, Art. V-A, § 6  154.40
App. B, Art. VI, § 7   154.41
App. B, Art. VII, § 8  154.56
App. B, Art. VIII, § 9 154.57
App. C, Art. I, § 1    155.001
App. C, Art. I, § 2    155.002
App. C, Art. I, § 3    155.003
App. C, Art. I, § 4    155.004
App. C, Art. II, § 1   155.005
App. C, Art. III, § 1  155.134
App. C, Art. III, § 2  155.136
App. C, Art. III, § 3  155.137
App. C, Art. III, § 4  155.138
App. C, Art. III, § 5  155.139
App. C, Art. III, § 6  155.140
App. C, Art. III, § 7  155.141
App. C, Art. III, § 8  155.142
App. C, Art. III, § 9  155.143
App. C, Art. III, § 10 155.144
App. C, Art. III, § 11 155.145
App. C, Art. III, § 13 155.146
App. C, Art. IV, § 2   155.006
App. C, Art. IV, § 3   155.007
App. C, Art. V, § 1    155.020,
                        155.021
App. C, Art. V, § 2    155.022
App. C, Art. V, § 3    155.023
App. C, Art. V, § 4    155.024
App. C, Art. V, § 5    155.025
App. C, Art. VI, § 1   155.040
App. C, Art. VI, § 2   155.041
App. C, Art. VI, § 3   155.042
App. C, Art. VI, § 4   155.043
App. C, Art. VI, § 5   155.044
App. C, Art. VI, § 6   155.045
App. C, Art. VI, § 7   155.046
App. C, Art. VI, § 8   155.048
App. C, Art. VI, § 9   155.049
App. C, Art. VI, § 10  155.050
App. C, Art. VI, § 11  155.051
App. C, Art. VI, § 12  155.052
App. C, Art. VI, § 13  155.053
App. C, Art. VI, § 14  155.054
App. C, Art. VI, § 15  155.058
App. C, Art. VI, § 17  155.055
App. C, Art. VII, § 1  155.070
App. C, Art. VII, § 2  155.071
App. C, Art. VII, § 3  155.072
App. C, Art. VII, § 4  155.073,
                        155.074
App. C, Art. VIII, § 1 155.085
App. C, Art. VIII, § 2 155.086
App. C, Art. VIII, § 3 155.087
App. C, Art. VIII, § 4 155.088
App. C, Art. VIII, § 5 155.089
App. C, Art. VIII, § 6 155.090
App. C, Art. VIII, § 7 155.091
App. C, Art. VIII, § 9 155.092
App. C, Art. VIII, § 8 155.092
App. C, Art. VIII, § 10155.094
App. C, Art. VIII, § 11155.095
App. C, Art. VIII, § 12155.097
App. C, Art. VIII, § 13155.098
App. C, Art. VIII, § 14155.096
App. C, Art. IX, § 1   155.110
App. C, Art. IX, § 2   155.111
App. C, Art. IX, § 3   155.112
App. C, Art. IX, § 4   155.113
App. C, Art. IX, § 5   155.113
App. C, Art. IX, § 6   155.114
App. C, Art. IX, § 7   155.115
App. C, Art. IX, § 8   155.116
App. C, Art. X, § 1    155.117
App. C, Art. X, § 2    155.118
App. C, Art. X, § 3    155.119
App. C, Art. X, § 4    155.120
App. C, Art. X, § 5    155.121
App. C, Art. X, § 6    155.122
App. C, Art. X, § 7    155.123
App. C, Art. X, § 8    155.124
App. C, Art. X, § 9    155.125
App. C, App. I          155.026
Diagram 6.01.10(i)      Ch. 155, Appendix A
                        
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.  Date Passed Code Section
                      111.01–
—       12-8-77     111.08,
                      111.99
—       3-11-82     92.01,
                      92.02
                      93.20,
—       4-8-82      93.21,
                      93.24
—       5-13-82      
                      153.01–
                      153.12,
                      153.25-
—       6-9-87      153.29,
                      153.40-
                      153.42,
                      153.99
—       3-8-88      153.01
                      152.01,
                      152.02,
                      152.05-
                      152.08,
                      152.20-
—       8-9-88      152.32,
                      152.45-
                      152.51,
                      152.65-
                      152.69,
                      152.99
—       7-11-89     153.07
                      90.01,
—       1-9-90      90.02,
                      90.04-
                      90.14
—       2-13-90     152.99
—, §§ 5-8-90      Charter § 2
—       10-9-90     94.08
—       11-12-91    130.04
—       8-11-92     90.03
—       8-11-92     112.01
—       9-8-92      152.99
—       2-9-93      93.21
—       5-12-93     93.99
—       6-8-93      114.01
—       9-14-93     130.11,
                      130.12
—       3-8-94      32.35–
                      32.52
—       6-27-95     130.11
—       11-14-95    32.07
96-2      2-13-96     72.13
                      155.057,
96-3      2-13-96     155.073,
                      155.074
96-4      2-13-96     155.058
96-6      3-12-96     152.99
96-10     8-13-96     154.23
—       10-8-96     90.03
96-14     11-12-96    155.026
96-15     11-12-96    155.136,
                      155.137
97-02     5-13-97     155.073
98-07     7-14-98     155.026
98-11     8-11-98     93.05
98-13     10-13-98    50.11
99-01     2-9-99      155.090,
                      155.096
99-02     2-9-99      155.055
99-08     4-13-99     155.054
99-10     6-8-99      155.054
99-11     6-8-99      155.054
99-12     6-8-99      93.22
99-14     6-8-99      155.047
99-15     6-8-99      93.22
99-17     8-10-99     155.026
99-18     8-10-99     152.69
99-19     8-10-99     110.99
—       4-11-00     91.40,
                      91.99
00-02     6-13-00     50.12,
                      50.99
00-01     7-11-00     155.056
00-03     7-11-00     70.01,
                      72.13
                      113.01–
                      113.03,
                      113.15-
00-08     10-10-00    113.27,
                      113.40-
                      113.47,
                      113.60-
                      113.64
01-02     1-9-01      155.051
99-01     2-9-01      155.093
01-05     4-10-01     155.137
01-07     5-8-01      155.999
01-06     6-12-01     50.09
01-11     8-14-01     154.40
01-13     8-14-01     155.007
01-17     11-13-01    154.40
01-18     11-13-01    155.007,
                      155.070
01-19     11-13-01    155.007,
                      155.146
01-16     12-11-01    155.137
02-03     10-8-02     155.007,
                      155.026
02-04     12-10-02    155.007,
                      155.026
                      35.01 -
02-05     12-10-02    35.06,
                      155.999
03-05     4-8-03      155.137
03-06     4-8-03      155.137
03-07     4-8-03      155.055
03-08     4-8-03      155.050,
                      155.054
03-09     5-13-03     155.007,
                      155.026
03-12     9-9-03      155.007,
                      155.026
03-13     9-9-03      155.026
03-14     10-14-03    155.007,
                      155.046
                      91.21–
- -       6-8-04      91.23,
                      91.25,
                      91.99
04-01     1-13-04     155.026
04-02     2-10-04     155.073
04-03     4-13-04     90.01,
                      90.03
04-03     5-11-04     155.022,
                      155.026
04-04     7-13-04     155.055
04-05     8-10-04     90.01
04-06     9-14-04     155.073
04-07     9-14-04     93.21
05-02     5-10-05     155.094,
                      155.096
- -       6-14-05     112.01
05-03     8-9-05      91.03
05-04     9-13-05     155.007
                      155.021,
                      155.022,
                      155.026,
                      155.054,
                      155.073-
05-05     10-11-05    155.075,
                      155.119,
                      155.137,
                      155.146,
                      Ch. 155, Appendix B, §§ 1–
                      3
                      155.007,
05-07     12-13-05    155.026,
                      155.059
06-01     4-11-06     155.026
06-02     4-11-06     155.046
06-03     7-11-06     50.06
06-04     4-11-06     71.55
                      91.01,
                      91.02,
                      91.04,
06-05     5-9-06      91.05,
                      91.20-
                      91.25,
                      91.40,
                      91.99
06-06     5-9-06      93.99
06-07     5-9-06      94.99
06-08     5-9-06      94.09
06-09     6-13-06     155.022
06-10     6-13-06     155.007,
                      155.026
06-11     7-11-06     155.007,
                      155.026
06-12     11-14-06    155.022,
                      155.075
06-13     11-14-06    155.137
                      155.090,
                      155.117,
06-16     2-13-07     155.120–
                      155.124,
                      155.137
                      154.07,
06-17     2-13-07     154.25,
                      154.26,
                      154.99
                      155.007,
                      155.021,
07-01     3-13-07     155.022,
                      155.026,
                      155.076
07-02     5-8-07      155.022,
                      155.075
07-05     7-10-07     155.022,
                      155.075
07-07     10-9-07     155.073
07-08     10-9-07     92.03
07-08     10-9-07     94.57
07-09     11-13-07    155.076
08-01     2-12-08     155.026
08-04     8-12-08     155.026
08-05     11-18-08    155.074
08-06     11-18-08    155.074
09-02     6-15-09     153.06,
                      153.13
09-03     7-14-09     155.058
                      155.021,
                      155.022,
                      155.026,
09-05     11-10-09    155.054,
                      155.073,
                      155.074,
                      155.096
                      154.07,
10-01     3-9-10      154.24,
                      154.42
10-02     3-9-10      70.01,
                      72.13
10-04     4-13-10     155.022
                      155.007,
10-05     4-13-10     155.026,
                      155.060 
10-06     4-13-10     155.074
10-07     4-13-10     93.22
                      30.01–
- -       6-8-10      30.34,
                      Ch. 30 Appendix
10-09     7-13-10     155.026
10-10     8-10-10     155.007;
                      155.026
                      155.007,
10-11     8-10-10     155.026,
                      155.061
10-12     11-9-10     93.07
11-01     6-14-11     155.007,
                      155.026
11-03     7-12-11     50.05
11-04     5-10-11     50.09
11-05     6-14-11     155.073
11-06     8-9-11      155.007,
                      155.062
11-07     8-9-11      91.24
11-08     9-13-11     71.56
11-09     10-11-11    155.057
11-10     10-11-11    153.01
11-11     11-15-11    155.057
                      131.01–
- -       1-10-12     131.06,
                      131.99
12-01     7-10-12     155.007
12-03     9-11-12     112.01
12-04     10-9-12     50.05
12-05     11-13-12    155.026
12-06     12-11-12    155.007 ,
                      155.026
13-01     1-8-13      93.28
13-02     2-12-13     155.075
13-03     4-9-13      155.093 ,
                      155.096
13-03     9-10-13     50.05 ,
                      50.99
13-04     8-13-13     130.03
13-05     9-10-13     94.30 –
                      94.36
14-02     4-8-14      155.007 ,
                      155.026
14-04     4-8-14      130.05
                      155.007 ,
14-05     5-13-14     155.026 ,
                      155.077
14-06     6-10-14     155.026
14-07     7-8-14      91.03,
                      91.04
14-08     8-12-14     93.23,
                      93.24
14-09     9-9-14      94.11
14-10     9-9-14      155.063
                      155.007,
14-12     9-9-14      155.026,
                      155.077
15-03     3-10-15     50.12
15-04     4-14-15     155.134,
                      155.135
15-05     4-12-16     10.99
16-02     4-12-16     91.24
16-03     4-12-16     91.99
16-04     4-12-16     93.99
                      35.01,
                      35.02,
16-08     8-9-16      35.06,
                      35.07,
                      50.99
                      50.06,
                      50.99,
16-09     10-11-16    90.07,
                      93.22,
                      93.23,
                      93.25
                      160.01–
                      160.09,
                      160.26–
                      160.33,
                      160.51–
                      160.53,
16-12     11-15-16    160.61,
                      160.62,
                      160.71,
                      160.76–
                      160.79,
                      160.86–
                      160.98
16-13     12-13-16    155.136,
                      155.137
                      70.01,
16-14     12-13-16    71.57,
                      71.58
17-002    3-14-17     155.077
17-003    2-14-17     155.075
17-004    2-14-17     Ch. 73, Sch. I
17-005    3-14-17     72.13,
                      72.14
17-013    7-11-17     93.22,
                      93.28
17-014    8-8-17      Ch. 73, Sch. I
                      72.04,
18-007    4-10-18     94.02,
                      94.04
                      94.31,
18-011    6-12-18     94.34,
                      130.11
18-017    9-11-18     93.40–
                      93.52
18-022    11-13-18    30.06
18-027    12-11-18    30.06
—       2-9-21      30.01
                     
 
 
