STALLINGS, NORTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-15 Supplement contains:
Local legislation adopted through March 11, 2024; and
State legislation current through Legislative Service, 2023 Acts, Pamphlet No.
6
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE NO.      
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE CODIFIED CODE OF ORDINANCES WITH SUPPLEMENTS ONE AND
TWO
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has completed the codified
version with Supplements One and Two to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of
Stallings, which the supplements contain all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances
of the Town of Stallings; and
WHEREAS, the codified ordinances contain the official ordinances of the Town;
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Town Council of the Town of Stallings, NC
that the codified version through Supplement Two to the Code of Ordinances of
the Town of Stallings is the official version for the Town.
ADOPTED this the 27th day of September, 2010.
                                                                            
                           Lynda M. Paxton, Mayor
Attest:
                                                  
Erinn E. Nichols, Town Clerk
Approved as to form:
                                                  
Perry, Bundy, Plyler & Long, LLP
ORDINANCE NO.      
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE CODIFIED CODE OF ORDINANCES WITH SUPPLEMENT THREE
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has completed the codified
version with Supplement Three to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of
Stallings, which the supplements contain all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances
of the Town of Stallings; and
WHEREAS, the codified ordinances contain the official ordinances of the Town;
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Town Council of the Town of Stallings, NC
that the codified version through Supplement Three to the Code of Ordinances of
the Town of Stallings is the official version for the Town.
ADOPTED this the 28th day of November, 2011.
                           Lynda M. Paxton /s/
                           Lynda M. Paxton, Mayor
Attest:
Erinn E. Nichols /s/
Erinn E. Nichols, Town Clerk
Approved as to form:
                                                  
Perry, Bundy, Plyler & Long, LLP
ORDINANCE NO.      
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE CODIFIED CODE OF ORDINANCES WITH SUPPLEMENT FOUR
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has completed the codified
version with Supplement Four to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of
Stallings, which the supplement contains all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances
of the Town of Stallings; and
WHEREAS, the codified ordinances contain the official ordinances of the Town;
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Town Council of the Town of Stallings, NC
that the codified version through Supplement Four to the Code of Ordinances of
the Town of Stallings is the official version for the Town.
ADOPTED this the 10th day of June, 2013.
                                                                            
                           Lynda M. Paxton, Mayor
Attest:
                                                  
Erinn E. Nichols, Town Clerk
Approved as to form:
                                                  
Perry, Bundy, Plyler & Long, LLP
ORDINANCE NO.      
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE CODIFIED CODE OF ORDINANCES WITH SUPPLEMENT FIVE
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has completed the codified
version with Supplement Five to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of
Stallings, which the supplement contains all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances
of the Town of Stallings; and
WHEREAS, the codified ordinances contain the official ordinances of the Town;
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Town Council of the Town of Stallings, NC
that the codified version through Supplement Five to the Code of Ordinances of
the Town of Stallings is the official version for the Town.
ADOPTED this the 12th day of August, 2013.
                                                                            
                           Lynda M. Paxton, Mayor
Attest:
                                                  
Erinn E. Nichols, Town Clerk
Approved as to form:
                                                  
Perry, Bundy, Plyler & Long, LLP
ORDINANCE NO.      
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE CODIFIED CODE OF ORDINANCES WITH SUPPLEMENT SIX
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has completed the codified
version with Supplement Six to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of Stallings,
which the supplements contain all ordinances of a general and permanent nature
enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of
Stallings; and
WHEREAS, the codified ordinances contain the official ordinances of the Town;
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Town Council of the Town of Stallings, NC
that the codified version through Supplement Six to the Code of Ordinances of
the Town of Stallings is the official version for the Town.
ADOPTED this the 8th day of December, 2014.
                            Wyatt Dunn \s\
                           Wyatt Dunn, Mayor
Attest:
Erinn E. Nichols \s\
Erinn E. Nichols, Town Clerk
Approved as to form:
M. D. Cox \s\
Perry, Bundy, Plyler, Long, & Cox, LLP
ORDINANCE NO.      
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE CODIFIED CODE OF ORDINANCES WITH SUPPLEMENT SEVEN
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has completed the codified
version with Supplement Seven to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of
Stallings, which the supplements contain all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances
of the Town of Stallings; and
WHEREAS, the codified ordinances contain the official ordinances of the Town;
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Town Council of the Town of Stallings, NC
that the codified version through Supplement Seven to the Code of Ordinances of
the Town of Stallings is the official version for the Town.
ADOPTED this the 14th day of March, 2016.
                            Wyatt Dunn \s\
                           Wyatt Dunn, Mayor
Attest:
Erinn E. Nichols \s\
Erinn E. Nichols, Town Clerk
Approved as to form:
M. D. Cox \s\
Cox Law Firm, PLLC
ORDINANCE NO.      
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE CODIFIED CODE OF ORDINANCES WITH SUPPLEMENT EIGHT
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has completed the codified
version with Supplement Eight to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of
Stallings, which the supplements contain all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances
of the Town of Stallings; and
WHEREAS, the codified ordinances contain the official ordinances of the Town;
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Town Council of the Town of Stallings, NC
that the codified version through Supplement Eight to the Code of Ordinances of
the Town of Stallings is the official version for the Town.
ADOPTED this the 14th day of May, 2018.
                           Wyatt Dunn \s\
                           Wyatt Dunn, Mayor
Attest:
Erinn Nichols \s\
Erinn Nichols, Town Clerk
Approved as to form:
M. D. Cox \s\
Cox Law Firm, PLLC
ORDINANCE NO.      
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE CODIFIED CODE OF ORDINANCES
WITH SUPPLEMENT NINE
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has completed the codified
version with Supplement Nine to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of
Stallings; and
WHEREAS, the supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent
nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town
of Stallings; and
WHEREAS, the codified ordinances contain the official ordinances of the Town;
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Town Council of the Town of Stallings, NC
that the codified version through Supplement Nine to the Code of Ordinances of
the Town of Stallings is the official version for the Town.
ADOPTED this the 25th day of February, 2019.
                           Wyatt Dunn \s\
                           Wyatt Dunn, Mayor
Attest:
Erinn Nichols \s\
Erinn Nichols, Town Clerk
Approved as to form:
M. D. Cox \s\
Cox Law Firm, PLLC
ORDINANCE NO.
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE CODIFIED CODE OF ORDINANCES WITH SUPPLEMENT TEN
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has completed the codified
version with Supplement Ten to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of Stallings,
which the supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent nature
enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of
Stallings; and
WHEREAS, the codified ordinances contain the official ordinances of the Town;
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Town Council of the Town of Stallings, NC
that the codified version through Supplement Ten to the Code of Ordinances of
the Town of Stallings is the official version for the Town.
ADOPTED this the 10th day of February, 2020.
                           Wyatt Dunn \s\
                           Wyatt Dunn, Mayor
Attest:
Erinn Nichols \s\
Erinn Nichols, Town Clerk
Approved as to form:
M. D. Cox \s\
Cox Law Firm, PLLC
ORDINANCE NO.
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE CODIFIED CODE OF ORDINANCES WITH SUPPLEMENT ELEVEN
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has completed the codified
version with Supplement Eleven to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of
Stallings, which the supplements contain all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances
of the Town of Stallings; and
WHEREAS, the codified ordinances contain the official ordinances of the Town;
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Town Council of the Town of Stallings, NC
that the codified version through Supplement Eleven to the Code of Ordinances
of the Town of Stallings is the official version for the Town.
ADOPTED this the 28th day of June, 2021.
                           Wyatt Dunn \s\
                           Wyatt Dunn, Mayor
Attest:
Erinn Nichols \s\
Erinn Nichols, Town Clerk
Approved as to form:
M. D. Cox \s\
Cox Law Firm, PLLC
ORDINANCE NO.
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE CODIFIED CODE OF ORDINANCES WITH SUPPLEMENT TWELVE
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has completed the codified
version with Supplement Twelve to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of
Stallings, which the supplements contain all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances
of the Town of Stallings; and
WHEREAS, the codified ordinances contain the official ordinances of the Town;
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Town Council of the Town of Stallings, NC
that the codified version through Supplement Twelve to the Code of Ordinances
of the Town of Stallings is the official version for the Town.
ADOPTED this the 24th day of January, 2022.
                           Wyatt Dunn \s\
                           Wyatt Dunn, Mayor
Attest:
Erinn Nichols \s\
Erinn Nichols, Town Clerk
Approved as to form:
M. D. Cox \s\
Cox Law Firm, PLLC
 
ORDINANCE NO.
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE CODIFIED CODE OF ORDINANCES WITH SUPPLEMENT THIRTEEN
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has completed the codified
version with Supplement Thirteen to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of
Stallings, which the supplements contain all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances
of the Town of Stallings; and
WHEREAS, the codified ordinances contain the official ordinances of the Town;
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Town Council of the Town of Stallings, NC
that the codified version through Supplement Thirteen to the Code of Ordinances
of the Town of Stallings is the official version for the Town.
ADOPTED this the 28th day of November, 2022.
                           Wyatt Dunn \s\
                           Wyatt Dunn, Mayor
Attest:
Erinn Nichols \s\
Erinn Nichols, Town Clerk
Approved as to form:
M. D. Cox \s\
Cox Law Firm, PLLC
TOWN CHARTER
   
Sec. 1   Incorporation and general powers
   
Sec. 2   Corporate boundaries
   
Sec. 3   Council-Manager form of government
   
Sec. 4   Term of Mayor
   
Sec. 5   Municipal elections
   
Sec. 6   Beginning of Council member terms; monthly meetings
   
Sec. 7   Fiscal affairs
   
Sec. 8   Payment for first election
   
Sec. 9   Effective date
June 21, 2002
Cross-reference:
   Town government, see
Ch. 30
GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF NORTH CAROLINA
SESSION 1975
RATIFIED BILL
CHAPTER 758
HOUSE BILL 1101
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE TOWN OF STALLINGS, UNION COUNTY, NORTH CAROLINA.
The General Assembly of North Carolina enacts:
   Section 1.   The inhabitants of the area described in Section 2 of this act
shall be and constitute a body politic and corporate under the name of the
“Town of Stallings”, and shall have all the power, authority, rights,
privileges and immunities conferred upon municipal corporations by the
Constitution and general laws of North Carolina, and particularly Chapter 160A,
of the General Statutes.
   Sec. 2.   The corporate limits of the Town of Stallings in Union County,
North Carolina shall be as herein described until changed as authorized by law:
   “BEGINNING at a point in the center of Seaboard Coastline RR on Mecklenburg-
Union County lire and running thence straight in a northeasterly direction with
said county line, crossing SR #1367 and U.S. Hwy. #74, a distance of
approximately 4400 ft. to a point on the division line between properties of
Fifty-Four Investment Co. and Brothers Investment Co. (which point is
approximately 425 ft. beyond the centerline of New U.S. Hwy. #74); thence
easterly with said division line approximately 940 ft. to a corner of the
Brothers Investment Co. property; (thence continuing easterly on a slightly
different course, cutting across several other properties, approximately 2145
ft. to the point where a branch of Crooked Creek crosses the division line
between Earl Surratt and Wallace Davis properties; thence continuing in a
generally easterly direction approximately 825 ft. to the point of intersection
of said branch with the center of SR #1365; thence southwesterly with the
center of SR #1365 approximately 250 ft. to its point of intersection with the
center of an accessway leading into Forest Park Subdivision
(which accessway is identified on tax map as Elizabeth C. Love’s lot #151-B);
thence with the center of said accessway southeasterly approximately 445 ft.;
thence crossing the southerly edge of said accessway, southwesterly
approximately 840 ft. along the division line between O.H. McKechnie and Vance
Sherrin to one of their common corners; thence with another of their division
lines almost due south approximately 65 ft. to another of their corners in
common with S.M. Sandy's lot #21 of Forest Park Subdivisions thence; with the
northwesterly line of Forest Park Subdivision (which subdivision is not herein
embraced), passing the dead ends of Forest Park Road and Pine Tree Drive, in a
southwesterly direction approximately 1995 ft. to the northwest corner of Lot
#50 of said subdivisions; thence with the southwesterly line of Forest Park
Subdivision in a southeasterly direction approximately 1175 ft. crossing Forest
Park Road at its indentation point, to Jim Marrone’s northeast corner on W.B.
Love, Jr. property line; thence with Love's westerly line, southwesterly,
passing the center of new U.S. Hwy. #74 at approximately 430 ft. a total
distance of Approximately 1765 ft. to S.R. 1367; thence across said road to
J.B. Smith's northeast corner; thence with three of Smith’s easterly lines, 1st
- 697 ft. in a southerly direction; 2nd - 595 ft. southwesterly; and 3rd - 1103
ft. in a southerly direction to SR #1366; thence in a southwesterly direction
1089 ft. more or less to a point in the centerline of SR #1368, said point
being located N. 30-46-W, 206.25 ft. from the intersection of said SR #1368
with the northwestern line of the E.N. O'Neal property; thence with the
centerline of said road in five courses as follows: (1) N. 30-46-W, 528.92 ft.;
(2) N. 33-58-W, 210.4 ft.; (3) N. 38-31-W, 241.2 ft.; (4 ) N. 41-20-W, 262.5
ft.; and (5) N. 44-15-W, 707.65 ft.; thence leaving said road and running S.
71-27-E, 387.65 ft. to a corner of the S.A. Flowe, Jr. property; thence N. 31-
10-W, 703.5 ft.; thence N. 42-21-E, 192 ft. to a point in the centerline of
said SR #1368; thence with the centerline of said road N. 43-40-W, 150 ft.;
thence leaving said road and running S. 45-37-W, 296 ft.; thence N. 45-16-W,
541.2 ft. to a point in the southerly margin of SR #1365; thence with said
southerly margin S. 47-32-W, 24.8 ft.; thence S. 45-24-E, 321.5 ft.; thence S.
46-03-W, 146.4 ft; thence S. 53-31-W, 204.4 ft.; thence S. 53-52-W, 113.3 ft.;
thence N. 41-42-W, 348.6 ft. to a point in the southerly margin of SR #1365;
thence with the southerly margin of said road S. 68-15-W, 63.5 ft.; thence
leaving said road and running S. 41-42-E, 364.5 ft.; thence S 53-52-W, 298.7
ft.; thence S. 68-03-W, 314.8 ft.; thence N. 13-35-W, 56.6 ft.;
thence S. 67-03-W, 120.2 ft.; thence S. 14-43-E, 378.8 ft.; thence N. 83-28-E,
1704.7 ft.; thence S. 4-40 W, 1262.2 ft.; thence S. 73-43-W, 2180.8 ft.; thence
S. 33-55-E, 40 ft.; thence N. 86-40-W, 497.7 ft. to a point in the centerline
of SR #1009 (Old Monroe Road); thence with the centerline of said road S. 33-
18-E, 126.7 ft; thence N. 33-50-E, 42.5 ft. to a point in the easterly margin
of said road; thence S. 86-40-E, 450 ft.; thence S. 33-55-E, 1486.4 ft.; thence
N. 73-11-E, 1756.6 ft.; thence S. 21-01-E, 549.4 ft. to a common corner of
James R. Kindley, Billy G. Broom, and Lots Nos. 32 and 38 of Bryson Village
Subdivision; thence southwesterly with the division line between Billy G. Broom
and Bryson Village Subdivision approximately 1810 ft. to Old Charlotte Hwy.
(now. SR # 1009) thence in a northwesterly direction with the center line of
the Old Charlotte Highway (old N.C. Highway #74) 860 feet, more or less, to the
southeast corner of a triangular tract of land, property of J.I. Broome; thence
with two of Broome's lines in a westerly direction 386 feet more or less, and
400 feet, more or less; thence in a northwest direction 33 feet, more or less,
to the rear corner of Lot #61 of Lakewood Knolls Subdivision; thence with the
rear lines of lots numbers 38 through 61, inclusive, of said subdivision, in a
southwesterly direction to the southwest corner of said subdivision; thence in
a southerly direction with the westerly line of the James Helms Estate (now or
formerly) 1340 feet, more or less, to a corner of the J.D. Cline property;
thence with Cline's line and the northerly line of the Earl P. McAteer property
274 feet to a point, McAteer's northeast corner; thence with McAteer's easterly
line, 247.5 feet, more or less, to a point in the center line of S.R. 1362;
thence with the center line of said S.R. #1362, 1980 feet, more or less, to its
intersection with the center line of S.R. #1357; thence north approximately
2300 ft. with the center of SR #1357 to its point of intersection with the
center of SR #1363, this being the southeast corner of Spring Hill Subdivision
(which is herein embraced); thence westerly along the southerly line of the
subdivision with the center of SR #1363, passing Spring Hill Drive and wood
Glen Lane intersections, 1st. approximately 2400 ft. and 2nd., a little more
southwesterly passing Timberland Road intersection approximately 430 additional
feet to the southwest corner of said subdivision, also being the southwest
corner of Lot #45 therein; thence north by a little west with the O.L. Phillips
estate line, this being the westerly 1ine of Spring Hill Subdivision,,
approximately 840 ft. to the northwest corner of said subdivision, also being
the northwest corner of Lot #38 therein; thence with another of Phillips' lines
and the northerly subdivision line, easterly by a little north approximately
1770 ft. to the midway point on the north line of Lot #21 of said subdivision;
thence northerly by a little west, across the Phillips property and continuing
with the west line of Pleasant Plains Baptist Church Lot #6, approximately 2100
ft. to a point on the Mecklenburg-Union County line; thence northeasterly
straight along said county line, crossing SR #1356, passing through Morningwood
Drive, Forestmont Drive, Woodfern Place and Friendship Drive all in Eastwood
Trailer Park, crossing SR #1009 and SR #1337 and two segments of Stallings
Drive in Kingsberry Subdivision, a total distance of approximately 6400 ft. to
the point of place of BEGINNING on said county line and in the center of
Seaboard Coastline RR right-of-way.”
   Sec. 3.   The Town of Stallings shall have the Council-Manager form of
government and the administration thereof shall be provided in Part 2, Article
7 of Chapter 160A-147 of the North Carolina General Statutes. The Council shall
consist of six (6) members, not including the Mayor. The Town of Stallings
shall therefore be divided into six (6) single-member electoral districts.
Council members shall be apportioned to these districts so that each member
represents the same number of persons as nearly as possible. Candidates shall
reside in and represent the districts according to the apportionment plan
adopted by the Town Council, but all the qualified voters of the Town shall
elect all candidates.
(Am. Ord. passed 4-5-2001; Am. Ord. passed 5-13-2002)
   Sec. 4.   The Mayor shall be elected by the qualified voters of the town for
a term of four years starting with the November, 2005 election, and shall be
entitled to vote on matters before the Council only if necessary to break a
tie.
(Am. Ord. passed 4-11-77; Am. Ord. passed 7-25-2005)
   Sec. 5.   The municipal elections shall be nonpartisan and decided by a
simple plurality, and shall be held and conducted by the county board of
elections in accordance with the applicable provisions of Chapter 163 of the
General Statutes. The municipal election shall be held on Tuesday after the
first Monday in November, 1975, and every two years thereafter. Of the five
Council positions to be filled in the November, 1977 election, the three
candidates receiving the three highest numbers of votes shall be elected to
terms of four years, and the two candidates receiving the two next highest
numbers of votes shall be elected to terms of two years. At each biennial
election thereafter, the number of Council positions to be filled at such
election shall be filled for terms of four years.
   All current members of the Town Council shall continue to serve until their
terms expire. Any current member of the Town Council who has two (2) years
remaining on their term shall continue to serve and represent the district
wherein they reside until their current term expires. Any district which does
not have a resident member of the Town Council with two (2) years remaining on
their term shall elect a representative in the Fall 2001 General Election.
(Am. Ord. passed 4-11-77; Am. Ord. passed 4-5-2001)
   Sec. 6.   The officers elected under this act shall take office at the first
regular meeting in December following their election and qualify by taking the
oath of office. The council shall hold a regular meeting at least once a month,
and shall fix the time and place of its regular meetings.
(Am. Res. passed 10-10-2011)
   Sec. 7.   The fiscal affairs of the town shall be governed by Chapter 159 of
the General Statutes and all other pertinent provisions of the Constitution and
general laws of the State. The territory within the corporate limits, its
citizens and property shall be subject to municipal taxes levied by the town
for the fiscal year 1975-76, and subsequent years. The town shall obtain from
Union County, and the county shall provide, upon request, a record of the
property within the corporate limits which were listed for taxation as of
January 1, 1975.
   Sec. 8.   The first election held pursuant to this act shall be paid for by
the county; but the Town of Stallings shall reimburse the county for the cost
of the election as soon as the town treasury has funds sufficient on hand.
   Sec. 9.   This act shall become effective upon ratification.
   In the General Assembly read three times and ratified, this the 24th day of
June, 1975.
                           JAMES B. HUNT, JR.
                           ___________________________________________________
                           James B. Hunt, Jr.
                           President of the Senate
                           JAMES C. GREEN, SR.
                           ____________________________________________________
                           James C. Green, Sr.
                           Speaker of the House of Representatives
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.17   Section histories; statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalties; enforcement of ordinances; continuing violations
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the Town of Stallings, North
Carolina, shall be designated as the Code of Stallings and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain,
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      COUNTY. Union County, North Carolina.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MAYOR.
         (a)   The chief administrative officer of the town.
         (b)   Any reference to ADMINISTRATOR or TOWN ADMINISTRATOR shall be
deemed to refer to the MANAGER.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in these cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of the town unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as applied to
any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. A mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of North Carolina.
      SUBCHAPTER.
         (a)   A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
         (b)   Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      TOWN, MUNICIPALITY or MUNICIPAL CORPORATION. The Town of Stallings, North
Carolina.
      TOWN COUNCIL. The legislative body of the town
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of the town shall be by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the Town
Council or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
and/or, if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code, as now or later amended, or its application
to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this town exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the
word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within the town for the transaction of all town business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All ordinances passed by the Town Council requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
   (B)   Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from their
passage unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10,
passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-80; Am.
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (G.S. § 160A-69) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-80; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-85)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
         § 39.10 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection
or copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
      For provisions concerning the inspection of public records, see G.S. §
132-1 et seq.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTIES; ENFORCEMENT OF ORDINANCES; CONTINUING VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Administration.
      (1)   Unless a greater amount is specified herein, an act constituting a
violation of the provisions of this code or a failure to comply with any of its
requirements shall subject the offender to a civil penalty of $100, which
includes administrative fees. Each day any single violation continues shall be
a separate violation. Unless expressly stated otherwise in a chapter or
appendix, a violation of this code shall not constitute a misdemeanor pursuant
to G.S. § 14-4. If the offender fails to correct this violation by the
prescribed deadline after being notified of the violation, the penalty may be
recovered in a civil action in the nature of a debt.
      (2)   In addition to the civil penalties set out above, any provision of
any town ordinance may be enforced by an appropriate equitable remedy issuing
from a court of competent jurisdiction. In such case, the General Court of
Justice shall have jurisdiction to issue orders as may be appropriate, and it
shall not be a defense to the application of the town for equitable relief that
there is an adequate remedy at law.
      (3)   In addition to the civil penalties set out above, any provision of
any town ordinance that makes unlawful a condition existing upon or use made of
real property may be enforced by injunction and order of abatement by the
General Court of Justice. When a violation of such a provision occurs, the town
may apply to the appropriate division of the General Court of Justice for a
mandatory or prohibitory injunction and/or order of abatement commanding the
defendant to correct the unlawful condition upon or cease the unlawful use of
the property. The action shall be governed in all respects by the laws and
rules governing civil proceedings, including the Rules of Civil Procedure in
general and Rule 65 in particular.
      (4)   An order of abatement may direct that buildings or other structures
on the property be closed, demolished or removed; that fixtures, furniture or
other movable property be removed from buildings on the property; that grass
and weeds be cut; that abandoned or junked vehicles be removed; that
improvements or repairs be made; or that any other action be taken that is
necessary to bring the property into compliance with the applicable town
ordinance. If the defendant fails or refuses to comply with an injunction or
with an order of abatement within the time allowed by the court, he or she may
be cited for contempt, and the town may execute the order of abatement. The
town shall have a lien on the property for the cost of executing an order of
abatement in the nature of a mechanic's and materialman's lien. The defendant
may secure cancellation of an order of abatement by paying all costs of the
proceedings and posting a bond for compliance with the order. The bond shall be
given with sureties approved by the Clerk of Superior Court in an amount
approved by the judge before whom the matter is heard and shall be conditioned
on the defendant's full compliance with the terms of the order of abatement
within a time fixed by the judicial order. Cancellation of an order of
abatement shall not suspend or cancel an injunction issued in conjunction
therewith.
      (5)   The provisions of any town ordinance may be enforced by one, all,
or a combination of the remedies authorized and prescribed by this section.
   (B)   Procedures.
      (1)   This section sets forth the procedures to be followed in enforcing
the provisions of the Code of Ordinances. They shall be utilized unless an
individual ordinance codified herein has different procedures, in which event
the procedures of the individual ordinance shall be followed.
      (2)   Unless otherwise provided by a specific provision of any town
ordinance, upon determination of a violation of any section of a town
ordinance, the enforcement official of the town shall cause a warning citation
to be issued to the violator. The warning citation shall be issued either in
person or posted in the U.S. mail service by first class mail addressed to the
last known address of the violator as contained in the records of the county.
The warning citation shall set out the nature of the violation, the section
violated, the date of the violation, and shall contain an order to immediately
cease the violation. If the violation is in the nature of an infraction for
which an order of abatement would be appropriate in a civil proceeding, a
reasonable period of time must be stated in which the violation must be abated.
The warning citation shall specify that a second citation shall incur a civil
penalty, together with costs, and attorney fees.
      (3)   An appeal from a warning citation shall be taken within ten days
from the date of the warning citation by filing with the enforcement official
and with the Board of Adjustment, a notice of appeal which shall specify the
grounds upon which the appeal is based. Except in any case where the ordinance
violated, which is the subject of the warning citation, specifically grants to
the Board of Adjustment other powers in considering appeals and the appeal is
applied for, the Board of Adjustment in considering appeals of warning
citations shall have power only in the manner of administrative review and
interpretation where it is alleged that the enforcement official has made an
error in the application of an ordinance, in the factual situation as it
relates to the application of an ordinance or both.
      (4)   Where the enforcement official of the town determines that the
period of time stated in the original warning citation is not sufficient for
abatement based upon the work required or consent agreement, the enforcement
official may amend the warning citation to provide for additional time.
      (5)   Upon failure of the violator to obey the warning citation, a civil
citation may be issued by the enforcement official, either served directly on
the violator, his or her duly designated agent, or registered agent if a
corporation, either in person or posted in the U.S. mail service by first class
mail addressed to the last known address of the violator as contained in the
records of the county or obtained from the violator at the time of issuance of
the warning citation. The violator shall be deemed to have been served upon the
mailing of the citation. The citation shall direct the violator to appear at
the Town Hall, or designee, within 15 days of the date of the citation, or
alternatively to pay the citation by mail. The violation for which the citation
is issued must have been corrected by the time the citation is paid, otherwise
further citations shall be issued. Citations may be issued for each day the
offense continues until the prohibited activity is ceased or abated.
      (6)   If the violator fails to respond to a citation within 15 days of
its issuance, and pay the penalty prescribed therein, the town may institute a
civil action in the nature of debt in the appropriate division of the North
Carolina General Court of Justice for the collection of the penalty, costs,
attorney fees, and such other relief as permitted by law.
(Ord. passed 2-11-2013)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   TOWN GOVERNMENT
      
31.   TOWN POLICIES
      
32.   DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, COMMITTEES AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 30: TOWN GOVERNMENT
Section
   
30.01   Electoral district boundaries
   
30.02   Duties and powers of Mayor
§ 30.01 ELECTORAL DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   As specified in the Town Charter and as provided by G.S. § 160A-101(6)
(c), each of the six members of the Town Council shall be nominated by
electoral districts, but elected by all qualified voters of the town.
   (B)   The electoral district boundaries for each of the six members shall be
as identified in the map identified as Town of Stallings Six District Plan, and
dated November 2, 2001, the same map being adopted by reference and made part
of this section the same as if set forth in full herein.
(Ord. passed 4-4-2001; Am. Ord. passed 1-7-2002; Am. Ord. passed 5-19-2003; Am.
Ord. passed 4-12-2004; Am. Ord. passed 7-12-2004; Am. Ord. passed 7-12-2004;
Am. Ord. passed 7-12-2004; Am. Ord. passed 5-23-2005; Am. Ord. passed 5-23-
2005)
§ 30.02 DUTIES AND POWERS OF MAYOR.
   (A)   The powers and duties of the Mayor shall be only those powers and
duties as specifically conferred by law and no other powers and duties.
   (B)   Specifically, the Mayor shall have the powers and duties as follows:
      (1)   Be recognized as the official head of the town for purpose of
service of civil process, and for all ceremonial purposes, as statutorily
mandated by G.S. § 160A-67.
      (2)   Fulfill the annexation recordation duties statutorily mandated by
G.S. §§ 160A-29, 160A-39, and 160A-51.
      (3)   Preside at all Council meetings following the Rules of Procedure
adopted by the Council as statutorily mandated by G.S. § 160A-71(c).
      (4)   To call a special meeting as statutorily permitted by G.S. § 160A-
71, if all notice requirements as stated in the statute are met.
      (5)   To carry out any plan of government as statutorily mandated by G.S.
§ 160A-108.
      (6)   Shall be entitled to vote on matters before the Council only if
necessary to break a tie as mandated by Section 4 of the Town Charter.
(Amending Ordinance passed April 1, 1977)
      (7)   Shall be authorized as an alternate signer of checks on accounts on
behalf of the town. (Motion passed January 23, 2006)
      (8)   To administer oaths as statutorily permitted by G.S. § 11-7.1(5).
      (9)   Be the spokesperson for the Town Council/town when authorized by
the Town Council; otherwise any opinion expressed by the Mayor, which is not
authorized by the Town Council, is the Mayor's own opinion for which the Mayor
is solely responsible.
      (10)   Shall have the duty to vote as directed by the Town Council, on
all committees for which the Mayor serves as the delegate of the town.
      (11)   When authorized by the Town Council shall have the power to sign
all contracts, resolutions, ordinances, or any other document on behalf of the
town.
   (C)   The Town Council has not given to the Mayor any other power or duty,
including but not limited to the power to give direction to town employees,
independent contractors, or any other persons or entities subject to the
regulatory authority of the town.
   (D)   This section supersedes all previous Council actions regarding the
power and duties of the Mayor.
(Ord. passed 6-26-2006; Am. Ord. passed 11-10-2008)
CHAPTER 31: TOWN POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Procedures for disposing of property valued at less than $500
   
31.02   Reimbursement agreement for roadway improvements
State of Emergency
   
31.10   State of emergency; restrictions authorized
   
31.11   Proclamation imposing prohibitions and restrictions
   
31.12   Evacuation
   
31.13   Curfew
   
31.14   Restrictions on possession, consumption or transfer of alcoholic
beverages
   
31.15   Restriction on possession, transportation, and transfer of dangerous
weapons and substances
   
31.16   Restrictions on access to areas
   
31.17   Prohibitions or restrictions
   
31.18   Removal of prohibitions and restrictions
   
31.19   Superseding and amendatory proclamation
   
31.20   Termination of proclamation
   
31.21   In case of absence or disability of Mayor
   
31.22   Territorial applicability
 
   
31.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 PROCEDURES FOR DISPOSING OF PROPERTY VALUED AT LESS THAN $500.
   (A)   The Town Administrator is hereby authorized, pursuant to G.S. § 160A-
266(c), to dispose of any surplus personal property owned by the town, whenever
he or she determines, in his or her discretion, that:
      (1)   The item or group of items has a fair market value of less than
$500;
      (2)   The property is no longer necessary for the conduct of public
business; and
      (3)   Sound property management principles and financial considerations
indicate that the interests of the town would be best served by disposing of
the property.
   (B)   The Town Administrator may dispose of any surplus personal property by
any means which he or she judges reasonably calculated to yield the highest
attainable sale price in money or other consideration, including but not
limited to the methods of sale provided in G.S. Chapter 160A, Article 12, being
G.S. §§ 160A-256 et seq. The sale may be public or private, and with or without
notice and minimum waiting period.
   (C)   The surplus property shall be sold to the party who tenders the
highest offer, or exchanged for any property or services useful to the town if
greater value may be obtained in that manner, and the Town Administrator is
hereby authorized to execute any applicable documents. If no offers are
received within a reasonable time, the Town Administrator may retain the
property, obtain any reasonably available salvage value, or cause it to be
disposed of as waste material. No surplus property may be donated to any
individual or organization except by resolution of the Town Council.
   (D)   The Town Administrator shall, on or before the first day of February,
report in writing to the Town Council on any property disposed of under these
provisions from July 1 through December 31 of the previous year, and shall, on
or before the first day of August, report in writing to the Town Council on any
property disposed of under these provisions from January 1 through June 30 of
that year. The written report shall generally describe the property sold or
exchanged, to whom it was sold, or with whom exchanged, and the amount of money
or other consideration received for each sale or exchange since the last
written report was submitted.
(Ord. passed 3-4-2002)
§ 31.02 REIMBURSEMENT AGREEMENT FOR ROADWAY IMPROVEMENTS.
   The Town Manager may approve an intersection and roadway improvement
reimbursement agreement with private developers and property owners for the
construction of infrastructure that is included in the town’s Capital
Improvement Plan and serves the developer or property owner. The entity
completing the work under the reimbursement agreement must solicit bids in
accordance with G.S. Ch. 143, Art. 8 when awarding contracts for work that
would have required competitive bidding if the contract had been awarded by the
town. The agreement shall come before the Town Council for approval.
(Ord. passed 1-27-2020)
STATE OF EMERGENCY
§ 31.10 STATE OF EMERGENCY; RESTRICTIONS AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   A state of emergency shall be deemed to exist whenever, during times
of public crisis, disaster, rioting, catastrophe, or similar public emergency,
for any reason, public safety authorities are unable to maintain public order
or afford adequate protection for lives, safety or property, or whenever the
occurrence of any such condition is imminent.
   (B)   In the event of an existing or threatened state of emergency
endangering the lives, safety, health, and welfare of the people within the
town or any part thereof, or threatening damages to or destruction of property,
the Mayor is hereby authorized and empowered under G.S. § 166A-8 to issue a
public proclamation declaring to all persons the existence of such a state of
emergency, and, in order to more effectively protect the lives and property of
people within the town, to place in effect any or all of the restrictions
hereinafter authorized.
   (C)   The Mayor is hereby authorized and empowered to limit by the
proclamation the application of all or any part of such restrictions to any
area specifically designated or described within the town and to specific hours
of the day or night; and to exempt from all or any part of such restrictions,
while acting in the line of and within the scope of their respective duties,
law enforcement officers, firefighters and other public employees, rescue squad
members, doctors, nurses, employees of hospitals and other medical facilities;
on-duty military personnel, whether state or federal; on-duty employees of
public utilities, public transportation companies and newspaper, magazine,
radio broadcasting, and television broadcasting corporations operated for
profit; and such other classes of persons as may be essential to the
preservation of public order and immediately necessary to serve the safety,
health, and welfare needs of people within the town.
(Ord. passed 12-17-2002)
§ 31.11 PROCLAMATION IMPOSING PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The Mayor by proclamation may impose the prohibitions and restrictions
specified in §§ 31.12 through 31.17 in the manner described in those sections.
The Mayor may impose as many of those specified prohibitions and restrictions
as he or she finds are necessary, because of an emergency, to maintain an
acceptable level of public order and services, and to protect lives, safety,
and property. The Mayor shall recite his or her findings in the proclamation.
   (B)   The proclamation shall be in writing. The Mayor shall take reasonable
steps to give notice of the terms of the proclamation to those affected by it
and shall post a copy of it in the Town Hall. The Mayor shall send reports of
the substance of the proclamation to the mass communications media which serves
the affected area. The Mayor shall retain a text of the proclamation and
furnish upon request certified copies of it.
(Ord. passed 12-17-2002)
§ 31.12 EVACUATION.
   The Mayor may direct and compel the evacuation of all or part of the
population of the town; prescribe routes, modes of transportation, and
destination in connection with evacuation, and control ingress and egress of a
disaster area, the movement of persons within the area, and the occupancy of
premises therein. Details of the evacuation may be set forth or amended in a
subsequent proclamation which shall be well publicized.
(Ord. passed 12-17-2002)
§ 31.13 CURFEW.
   (A)   The proclamation may impose a curfew prohibiting in certain areas and
during certain periods the appearance in public of anyone who is not a member
of an exempted class. The proclamation shall specify the geographical area or
areas and the period during each 24-hour day to which the curfew applies. The
Mayor may exempt from some or all of the curfew restrictions classes of people
whose exemption the Mayor finds necessary for the preservation of the public
heath, safety, and welfare. The proclamation shall state the exempted classes
and the restrictions from which each is exempted.
   (B)   Unless otherwise specified in the proclamation, the curfew shall apply
during the specified period each day until the Mayor by proclamation removes
the curfew.
(Ord. passed 12-17-2002)
§ 31.14 RESTRICTIONS ON POSSESSION, CONSUMPTION OR TRANSFER OF ALCOHOLIC
BEVERAGES.
   The proclamation may prohibit the possession or consumption of any alcoholic
beverage, including beer, wine, and spirituous liquor other than on one's own
premises, and may prohibit the transfer, transportation, sale or purchase of
any alcoholic beverage within the area of the town described in the
proclamation. The prohibition, if imposed, may apply to transfers of alcoholic
beverages by employees of Alcoholic Beverage Control stores as well as by
anyone else within the geographical area described.
(Ord. passed 12-17-2002)
§ 31.15 RESTRICTION ON POSSESSION, TRANSPORTATION, AND TRANSFER OF DANGEROUS
WEAPONS AND SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   The proclamation may prohibit the transportation or possession of
one's own premises, or the sale or purchase of any dangerous weapon or
substance. The Mayor may exempt from some or all of the restrictions classes of
people whose possession, transfer or transportation of certain dangerous
weapons or substances is necessary to the preservation of the public health,
safety, or welfare. The proclamation shall state the exempted classes and the
restriction from which each is exempted.
   (B)   DANGEROUS WEAPON OR SUBSTANCE means:
      (1)   Any deadly weapon, ammunition, explosive, incendiary device,
radioactive material or device as defined in G.S. § 14-288.8(c)(5), gasoline,
or other instrument or substance designed for a use that carries a threat of
serious bodily injury or destruction of property.
      (2)   Any other instrument or substance that is capable of being used to
inflict serious bodily injury or destruction of property, when the
circumstances indicate that there is some probability that such instrument or
substance will be so used.
      (3)   Any part or ingredient in any instrument or substance included
above when the circumstances indicate a probability that such a part or
ingredient will be so used.
   (C)   If imposed, the restrictions shall apply throughout the jurisdiction
of the town or such part thereof as designated in the proclamation.
   (D)   A violation of this section shall be punishable as provided in state
law.
(Ord. passed 12-17-2002)
§ 31.16 RESTRICTIONS ON ACCESS TO AREAS.
   (A)   The proclamation may prohibit obtaining access or attempting to obtain
access to any area, designated in the manner described in this section, in
violation of any order, clearly posted notice, or barricade indicating that
access is denied or restricted.
   (B)   Areas to which access is denied or restricted shall be designated by
the Sheriff and his or her subordinates or other law enforcement officer when
directed in the proclamation to do so by the Mayor. When acting under this
authority, the Sheriff and his or her subordinates may restrict or deny access
to any area, street, highway or location within the town if that restriction or
denial of access or use is reasonably necessary to promote efforts being made
to overcome the emergency or to prevent further aggravation of the emergency.
(Ord. passed 12-17-2002)
§ 31.17 PROHIBITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS.
   The proclamation may prohibit or restrict:
   (A)   Movements of people in public places;
   (B)   The operation of offices, business establishments, and other places to
or from which people may travel or at which they may congregate; and
   (C)   Other activities or conditions the control of which may be reasonably
necessary to maintain order and protect lives or property during the state of
emergency, within the area designated in the proclamation.
(Ord. passed 12-17-2002)
§ 31.18 REMOVAL OF PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   The Mayor shall by proclamation terminate the entire declaration of
emergency or remove any of the prohibitions and restrictions when the emergency
no longer requires them, or when directed to do so by the Town Council.
(Ord. passed 12-17-2002)
§ 31.19 SUPERSEDING AND AMENDATORY PROCLAMATION.
   The Mayor in his or her discretion may invoke the restrictions authorized by
this subchapter in separate proclamations, and may amend any proclamation by
means of a superseding proclamation in accordance with the procedures set forth
in §
31.11.
(Ord. passed 12-17-2002)
§ 31.20 TERMINATION OF PROCLAMATION.
   Any proclamation issued under this subchapter shall expire five days after
its last imposition unless sooner terminated in writing under the same
procedures set forth in §
31.11 for proclamations.
(Ord. passed 12-17-2002)
§ 31.21 IN CASE OF ABSENCE OR DISABILITY OF MAYOR.
   In case of the absence or disability of the Mayor, the Mayor Pro Tem, or
such other person as may be designated by the Town Council, shall have and
exercise all of the powers herein given the Mayor.
(Ord. passed 12-17-2002)
§ 31.22 TERRITORIAL APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter shall not apply within the unincorporated limits of the
county over which the county has jurisdiction to enact general police power
ordinances unless the county by resolution consents to its application.
(Ord. passed 12-17-2002)
§ 31.99 PENALTY.
   Except as provided in §
31.15, any person violating any prohibition or restriction imposed by a
proclamation authorized by §§
31.10 through
31.22 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable upon conviction by a fine
not exceeding $500 or imprisonment not exceeding 30 days, as provided by G.S. §
14-4.
(Ord. passed 12-17-2002)
CHAPTER 32: DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, COMMITTEES AND COMMISSIONS
Section
Auxiliary Police Division
   
32.01   Establishment
   
32.02   Chief of Police to control appointments and removals
   
32.03   Membership, rank and oath
   
32.04   Duties
   
32.05   Benefits
Boards and Committees
   
32.10   Boards defined by statute
   
32.11   Council-led committees
   
32.12   Citizen-led committees
   
32.13   Ad hoc committees
   
32.14   Requirements of all committees
   
32.15   Additional governance
AUXILIARY POLICE DIVISION
§ 32.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby established within the Police Department, as a division
thereof, an Auxiliary Police Division. The Auxiliary Police Division shall be a
volunteer organization, whose members shall serve without compensation and
shall be composed of as many members as may from time to time be determined by
the Town Council.
(Ord. passed 8-22-2005)
§ 32.02 CHIEF OF POLICE TO CONTROL APPOINTMENTS AND REMOVALS.
   The Auxiliary Police Division shall be under the direct control of the Chief
of Police, acting under the general supervision of the Town Manager. All
appointments and removals of members of the Auxiliary Police Division will be
at the sole discretion of the Chief of Police.
(Ord. passed 8-22-2005)
§ 32.03 MEMBERSHIP, RANK AND OATH.
   (A)   The Auxiliary Police Division shall be composed of five members.
   (B)   All members of the Auxiliary Police Division shall bear the rank of
auxiliary police officer. Each member shall take the same oath of office as a
town police officer.
(Ord. passed 8-22-2005)
§ 32.04 DUTIES.
   The duties of an auxiliary police officer, subject at all times to the
discretion, supervision, and control of the Chief of Police, shall be to assist
the town police officers in the enforcement of federal, state, and local laws
when called to active duty by the Chief of Police. The Chief of Police shall
establish policy and procedures to govern the Auxiliary Police Division, to fix
the specific duties of its members, and provide for the maintenance of
discipline. Members of the Auxiliary Police Division shall obey all lawful
instructions given by town police officers in carrying out their duties.
(Ord. passed 8-22-2005)
§ 32.05 BENEFITS.
   While undergoing official training and while performing duties on behalf of
the town pursuant to orders or instructions of the Chief of Police all
auxiliary police officers shall be entitled to benefits under the North
Carolina Workers' Compensation Act and to any fringe benefits to which such
volunteer personnel qualify.
(Ord. passed 8-22-2005)
BOARDS AND COMMITTEES
§ 32.10 BOARDS DEFINED BY STATUTE.
   (A)   Planning Board.
      (1)   Membership. Seven members and two alternate members.
      (2)   Membership term. Three years; no term limit.
      (3)   Officers. The members of the Planning Board shall elect a Chairman
and Vice-Chairman during the Board's first regular meeting of a new calendar
year or at the next regular meeting following the vacancy of the Chairman or
Vice-Chairman.
      (4)   Purpose/objective. In accordance with state law, the Planning Board
may, at the request of the Town Council:
         (a)   Prepare, review, maintain, monitor, and periodically update and
recommend to the governing board a comprehensive plan, and such other plans as
deemed appropriate, and conduct ongoing related research, data collection,
mapping, and analysis;
         (b)   Facilitate and coordinate citizen engagement and participation
in the planning process;
         (c)   Develop and recommend policies, ordinances, administrative
procedures, and other means for carrying out plans in a coordinated and
efficient manner;
         (d)   Advise the Council concerning the use and amendment of means for
carrying out plans, including but not limited to, review and comment on all
zoning text and map amendments as required by G.S. 160D-604;
         (e)   Exercise any functions in the administration and enforcement of
various means for carrying out plans that the Council may direct;
         (f)   Perform any other related duties that the Council may direct.
   (B)   Board of Adjustment.
      (1)   Membership. The Board of Adjustment shall consist of nine members,
consisting of seven full members and two alternate members. All full members
shall have equal rights, privileges, and duties, except as defined for officers
by adopted rules of procedure.
      (2)   Membership term. Three years; no term limit.
      (3)   Officers. The members of the Board of Adjustment shall elect a
Chairman and Vice-Chairman during the Board's first regular meeting of a new
calendar year or at the next regular meeting following the vacancy of the
Chairman or Vice-Chairman.
      (4)   Purpose/objective.
         (a)   Cases heard are quasi-judicial and all witnesses testifying
during a hearing are to be sworn in;
         (b)   The Board of Adjustment shall have the following powers:
            1.   To hear and decide appeals, where it is alleged that there is
error in any order, requirements, decisions, or determinations made by an
administrative official or body in the enforcement of these regulations;
            2.   To authorize upon appeal a variance from the provisions of
these regulations as provided so as not to contrary to the public interest,
where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of
these regulations will, in an individual case, result in unnecessary hardship,
so that the spirit of these regulations shall be observed, public safety and
welfare secured, and substantial justice done.
(Ord. passed 11-13-2017; Am. Ord. passed 1-24-2022; Am. Ord. passed 7-11-2022)
§ 32.11 COUNCIL-LED COMMITTEES.
   (A)   Membership. Each Council-Led Committee shall consist of two Council
Members and three citizen members outlined below for each specific committee;
except for the Stormwater Advisory Committee which shall consist of two Council
Members and five citizen members.
   (B)   Membership terms. Two years; no term limit.
   (C)   Officers. The Council Members will be the Chairman and Vice-Chairman
of the committee as appointed by Council or by the Mayor's appointment with
Council concurrence.
   (D)   Economic Development Advisory Committee.
      (1)   Purpose/objective.
         (a)   Market the town to facilitate the economic development process;
         (b)   Aid in the retention and expansion of existing business and
industry;
         (c)   Attract new business opportunities;
         (d)   Continued revitalization of the town's economic base;
         (e)   Support other economic development needs as required.
   (E)   General Government Committee.
      (1)   Purpose/objective.
         (a)   Provide oversight and make regular reports and recommendations
to Council regarding town matters related to the following areas:
            1.   Administration;
            2.   Finance;
            3.   Insurance;
            4.   Legal services;
            5.   Pension/401K;
            6.   Tax collection;
         (b)   Review monthly financial statements and track revenues and
expenditures relative to budget allocations and, to make recommendations to
Council regarding budgetary management and the town's financial standing;
         (c)   Review the annual audit report and make recommendations for
changes to correct identified deficiencies in the report;
         (d)   Monitor investments and suggest changes in investment strategies
as needed;
         (e)   Explore alternatives and strategies to further the long range
financial objectives and goals of the council which may include but are not
limited to bonds, tax increment financing, transfers from general fund and
grants;
         (f)   Consult with the Town Manager in developing the annual budget
and the five-year capital improvement plan;
         (g)   Review administration policies, processes and/or procedures and
make recommendations for changes that will promote efficiencies or to recommend
the development of a policy in the absence of an existing one;
         (h)   Review respective insurance policies, in coordination with town
staff, on an as needed basis, and make recommendations for changes that will
provide appropriate coverage;
         (i)   Develop, for Council adoption, a process where all town
professional service and advice providers are reviewed and reappointed on a
regular basis;
         (j)   Review, from time to time, and recommend modifications to the
town's and Council's governing documents;
         (k)   Provide analysis and recommendations on other activities as may,
from time to time, be referred to the Committee by Town Council;
         (l)   Support other general government needs as required.
   (F)   Reserved.
   (G)   Reserved.
   (H)   Technology Advisory Committee
      (1)   Purpose/objective.
         (a)   Provide to Town Council an ongoing assessment of the town's use
of technology as it is used today and looking into the future;
         (b)   Prepare and maintain the town's long-range (three to five years)
technology plan including a technology replacement plan and a technology
business continuity plan;
         (c)   Prepare, or consult, on recommendations for upgrades and
procurement of technology equipment and software for the town;
         (d)   Act as advisor for town departments, committees and employees on
technology matters;
         (e)   Insure technology needs are in place to support the town's
business needs;
         (f)   Recommend strategic direction for the town's website and social
media portals;
         (g)   Make recommendations to Town Council regarding technology
related policy matters;
         (h)   Make recommendations to improve access and service for town
residents and businesses;
         (i)   Support other technology needs as required.
(Ord. passed 11-13-2017; Am. Ord. 364, passed 4-8-2019; Am. Ord. passed 11-13-
2023; Am. Ord. passed 3-11-2024)
§ 32.12 CITIZEN-LED COMMITTEES.
   (A)   Membership. Each Citizen-Led Committee shall consist of a varied
number of citizen members as outlined below for the respective committee and at
least one Council Member.
   (B)   Membership terms. Two years; no term limit.
   (C)   Officers. Each Citizen-Led Committee shall elect a citizen Chairman
and citizen/Council Member Vice-Chairman during its first regular meeting of a
new calendar year or at the next regular meeting following the vacancy of the
Chairman or Vice-Chairman.
   (D)   Historical Committee.
      (1)   Purpose/objective.
         (a)   Preserve town properties and artifacts;
         (b)   Designate historical town landmarks;
         (c)   Educate the community on the town's history;
         (d)   Collect oral histories on interesting stories about the town and
its people;
         (e)   Support other historical needs as required.
   (E)   Community Committee.
      (1)   Purpose/objective. Volunteer and assist in the following areas
regarding community events, public awareness, and other general volunteer
needs.
         (a)   Parks and recreation.
            1.   Become familiar with and help educate the public on the
Stallings Parks and Recreation System, Programs, and Greenways;
            2.   Assist with Stallings Fest and other park events;
            3.   Suggest events and/or programs for the Department.
         (b)   Police education and support.
            1.   Become familiar with and help educate the public on the
Stallings Police Department Services;
            2.   Assist with Police Department events such as National Night
Out and the Back to School Bash;
            3.   Support other public safety needs as appropriate.
      (2)   Membership. Stallings Community Committee shall consist of eight
citizen members (one Chair, two Vice-Chairs, and five members), two Council
member liaisons, the Parks and Recreation Director or designee, and the Police
Chief or designee.
      (3)   Officers. The Stallings Community Committee shall elect a citizen
Chairman and two citizen Vice-Chairmans, one for each focus area (Parks and
Recreation and Police), during its first regular meeting of a new calendar year
or at the next regular meeting following the vacancy of the Chairman or a Vice-
Chairman.
   (F)   Stormwater and Infrastructure Committee.
      (1)   Purpose/objective. To ensure the town maintains compliance with the
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES Municipal Separate Storm
Sewer System (MS4)) Permit issued by the North Carolina Department of
Environmental Quality (NCDEQ), as mandated by the by the 1972 Clean Water Act
created by United States Environmental Protection Agency, by providing a
mechanism for Council and public involvement relating to stormwater issues and
the stormwater program. Additionally, provide a mechanism for Council and
public involvement in general infrastructure planning and projects occurring
throughout the town.
         (a)   Stormwater.
            1.   Become familiar with and help educate the public on the town
NPDES MS4 Permit.
            2.   Volunteer at Stallings Fest and other town events that help
the town meet its NPDES MS4 Permit requirements.
            3.   As-needed, resolve resident stormwater appeals, in accordance
with the Development Ordinance (adopted February 26, 2018) and the town’s
Stormwater Policy (adopted June 25, 2015).
            4.   Recommend any stormwater ordinance/policy change(s) to
Council.
         (b)   General town-related infrastructure (roadways, sidewalks, and
the like.)
            1.   Become familiar with and educate the public on the town’s
infrastructure priorities and projects.
            2.   Infrastructure planning assistance.
               a.   Recommend to Council or Council members of SIC to
coordinate with appropriate entities (developers, government agencies,
surrounding jurisdictions, residents, and the like) to ensure the town’s
infrastructure priorities are sufficiently met as relative infrastructure
improvement projects occur.
               b.   Volunteer for and/or attend town-related infrastructure
planning events.
               c.   Provide Council guidance on infrastructure planning
decisions.
            3.   Recommend any infrastructure ordinance/policy changes to
Council.
      (2)   Membership. Stormwater and Infrastructure Committee shall consist
of up to two Council members and five citizen members (one Chair and one Vice-
Chair).
      (3)   Officers. The Stormwater and Infrastructure Committee shall elect a
citizen Chairman and a citizen Vice-Chairman during its first regular meeting
of the committee or at the next regular meeting following the vacancy of the
Chairman or a Vice-Chairman.
(Ord. passed 11-13-2017; Am. Ord. passed 11-13-2023; Am. Ord. passed 3-11-2024)
§ 32.13 AD HOC COMMITTEES.
   The Mayor and Council reserve the right to form an ad hoc committee at any
time for a specific purpose and length of time. Purpose and membership
information shall be stated at the time of establishment.
(Ord. passed 11-13-2017)
§ 32.14 REQUIREMENTS OF ALL COMMITTEES.
   (A)   Meetings.
      (1)   Each committee shall adopt a regular meeting schedule which will be
approved by the Town Council at its annual organizational meeting. Special
meetings may be called as needed by the Chairman or any two members of the
committee.
      (2)   All meetings shall be open to the public. The order of business at
regular meetings shall generally be as follows:
         (a)   Call to order;
         (b)   Approval of minutes;
         (c)   Action items;
         (d)   Discussion items;
         (e)   Adjournment.
   (B)   Agendas. Items of business for discussion at the meeting shall appear
on the agenda. Business which is not identified on the agenda may be considered
only after approval of a majority of a vote of the membership. Additions to the
agenda at the meeting should be made only in time sensitive situations to allow
the public to participate as fully as possible in meetings.
   (C)   Public body requirements. These committees are considered a public
body and shall be governed by all rules and regulations for public bodies
contained in North Carolina's Open Meetings regulation (G.S. § 143-318.10 et
seq.). Meetings shall proceed by agenda and follow the rules of procedure as
adopted by Town Council.
   (D)   Quorum. A quorum, a majority of members of the committee, shall be
required before any vote is taken. Whenever a quorum is not present, at a
regular or special meeting, those present may adjourn the meeting to another
day or hold the meetings for the purpose of considering such matters as are on
the agenda.
   (E)   Voting. No action taken at a meeting shall be final or official unless
and until the matter is put before the committee by a proper motion and a vote
is taken thereon at a meeting where a quorum of the committee is present.
Voting, at the discretion of the Chairman, shall be by voice or show of hands.
All matters to be voted on by the Committee shall be by a duly made motion and
second.
(Ord. passed 11-13-2017)
§ 32.15 ADDITIONAL GOVERNANCE.
   All Boards and Committees must also adhere to the following policies which
are attached as addendums to Ordinance passed November 13, 2017 and
incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein:
   (A)   Committee and Board Member Appointment Policy.
   (B)   Committee and Board Member Background Screening Policy.
   (C)   Committee and Board Member Stipend Policy.
(Ord. passed 11-13-2017)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   REFUSE
      
51.   STORM WATER UTILITY, CONTROL AND MANAGEMENT
      
52.   POST-CONSTRUCTION STORM WATER
      
53.   ILLICIT DISCHARGE TO STORM WATER SYSTEM
CHAPTER 50: REFUSE
Section
   
50.01   Placing of trash, refuse and garbage within municipal limits
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 PLACING OF TRASH, REFUSE AND GARBAGE WITHIN MUNICIPAL LIMITS.
   (A)   Replacing, discarding, disposing or leaving of any trash, refuse or
garbage upon a street or highway located within the town or upon property owned
or operated by the town is hereby declared unlawful and shall be prohibited;
provided, however, that garbage, refuse or trash may be placed in a designated
location or container for removal by the town’s garbage or trash service
collector.
   (B)   Replacing, discarding, disposing or leaving of any trash, refuse or
garbage upon private property located within the municipality without the
consent of the owner, occupant or lessee thereof is hereby declared unlawful
and is prohibited. The placing, discarding, disposing or leaving of any trash,
refuse or garbage shall, for each day or portion thereof that the articles or
matter are left, constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. passed 9-9-96) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   This section may be enforced by any one, or all or a combination of the
remedies authorized and prescribed herein and otherwise authorized and
prescribed as set forth in G.S. §§ 14-4 and 160A-175. Unless otherwise
provided, civil penalties shall be in the following amounts:
   (A)   First citation: warning;
   (B)   Second citation for same or similar violation: $100;
   (C)   Third and subsequent citation for same or similar violation: $500.
(Ord. passed 9-9-96; Am. Ord. passed 2-9-2009)
CHAPTER 51: STORM WATER UTILITY, CONTROL AND MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Title
   
51.02   Purposes and findings
   
51.03   Jurisdiction
   
51.04   Authority
   
51.05   Definitions
Storm Water Utility
   
51.15   Establishment of a storm water utility
   
51.16   Creation of storm water management accounting
   
51.17   Storm water management service charges
   
51.18   Billing method, responsible parties, collection
   
51.19   Adjustments and credits applicable to storm water management service
charges
   
51.20   Limitations of responsibility
Storm Water Management Advisory Committee
   
51.30   Establishment, composition, duties and procedures
Storm Water Control and Management
   
51.40   Unauthorized installations causing runoff
   
51.41   Connection approval criteria; duty of owner; compliance by utilities
   
51.42   Prohibited discharges
Cross-reference:
   Post-construction storm water regulations, see
Chapter 52
   Illicit discharge to storm water system, see
Chapter 53
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be and is collectively referred to and cited as "The
Storm Water Utility, Control and Management Ordinance of Stallings, North
Carolina."
(Ord. passed 6-25-2007)
§ 51.02 PURPOSES AND FINDINGS.
   The purpose of this chapter is to protect and promote the public health,
safety, and welfare by preventing the introduction of potentially harmful
materials into the storm sewer system within the town; to protect property from
potential storm water damage; to maintain and enhance water quality; and to
meet the requirements of the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
for storm water discharges.
(Ord. passed 6-25-2007)
§ 51.03 JURISDICTION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all the territory encompassed
in the town, and to any portion of the storm water public enterprise system
located outside of the corporate limits of the town.
(Ord. passed 6-25-2007)
§ 51.04 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is adopted pursuant to the authority granted to the town by
G.S. Chapter 160A (Cities and Towns).
(Ord. passed 6-25-2007)
§ 51.05 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, the
following definitions apply:
   CUSTOMER or CONSUMER. The person or entity to which a bill for storm water
service charges is sent.
   DEVELOPED LAND. Real property that contains impervious surfaces, and
includes improved land without structures and land on which improvements are
under construction.
   DWELLING UNIT. One or mere rooms physically arranged to create a
housekeeping establishment with separate facilities for cooking, sleeping and
toilet for occupancy by one or more persons.
   EQUIVALENT RESIDENTIAL UNIT (ERU). The median of impervious surface area on
a single-family developed land in the town.
   ILLICIT CONNECTIONS. Either of the following.
      (1)   Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface,
which allows an illegal discharge to enter the storm drain system including but
not limited to any conveyances which allow any non-storm water discharge
including sewage, process wastewater, and wash water to enter the storm drain
system and any connections to the storm drain system from indoor drains and
sinks, regardless of whether said drain or connection had been previously
allowed, permitted, or approved by a government agency; or
      (2)   Any drain or conveyance connected from a commercial or industrial
land use to the storm drain system which has not been documented in plans,
maps, or equivalent records and approved by the town.
   ILLICIT DISCHARGE. Any unlawful disposal, placement, emptying, dumping,
spillage, leakage, pumping, pouring, or other discharge of any substance other
than storm water into the storm drain system, the waters of the U.S., or upon
the land such that the substance is likely to reach the storm drain system or
the waters of the U.S. constitutes an illegal discharge, except as exempted in
§ 51.17.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. Any surface that because of its material composition or
compacted nature impedes or prevents natural infiltration of storm water into
the soil. Impervious surfaces include, but are not limited to: roofs; roof
extensions; patios; balconies; decks; athletic courts; swimming pools
(excluding the water area of swimming pools); privately-owned streets, parking
areas, driveways, and sidewalks; and any concrete, stone, brick, asphalt, or
compacted and/or sealed gravel surfaces. Porous pavers, ungraveled natural
footpaths, compacted dirt surfaces, non-compacted gravel surfaces, wooden
slatted decks over pervious surfaces, water surfaces of lakes and streams, and
septic system drain fields are not impervious surfaces.
   MANAGER. The Town Manager or his or her designee.
   NON-RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPED LAND. All non-residential land uses including, but
not limited to: churches; institutional buildings, whether public or private;
hospitals; rest homes; public and private schools, colleges and universities;
institutionally-owned fraternity and sorority houses; dormitories; commercial;
office; hotels and motels; industrial buildings; bona fide farms; storage
areas; parking lots; and land containing non-residential improvements under
construction or other impervious surfaces.
   OTHER RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPED LAND. Any individual lot or parcel of
residential developed land that is not single-family developed land. It
includes, but is not limited to, land upon  which there are residential
structures that contain more than one dwelling unit, such as multi-family
dwellings (duplexes and greater), manufactured home parks as defined in the
ordinances regulating development, condominiums, apartments, boarding houses,
rooming houses, and privately-owned fraternity and sorority houses. Other
residential developed land is sometimes called "multi-family" land.
   PROPER OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE. Any action necessary to keep storm water
control measures and devices in proper working condition, so that such
facilities will continue to comply with applicable town Code of Ordinances to
prevent safety hazards, public nuisances, and the failure of storm water
control measures and devices to function as intended. Maintenance includes
activities identified on approved storm water control plans, any applicable
storm water operations and maintenance manual, any applicable agreements or
certifications to the town, and these activities outlined in this chapter.
   PROPERTY OWNER or OWNER. The owner of a real property as shown on the Union
County tax records.
   SINGLE-FAMILY DEVELOPED LAND. An individual lot or parcel of land developed
with only one single-family or detached dwelling unit (which may include an
accessory apartment), one manufactured home, or one mobile home, and the
ownership interest of the lard and of the dwelling unit are united and
identical. Single-family developed land shall not include structures used
primarily for nonresidential purposes or other residential and nonresidential
developed property.
   STORM WATER CONTROL MEASURE. Any device constructed to manage storm water
quantity and/or quality.
   STORM WATER MANAGEMENT SYSTEM or SYSTEM. The network of natural and
constructed devices owned or controlled by the town for collecting, storing,
treating, and transporting storm water. It includes, but is not limited to,
structural drainage systems such as open swales and ditches, catch basins,
pipes, inlets, storm sewers, drains, culverts, junction boxes, and other storm
water management facilities that affect the quality and quantity of storm water
located within dedicated public street rights-of-way and town's permanent
drainage easements accepted by the town and any natural storm water drainage
systems owned or controlled by the town.
   STORM WATER SERVICE CHARGE. The charge to provide storm water services to
developed property. The charge is based upon the single-family equivalent
residential unit (ERU) as calculated for that property.
   STORM WATER UTILITY FUNDS. The storm water service charges and the interest
generated by those charges.
   STORM WATER SERVICES. Town storm water management programs designed to
protect water quality by controlling the level of pollutants in, and the
quantity and flow of, storm water, and town service of structural and natural
storm water and drainage systems of all types. Storm water services include any
cost necessary to ensure that all aspects of storm water quality and quantity
are managed in  accordance with federal and state laws, regulations and rules,
and costs related to the mapping, planning, construction operation,
maintenance, inspection, management and regulation of the storm water
management system and the regulation of impervious surface and storm water.
(Ord. passed 6-25-2007)
STORM WATER UTILITY
§ 51.15 ESTABLISHMENT OF A STORM WATER UTILITY.
   By the adoption of this chapter the Town Council hereby establishes a storm
water utility to support storm water management programs to protect water
quality by controlling the level of pollutants in and the quantity and flow of
storm water as well as storm water structures and natural storm water and
drainage systems of all types. The storm water utility is a public enterprise
furnishing services to the town and its citizens.
(Ord. passed 6-25-2007)
§ 51.16 CREATION OF STORM WATER MANAGEMENT ACCOUNTING.
   All storm water service charges and interest generated by such charges, also
referred to as the storm water utility funds, shall be accounted for separately
from all other revenues and funds and shall be used by the town solely for the
operational costs, maintenance costs, management costs, indirect costs, capital
improvements, debt principal and debt service, and establishment of a reserve
fund for storm water services. The town may use funds that are not storm water
utility funds to provide storm water services.
(Ord. passed 6-25-2007)
§ 51.17 STORM WATER MANAGEMENT SERVICE CHARGES.
   (A)   All developed land in the town, whether public or private, shall be
subject to a storm water service charge. Exemptions shall not be allowed based
on age, tax exemption, or other status of an individual or organization. Storm
water service charges may be subject to a credit system as further provided
herein.
   (B)   Storm water service charges on developed land shall be based on a
schedule of rates, charges, tiers, and late fees fixed and established from
time to time by the Town Council, adopted in the annual budget ordinance and
maintained on file in the offices of the Town Clerk. Storm water service
charges will be determined and modified from time to time by the Town Council,
so that the total revenues generated by said charges will be used to pay the
principal and the interest on the debt incurred for storm water purposes, and
such expenses as are reasonably necessary for providing storm water services
within the town.
   (C)   Computation of storm water service charges.
      (1)   For single-family developed residential land, the monthly storm
water service charges shall be based on the median amount of impervious surface
on a single-family residential lot in the town, which is known as an
"Equivalent Residential Unit" or ERU. (The median amount of impervious surfaces
on a single-family residential lot in the town has been calculated to be       
square feet.) There shall be two tiers for single-family developed properties,
based on the amounts of impervious surfaces of single-family properties, as
shown in the following table.
 
Single-Family Size Amount of Impervious Area
Small and medium   Less than ERU square feet
Large              Greater than ERU square feet
 
      (2)   For other developed residential land, the monthly storm water
service charges shall be one ERU per each dwelling unit. This category includes
townhouses, apartments, condominiums, and other multi-unit residential
developments.
      (3)   For all other developed properties, the monthly storm water service
charge on developed land is calculated by dividing the total impervious surface
area of the property by one ERU, rounded to the nearest tenth, multiplied by
the established monthly ERU rate.
   (D)   The following exemptions from storm water management service charges
are allowed provided that requests for exemptions authorized under this
division are made in writing to the Town Manager or his or her designee and
document the application of the exemption. The Town Manager may approve or
reject the request in whole or in part.
      (1)   Undeveloped land.
      (2)   Improved public transportation ways, including public streets,
roads, greenways and trails, airport taxiways and runways, and internal roads
within public facilities which have been conveyed to the North Carolina
Department of Transportation or the town and which are used by the general
public for motor vehicle transportation.
      (3)   Railroad tracks. However, railroad stations, maintenance buildings
or other developed land shall not be exempted from storm water management
service charges.
      (4)   Developed land with less than 400 square feet of impervious surface
area.
(Ord. passed 6-25-2007)
§ 51.18 BILLING METHOD, RESPONSIBLE PARTIES, COLLECTION.
   (A)   The storm water utility fee shall be billed on an annual basis and
shall be due and payable within the time and manner prescribed by law for town
ad valorem taxes, G.S. § 105-360. The town tax collector shall bill and collect
the annual storm water fee established herein in the same manner as town taxes
are collected and shall include the storm water fee as one or more line items
on the tax bills mailed to each owner of the property subject to the storm
water fee.
   (B)   The property owner is ultimately responsible for payment of the storm
water service charge for property for which the party billed has not paid the
storm water management service charge.
   (C)   Storm water utility fees shall be past due after January 5th of each
calendar year. Said past due amounts shall bear the same rate of interest and
penalty as unpaid past due property tax. Unpaid past due storm water utility
bills shall become a lien against the real property and may be collected by
civil action in the nature of foreclosure in the appropriate division of the
General Court of Justice for Union County, North Carolina. In any legal action
for collection of past due unpaid storm water utility bills, the attorneys fees
for the town shall be taxed against the customer or consumer as a part of the
judgment.
(Ord. passed 6-25-2007)
§ 51.19 ADJUSTMENTS AND CREDITS APPLICABLE TO STORM WATER MANAGEMENT SERVICE
CHARGES.
   (A)   Adjustments due to error or oversight.
      (1)   Request for adjustment of the storm water service charge shall be
submitted in writing to the Town Engineer or their designee. Adjustments may be
requested for errors or omissions on the customer's storm water service charge.
All requests shall be judged on the basis of the number of dwelling units or
amount of impervious area on the property.
      (2)   In the case of a storm water utility service fee adjustment
requests related to the amount of impervious surface on a parcel, the appeal
shall include a surveyed map of the parcel prepared by a registered land
surveyor or professional engineer and showing all impervious areas as defined
in §
51.05. The map shall be submitted in digital and hard copy from and shall
contain a table summarizing total parcel area, impervious area, and any other
features or conditions related to impervious area.
      (3)   Using information provided in the adjustment request, the Town
Engineer or designee shall conduct a technical review of the conditions on the
property and respond to the request in writing. The Town Engineer or designee
may adjust the fee or credit as long as the adjustment is in conformance with
the intent of this subchapter. At the conclusion of the review, the Town
Engineer shall issue a written determination stating whether an adjustment to
the storm water utility service fee or credit is appropriate, and if so the
amount of such adjustment. Denial of a request for adjustment shall be
appealable within ten calendar days to the Storm Water Management Advisory
Committee, described in §
51.30, whose decision shall be final.
      (4)   All decisions of the Town Engineer or designee shall be served on
the customer by mailing to the address provided in the request for adjustment.
      (5)   The Town Engineer or designee may make no adjustment to a
customer's bill for more than the one-year period immediately preceding the
date that the customer's adjustment request is received by the Town Engineer.
      (6)   No provision of this subchapter allowing for adjustment of storm
water utility fee shall be deemed to suspend the due date of the fee with
payment in full. Any adjustment to the storm water utility fee for the person
pursuing an adjustment shall be made by refund of the amount affected.
   (B)   Credits.
      (1)   The town may provide a system of credits to reduce storm water
service charges for properties on which storm water control measures
substantially mitigate the peak discharge or runoff pollution flowing from such
properties or substantially decrease the town's cost of maintaining the storm
water management system. The Town Manager or his or her designee will develop
written policies to implement the credit system and codify said policies. No
credit will be authorized until the Town Council approves written policies to
implement the system of credits; a copy of the approved policies shall be on
file with the Town Clerk. The town's policies may make credits retroactive to
the date storm water management service charges were initiated but not to
exceed one year. Any bill charges requiring adjustments must be applied through
the utility billing system. But no credit will be granted for more than one
past year. Nothing shall prevent the Town Council from modifying the adopted
system of credits, and such modifications may apply to holders of existing
credits.
      (2)   Each credit allowed against the storm water management service
charge is conditioned on the continuing proper operation, maintenance, and
functioning of the storm water control measure as designed; credited storm
water control measures must comply with all applicable laws, ordinances and
regulations, and credits may be rescinded for noncompliance with these
standards.
      (3)   Each credit for which a customer applies shall be subject to review
and approval by the Town Manager or his or her designee. The Town Manager may
approve or reject any application for a credit in whole or in part.
      (4)   Credits shall only be applied to developed lands containing the
credited storm water control measure. For developments with common property
containing credited storm water control measures such as townhouse
developments, cluster unit developments, or condominiums, each dwelling unit
shall be eligible for its equal pro rata share of the credit unless other
arrangements for billing the storm water service charge are made.
(Ord. passed 6-25-2007)
§ 51.20 LIMITATIONS OF RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   The town shall be responsible only for the portions of the drainage
system that are in town- maintained street rights-of-way and permanent storm
drainage easements conveyed to and accepted by the town. Repairs and
improvements to the drainage system shall be in accordance with established
standards, policies, and schedules.
   (B)   The town's acquisition of storm drainage easements and/or the
construction or repair by the town of drainage facilities does not constitute a
warranty against storm water hazards, including, but not limited to, flooding,
erosion, or standing water.
(Ord. passed 6-25-2007)
STORM WATER MANAGEMENT ADVISORY COMMITTEE
§ 51.30 ESTABLISHMENT, COMPOSITION, DUTIES AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Establishment and composition. The Storm Water Management Advisory
Committee shall be composed of five full members, one alternate member, and one
Council Member liaison and one youth (between the ages of 14 and 18) as an ex-
officio member who shall reside or own property within the town limits. The
Council shall appoint the membership of the Committee. Each member shall be
appointed for a period of three years except that the Council in appointing the
original membership of the Committee may prescribe terms of fewer years to the
end that the terms of the various members of Storm Water Management Advisory
Committee shall be staggered. The youth member shall serve a term length of one
year. Committee members may be re-appointed at the discretion of the Council.
   (B)   Duties. The Storm Water Management Advisory Committee shall have the
following charge and duties:
      (1)   The Committee shall review and/or recommend to the Council storm
water management policies, policy changes, and long range plans and estimate
their budgetary and rate impacts.
      (2)   The Committee shall review and comment to the Council on the annual
storm water management capital improvements program.
      (3)   The Committee shall respond to the Town Council and town staff
requests for advice on matters related to storm water services and the storm
water management utility.
      (4)   The Committee shall present the Council with an annual report of
key actions and issues and its annual work program.
   (C)   Procedure. The Storm Water Management Advisory Committee is directed
to adopt rules of procedure necessary to the conduct of its affairs and in
keeping with the provision of this chapter, all policies of the Town Council,
and applicable state laws. Such rules of procedure, and any modifications to
same, shall be submitted to the Town Council for review and approval. Except as
provided in this chapter, the rules of procedure adopted by the Committee shall
at least provide for: selection of the officers of the Committee; the time and
place of its regular meetings, which shall at least be held bi-annually, and
the calling of special meetings; the procedures of the conduct of public
hearings and voting. The Committee shall elect from its membership at least a
chairperson and vice-chairperson, who shall serve for terms of one year, who
shall be eligible for reelection, and who shall have the right to vote. The
chairperson shall preside over the Storm Water Management Advisory Committee.
In the absence or disability of the chairperson, the vice-chairperson shall
perform the duties of the chairperson. All meetings of the Storm Water
Management Advisory Committee shall be open to the public, in accordance with
the North Carolina Open Meetings Law, G.S. §§ 143-318.10 et seq., and a public
record shall be kept of the Committee's resolutions, proceedings, and actions.
The rules of procedure and minutes of the Committee are maintained as separate
documents in the nature of a public record at the Town Clerk's Office. The Town
Manager or his or her designee shall provide such technical, administrative,
and clerical assistance as required by the Committee.
(Ord. passed 6-25-2007; Am. Ord. passed 4-22-2013)
STORM WATER CONTROL AND MANAGEMENT
§ 51.40 UNAUTHORIZED INSTALLATIONS CAUSING RUNOFF.
   It shall be illegal for any person to install any pipe, culvert, or casing
on any property in such a manner as to cause runoff water to flow into any
storm sewer pipe, ditch, or other means of facilitating the flow of water that
is maintained by the town without first obtaining approval from the Town
Engineer.
(Ord. passed 6-25-2007)
§ 51.41 CONNECTION APPROVAL CRITERIA; DUTY OF OWNER; COMPLIANCE BY UTILITIES.
   (A)   The Town Manager or his or her designee shall not be authorized to
approve any connection to town drainage facilities unless he or she is of the
opinion that the size, shape, and location of the newly installed drainage
facilities are adequate for handling the anticipated amount of water.
   (B)   It shall be the responsibility of the property owner of any parcel of
land when making any improvements or changes affecting the land, which alter
the existing flow pattern of runoff water, to install appropriate facilities
for carrying the runoff water into a properly approved storm sewer, ditch, or
stream. No zoning compliance permit shall be issued for any property within the
jurisdiction of the town until the conditions of this section are met.
   (C)   It shall be illegal for any utility company to allow public water to
be connected to any facility on any land that has not complied with the
provisions of this section.
(Ord. passed 6-25-2007)
§ 51.42 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Illegal discharges. No person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged into the town storm drain system or watercourses any materials,
including but not limited to pollutants or waters containing any pollutants
that cause or contribute to a violation of applicable water quality standards,
other than storm water. The commencement, conduct, or continuance of any
illegal discharge to the storm drain system is prohibited except as described
as follows:
      (1)   Discharges from the following activities will not be considered a
source of pollutants to the storm drain system and to waters of the U.S. when
properly managed to ensure that no potential pollutants are present, and
therefore they shall not be considered illegal discharges unless determined to
cause a violation of the provisions of this chapter: potable water line
flushing; uncontaminated pumped groundwater and other discharges from potable
water sources; landscape irrigation and lawn watering; diverted stream flows;
rising groundwater; groundwater infiltration to the storm drain system;
uncontaminated foundation and footing drains; uncontaminated water from crawl
space pumps; air conditioning condensation; uncontaminated roof drains;
springs; individual residential and occasional non-commercial car washing;
flows from riparian habitats and wetlands; dechlorinated swimming pool
discharges; street wash waters; and flows from fire fighting.
      (2)   The prohibition shall not apply to any non-storm water discharge
permitted under an NPDES permit, waiver, or waste discharge order issued to the
discharger and administered by the State of North Carolina under the authority
of the Federal Environmental Protection Agency, provided that the discharger is
in full compliance with all requirements of the permit, waiver or order and
other applicable laws and regulations, and provided that written notification
of such permitted discharge has been filed with the Storm Water Administrator,
in a form acceptable to the Storm Water Administrator, for any discharge to the
storm drain system.
      (3)   With written concurrence of the North Carolina Department of
Environment and Natural Resources, the town may exempt in writing other non-
storm water discharges, which are not a source of pollutants to the storm drain
system or waters of the U.S.
   (B)   Illicit connections.
      (1)   The construction, use, maintenance, or continued existence of
illicit connections to the storm drain system is prohibited.
      (2)   This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illicit
connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was
permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of
connection.
   (C)   Waste disposal. No person shall throw, deposit, leave, maintain, keep,
or permit to be thrown, deposited, left, or maintained, in or upon any public
or private property, driveway, parking area, street, alley, sidewalk, component
of the storm drain system, or water of the U.S., any refuse, rubbish, garbage,
litter, or other discarded or abandoned objects, articles, and accumulations,
so that the same may cause or contribute to pollution. Wastes deposited in
streets in proper waste receptacles for the purposes of collection are exempted
from this prohibition.
   (D)   Discharges in violation of industrial or construction activity NPDES
storm water discharge permit. Any person subject to an industrial or
construction activity NPDES storm water discharge permit shall comply with all
provisions of such permit. Proof of compliance with said permit may be required
in a form acceptable to the town prior to or as a condition of a subdivision
map, site plan, building permit, or development or improvement plan; upon
inspection of the facility; during any enforcement proceeding or action; or for
any other reasonable cause.
(Ord. passed 6-25-2007)
CHAPTER 52: POST-CONSTRUCTION STORM WATER
Section
   
52.01   Incorporation by reference
§ 52.01 INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE.
   The town’s post-construction storm water regulations are set forth in the
town’s Development Ordinance, which is hereby incorporated by reference, as
amended, and made a part of this code, the same as if set forth in full herein.
Copies of this document shall be kept on file in the office of the Town Clerk
and shall be available for public inspection during regular business hours.
(Ord. passed 2-26-2018)
CHAPTER 53: ILLICIT DISCHARGE TO STORM WATER SYSTEM
Section
General Provisions
   
53.01   Purpose
   
53.02   Definitions
   
53.03   Applicability
   
53.04   Responsibility for administration
   
53.05   Compatibility with other regulations
   
53.06   Ultimate responsibility
   
53.07   Discharge prohibitions
   
53.08   Permitted incidental non-storm water flows
   
53.09   Receiving system/watercourse protection
   
53.10   Industrial or construction activity discharges
   
53.11   Compliance monitoring
   
53.12   Requirements to prevent, control, and reduce storm water pollutants by
the use of best management practices
   
53.13   Notification of spills
Violations and Enforcement
   
53.25   General
   
53.26   Appeal of notice of violation
   
53.27   Enforcement measures after notice of violation and/or appeal to notice
of violation
   
53.28   Cost of abatement of the violation
   
53.29   Remedies not exclusive
 
   
53.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Storm water utility, control and management, see
Chapter 51
   Post-construction storm water regulations, see
Chapter 52
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to protect water quality and to provide
for the health, safety and general welfare of the citizens of the Town of
Stallings, North Carolina through the regulation of non-storm water discharges
to the storm water drainage system to the maximum extent practicable as
required by federal and state law. This chapter establishes methods for
controlling the introduction of pollutants into the municipal separate storm
sewer system (MS4) in order to comply with requirements of the National
Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit pursuant to the Federal
Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq. This chapter is supplemental to and in
no way replaces regulations administered by the State of North Carolina or
federal government.
   (B)   The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the MS4;
      (2)   To prohibit illicit connections and illicit discharges to the MS4;
and
      (3)   To establish legal authority to carry out all inspection,
surveillance, monitoring, enforcement and penalty procedures necessary to
ensure compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. passed 5-27-2014)
§ 53.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED ENFORCEMENT AGENCY. Employees or designees of the Storm Water
Administrator of the Town of Stallings designated to enforce this chapter.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs). Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, general good housekeeping practices, pollution prevention and
educational practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices
to prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants directly or indirectly to
storm water conveyance systems. BMPs also include treatment practices,
operating procedures, and practices to control site runoff, spillage or leaks,
sludge or water disposal, or drainage from raw materials storage.
   CLEAN WATER ACT.  The federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1251 et
seq.), and any subsequent amendments thereto.
   CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY. Activities subject to NPDES construction permits.
These include construction projects resulting in land disturbance of one acre
or more. Such activities include but are not limited to clearing and grubbing,
grading, excavating, and demolition.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any material, including any substance, waste, or
combination thereof, which because of its quantity, concentration, or physical,
chemical, or infectious characteristics may cause, or significantly contribute
to, a substantial present or potential hazard to human health, safety,
property, or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported,
disposed of, or otherwise managed.
   ILLICIT CONNECTIONS. Either of the following:
      (1)   Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface that
allows an illegal discharge to enter the storm drain system including but not
limited to any conveyances that allow any non-storm water discharge including
sewage, process wastewater, and wash water to enter the storm drain system and
any connections to the storm drain system from indoor drains and sinks,
regardless of whether said drain or connection had been previously allowed,
permitted, or approved by an authorized enforcement agency, or
      (2)   Any drain or conveyance connected from a commercial or industrial
land use to the storm drain system that has not been documented in plans, maps,
or equivalent records and approved by an authorized enforcement agency.
   ILLEGAL DISCHARGE. Any direct or indirect non-storm water discharge to the
storm water drain system, except as exempted in §
53.08.
   INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY. Activities subject to NPDES industrial storm water
permits as defined in 40 CFR, Section 122.26(b)(14).
   MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM WATER SEWER SYSTEM (MS4). The system of conveyance
(including sidewalks, roads with drainage systems, municipal streets, catch
basins, curbs, gutters, ditches, man-made channels, or storm drains) owned and
operated by the Town of Stallings and designed or used for collecting or
conveying storm water, and that is not used for collecting or conveying sewage.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) STORM WATER
DISCHARGE PERMIT. A permit issued by EPA (or by a state under authority
delegated pursuant to 33 USC 1342(b)) that authorizes the discharge of
pollutants to waters of the United States, whether the permit is applicable on
an individual, group, or general area-wide basis.
   NON-STORM WATER DISCHARGE. Any discharge to the storm drain system that is
not composed entirely of storm water.
   PERSON. Any individual, association, organization, partnership, firm,
corporation or other entity recognized by law and acting as either the owner or
as the owner's agent.
   POLLUTANT. Anything which causes or contributes to pollution. POLLUTANTS may
include, but are not limited to: paints, varnishes, and solvents; oil and other
automotive fluids; non-hazardous liquid and solid wastes and yard wastes;
refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter, or other discarded or abandoned objects,
ordinances, and accumulations, so that same may cause or contribute to
pollution; floatables; pesticides, herbicides, and fertilizers; hazardous
substances and wastes; sewage, fecal coliform and pathogens; dissolved and
particulate metals; animal wastes; wastes and residues that result from
constructing a building or structure; and noxious or offensive matter of any
kind.
   PREMISES. Any building, lot, parcel of land, or portion of land whether
improved or unimproved including adjacent sidewalks and parking strips.
   RECEIVING SYSTEM (or WATERCOURSE). The body of water, stream, or watercourse
receiving the discharge waters from the storm water system, or formed by the
water discharge from the storm water system.
   STORM DRAINAGE SYSTEM. Publicly-owned facilities by which storm water is
collected and/or conveyed, including but not limited to any roads with drainage
systems, municipal streets, gutters, curbs, inlets, piped storm drains, pumping
facilities, retention and detention basins, natural and human-made or altered
drainage channels, reservoirs, and other drainage structures.
   STORM WATER. Any surface flow, runoff, and drainage consisting entirely of
water from any form of natural precipitation, and resulting from such
precipitation.
   STORM WATER ADMINISTRATOR. The person(s) designated by the Town of Stallings
to administer and enforce all regulations as set forth in the town's NPDES
permit and all related ordinances.
   STORM WATER MANAGEMENT PLAN. A document which describes the best management
practices and activities to be implemented by a person or business to identify
sources of pollution or contamination at a site and the actions to eliminate or
reduce pollutant discharges to storm water, storm water conveyance systems,
and/or receiving waters to the maximum extent practicable.
   WASH WATER. A subject of wastewater, and means any water or liquid
discharged after and as a result of conducting washing or cleaning activity,
including non-industrial wastewater collected from clothes washers, bathtubs,
showers, and laundry or bathroom sinks.
   WATERS OF THE STATE. As defined in G.S. § 143-212(6), any intermittent or
perennial stream, river, brook, swamp, lake, sound, tidal estuary, bay, creek,
reservoir, waterway, or other body or  accumulation of water, whether surface
or underground, public or private, or natural or artificial, that is contained
in, flows through, or borders upon any portion of this state, including any
portion of the Atlantic Ocean over which the state has jurisdiction.
(Ord. passed 5-27-2014)
§ 53.03 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall apply to all water entering the MS4 generated on any
developed and undeveloped lands in the Town of Stallings unless explicitly
exempted by an authorized enforcement agency.
(Ord. passed 5-27-2014)
§ 53.04 RESPONSIBILITIES FOR ADMINISTRATION.
   The Town of Stallings shall administer, implement, and enforce the
provisions of this chapter. Any powers granted or duties imposed upon the Town
of Stallings may be delegated in writing by the Storm Water Administrator to
persons or entities acting in the beneficial interest of or in the employ of
the agency.
(Ord. passed 5-27-2014)
§ 53.05 COMPATIBILITY WITH OTHER REGULATIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to modify or repel any other ordinance, rule,
regulation, or other provision of law. The requirements of this chapter are in
addition to the requirements of any other ordinance, rule, regulation, or other
provision of law, and where any provision of this chapter imposes restrictions
different from those imposed by any other ordinance, rule, regulations, or
other provision of law, whichever is more restrictive or imposes higher
protective standards for human health or the environment shall control.
(Ord. passed 5-27-2014)
§ 53.06 ULTIMATE RESPONSIBILITY.
   The standards set forth herein and promulgated pursuant to this chapter are
minimum standards; therefore this chapter does not intend or imply that
compliance by any person will ensure that there will be no contamination,
pollution, or unauthorized discharge of pollutants.
(Ord. passed 5-27-2014)
§ 53.07 DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Prohibited substances. No person shall throw, drain, or otherwise
discharge, cause or allow others under its jurisdiction to discharge or dispose
of non-storm water, either directly or indirectly, to the MS4, waters of the
state, or upon the land, pollutants in a manner or amount that is likely to
reach the MS4 or waters of the state except as described below in §
53.09, or as permitted by a NPDES permit. Prohibited substances include, but
are not limited to:
      (1)   Oil and grease of petroleum or synthetic hydrocarbon origin;
      (2)   Fats, oils, and grease of plant or animal origin;
      (3)   Anti-freeze, parts cleaner, and other motor equipment fluids;
      (4)   Chemicals, paints, paint wash water, pesticides, herbicides,
fertilizers, and other household or industrial chemical and hazardous wastes;
      (5)   Wash water, waste water, vehicle wash water (except from individual
residential car washing), heated water, chlorinated swimming pool water, and
soaps/detergents;
      (6)   Wash water from concrete trucks, concrete, and floor mop water;
      (7)   Garbage, litter, leaves, grass clippings, other yard waste, and any
other solid waste materials, including animal matter, animal waste, and food
waste;
      (8)   Contaminated washdown or drainage from dumpster drains;
      (9)   Sediment/silt pollution originating from excessive erosion rates on
a construction site or sediment pollution entering a municipal storm sewer that
causes a water quality violation as determined by the North Carolina Department
of Environment and Natural Resources (NCDENR); and
      (10)   Any other discarded or abandoned substances or waste materials.
   (B)   Prohibited discharges. Prohibited discharges include, but are not
limited to:
      (1)   Wastewater lines such as those from washing machines, sanitary
sewers or septic systems;
      (2)   Commercial wash water cleaning vehicles, steam cleaning or
equipment;
      (3)   Flushing water such as that from industrial operations, floor
drains or overflowing septic systems; and
      (4)   Pipes or drains carrying wastewater or wash water from a building,
operation or property.
   (C)   Prohibited connections. No person shall install, maintain or use any
connection to the MS4 or waters of the state for the discharge of non-storm
water or shall cause non-storm water to be discharged or conveyed through a
connection to the storm water system or waters of the state unless the
discharge is a permitted discharge listed in §
53.08 or is permitted by a NPDES permit. Prohibited connections include, but
are not limited to:
      (1)   The construction, use, maintenance or continued existence of
illicit connections to the storm drain system is prohibited.
      (2)   This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illicit
connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was
permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of
connection.
      (3)   A person is considered to be in violation of this chapter if the
person connects a line conveying sewage to the MS4, or allows such a connection
to continue.
      (4)   Improper connections in violation of this chapter must be
disconnected and redirected, if necessary, to an approved onsite wastewater
management system or the sanitary sewer system upon approval of the Town of
Stallings Storm Water Administrator or his/her designee.
      (5)   Any drain or conveyance that has not been documented in plans,
maps, or equivalent, and which may be connected to the storm sewer system,
shall be located by the owner or occupant of that property upon receipt of
written notice of violation from the Storm Water Administrator or his/her
designee, requiring that such locating be completed. Such notice will specify a
reasonable time period within the location of the drain or conveyance is to be
determined, that the drain or conveyance be identified as storm water, sanitary
sewer or other, and that the outfall location or point of connection to the
storm sewer system, sanitary sewer system or other discharge point be
identified. Results of these investigations are to be documented and provided
to the Storm Water Administrator or his/her designee.
(Ord. passed 5-27-2014)
§ 53.08 PERMITTED INCIDENTAL NON-STORM WATER FLOWS.
   Storm water is the only discharge permitted in the MS4 with exception of
incidental non-storm water flows that do not negatively impact the quality of
the receiving system. Incidental non-storm water flows include:
   (A)   Water line flushing, except super-chlorinated water line flushing;
   (B)   Diverted stream flows;
   (C)   Uncontaminated groundwater infiltration;
   (D)   Uncontaminated, pumped groundwater;
   (E)   Rising ground waters;
   (F)   Discharges from uncontaminated potable water sources;
   (G)   Collected infiltrated storm water from foundation drains or footing
drains;
   (H)   Air conditioning condensate from residential or commercial units that
is unmixed with water from a cooling tower, emissions scrubber, emissions
filter, or any other source of pollutant;
   (I)   Uncontaminated springs;
   (J)   Uncontaminated, collected groundwater and infiltrated storm water from
basement or crawl space pumps;
   (K)   A discharge or flow from individual residential car washing;
   (L)   A discharge or flow from a riparian habitat or wetland;
   (M)   Lawn watering, or landscape irrigation;
   (N)   Dechlorinated swimming pool discharge, drainage from swimming pool
filter backwash is prohibited;
   (O)   Street wash water only when unmodified potable water is used;
   (P)   Flows from emergency fire and rescue operations other than those
resulting from negligence on the part of the person who owned or controlled the
pollutant;
   (Q)   NPDES permitted discharges authorized by the EPA or NCDENR;
   (R)   Dye testing, using suitable dyes for verifying cross-connections,
tracing plumbing lines, determining flow direction or rate and for similar
purposes, provided that verbal notification by non-governmental entities is
provided to the Town of Stallings prior to testing; and
   (S)   Removal of storm water system blockages with unmodified potable water.
(Ord. passed 5-27-2014)
§ 53.09 RECEIVING SYSTEM/WATERCOURSE PROTECTION.
   Every person owning property through which a watercourse passes, or such
person's lessee, shall keep and maintain that part of the watercourse within
the property free of trash, debris, excessive vegetation, and other obstacles
that would pollute, contaminate, or significantly alter the flow or quality of
water through the watercourse. In addition, the owner or lessee shall maintain
existing privately owned structures within or adjacent to a watercourse, so
that such structures will not become a hazard to the use, function, or physical
integrity of the watercourse.
(Ord. passed 5-17-2014)
§ 53.10 INDUSTRIAL OR CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY DISCHARGES.
   Submission of Notice of Intent (NOI) to the Town of Stallings.
   (A)   Any person subject to an industrial or construction activity NPDES
storm water discharge permit shall comply with all provisions of such permit.
Proof of compliance with said permit may be required in a form acceptable to
the Storm Water Administrator prior to allowing discharges to the MS4.
   (B)   The operator of a facility, including construction sites, required to
have an NPDES permit to discharge storm water associated with industrial
activity shall submit a copy of the Notice of Intent (NOI) to the Storm Water
Administrator at the same time the operator submits the original Notice of
Intent to the EPA..
   (C)   The copy of the Notice of Intent may be delivered to the Storm Water
Administrator either in person or by mailing it to:
      Town of Stallings Storm Water Administrator
      P.O. Box 4030
      Stallings, NC 28106
   (D)   A person commits an offense if the person operates a facility that is
discharging storm water associated with industrial activity without having
submitted a copy of the Notice of Intent to the Storm Water Administrator.
(Ord. passed 5-27-2014)
§ 53.11 COMPLIANCE MONITORING.
   (A)   Right of entry: inspection and sampling. The Storm Water Administrator
or his/her designee shall be permitted to enter and inspect facilities subject
to regulation under this chapter as often as may be necessary to determine
compliance with this chapter.
      (1)   If a discharger has security measures in force which require proper
identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the discharger
shall make the necessary arrangements to allow access to representatives of the
Town of Stallings.
      (2)   Facility operators shall allow the Storm Water Administrator or
his/her designee, ready access to all parts of the premises for the purposes of
inspection, sampling, examination and copying of records that must be kept
under the conditions of an NPDES permit to discharge storm water, and the
performances of any additional duties as defined by state and federal laws.
      (3)   The Storm Water Administrator or his/her designee shall have the
right to set up on any permitted facility such devices as are necessary in the
opinion of the Storm Water Administrator or his/her designee to conduct
monitoring and/or sampling of the facility's storm water discharge.
      (4)   The Storm Water Administrator or his/her designee has the right to
require the discharger to install monitoring equipment as necessary. The
facility's sampling and monitoring equipment shall be maintained at all times
in a safe and proper operating condition by the discharger at its own expense.
All devices used to measure storm water flow and quality shall be calibrated to
ensure their accuracy.
      (5)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to
the facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be properly removed by the
operator at the written or oral request of the Storm Water Administrator or
his/her designee and shall not be replaced. The costs of clearing such access
shall be borne by the operator.
      (6)   Unreasonable delays in allowing the Storm Water Administrator or
his/her designee access to a permitted facility is a violation of a storm water
discharge permit and of this charge. A person who is the operator of a facility
with an NPDES permit to discharge storm water associated with industrial
activity commits an offense if the person denies the Storm Water Administrator
or his/her designee reasonable access to the permitted facility for the purpose
of conducting any activity authorized by this chapter.
   (B)   Search warrants. If the Storm Water Administrator or his/her designee
has been refused access to any part of the premises from which storm water is
discharged, and they are able to demonstrate probable cause to believe that
there may be a violation of this chapter, or that there is a need to inspect
and/or sample as part of a routine inspection and sampling program designed to
verify compliance with this chapter or any order issued hereunder, or to
protect the overall public health, safety, and welfare of the community, then
the Storm Water Administrator or his/her designee may seek issuance of a search
warrant from any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. passed 5-27-2014)
§ 53.12 REQUIREMENTS TO PREVENT, CONTROL, AND REDUCE STORM WATER POLLUTANTS BY
THE USE OF BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES.
   The Town of Stallings has adopted a post construction ordinance (
Chapter 52 of this Code) identifying best management practices for any
activity, operation, or facility which may cause or contribute to pollution or
contamination of storm water, the storm water drain system, or waters of the
state. The owner or operator of such activity, operation, or facility shall
provide, at their own expense, reasonable protection from accidental discharge
of prohibited materials or other wastes into the municipal storm drain system
or watercourse through the use of these structural and non-structural BMPs.
Further, any person responsible for a property or premise that is, or may be,
the source of an illicit discharge, may be required to implement, at said
person's expense, additional structural and non-structural BMPs to prevent the
further discharge of pollutants to the MS4. Compliance with all terms and
conditions of a valid NPDES permit authorizing the discharge of storm water
associated with industrial activity, to the extent practicable, shall be deemed
compliant with the provisions of this section. These BMPs shall be part of a
Storm Water Management Plan (SWMP) as necessary for compliance with
requirements of the NPDES permit.
(Ord. passed 5-27-2014)
§ 53.13 NOTIFICATION OF SPILLS.
   Notwithstanding other requirements of law, as soon as any person responsible
for a facility or operation, or responsible for emergency response for a
facility or operation has information of any known or suspected release of
materials which are resulting or may result in illegal discharges or pollutants
discharging into storm water, the storm drain system, or waters of the state,
said person shall take all necessary steps to ensure the discovery,
containment, and cleanup of such release. In the event of such a release of
hazardous materials said person shall immediately notify emergency response
agencies of the occurrence via emergency dispatch services. In the event of a
release of non-hazardous materials said person shall contact the Storm Water
Administrator no later than the next business day. Notification shall be
confirmed by written notice addressed and mailed to the Storm Water
Administrator within ten business days of the initial notification contact. If
the discharge of prohibited materials emanates from a commercial or industrial
establishment, the owner or operator of such establishment shall also retain an
on-site written record of the discharge and the actions taken to prevent its
recurrence. Such records shall be retained for at least ten years.
(Ord. passed 5-27-2014)
VIOLATIONS AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 53.25 GENERAL.
   (A)   Violations.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision or
fail to comply with any of the requirements of this chapter. Any person who has
violated or continues to violate the provisions of this chapter, may be subject
to the enforcement actions outlined in this section or may be restrained by
injunction or otherwise abated in a manner provided by law.
      (2)   In the event the violation constitutes an immediate danger to
public health or public safety, the Storm Water Administrator or their designee
is authorized to enter upon the subject private property, without giving prior
notice, to take any and all measures necessary to abate the violation and/or
restore the property.
   (B)   Warning notices. When the Storm Water Administrator or his/her
designee finds that any person has violated, or continues to violate, any
provision of this chapter, or any order issued hereunder, the Storm Water
Administrator or his/her designee may serve upon that person a written warning
notice, specifying the particular violation believed to have occurred and
requesting the discharger to immediately investigate the matter and to seek a
resolution whereby any offending discharge will cease. Investigation and/or
resolution of the matter in response to the warning notice in no way relieve
the alleged violator of liability for any violations occurring before or after
receipt of the warning notice. Nothing in this division shall limit the
authority of the Storm Water Administrator or their designee to take any
action, including emergency action or any other enforcement action.
      (1)   Notice of violation. Whenever the Storm Water Administrator finds
that a person has violated a prohibition or failed to meet a requirement of
this chapter, the Storm Water Administrator or his/her designee may order
compliance by written notice of violation to the responsible person.
         (a)   The notice of violation shall contain:
            1.   The name and address of the alleged violator;
            2.   The address when available or a description of the building,
structure or land upon which the violation is occurring, or has occurred;
            3.   A statement specifying the nature of the violation;
            4.   A description of the remedial measures necessary to restore
compliance with this chapter and a time schedule for the completion of such
remedial action;
            5.   A statement of the penalty or penalties that shall or may be
assessed against the person to whom the notice of violation is directed;
            6.   A statement that the determination of violation may be
appealed to the Board of Adjustments by filing a written notice of appeal
within 30 days of service of notice of violation; and
            7.   A statement specifying that, should the violator fail to
restore compliance within the established time schedule, the work will be done
by a designated governmental agency or a contractor and 100% of the expenses
including, but not limited to engineering, administrative cost and attorney
fees shall be charged to the violator.
         (b)   Such notice may require without limitation:
            1.   The performance of monitoring, analysis, and reporting;
            2.   The elimination of illicit connections or discharges;
            3.   That violating discharges, practices, or operations shall
cease and desist;
            4.   The abatement or remediation of storm water pollution or
contamination hazards and the restoration of any affected property;
            5.   Payment of a fine to cover administrative and remediation
costs; and
            6.   The implementation of source control or treatment BMPs.
   (C)   Compensatory action. In lieu of enforcement proceedings and/or in
addition to the penalties and remedies authorized by this chapter, the Storm
Water Administrator or his/her designee may impose upon a violator alternative
compensatory action, such as storm drain stenciling, attendance at compliance
workshops, creek cleanup or other actions to be determined by the Storm Water
Administrator or his/her designee.
   (D)   Suspension of MS4 access.
      (1)   Emergency cease and desist orders.
         (a)   When the Storm Water Administrator or their designee finds that
any person has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this
chapter, or any order issued hereunder, or that the person's past violations
are likely to recur, and that the person's violation(s) has caused or
contributed to an actual or threatened discharge to the MS4 or waters of the
state which reasonably appears to present an imminent or substantial
endangerment to the health or welfare of persons or the environment, the Storm
Water Administrator or their designee may issue an order to the violator
directing it immediately to cease and desist such violations and directing the
violator to:
            1.   Immediately comply with all ordinance requirements; and
            2.   Take such appropriate preventive action as may be needed to
properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including halting
operations and/or terminating the discharge.
         (b)   Any person notified of an emergency order directed to it under
this division shall immediately comply and stop or eliminate its endangering
discharge. In the event of a discharger's failure to immediately comply
voluntarily with the emergency order, the Storm Water Administrator or his/her
designee may take such steps as deemed necessary to prevent or minimize harm to
the MS4 or waters of the state, and/or endangerment to persons or to the
environment, including immediate termination of a facility's water supply,
sewer connection, or other utility services. The Storm Water Administrator or
his/her designee may allow the person to recommence its discharge when it has
demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Storm Water Administrator or his/her
designee that the period of endangerment has passed, unless further termination
proceedings are initiated against the discharge under this chapter. A person
that is responsible, in whole or in part, for any discharge presenting imminent
endangerment shall submit a detailed written statement, describing the causes
of the harmful discharge and the measure taken to prevent any future
occurrence, to the Storm Water Administrator or his/her designee within 30 days
of receipt of the emergency order. Issuance of an emergency cease and desist
order shall not bar against, or be a prerequisite for, taking any other action
against the violator.
      (2)   Suspension due to illicit discharges in emergency situations.
         (a)   The Storm Water Administrator or their designee may, without
prior notice, suspend MS4 discharge access to a person when such suspension is
necessary to stop an actual or threatened discharge which presents or may
present imminent and substantial danger to the environment, or to the health or
welfare of persons, or to the MS4 or waters of the state. If the violator fails
to comply with a suspension order issued in an emergency, the Storm Water
Administrator or his/her designee may take such steps as deemed necessary to
prevent or minimize damage to the MS4 or waters of the state, or to minimize
danger to person.
         (b)   A person commits an offense if the person reinstates MS4 access
to premises terminated pursuant to this division (D), without prior approval of
the Storm Water Administrator or his/her designee.
(Ord. passed 5-27-2014)
§ 53.26 APPEAL OF NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   Any person receiving a notice of violation may appeal the determination of
the Storm Water Administrator or his/her designee. The notice of appeal must be
received within 30 days from the date the notice of violation. Failure to file
a timely appeal shall constitute acceptance of the determination that a
violation exists. There is a $100 fee to file an appeal, which is due upon
filing of appeal. This fee will be returned if the resident wins the appeal, or
it will be applied to the civil penalty if the appeal is denied. Hearing on the
appeal before the Storm Water Advisory Committee shall take place within 45
days from the date of receipt of the notice of appeal. The decision of the
Storm Water Advisory Committee shall be final. Appeals from the Board of
Adjustment decision shall be appealed to the Union County Superior Court within
30 days from the date of the decision.
(Ord. passed 5-27-2014)
§ 53.27 ENFORCEMENT MEASURES AFTER NOTICE OF VIOLATION AND/OR APPEAL TO NOTICE
OF VIOLATION.
   If the violation has not been corrected pursuant to the requirements set
forth in the notice of violation, or, in the event of an appeal, within ten
days of the decision of the Storm Water Advisory Committee, then
representatives of the Storm Water Administrator shall enter upon the subject
private property and are authorized to take any and all measures necessary to
abate the violation and/or restore impacted areas to their pre-violation
condition. It shall be unlawful for any person, owner, agent or person in
possession of any premises to refuse to allow the Storm Water Administrator or
his/her designee to enter upon the premises for the purposes set forth above.
(Ord. passed 5-27-2014)
§ 53.28 COST OF ABATEMENT OF THE VIOLATION.
   Within 30 days after abatement of the violation, the owner of the property
will be notified of the cost of abatement, including administrative costs. If
the amount due is not paid within 30 days after it is due, as determined by the
decision of the municipal authority or by the expiration of the time in which
to file an appeal, the charges shall become a special assessment against the
property and shall constitute a lien on the property for the amount of the
assessment.
(Ord. passed 5-27-2014)
§ 53.29 REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   (A)   The remedies listed in this chapter are not exclusive of any other
remedies available under any applicable federal, state or local law and it is
within the discretion of the Storm Water Administrator or his/her designee to
seek cumulative remedies.
   (B)   The Storm Water Administrator or their designee may recover all
attorneys' fees, court costs, engineering fees, administrative fees and all
other expenses associated with enforcement of this chapter, including sampling
and monitoring expenses.
(Ord. passed 5-27-2014)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   In the event the alleged violator fails to take the remedial measures set
forth in the notice of violation or otherwise fails to cure the violations
described therein within 30 days, or such greater period as the Storm Water
Administrator or his/her designee shall deem appropriate, after the Storm Water
Administrator or their designee has taken one or more of the actions described
above, the Storm Water Administrator or his/her designee may impose a penalty
as follows:
   (A)   Penalties for illicit discharges.
      (1)   For the first time offenders, if the quantity of the discharge is
equal to or less than five gallons and consists of domestic or household
products in quantities considered ordinary for household purposes, said person
shall be assessed a civil penalty not to exceed $100 per violation or per day
for any continuing violation, and if the quantity of the discharge is greater
than five gallons or contains non-domestic substances, including but not
limited to process waster water, or if said person cannot provide clear and
convincing evidence of the volume and nature of the substance discharged, said
person shall be assessed a civil penalty not to exceed $1,000 per violation or
per day for any continuing violation.
      (2)   For repeat offenders, the amount of the penalty shall be at a
minimum double the amount assessed for the previous penalty, but not to exceed
$10,000 per violation per day for any continuing violation.
      (3)   In determining the amount of the penalty, the Storm Water
Administrator or his/her designee shall consider:
         (a)   The degree and extent of harm to the environment, the public
health, and private property;
         (b)   The cost of remedying the damage;
         (c)   The duration of the violation;
         (d)   Whether the violation was willful;
         (e)   The prior record of the person responsible for the violation in
complying or failing to comply with this chapter;
         (f)   The costs of enforcement to the public; and
         (g)   The amount of money saved by the violator through their
noncompliance.
   (B)   Penalties for illicit connections.
      (1)   Any person found with an illicit connection in violation of this
chapter and any designer, engineer, contractor, agent, or other person, who
allows, acts in concert, participates, directs, or assists directly or
indirectly in the establishment of an illicit connection in violation of this
chapter, shall be subject to civil penalties as follows:
         (a)   First time offenders shall be subject to a civil penalty not to
exceed $500 per day of continuing violation;
         (b)   For repeat offenders, the amount of the penalty shall be at a
minimum double the amount assessed for the previous penalty, but not to exceed
$10,000 per violation or per day for any continuing violation.
      (2)   In determining the amount of the penalty, the Storm Water
Administrator or his/her designee shall consider:
         (a)   The degree and extent of harm to the environment, the public
health, and private property;
         (b)   The cost of remedying the damage;
         (c)   The duration of the violation;
         (d)   Whether the violation was willful;
         (e)   The prior record of the person responsible for the violation in
complying or failing to comply with this chapter;
         (f)   The costs of enforcement to the public; and
         (g)   The amount of money saved by the violator through their
noncompliance.
   (C)   Payment/collection procedures. The Storm Water Administrator or their
designee shall make written demand for payment upon the person in violation. If
the payment is not received or equitable settlement is not reached within 30
days after demand for payment is made, the matter shall be referred to the Town
Attorney for institution of a civil action in the name of the Town of
Stallings, in the appropriate division of the general court of justice in Union
County for recovering the penalty.
(Ord. passed 5-27-2014)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
72.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Regulation of speed
   
70.02   Designation of through streets
   
70.03   Through traffic prohibited on certain streets
   
70.04   Through trucks prohibited on certain streets
   
70.05   Driving from street to street across property at intersections
prohibited
   
70.06   Enforcement of parking violations
   
70.07   Parking close to curb
   
70.08   Interfering with traffic
   
70.09   Left side to curb prohibited
   
70.10   Stopping, standing, or parking prohibited
   
70.11   Appeal of parking violations
Golf Carts
   
70.15   Authority to regulate
   
70.16   Operation on public streets and roads
   
70.17   Enforcement
   
70.18   Liability disclaimer
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 REGULATION OF SPEED.
   The traffic laws of the state regulating the speed of vehicles shall be
applicable on all streets and highways within the corporate limits within the
town, except as this code determines that other speed regulations shall be
applicable upon specified streets and highways.
(Ord. passed 6-15-92)
§ 70.02 DESIGNATION OF THROUGH STREETS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      VEHICLE. Automobile, truck, bus, motorcycle, bicycle, wagon or any other
type of conveyance commonly used and operated on public streets and highways,
whether self-propelled or propelled by human or animal power.
   (B)   Those streets and parts of streets which are, or which may in the
future by amendment be listed in Traffic Schedule II, attached hereto and made
a part hereof, are hereby designated and declared as through streets for the
purposes of this section.
   (C)   When stop signs are placed, erected or installed upon any street or
highway intersecting a through street at the entrance thereto or at the
entrance to any intersection, it shall be unlawful for the operator of any
vehicle to enter the intersection or to proceed into or across the through
street without first bringing the vehicle to a complete stop in obedience to
the sign and remaining stopped until he or she determines that he or she may
proceed without any danger to any other vehicle or any pedestrian.
   (D)   The inclusion of any street or part of any street as a through street
on Traffic Schedule II shall constitute authority for the erection of stop
signs at the entrance thereto or intersection thereof by the person or persons
as the Council shall designate.
   (E)   The stop signs to be erected pursuant to this section shall be
octagonal in shape and shall consist of the word Stop in white letters on a red
background; and the size and height thereof shall approximate, as nearly as
practicable, the sign placed on state system streets by the State Department of
Transportation.
   (F)   This section shall be effective upon its adoption, provided this
section shall not be enforced against any alleged violator unless, at the time
and place of the alleged violation, an official stop sign was in proper
position and sufficiently visible and legible to be seen by an ordinarily
observant person.
(Ord. passed 1-8-79) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 THROUGH TRAFFIC PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   Through vehicular traffic shall be prohibited on those streets or portions
of streets designated from time to time by the Town Council, upon the erection
of signs, markers or devices so indicating on the streets or portions thereof.
Any person failing or refusing to comply with the directions indicated on any
sign, marker or device for the control or direction of traffic erected or
placed pursuant to this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. The schedule
of the streets or portions thereof shall be maintained on file in the office of
the Town Clerk.
(Ord. passed 5-11-98) Penalty, see §
70.99
Cross-reference:
   Streets prohibited for through traffic, see Ch. 71, Sched. III
§ 70.04 THROUGH TRUCKS PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      TRUCKS. Excludes pickup trucks and vans but expressly includes trailers
and semi-trailers being drawn by a motor vehicle, together with any vehicle
having a single-axle weight in excess of 5,000 pounds.
   (B)   Through trucks shall be prohibited on those streets or portions of
streets designated from time to time by the Town Council, upon the erection of
signs on the streets or portions thereof. A schedule of the streets or portions
thereof shall be maintained on file in the office of the Town Clerk.
(Ord. passed 5-2-98) Penalty, see §
70.99
Cross-reference:
   Prohibited through truck streets, see Ch. 71, Sched. IV
§ 70.05 DRIVING FROM STREET TO STREET ACROSS PROPERTY AT INTERSECTIONS
PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person driving a motor vehicle to drive
the motor vehicle across or through the property, publicly or privately owned,
from one street to another, at intersections within the town limits, unless the
vehicle is driven upon the property for the purpose of having the vehicle
serviced or for the purpose of making purchases of merchandise upon the
property.
   (B)   The failure of the driver of a motor vehicle to stop the motor vehicle
on publicly or privately owned property at an intersection when driving from
street to street shall be deemed to be prima facie evidence that the motor
vehicle was being driven upon and across the property for the convenience of
the driver of the motor vehicle in driving from one street to another.
Violation of this section shall be punished as an infraction with the maximum
fine and cost as allowable by law.
(Ord. passed 11-9-98) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.06 ENFORCEMENT OF PARKING VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter may be enforced by any authorized local
law enforcement agency or code enforcement officer.
   (B)   (1)   Violations of the provision of this chapter shall subject the
offender to a civil penalty as authorized by G.S. § 160A-175(c) upon the
issuance of a citation for said violation as hereinafter provided.
      (2)   Whenever any motor vehicle without a driver is found parked or
stopped in violation of any of the restrictions imposed by ordinance of the
town or by state law, the officer finding such vehicle shall take its
registration number and may take any other information displayed on the vehicle
which may identify its user. Pursuant to G.S. § 15A-302(d), the officer shall
conspicuously affix to such vehicle a notice of violation, on a citation
provided by the Chief of Police or designee, for the driver to pay a civil
penalty in the amount of $25 within 15 days at a place specified on the
citation. The citation shall further state that additional penalties will be
assessed for citations that are paid after the 15-day grace period. Those fines
shall increase to $50 after 15 days and $75 after 45 days.
      (3)   Failure to make payment of the penalty, including any late
penalties, will subject the owner or operator to a civil action to collect all
penalties and costs for such violations in the nature of a civil suit for the
collection of a debt when the civil penalty, including the delinquent civil
penalty, has not been paid.
(Ord. passed 11-9-2015; Am. Ord. passed 12-11-2023)
§ 70.07 PARKING CLOSE TO CURB.
   Where not otherwise indicated by this chapter, and where the streets are not
marked to show how vehicles must be parked, all vehicles shall be parked
parallel to the curb and not more than 12 inches therefrom.
(Ord. passed 12-11-2023)
§ 70.08 INTERFERING WITH TRAFFIC.
   No vehicle shall so stand on any street as to interrupt, or interfere with,
the passage of public conveyances or other vehicles.
(Ord. passed 12-11-2023)
§ 70.09 LEFT SIDE TO CURB PROHIBITED.
   No vehicle shall stop with its left side to the curb except that on one-way
streets vehicles shall stop headed in the direction of traffic.
(Ord. passed 12-11-2023)
§ 70.10 STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle except when necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic, or in compliance with the directions or a
police officer or traffic-control device in any of the following places.
   (A)   On the sidewalk.
   (B)   On a crosswalk.
   (C)   Within 30 feet of any flashing beacon, stop sign, or traffic-control
signal located at the side of a street or roadway. Alongside or opposite any
street excavation or obstruction, when such stopping, standing, or parking
would obstruct traffic.
   (D)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure or with any underpass
structure.
   (E)   Upon any town property between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.
without town approval.
   (F)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped, standing, or parked at the
edge or curb of a street.
   (G)   On the paved surface of any roadway or street listed in the schedule
of traffic and parking regulation by street which are maintained as provided in
this code.
   (H)   Within 20 feet of any intersection.
   (I)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant.
   (J)   In front of a public or private driveway.
   (K)   On the street within ten feet of either side of a mailbox so as to
block access for U.S. Postal Service delivery.
   (L)   Upon any area designated as no parking area when said areas are
appropriately marked.
   (M)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station.
   (N)   In a space designated with a sign for disabled persons, or when the
vehicle does not display the distinguishing registration plate, windshield
placard, or disabled registration plate or placard issued pursuant to G.S. §
20-37.6.
   (O)   On a street within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing.
(Ord. passed 12-11-2023)
§ 70.11 APPEAL OF PARKING VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any person charged with a violation of the town’s parking ordinances
shall have the right to appeal such violation by filing written notice of
appeal within seven days after issuance of the citation giving notice of such
violation. Notice of appeal must be completed and hand-delivered or mailed, or
emailed so as to arrive within the seven-day timeframe specified herein to the
Police Department appeals official at 315 Stallings Road, Stallings, N.C.
28104.
   (B)   The appeals official is the Police Department’s Administrative
Services Manager and shall render a decision on such appeal within ten business
days of the date of filing of the appeal. Notice of appeal decision will be
emailed to the appealing party.
   (C)   The decision of the appeals official as described in division (B)
above shall be final.
   (D)   As a matter of policy, the town will not accept the following as
legitimate grounds for dismissal of parking violations:
      (1)   Lack of knowledge of the town’s parking regulations;
      (2)   Conflicts or tardiness going to or returning from appointments and/
or destinations;
      (3)   Inability to find a valid parking space.
(Ord. passed 3-11-2024)
GOLF CARTS
§ 70.15 AUTHORITY TO REGULATE.
   (A)   Pursuant to SL2009-459, as enacted by the North Carolina General
Assembly, the town is authorized, by ordinance, to require the registration of,
and to regulate the operation of, golf carts upon public streets, roads, and
highways within the town where the speed limit is 35 miles per hour or less.
   (B)   For purposes of this subchapter, a "golf cart" is a vehicle designed
and manufactured for operation on a golf course for sporting or recreational
purposes and that is not capable of exceeding speeds of 20 miles per hour.
(Ord. passed 11-9-2009)
§ 70.16 OPERATION ON PUBLIC STREETS AND ROADS.
   It shall be unlawful to operate a golf cart on a public street, road, or
highway right-of-way within the town except in accordance with the following
provisions:
   (A)   Golf carts may not be operated on or in the right-of-way of a public
street, road or highway with a posted speed limit greater than 25 miles per
hour.
   (B)   No golf cart may be operated on any public street, road, or highway
without being equipped with the following required equipment:
      (1)   Working headlights - A large single headlight in the center of the
front of the cart or two working headlights, one on each side of the front of
the golf cart, visible at night under normal atmospheric conditions from a
distance of at least 300 feet in front of the cart.
      (2)   A red lamp on the rear, visible at night under like conditions from
a distance of at least 200 feet from the rear of the cart.
      (3)   Golf carts without the required front headlights and rear lamp may
only be operated during daylight hours.
   (C)   An operator may not allow the number of people in the golf cart at any
time to exceed the maximum capacity specified by the manufacturer. The operator
shall not allow occupants to ride on any part of a golf cart not designed to
carry passengers, such as the part of the cart designed to carry golf bags.
   (D)   No person may operate a golf cart on a public street, road, or highway
unless licensed to drive upon the streets and highways of North Carolina and
then only if that person operates the golf cart in accordance with the
conditions of his or her license. Golf cart operators must carry their driver’s
license on their persons at all times while operating a golf cart on public
streets, roads or highways.
   (E)   In no instance shall a golf cart be operated at a speed greater than
20 miles per hour. Even at speeds at or below 20 miles per hour, no golf cart
may be operated at a speed greater than is reasonable and prudent for the
existing conditions.
   (F)   No golf cart may be operated in a careless or reckless manner.
   (G)   Golf carts must be operated at the right edge of the roadway and must
yield to all vehicular and pedestrian traffic.
   (H)   Golf carts must be operated in accordance with all applicable state
and local laws, regulations, and ordinances, including all laws, regulations
and ordinances pertaining to the possession and use of alcoholic beverages. In
addition, no golf cart containing any open container of alcohol shall be
operated on public streets, roads, or highways.
   (I)   During an emergency situation or at a special event, any police
officer supervising or controlling traffic may direct that golf carts be
operated other than as permitted by this subchapter.
   (J)   Golf carts owned and operated by local golf courses are exempt from
required equipment as stated in division (B) when operated during daylight
hours.
   (K)   The owner of a golf cart must continuously maintain liability
insurance in an amount not less than that required by the Motor Vehicle Safety
and Financial Act of 1953.
(Ord. passed 11-9-2009; Am. Ord. passed 12-7-2009) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.17 ENFORCEMENT.
   Violation of the provisions of this subchapter shall constitute an
infraction in accordance with G.S. Ch. 20. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
persons who, while driving golf carts on public streets or roads within the
town, violate the “Rules of the Road” applicable to motor vehicles generally
(as set forth in G.S. Ch. 20, Art. 3, Part 10) shall be subject to the same
penalties applicable to the operators of other motor vehicles.
(Ord. passed 11-9-2009)
§ 70.18 LIABILITY DISCLAIMER.
   (A)   This subchapter is adopted to protect public safety. By adopting this
subchapter, the town does not declare or represent that golf carts are designed
or manufactured to be used on public streets or roads and does not advocate or
endorse their operation on public streets or roads.
   (B)   This subchapter is not to be relied on as a determination that
operation of golf carts on public streets or roads is safe or advisable even if
done in accordance with this subchapter. All persons who operate golf carts on
public streets or roads do so at their own risk and peril, and must observe and
be attentive to the safety of themselves and others, including their
passengers, other motorists, bicyclists, and pedestrians. By permitting golf
carts to be operated on public streets and roads under the special legislation
adopted by the state’s legislature, the town assumes no responsibility or
liability for the operation of golf carts.
(Ord. passed 11-9-2009)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   If any person shall violate a provision of this chapter regulating the
operation or parking of vehicles, he or she shall be responsible for an
infraction and shall be required to pay a penalty of not more than $50. Unless
otherwise provided, civil penalties shall be in the following amounts:
   (A)   First citation: warning;
   (B)   Second citation for same or similar violation: $100; and
   (C)   Third and subsequent citation for same or similar violation: $500.
(G.S. §§ 14-4(b) and 160A-175)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Speed limits
   
II.   Through streets
   
III.   Streets prohibited for through traffic
   
IV.   Prohibited through truck streets
   
V.   Traffic-control devices
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   It is hereby declared and determined upon the basis of an engineering
and traffic investigation, pursuant to authority granted by G.S. § 20-141(f),
that the following maximum speed limits, upon the following described portions
of the state and local highway system within the corporate limits of the town,
are reasonable and safe.
   (B)   (1)   The speed limits enumerated in the following schedule shall be
the maximum lawful limits upon the portions of the state and local highway
system therein designated, and it shall be unlawful for any person operating
any vehicle, as defined in G.S. § 20-4.01(49), to exceed any speed limit set
forth therein.
      (2)   The speed limit on any street in the town limits that is not
identified below shall be 35 miles per hour in accordance with the law of the
State of North Carolina. Any person violating the provisions of this ordinance
shall be punished in accordance with G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. 7-8-2002)
Street/Subdivision Location Speed Limit Ord. Passage Date
Street/           Location                       Speed Limit  Ord. Passage Date
Subdivision
Aurora Blvd.                                    25 m.p.h.    10-27-2008
Buckingham
Subdivision        
[Town-maintained]
                 Castlemain Drive in its        25 m.p.h.    7-8-2002
                  entirety
                 Chaucery Lane in its entirety  25 m.p.h.    7-8-2002
                 Colchester Lane in its         25 m.p.h.    7-8-2002
                  entirety
                 Derbyshire Lane in its         25 m.p.h.    7-8-2002
                  entirety
                 Gatwick Lane in its entirety   25 m.p.h.    7-8-2002
                 Leicester Drive in its         25 m.p.h.    7-8-2002
                  entirety
                 Ravens Court in its entirety   25 m.p.h.    7-8-2002
                 Westminister Lane in its       25 m.p.h.    7-8-2002
                  entirety
Callonwood         
Subdivision
                 Aringill (partial to town      25 m.p.h.    10-27-2008
                  limits)
                 Callonwood Drive (partial to   25 m.p.h.    10-27-2008
                  town limits)
                 Clairborne Court in its        25 m.p.h.    10-27-2008
                  entirety
                 Drummond Lane in its entirety  25 m.p.h.    10-27-2008
                 Feather Oak Drive in its       25 m.p.h.    10-27-2008
                  entirety
                 Fleming Lane in its entirety   25 m.p.h.    10-27-2008
                 Hammond Drive in its entirety  25 m.p.h.    10-27-2008
                 Kensrowe Lane in its entirety  25 m.p.h.    10-27-2008
                 Millbank Drive in its entirety 25 m.p.h.    10-27-2008
                 Sarandon Drive in its entirety 25 m.p.h.    10-27-2008
                 Serel Drive in its entirety    25 m.p.h.    10-27-2008
                 Stonedown Lane in its entirety 25 m.p.h.    10-27-2008
                 Tabard Lane in its entirety    25 m.p.h.    10-27-2008
                 Woodglen Lane in its entirety  25 m.p.h.    10-27-2008
                 Woodshorn Drive in its         25 m.p.h.    10-27-2008
                  entirety
Chestnut [Town-    
maintained]
                 Amhurst Court in its entirety  25 m.p.h.    7-12-2004
                 Burlwood Court in its entirety 25 m.p.h.    7-12-2004
                 Cinnamon Drive in its entirety 25 m.p.h.    7-12-2004
                 Gladstone Court in its         25 m.p.h.    7-12-2004
                  entirety
                 Strawberry Road in its         25 m.p.h.    7-12-2004
                  entirety
                 Yarrow Street in its entirety  25 m.p.h.    7-12-2004
Chestnut Oaks      
Subdivision
                 Brookfield Court in its        25 m.p.h.    12-8-2008
                  entirety
                 Cedar Point Avenue in its      25 m.p.h.    12-8-2008
                  entirety
                 Craftsman Ridge Circle in its  25 m.p.h.    12-8-2008
                  entirety
                 Gable Way Lane in its entirety 25 m.p.h.    12-8-2008
                 Gainsborough Drive in its      25 m.p.h.    12-8-2008
                  entirety
                 Holly Grove Court in its       25 m.p.h.    12-8-2008
                  entirety
                 Ivey Brook Place in its        25 m.p.h.    12-8-2008
                  entirety
                 St. Johns Avenue in its        25 m.p.h.    12-8-2008
                  entirety
Community Park
Subdivision        
[State
Maintained]
                  SR 1401 (Community Park Drive)
                 from SR 1365 (Stallings Road)  25 m.p.h.    3-24-2014
                  northward to SR 1422 (West
                  Circle)   
                  SR 1419 (Community Park Drive)
                  from a point 0.02 mile south
                 of SR 1422 (West Circle)       25 m.p.h.    3-24-2014
                  northward to a point .17 mile
                  north of SR 1422
Country Woods
East [State        
Maintained]
                 Beech Court in its entirety    25 m.p.h.    7-12-2004
                 Birch Court in its entirety    25 m.p.h.    7-12-2004
                 Cypress Court in its entirety  25 m.p.h.    7-12-2004
                 Hawthorne Drive in its         25 m.p.h.    7-12-2004
                  entirety
                 Juniper Court in its entirety  25 m.p.h.    7-12-2004
                 Redwood Drive in its entirety  25 m.p.h.    7-12-2004
                 Scaleybark Court in its        25 m.p.h.    7-12-2004
                  entirety
Creekside [State   
Maintained]
                 Aspen Lane in its entirety     25 m.p.h.    7-12-2004
                 Locust Court in its entirety   25 m.p.h.    7-12-2004
                 Quince Court in its entirety   25 m.p.h.    7-12-2004
Curry Place        
Subdivision
                 Curry Way in its entirety      25 m.p.h.    10-27-2008
                 Horizon Court in its entirety  25 m.p.h.    10-27-2008
                 Jessica Lane in its entirety   25 m.p.h.    10-27-2008
                 Jody Drive in its entirety     25 m.p.h.    10-27-2008
                 Wanda Drive in its entirety    25 m.p.h.    10-27-2008
Eaglecrest [State  
Maintained]
                 Eaglecrest Drive in its        25 m.p.h.    7-12-2004
                  entirety
                 Falcons Ridge Road in its      25 m.p.h.    7-12-2004
                  entirety
                 Hawksnest Court in its         25 m.p.h.    7-12-2004
                  entirety
Emerald Lake
Subdivision        
[Town-maintained]
                 Albatross Lane in its entirety 25 m.p.h.    12-11-2006; Am.
                                                              Ord. 3-10-2008
                 Amen Court in its entirety     25 m.p.h.    3-10-2008
                 Bermuda Court in its entirety  25 m.p.h.    3-10-2008
                 Birdie Court in its entirety   25 m.p.h.    3-10-2008
                 Bogey Court in its entirety    25 m.p.h.    7-8-2002
                 Bunker Court in its entirety   25 m.p.h.    3-10-2008
                 Caddy Court in its entirety    25 m.p.h.    3-10-2008
                 Chip Shot Drive in its         25 m.p.h.    7-8-2002
                  entirety
                 Divit Court in its entirety    25 m.p.h.    7-8-2002
                 Dogleg Court in its entirety   25 m.p.h.    7-8-2002
                 Emerald Lake Drive in its      25 m.p.h.    7-8-2002
                  entirety
                 Flagstick Drive in its         25 m.p.h.    12-11-2006; Am.
                  entirety                                    Ord. 3-10-2008
                 Four Wood Drive in its         25 m.p.h.    3-10-2008
                  entirety
                 Golf View Court in its         25 m.p.h.    3-10-2008
                  entirety
                 Links Lane in its entirety     25 m.p.h.    7-8-2002
                 Three Wood Drive in its        25 m.p.h.    3-10-2008
                  entirety
                 Tournament Drive in its        25 m.p.h.    3-10-2008
                  entirety
                 Two Iron Drive in its entirety 25 m.p.h.    3-10-2008
                 Wedge Court in its entirety    25 m.p.h.    3-10-2008
Fairfield
Plantation [State  
Maintained]
                 Appletree Court in its         25 m.p.h.    7-12-2004
                  entirety
                 Briarwood Court in its         25 m.p.h.    7-12-2004
                  entirety
                 Brookgreen Ter. in its         25 m.p.h.    7-12-2004
                  entirety
                 Edgefield Court in its         25 m.p.h.    7-12-2004
                  entirety
                 Fairfield Drive in its         25 m.p.h.    7-12-2004
                  entirety
                 Fieldstone Lane in its         25 m.p.h.    7-12-2004
                  entirety
                 Greenway Drive in its entirety 25 m.p.h.    7-12-2004
                 Holly Court in its entirety    25 m.p.h.    7-12-2004
                 Lake Drive in its entirety     25 m.p.h.    7-12-2004
                 Lawing Court in its entirety   25 m.p.h.    7-12-2004
                 Peachtree Court in its         25 m.p.h.    7-12-2004
                  entirety
                 Stoney Ridge Road in its       25 m.p.h.    7-12-2004
                  entirety
Fairforest [State  
Maintained]
                 Fairforest Drive in its        25 m.p.h.    7-12-2004
                  entirety
                 Stonehedge Drive in its        25 m.p.h.    7-12-2004
                  entirety
Forest Park
Subdivision        
[State
Maintained]
                                                              1-7-2002; Am.
                 Cedarwood Lane (SR 1568) in    25 m.p.h.    Ord. 7-8-2002;
                  its entirety                                Am. Ord. 11-27-
                                                              2006
                 Cupped Oak Drive in its        25 m.p.h.    11-27-2006
                  entirety
                  Forest Park Drive (SR 1559)                 1-7-2002; Am.
                 from U.S. 74 northward to      25 m.p.h.    Ord. 7-8-2002
                  route's end
                                                              1-7-2002; Am.
                 Meadowbrook Drive (SR 1567) in 25 m.p.h.    Ord. 7-8-2002;
                  its entirety                                Am. Ord. 11-27-
                                                              2006
                 Pepper Ann Lane in its         25 m.p.h.    11-27-2006
                  entirety
                 Pesca Lane in its entirety     25 m.p.h.    11-27-2006
                  Pine Tree Drive (SR 1560) from              1-7-2002; Am Ord.
                 route's end eastward to SR     25 m.p.h.    7-8-2002
                  1559
                 Tamarack Drive in its entirety 25 m.p.h.    11-27-2006
                                                              1-7-2002; Am.
                 White Oak Lane (SR 1563) in    25 m.p.h.    Ord.
                  its entirety                                7-8-2002; Am.
                                                              Ord. 11-27-2006
Greenbriar [Town-  
maintained]
                 Greenbriar Drive in its        25 m.p.h.    7-12-2004
                  entirety
                 Spruce Street in its entirety  25 m.p.h.    7-12-2004
                 Vickie Lane in its entirety    25 m.p.h.    7-12-2004
Hunley Creek
Subdivision        
[Town-maintained]
                 Burnt Mill Run in its entirety 25 m.p.h.    7-8-2002
                 Flour Mill Court in its        25 m.p.h.    7-8-2002
                  entirety
                 Grindstone Court in its        25 m.p.h.    7-8-2002
                  entirety
                 Hunley Creek Drive in its      25 m.p.h.    7-8-2002
                  entirety
                 Hunley Hill Court in its       25 m.p.h.    7-8-2002
                  entirety
                 Hunley Ridge Road in its       25 m.p.h.    7-8-2002
                  entirety
                 Millhouse Lane in its entirety 25 m.p.h.    7-8-2002
                 Millstream Court in its        25 m.p.h.    7-8-2002
                  entirety
                 Olde Stone Lane in its         25 m.p.h.    7-8-2002
                  entirety
                 Waterwheel Court in its        25 m.p.h.    7-8-2002
                  entirety
Idlewild Road     From the western corporate
[State            limit to Stevens Mill Road     45 m.p.h.    7-8-2002
Maintained]
Kerry Greens
Subdivision        
[State
Maintained]
                 Brad Court in its entirety     25 m.p.h.    7-12-2004
                  Coatesdale Lane (SR 2830) from
                  a point .24 miles west of                   10-1-2001; Am.
                 Ashie Avenue (SR 2834),        25 m.p.h.    Ord. 7-8-2002
                  eastward .43 miles to end of
                  state maintenance
                 Coatesdale Lane from Kerry     25 m.p.h.    7-12-2004
                  Green Drive to Brad Court
                 Copeland Court in its entirety 25 m.p.h.    7-12-2004
                 Heison Court in its entirety   25 m.p.h.    7-12-2004
                  Kerry Greens Drive from Old                 10-1-2001; Am.
                 Monroe Road (SR 1009) eastward 25 m.p.h.    Ord. 7-8-2002
                  to Ashie Avenue (SR 2834)
Lakewood Knolls
[Town-             
maintained]
                 Drexel Drive in its entirety   25 m.p.h.    7-12-2004
                 Homewood Way in its entirety   25 m.p.h.    7-12-2004
                 Lakewood Drive in its entirety 25 m.p.h.    7-12-2004
                 Lakewood Drive Ext. in its     25 m.p.h.    7-12-2004
                  entirety
                 Rhoderia Drive in its entirety 25 m.p.h.    7-12-2004
                 Sweetbriar Drive in its        25 m.p.h.    7-12-2004
                  entirety
Lawyers Road      From the western corporate
[State-           limit to the eastern corporate 45 m.p.h.    7-8-2002
maintained]       limit
Madison Ridge
[State             
Maintained]
                 Bernard Castle Lane in its     25 m.p.h.    10-11-2004
                  entirety
                  Middlesborough Drive from
                 Stallings Road to Cameron      25 m.p.h.    10-11-2004
                  Commons Way
                  Cameron Commons Way from
                 Middlesborough Drive to        25 m.p.h.    10-11-2004
                  corporate limits
                 Castlebridge Lane from         25 m.p.h.    10-11-2004
                  corporate limits to dead end
                 Lexington Pointe Place from    25 m.p.h.    10-11-2004
                  corporate limits to dead end
                  From Stallings Road (SR 1365)
Matthews-Indian   to the northern corporate
Trail Road (SR    limit, at the Mecklenburg-     45 m.p.h.    6-15-92; Am. Ord.
1367) [State-     Union county line,                          7-8-2002
maintained]       approximately.55 mile north of
                  Stallings Road (SR 1365)
Morningside
Subdivision        
[Town-maintained]
                 Bluebonnet Lane in its         25 m.p.h.    7-8-2002
                  entirety
                 Daylilly Road in its entirety  25 m.p.h.    7-12-2004
                 Freesia Place in its entirety  25 m.p.h.    7-8-2002
                 Morningside Meadow Lane in its 25 m.p.h.    7-8-2002
                  entirety
                 Snapdragon Court in its        25 m.p.h.    7-8-2002
                  entirety
                 Tulip Lane in its entirety     25 m.p.h.    7-12-2004
                 Zinnia Drive in its entirety   25 m.p.h.    7-12-2004
Old Monroe Road   From a point .14 mile east of               7-15-92; Am. Ord.
(SR 1009) [State- Pleasant Plains Road eastward  45 m.p.h.    6-8-2002; Am.
maintained]       to a point .10 mile west of                 Ord. 5-22-2006
                  Enchanted Drive
Parkside [Town-    
maintained]
                 Parkview Way in its entirety   20 m.p.h     7-12-2004
                 Sapwood Court in its entirety  20 m.p.h.    7-12-2004
Pleasant Plains   From the western corporate
Road              limit, at the Mecklenburg-     45 m.p.h.    6-15-92
(SR 1364)         Union county line, eastward to
                  Potters Road (SR 1357)
Ravens Court      In its entirety                25 m.p.h.    7-8-2002
[Town-maintained]
Shannamara
Subdivision        
[State
Maintained]
                 Shannamara Drive from Stevens  25 m.p.h.    7-8-2002
                  Mill Road to Ammanford Court
                  Shannamara Drive from Divide
                 Drive to northwestern town     25 m.p.h.    7-8-2002
                  limits
Shannamara
Subdivision:       
[Town-maintained]
                 Ammanford Court in its         25 m.p.h.    7-8-2002
                  entirety
                 Bailey Court in its entirety   25 m.p.h.    7-8-2002
                 Balintoy Lane in its entirety  25 m.p.h.    7-8-2002
                 Bardsey Court in its entirety  25 m.p.h.    7-8-2002
                 Bethesda Court in its entirety 25 m.p.h.    7-8-2002
                 Brecon Court in its entirety   25 m.p.h.    7-8-2002
                 Caernarfon Lane in its         25 m.p.h.    7-8-2002
                  entirety
                 Cardiff Lane in its entirety   25 m.p.h.    7-8-2002
                 Cardigan Court in its entirety 25 m.p.h.    7-8-2002
                 Carmarthen Court in its        25 m.p.h.    7-8-2002
                  entirety
                 Dilwyn Court in its entirety   25 m.p.h.    7-8-2002
                 Divide Drive from Stevens Mill 25 m.p.h.    7-8-2002
                  Road to Shannamara Drive
                 Donegal Court in its entirety  25 m.p.h.    7-8-2002
                 Glamorgan Lane in its entirety 25 m.p.h.    7-8-2002
                 Kilarney Court in its entirety 25 m.p.h.    7-8-2002
                 Kilkenny Court in its entirety 25 m.p.h.    7-8-2002
Springhill
Subdivision        
[State
Maintained]
                  Privette Road (also known as
                 Oscar Privette Road, SR 1363)     25 m.p.6-15-92; Am. Ord.
                  from Potters Road (SR 1357) in              7-8-2002
                  its entirety to the deadend
Springhill
Subdivision        
[Town Maintained]
                  Birchdale Court in its
                 entirety from Woodglen to the  24 m.p.h.    6-15-92; Am. Ord.
                  deadend, a distance of .12                  7-8-2002
                  miles
                  Hillwood Court in its entirety
                 from Springhill Drive to the   25 m.p.h.    6-15-92; Am. Ord.
                  deadend, a distance of .17                  7-8-2002
                  miles
                  Pinecliff Court in its
                 entirety from Birchdale Court  25 m.p.h.    6-15-92; Am. Ord.
                  to the deadend, a distance of               7-8-2002
                  .07 miles
                  Springhill Drive in its
                 entirety from Potters Road (SR 25 m.p.h.    6-15-92; Am. Ord.
                  1357) to Privette Road (SR                  7-8-2002
                  1363), a distance of .54 miles
                  Woodglen Lane in its entirety
                 from Privette Road to          25 m.p.h.    6-15-92; Am. Ord.
                  Birchdale Court, a distance of              7-8-2002
                  .13 miles
Stallings Road    From U.S. 74 to the eastern                 6-15-92; Am. Ord.
(SR 1365) [State- corporate limit                45 m.p.h.    7-8-2002
maintained]
Stevens Mill Road
[State-
maintained]From   45 m.p.h.                      7-8-2002      
the Mecklenburg
County Line to
Lawyers Road
Stevens Mill
Subdivision                                      
[Town-maintained]
                 Cotton Mill Court in its       25 m.p.h.    7-8-2002
                  entirety
                 Millbrook Lane in its entirety 25 m.p.h.    7-8-2002
                 Millwright Lane in its         25 m.p.h.    7-8-2002
                  entirety
                 Porch Swing Lane in its        25 m.p.h.    7-8-2002
                  entirety
                 Stevens Mill Road from Lawyers 25 m.p.h.    7-8-2002
                  Road to Mill Race Lane
                  From a point .520 mile
US 74             northwest of SR 1365
(Independence     (Stallings Road) southeastward 55 m.p.h.    1-14-2013
Blvd.)            to a point .3 northwest of SR
                  1008 (Indian Trail Road)
Willowbrook
Subdivision:       
[Town-maintained]
                 Bent Oak Drive in its entirety 25 m.p.h.    7-8-2002
                 Chinaberry Court in its        25 m.p.h.    7-8-2002
                  entirety
                 Green Ash Lane in its entirety 25 m.p.h.    7-8-2002
                 Mullberry Court in its         25 m.p.h.    7-8-2002
                  entirety
                 Shady Grove Lane in its        25 m.p.h.    7-8-2002
                  entirety
                 White Locust Court in its      25 m.p.h.    7-8-2002
                  entirety
                 Willowbrook Drive in its       25 m.p.h.    7-8-2002
                  entirety
 
Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II. THROUGH STREETS.
   The following streets or parts thereof are designated as through streets. It
shall be unlawful to drive any vehicle into or across any of the following
streets at the following location(s) without bringing the vehicle to a complete
stop at the boundary thereof or at a clearly marked stop line before entering
or crossing the street.
 
Through Street Location
Flowe Drive    At Drye Lane
 
(Ord. passed 1-8-79) Penalty, see §
70.99
Cross-reference:
   Designation of through streets, see §
70.02
SCHEDULE III. STREETS PROHIBITED FOR THROUGH TRAFFIC.
   Through traffic is prohibited on the following streets within the corporate
limits of the town.
 
Street          Ord. Passage Date
Ann Street      6-1-98
Flagstick Drive 3-10-2008
Spruce Street   8-25-98
Vickie Lane     8-25-98
 
Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE IV. PROHIBITED THROUGH TRUCK STREETS.
   Through trucks shall be prohibited on the following streets within the
corporate limits of the town.
Street Ord. Passage Date
Street            Ord. Passage Date
Ann Street        5-2-88
Aurora Boulevard  6-4-90
Cedarwood Lane    9-11-17
Cupped Oak Drive  9-11-17
Flower Drive      3-2-98
Forest Park Drive 9-11-17
Meadowbrook Drive 9-11-17
Pine Tree Drive   9-11-17
Tamarack Drive    9-11-17
White Oak Lane    10-9-17
 
Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE V. TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   There shall be erected and placed the following proper signs and
markers indicating the manner of operating vehicles within the corporate limits
of the town.
   (B)   The existence of signs or markers at any place so designated shall be
prima facie evidence that the signs or markers were erected or placed by
authority of the Town Council.
   (C)   Any person failing or refusing to comply with the directions indicated
on any sign or marker when so placed or erected shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor; provided, however, that the restrictions of this schedule shall
not be construed to apply when the driver of a vehicle is otherwise directed by
a law enforcement officer, or when an exception would be granted by state law
to the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle.
Traffic-Control Device Location Ord. Passage Date
Traffic-Control Device Location                               Ord. Passage Date
Stop sign(s)           Albatross Lane at Flagstick Drive      3-10-2008
Stop sign(s)           Amen Court at Flagstick Drive          3-10-2008
Stop sign(s)           Ammanford Court at Shannamara Drive    7-8-2002
Stop sign(s)           Anne Street at Old Monroe Road         3-6-95
Stop sign(s)           Anne Street at Ridge Road              3-6-95
Stop sign(s)           Aurora Boulevard at Old Monroe Road    3-6-95
Stop sign(s)           Aurora Boulevard at Pleasant Plains    3-6-95
                       Road
Stop sign(s)           Aurora Boulevard at Woodstar Drive     10-11-2004
Stop sign(s)           Bailey Court at Limerick Drive         7-8-2002
Stop sign(s)           Balintoy Lane at Kidwelly Lane         7-8-2002
Stop sign(s)           Bardsey Court at Shannamara Drive      7-8-2002
Stop sign(s)           Bent Oak Drive at Willowbrook Drive    7-8-2002
Stop sign(s)           Bermuda Court at Four Wood Drive       3-10-2008
Stop sign(s)           Bethesda Court at Tenby Lane           7-8-2002
Stop sign(s)           Birchdale Court at Woodglen            3-6-95
Stop sign(s)           Birdie Court at Three Wood Drive       3-10-2008
Stop sign(s)           Brecon Court at Caernarfon Lane        7-8-2002
Stop sign(s)           Bogey Court at Emerald Lake Drive      7-8-2002
Stop sign(s)           Bunker Court at Emerald Lake Drive     3-10-2008
Stop sign(s)           Burnt Mill Run at Hunley Ridge Road    7-8-2002
Stop sign(s)           Burnt Mill Run at Millhouse Lane       7-8-2002
Stop sign(s)           Caddy Court at Emerald Lake Drive      3-10-2008
Stop sign(s)           Caernarfon Lane at Brecon Court        10-11-2004
Stop sign(s)           Caernarfon Lane at Divide Drive        7-8-2002
Stop sign(s)           Caernarfon Lane at Shannamara Lane     7-8-2002
Stop sign(s)           Canaveral Road at Aurora Boulevard     3-6-95
Stop sign(s)           Canaveral Road at Friendship Drive     3-6-95
Stop sign(s)           Cardiff Lane at Cardigan Court         7-8-2002
Stop sign(s)           Cardigan Court at Divide Drive         7-8-2002
Stop sign(s)           Carl Drive at Community Park Drive     3-6-95
Stop sign(s)           Carmarthen Court at Caernorfon Lane    7-8-2002
Stop sign(s)           Castlemain Drive at Lawyers Road       7-8-2002
Stop sign(s)           Chaucery Lane at Castlemaine Drive     7-8-2002
Stop sign(s)           Chinaberry Court at Willowbrook Drive  7-8-2002
Stop sign(s)           Chip Shot Drive at Albatross Lane      7-8-2002
Stop signs(s)          Colchester Lane at Castlemaine Drive   7-8-2002
Stop sign(s)           Commercial Drive at Stallings Road     3-6-95
Stop sign(s)           Cotton Mill Court at Stevens Mill Road 7-8-2002
Stop sign(s)           Derbyshire Lane at Castlemaine Drive   7-8-2002
Stop sign(s)           Dilwyn Court at Glamorgan Lane         7-8-2002
Stop sign(s)           Divide Drive at Cardigan Court         10-11-2004
Stop sign(s)           Divide Drive at Shannamara Drive       7-8-2002
Stop sign(s)           Divit Court at Flagstick Drive         7-8-2002
Stop sign(s)           Dogleg Court at Flagstick Drive        7-8-2002
Stop sign(s)           Donegal Court at Limerick Drive        7-8-2002
Stop sign(s)           Drexel Drive at Lakewood Drive         3-6-95
Stop sign(s)           Drye Lane at Stallings Road            3-6-95
Stop sign(s)           Drye Lane at Flowe Drive               3-6-95
Stop sign(s)           Emerald Lake Drive at Lawyers Road     7-8-2002
Stop sign(s)           Flagstick Drive at Emerald Lake Drive  3-10-2008
Stop sign(s)           Flagstick Drive at Four Wood           3-10-2008
Stop sign(s)           Flour Mill Court at Millhouse Lane     7-8-2002
Stop sign(s)           Flowe Drive at Matthews-Indian Trail   3-6-95
                       Road
Stop sign(s)           Flowe Drive and Smith Circle (both     1-9-95
                       intersections)
Stop sign(s)           Flowe Drive at Smith Farm              3-6-95
Stop sign(s)           Forestmont at Friendship Drive         3-6-95
Stop sign(s)           Four Wood Drive at Rock Hill Church    3-10-2008
                       Road
Stop sign(s)           Four Wood Drive at Three Wood Drive    3-10-2008
                       (at 7231 Three Wood Drive)
Stop sign(s)           Gatwick Lane at Colchester Drive       7-8-2002
Stop sign(s)           Golf View Court at Flagstick Drive     3-10-2008
Stop sign(s)           Green Ash Lane at Shadow Lake Lane     7-8-2002
Stop sign(s)           Greenbriar Drive at Greenbriar Parkway 3-6-95
Stop sign(s)           Grindstone Court at Hunley Ridge Road  7-8-2002
Stop sign(s)           Hillwood Court at Springhill Drive     3-6-95
Stop sign(s)           Homewood Way at Sweetbriar             3-6-95
Stop sign(s)           Hunley Creek Drive at Hunley Ridge     7-8-2002
                       Road
Stop sign(s)           Hunley Creek Drive at Stevens Mill     7-8-2002
                       Road
Stop sign(s)           Hunley Hill Court at Millhouse Lane    7-8-2002
Stop sign(s)           Hunley Ridge Road at both              7-8-2002
                       intersections with Hunley Ridge Road
Stop sign(s)           Industrial Drive at Stallings Road     3-6-95
Stop sign(s)           Kidwelly Lane at Glamorgan Lane        7-8-2002
Stop sign(s)           Kidwelly Lane and Tenby Lane           10-11-2004
Stop sign(s)           Kilarney Court at Shannamara Drive     7-8-2002
Stop sign(s)           Kilkenny Court at Caernarfon Lane      7-8-2002
Stop sign(s)           Lakewood Drive at Pleasant Plains Road 3-6-95
Stop sign(s)           Lakewood Drive at Lakewood Drive       3-6-95
Stop sign(s)           Leicester Drive at Castlemaine Drive   7-8-2002
Stop sign(s)           Leicester Drive at Westminister Lane   7-8-2002
Stop sign(s)           Links Lane at Emerald Lake Drive       7-8-2002
Stop sign(s)           Mill Race Lane at Millwright Lane      7-8-2002
Stop sign(s)           Millbrook Lane at Millwright Lane      7-8-2002
Stop sign(s)           Millbrook Lane at Stevens Mill Road    7-8-2002
Stop sign(s)           Millhouse Lane at both intersections   7-8-2002
                       with Stevens Mill Road
Stop sign(s)           Millstream Court at Millhouse Lane     7-8-2002
Stop sign(s)           Millwright Lane at Lawyers Road        7-8-2002
Stop sign(s)           Morningside Meadow Lane at Old Monroe  7-8-2002
                       Road
Stop sign(s)           Mulberry Court at Bent Oak Drive       7-8-2002
Stop sign(s)           Olde Stone Lane at Hunley Ridge Road   7-8-2002
Stop sign(s)           Olde Stone Lane at Millhouse Lane      7-8-2002
Stop sign(s)           Pine Tree Court at Birchdale Court     3-6-95
Stop sign(s)           Porch Swing Lane at Millwright Lane    7-8-2002
Stop sign(s)           Ravens Court at Derbyshire Lane        7-8-2002
Stop sign(s)           Rhoderia Drive at Lakewood Drive       3-6-95
Stop sign(s)           Shady Grove Lane at Willowbrook Drive  7-8-2002
Stop sign(s)           Shannamara Drive and Anglesey Court    11-8-2004
Stop sign(s)           Shannamara Drive and Bardsey Court     10-11-2004
Stop sign(s)           Shannamara Drive and Kidwelly Lane     10-11-2004
Stop sign(s)           Shannamara Drive and Shannamara Drive  11-8-2004
Stop sign(s)           Shirley Lane at Carl Drive             3-6-95
Stop sign(s)           Short Street at Community Park Drive   3-6-95
Stop sign(s)           Springhill Drive at Privette Road      3-6-95
Stop sign(s)           Springhill Drive at Potters Road       3-6-95
Stop sign(s)           Spruce Street at Stallings Road        3-6-95
Stop sign(s)           Stallings Road Extension at Stallings  3-6-95
                       Road
Stop sign(s)           Stevens Mill Road at Mill Race Lane    7-8-2002
Stop sign(s)           Sweetbriar at Old Monroe Road          3-6-95
Stop sign(s)           Three Wood Drive at Four Wood Drive    3-10-2008
                       (at 6007 Four Wood Drive)
Stop sign(s)           Tournament Drive at Emerald Lake Drive 3-10-2008
Stop sign(s)           Two Iron Drive at Four Wood Drive      3-10-2008
Stop sign(s)           Vickie Lane at Matthews-Indian Trail   3-6-95
                       Road
Stop sign(s)           Waterwheel Court at Millhouse Lane     7-8-2002
Stop sign(s)           Wedge Court at Flagstick Drive         3-10-2008
Stop sign(s)           Westminister Lane at Castlemaine Drive 7-8-2002
Stop sign(s)           Whetstone Drive at Potters Road        3-6-95
Stop sign(s)           White Locust Court at Willowbrook      7-8-2002
                       Drive
Stop sign(s)           Willowbrook Drive at Stevens Mill Road 7-8-2002
Stop sign(s)           Woodglen at Privette Road              3-6-95
Yield sign(s)          Industrial Drive at Seaboard Street    3-6-95
Yield sign(s)          Spruce Street at Greenbriar Parkway    3-6-95
Yield sign(s)          Warehouse Drive at Seaboard Street     3-6-95
 
Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 72: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   No parking zones
   
II.   Handicapped parking zones
SCHEDULE I. NO PARKING ZONES.
   (A)   There shall be no parking within the rights-of-way of the following
streets or portions thereof, and there shall be erected in the rights-of-way
signs and other controls as may be appropriate to prohibit parking.
   (B)   The owner of a vehicle parked in violation of this schedule shall be
deemed to have appointed any appropriate law enforcement officer as his or her
agent for the purpose of arranging for the transportation and safe storage of
the vehicle.
Street Ord. Passage Date
Street                      Ord. Passage Date
Gainsborough Drive          5-10-2010
Industrial Drive            8-1-1994
Lawyers Road (SR 1004)      4-12-2004
Old Monroe Road (SR 1009)   4-12-2004
Potters Road (SR 1357)      4-12-2004
Sherin Lane (SR 2301)       10-11-2004
Smith Farm Road             12-4-1995
Stallings Road (SR 1365)    4-12-2004
Stevens Mill Road (SR 1524) 4-12-2004
U.S. 74                     4-12-2004
 
Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II. HANDICAPPED PARKING ZONES.
   There shall be handicapped parking at the following locations, and there
shall be erected signs and other controls as may be appropriate to indicate
handicapped parking.
 
Location
Town Hall
Municipal Park
 
(Ord. passed 3-6-95)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
91.   ANIMAL CONTROL
      
92.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
93.   PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY MATTERS; PUBLIC NUISANCES
      
94.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
95.   OPEN BURNING OF YARD WASTE
CHAPTER 90: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
Violations; Removal and Disposal
   
90.15   Abandoned vehicle unlawful; removal authorized
   
90.16   Nuisance vehicle unlawful; removal authorized
   
90.17   Junked motor vehicle regulated; removal authorized
   
90.18   Removal of abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicles; pre-towing
notice requirements
   
90.19   Exceptions to prior notice requirement
   
90.20   Removal of vehicles; post-towing notice requirements
   
90.21   Right to probable cause hearing before sale or final disposition of
vehicle
   
90.22   Redemption of vehicle during proceedings
   
90.23   Sale and disposition of unclaimed vehicle
   
90.24   Conditions on removal of vehicles from private property
   
90.25   Protection against criminal or civil liability
   
90.26   Exceptions
   
90.27   Unlawful removal of impounded vehicle
Administration and Enforcement
   
90.40   Administration
   
90.41   Alternative remedies
Statutory reference:
   Town authority for removal and disposal of junked and abandoned motor
vehicles, see G.S. § 160A-303, as amended
   Town authority for regulation of abandonment of junked motor vehicles, see
G.S. § 160A-303.2, as amended
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. As authorized and defined in G.S. § 160A-303, an
ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE is one that:
      (1)   Is left upon a public street or highway in violation of a law or
ordinance prohibiting parking;
      (2)   Is left on a public street or highway for longer than seven days;
      (3)   Is left on property owned or operated by the town for longer than
24 hours; and/or
      (4)   Is left on private property without the consent of the owner,
occupant or lessee thereof for longer than two hours.
   AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL. The supervisory employee of the Police Department or
the Town Code Administrator, respectively, are designated to order the removal
of vehicles under the provisions of this chapter.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE. As authorized and defined in G.S. § 160A-303.2, the
term JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE means a vehicle that does not display a current
license plate lawfully upon that vehicle and that:
      (1)   Is partially dismantled or wrecked;
      (2)   Cannot be self-propelled or moved in a manner in which it
originally was intended to move; and/or
      (3)   Is more than five years old and appears to be worth less than $500.
   MOTOR VEHICLE or VEHICLE. All machines designed or intended to travel over
land or water by self-propulsion or while attached to any self-propelled
vehicle.
   NUISANCE VEHICLE. A vehicle on public or private property that is determined
and declared
to be a health or safety hazard, a public nuisance, and unlawful, including a
vehicle found to be:
      (1)   A breeding ground or harbor for mosquitoes, other insects, rats or
other pests;
      (2)   A point of heavy growth of weeds or other noxious vegetation which
exceeds eight inches in height;
      (3)   In a condition allowing the collection of pools or ponds of water;
      (4)   A concentration of quantities of gasoline, oil or other flammable
or explosive materials as evidenced by odor;
      (5)   An area of confinement which cannot be operated from the inside,
such as, but not limited to trunks or hoods;
      (6)   So situated or located that there is a danger of it falling or
turning over;
      (7)   A collection of garbage, food waste, animal waste or any other
rotten or putrescible matter of any kind; or
      (8)   One which has sharp parts thereof which are jagged or contain sharp
edges of metal or glass; and/or
      (9)   Any other vehicle specifically declared a health and safety hazard
and a public nuisance by the Town Council.
(Ord. 82, passed 1-6-97; Am. Ord. passed 2-11-2013)
VIOLATIONS; REMOVAL AND DISPOSAL
§ 90.15 ABANDONED VEHICLE UNLAWFUL; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a vehicle to cause or allow the vehicle to be abandoned as the
term is defined in § 90.01.
   (B)   Upon investigation, proper authorizing officials of the town may
determine that a vehicle is an abandoned vehicle and order the vehicle removed.
(Ord. 82, passed 1-6-97; Am. Ord. passed 2-11-2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.16 NUISANCE VEHICLE UNLAWFUL; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee or occupant of the real
property upon which the vehicle is located to leave or allow the vehicle to
remain on the property after it has been declared a nuisance vehicle.
   (B)   Upon investigation, the Town Code Administrator may determine and
declare that a vehicle is a health or safety hazard and a nuisance vehicle as
defined in § 90.01, and order the vehicle removed.
(Ord. 82, passed 1-6-97; Am. Ord. passed 2-11-2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.17 JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE REGULATED; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a junked motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee or occupant of
the real property upon which a junked motor vehicle is located to leave or
allow the vehicle to remain on the property after the vehicle has been ordered
removed.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to have more than one junked motor vehicle, as
defined herein, on the premises of private property. The single, permitted
junked motor vehicle must strictly comply with the location and concealment
requirements of this section.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, person entitled to possession of a
junked motor vehicle, or the owner, lessee, or occupant of the real property
upon which a junked motor vehicle is located to fail to comply with the
location requirements or the concealment requirements of this chapter.
   (D)   Subject to the provisions of division (E) below, the Town Code
Administrator may order the removal of a junked motor vehicle found in
violation of this chapter to a storage garage or area. No vehicle shall be
removed from private property without the written request of the owner, lessee,
or occupant of the premises unless the Code Administrator finds in writing that
the aesthetic benefits of removing the vehicle outweigh the burdens imposed on
the private property owner. The finding shall be based on a balancing of the
monetary loss of the apparent owner against the corresponding gain to the
public by promoting or enhancing community, neighborhood or area appearance.
The following, among other relevant factors, may be considered:
      (1)   Protection of property values;
      (2)   Promotion of tourism and other economic development opportunities;
      (3)   Indirect protection of public health and safety;
      (4)   Preservation of the character and integrity of the community; and
      (5)   Promotion of the comfort, happiness and emotional stability of area
residents.
   (E)   Permitted concealment of junked motor vehicle. One junked motor
vehicle, in its entirety, can be located on the real property, as defined by
Chapter 152, if the junked motor vehicle is entirely concealed from public view
from a public street.  The Code Administrator has the authority to determine
whether any junked motor vehicle is adequately concealed as required by this
provision. The covering must remain in good repair and must not be allowed to
deteriorate.
(Ord. 82, passed 1-6-97; Am. Ord. passed 2-11-2013; Am. Ord. passed 11-14-2022)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.18 REMOVAL OF ABANDONED, NUISANCE OR JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES; PRE-TOWING
NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as set forth in §
90.19, an abandoned, nuisance or junked vehicle which is to be removed shall be
towed only after notice to the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of the vehicle. In the case of a nuisance vehicle or a junked motor
vehicle, if the names and mailing addresses of the registered owner or person
entitled to the possession of the vehicle, or the owner, lessee or occupant of
the real property upon which the vehicle is located can be ascertained in the
exercise of reasonable diligence, the notice shall be given by first class
mail. The person who mails the notices shall retain a written record to show
the name(s) and address(es) to whom and to which mailed, and the date mailed.
If the names and addresses cannot be ascertained or if the vehicle to be
removed is an abandoned motor vehicle, notice shall be given by affixing on the
windshield or some other conspicuous place on the vehicle a notice indicating
that the vehicle will be removed by the town on a specified date, but no sooner
than seven days after the notice is affixed. The notice shall state that the
vehicle will be removed by the town on a specified date, no sooner that seven
days after the notice is affixed or mailed, unless the vehicle is moved by the
owner or legal possessor prior to that time.
   (B)   With respect to abandoned vehicles on private property, nuisance
vehicles and junked motor vehicles to which notice is required to be given, if
the registered owner or person entitled to possession does not remove the
vehicle but chooses to appeal the determination that the vehicle is abandoned
or a nuisance vehicle, or in the case of a junked motor vehicle that the
aesthetic benefits of removing the vehicle outweigh the burdens, the appeal
shall be made to the Board of Adjustment in writing, heard at the next
regularly scheduled meeting of the Board of Adjustment, and further proceedings
to remove the vehicle shall be stayed until the appeal is heard and decided.
(Ord. 82, passed 1-6-97; Am. Ord. passed 2-11-2013)
§ 90.19 EXCEPTIONS TO PRIOR NOTICE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   The requirement that notice be given prior to the removal of an
abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle may, as determined by the
authorizing official, be omitted in those circumstances where there is a
special need for prompt action to eliminate traffic obstructions or to
otherwise maintain and protect the public safety and welfare.
   (B)   The findings shall, in all cases, be entered by the authorizing
official in the appropriate daily records. Circumstances justifying the removal
of vehicles without prior notice include:
      (1)   For vehicles left on the public streets and highways, the Town
Council hereby determines that immediate removal of the vehicles may be
warranted when they are:
         (a)   Obstructing traffic;
         (b)   Parked in violation of an ordinance prohibiting or restricting
parking;
         (c)   Parked in a no-stopping or standing zone;
         (d)   Parked in loading zones;
         (e)   Parked in bus zones; and/or
         (f)   Parked in violation of temporary parking restrictions.
      (2)   With respect to abandoned or nuisance vehicles left on town-owned
property other than the streets and highways, and on private property, the
vehicles may be removed without giving prior notice only in those circumstances
where the authorizing official finds a special need for prompt action to
protect and maintain the public health, safety and welfare. By way of
illustration and not of limitation, these circumstances include vehicles
blocking or obstructing ingress or egress to businesses and residences,
vehicles parked in a location or manner as to pose a traffic hazard, and
vehicles causing damage to public or private property.
(Ord. 82, passed 1-6-97; Am. Ord. passed 2-11-2013)
§ 90.20 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES; POST-TOWING NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle which has been ordered
removed may, as directed by the town, be removed to a storage garage or area by
the tow truck operator or towing business contracted to perform theses services
for the town. Whenever such a vehicle is removed, the authorized town official
shall immediately notify the last known registered owner of the vehicle, and
the notice is to include the following:
      (1)   The description of the removed vehicle;
      (2)   The location where the vehicle is stored;
      (3)   The violation with which the owner is charged, if any;
      (4)   The procedure the owner must follow to redeem the vehicle; and
      (5)   The procedure the owner must follow to request a probable cause
hearing on the removal.
   (B)   The town shall attempt to give notice to the vehicle owner by
telephone. However, whether or not the owner is reached by telephone, written
notice, including the information set forth in divisions (A)(1) through (5)
above, shall also be mailed to the registered owner's last known address,
unless this notice is waived in writing by the vehicle owner or his or her
agent.
   (C)   If the vehicle is registered in the state, notice shall be given
within 24 hours. If the vehicle is not registered in the state, notice shall be
given to the registered owner within 72 hours from the removal of the vehicle.
   (D)   Whenever an abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle is removed,
and the vehicle has no valid registration or registration plates, the
authorizing official shall make reasonable efforts, including checking the
vehicle identification number, to determine the last known registered owner of
the vehicle and to notify him or her of the information set forth in divisions
(A)(1) through (5) above.
(Ord. 82, passed 1-6-97; Am. Ord. passed 2-11-2013)
§ 90.21 RIGHT TO PROBABLE CAUSE HEARING BEFORE SALE OR FINAL DISPOSITION OF
VEHICLE.
   After the removal of an abandoned vehicle, nuisance vehicle or junked motor
vehicle, the owner or any other person entitled to possession is entitled to a
hearing for the purpose of determining if probable cause existed for removing
the vehicle. A request for hearing must be filed in writing with the county
magistrate designated by the chief district court judge to receive the hearing
requests. The magistrate will set the hearing within 72 hours of receipt of the
request, and the hearing will be conducted in accordance with the provisions of
G.S. § 20-219.11, as amended.
(Ord. 82, passed 1-6-97; Am. Ord. passed 2-11-2013)
§ 90.22 REDEMPTION OF VEHICLE DURING PROCEEDINGS.
   At any stage in the proceedings, including before the probable cause
hearing, the owner may obtain possession of the removed vehicle by paying the
towing fee, including any storage charges, or by posting a bond for double the
amount of the fees and charges to the tow truck operator or towing business
having custody of the removed vehicle. Upon regaining possession of a vehicle,
the owner or person entitled to the possession of the vehicle shall not allow
or engage in further violations of this chapter.
(Ord. 82, passed 1-6-97; Am. Ord. passed 2-11-2013)
§ 90.23 SALE AND DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLE.
   Any abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle which is not claimed by the
owner or other party entitled to possession will be disposed of by the tow
truck operator or towing business having custody of the vehicle. Disposition of
the vehicle shall be carried out in coordination with the town and in
accordance with G.S. Chapter 44A, Article 1, being G.S. §§ 44A-1 et seq.
(Ord. 82, passed 1-6-97; Am. Ord. passed 2-11-2013)
§ 90.24 CONDITIONS ON REMOVAL OF VEHICLES FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   As a general policy, the town will not remove a vehicle from private
property if the owner, occupant or lessee of the property could have the
vehicle removed under applicable state law procedures. In no case will a
vehicle be removed by the town from private property without a written request
of the owner, occupant or lessee, except in those cases where a vehicle is a
nuisance vehicle or is a junked motor vehicle which has been ordered removed by
the Town Code Administrator. The town may require any person requesting the
removal of an abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle from private property
to indemnify the town against any loss, expense or liability incurred because
of the removal, storage or sale thereof.
(Ord. 82, passed 1-6-97; Am. Ord. passed 2-11-2013)
§ 90.25 PROTECTION AGAINST CRIMINAL OR CIVIL LIABILITY.
   No person shall be held to answer in any civil or criminal action to any
owner or other person legally entitled to the possession of an abandoned,
nuisance or junked motor vehicle for disposing of the vehicle as provided in
this chapter.
(Ord. 82, passed 1-6-97; Am. Ord. passed 2-11-2013)
§ 90.26 EXCEPTIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall apply to any vehicle:
   (A)   Which is located in a bona fide automobile graveyard or junkyard, as
defined in G.S. § 136-143, in accordance with the Junkyard Control Act, the
same being G.S. §§ 136-141 et seq.;
   (B)   Which is in an enclosed building;
   (C)   Which is on the premises of a business enterprise being operated in a
lawful place and manner; and/or
   (D)   Which is in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained in a
lawful place and manner by the town.
(Ord. 82, passed 1-6-97; Am. Ord. passed 2-11-2013)
§ 90.27 UNLAWFUL REMOVAL OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or attempt to remove from any
storage facility designated by the town any vehicle which has been impounded
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter unless and until all towing and
impoundment fees which are due, or bond in lieu of the fees, have been paid.
(Ord. 82, passed 1-6-97; Am. Ord. passed 2-11-2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 90.40 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Police Department and the Code Administrator of the town shall be
responsible for the administration and enforcement of this chapter. The Police
Department shall be responsible for administering the removal and disposition
of vehicles determined to be abandoned on the public streets and highways
within the town, and on property owned by the town. The Code Administrator
shall be responsible for administering the removal and disposal of abandoned,
nuisance or junked motor vehicles located on private property. The town may, on
an annual basis, contract with private tow truck operators or towing businesses
to remove, store and dispose of abandoned vehicles, nuisance vehicles and
junked motor vehicles in compliance with this chapter and applicable state
laws. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to limit the legal authority
or powers of officers of the Police Department and Fire Department in enforcing
other laws or in otherwise carrying out their duties.
(Ord. 82, passed 1-6-97; Am. Ord. passed 2-11-2013)
§ 90.41 ALTERNATIVE REMEDIES.
   Nothing in this chapter, nor any of its provisions, shall be construed to
impair or limit in any way the power of the town to define the declare
nuisances and to cause their removal or abatement by summary proceedings or
otherwise, nor shall enforcement of one remedy provided herein prevent the
enforcement of any other remedy or remedies provided herein or in other
ordinances or laws. In addition to the remedies provided herein, any violation
of the terms of this chapter shall subject the violator to the penalties and
remedies, as set forth in §
10.99 of the Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. passed 2-11-2013)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMAL CONTROL
Section
Domestic Animals
   
91.01   Nuisance or at-large dogs and cats
Farm Animals
   
91.15   Keeping of certain animals prohibited; exceptions
DOMESTIC ANIMALS
§ 91.01 NUISANCE OR AT-LARGE DOGS AND CATS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner, and not under the control of the
owner or a member of his or her immediate family, or his or her properly
designated agent by leash, cord, chain or otherwise.
      CAT. Both male and female cats.
      DOG. Both male and female dogs.
      OWNER. The person, firm, association or corporation owning, keeping or
harboring a dog or cat.
   (B)   No owner or keeper of any dog or cat shall permit the dog or cat to
run at large or cause a nuisance to any other person.
(Ord. passed 11-5-87; Am. Ord. passed 9-28-2009) Penalty, see §
10.99
FARM ANIMALS
§ 91.15 KEEPING OF CERTAIN ANIMALS PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep any horse, mule, donkey,
pony, hog, cattle, sheep, chicken, turkey, goat or pig within the municipal
limits of the town except on a residentially zoned parcel or tract of land two
acres or greater in size. However, horses may be allowed on a residentially
zoned parcel or tract one and one-half acres or greater in size. The list of
animals provided above is not to be deemed all-inclusive.
(Ord. passed 6-26-95)
   (B)   (1)   Any equine animal (horse, pony, donkey or mule) which is being
kept on a parcel of land in violation of division (A) above may continue to be
kept on the same parcel of land until either:
         (a)   The animal dies; or
         (b)   The animal is no longer kept on the parcel of land for more than
60 consecutive days.
      (2)   An animal may be kept pursuant to this section only if it has been
registered on or before December 14, 2000. No animal may be substituted for an
animal kept under this section.
   (C)   Chickens allowed in town; permit.
      (1)   Live chickens shall be allowed in the town's municipal limits with
a valid permit (one permit per household). No roosters shall be allowed.
      (2)   The owner or possessor must pay an annual permit fee in the amount
established and/or modified by the Town of Stallings. Annual renewal fees must
be paid on or before July 1.
      (3)   Before a permit is issued, the Code Enforcement Officer shall
verify the size of the property and inspect the premises to verify all other
setback and other requirements are met per this section.
      (4)   When a permit is denied for any reason, the applicant shall be
given a written explanation of the reason for denial.
   (D)   Permit considerations. An owner or possessor of such animals shall
comply with the following applicable provisions before a permit is issued. All
shelters described within this section must meet all standards as defined
within the Town of Stallings Code of Ordinances, as noted.
      (1)   Chickens are prohibited on lots less than one-fourth acre (10,890
square feet) in size; no more than ten chickens per acre. The number of
chickens shall be proportionate to the acreage (i.e., three per one-fourth
acre, five per one-half acre, seven per three-fourths acre, ten per acre).
      (2)   The chickens must be confined in a coop (no free-range) not less
than 18 inches from the ground. The coop shall be a minimum of 30 feet from the
nearest residence other than that of the owner and a minimum of 25 feet from
any property line. The coop shall have a minimum of four square feet of floor
area for each chicken with a maximum of one coop allowed per property.
      (3)   The coop shall be kept clean, sanitary, and free from accumulation
of animal excrement and objectionable odors.
      (4)   No slaughter or sale of slaughtered chickens is allowed within the
town unless expressly permitted by the Stallings Development Ordinance.
      (5)   The permit may be revoked upon violation of the terms and
provisions of this section. Permits shall not be issued and may be revoked if
the chicken is likely to endanger the health, safety, peace, quiet, comfort,
enjoyment of or otherwise become a public nuisance to nearby residents or
occupants or places of business.
      (6)   If renting, tenants must get written approval from the property
owner and must submit the approval with the permit application.
   (E)   Penalties and remedies.
      (1)   Civil penalties. The Code Enforcement Officer may issue a warning
citation for a first offense of this section. The Code Enforcement Officer may
issue a civil citation for any subsequent violations of this section,
subjecting the violator to a civil penalty of $100 for a second offense, $300
for the third offense and subsequent $50 per day.
      (2)   If a person fails to pay the citation within ten days of issuance,
the town may seek to enforce this section through any appropriate equitable
action.
      (3)   Each day the violation continues after the offender has been
notified of the violation shall constitute a separate offense.
      (4)   The town may seek to enforce this section by using any one or a
combination of the foregoing remedies.
         (a)   Civil citation; and/or
         (b)   Liens for unpaid fines.
(Ord. passed 11-13-2000; Am. Ord. passed 9-28-2009; Am. Ord. passed 1-10-2022)
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 92: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
92.01   Skates, skateboards, rollerblades and similar activities prohibited
within the Town Park
   
92.02   Park/trail hours
   
92.03   Closing of parks/trails
§ 92.01 SKATES, SKATEBOARDS, ROLLERBLADES AND SIMILAR ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED
WITHIN THE TOWN PARK.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to skate, skateboard, rollerskate,
rollerblade or operate any other motorized or non-motorized mode of conveyance
within the Town Park, with the exception of tricycles and bicycles for children
ages 12 and younger.
   (B)   In addition to criminal penalties, violators of this section may also
be subject to a civil penalty. Unless otherwise provided, civil penalties shall
be in the following amounts:
      (1)   First citation: warning;
      (2)   Second citation for same or similar violation: $100; and
      (3)   Third and subsequent citation for same or similar violation: $500.
(Ord. passed 1-4-94; Am. Ord. passed 2-9-2009; Am. Ord. passed 9-10-2012)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.02 PARK/TRAIL HOURS.
   (A)   All parks and trails shall open daily at dawn and close at dusk,
unless otherwise posted.
   (B)   The Parks and Recreation Director or Town Manager shall have the
authority to allow any park or trail to remain open for any town-sponsored
events, programs, or activities offered by the town.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to enter or remain within any public park owned
or operated by the town, to include all attached parking areas to any park,
when the park is closed. The hours the park is closed shall be conspicuously
posted in a sufficient number of places to give the general public notice of
the unlawfulness of entry.
   (D)   Whoever violates any of the regulations provided for pursuant to §
92.02 shall be subject to ejection from town parks and trails. Ejection from
the parks and trails may be accomplished by oral or written complaint from any
town Police Officer, Town Manager, or Director of the Parks and Recreation
Department.
   (E)   In addition to criminal penalties of second degree trespass under G.S.
§ 14-159.13, violators of this section may also be subject to a civil penalty
pursuant to §
10.99. Unless otherwise provided, civil penalties shall be in the following
amounts:
      (1)   First citation: warning;
      (2)   Second citation for same or similar violation: $100; and
      (3)   Third and subsequent citation for same or similar violation: $500.
(Ord. passed 9-11-2023)
§ 92.03 CLOSING OF PARKS/TRAILS.
   (A)   The Town Manager, Parks and Recreation Director, Chief of Police, or
any law enforcement officer, with competent jurisdiction, may temporarily close
or suspend activity at any park or trail as deemed necessary to maintain order,
to protect persons or property or to promote the public safety, health and
welfare.
   (B)   In addition to criminal penalties, violators of this section may also
be subject to a civil penalty under §
10.99. Civil penalties shall be in the following amounts:
      (1)   First citation: warning;
      (2)   Second citation for same or similar violation: $100; and
      (3)   Third and subsequent citation for same or similar violation: $500.
(Ord. passed 9-11-2023)
CHAPTER 93: PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY MATTERS; PUBLIC NUISANCES
Section
Public Nuisances
   
93.01   Abatement of unsanitary and unsafe conditions
   
93.02   Loud, disturbing noises prohibited generally
   
93.03   Measurement
   
93.04   Sounds impacting residential life
   
93.05   Permits for additional amplification
   
93.06   Animals
   
93.07   Motor vehicles
 
   
93.99   Penalty
PUBLIC NUISANCES
§ 93.01 ABATEMENT OF UNSANITARY AND UNSAFE CONDITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the term NUISANCE shall mean or refer
to any condition or any use of property or any act or omission affecting the
condition or use of property which threatens or is likely to threaten the
safety of the public, adversely affects the general health, happiness, security
or welfare of others, or, is detrimental to the rights of others to the full
use of their own property and their own comfort, happiness and emotional
stability because of decreased property values and the unsightliness and
decreased livability of neighborhoods.
   (B)   The following enumerated and described conditions, or any combination
thereof, are hereby found, deemed, and declared to constitute a detriment,
danger and hazard to the health, safety, morals and general welfare of the
inhabitants of the town. They are hereby found, deemed and declared to be
public nuisances wherever the conditions may exist within the corporate limits
as now or hereafter established. The creation, maintenance or failure to abate
any nuisances is hereby declared unlawful.
      (1)   Any weeds or other vegetation having an overall height of more than
18 inches above the surrounding ground provided that the following shall not be
considered to be a part of this condition: trees and ornamental shrubs,
cultured plants; natural vegetation on undeveloped property that is not a
threat to the character of surrounding properties, and flowers and growing and
producing vegetable plants. Every owner, tenant, occupant, or person having
control of property or lot fronting upon any street or roadway in the city
shall:
         (a)   Keep the right-of-way between the property line and the edge of
the pavement or curbline, including sidewalk if any, maintained, clean and
clear of all weeds and other vegetation, shall keep any grass thereon cut and
keep street drains and street gutters open and free from obstruction.
         (b)   Keep streets and sidewalks clear of overhanging limbs, bushes,
shrubs, vines, and
other vegetation along with any obstruction which interferes with the public
use of the street or sidewalk.
         (c)   It is the responsibility of the owner, tenant, occupant of
property or lot fronting upon any street, roadway, or sidewalk in the city to
maintain the property in conformity with the requirements of this section.
Subject to the provisions of Article 11 of the Town of Stallings Development
Ordinance, the Public Works Department may cause the removal of any shrubbery
and trees or other obstructions from street rights-of-way including dedicated
or recorded easements for sight distance and may also cause the removal of
plantings, limbs and other obstructions from such rights-of-way or sight
easements. Actual costs associated with removal of the vegetation and/or
obstruction may be assessed to the property owner or person causing or allowing
the obstruction.
      (2)   Any accumulation of trash, garbage, food waste and other trash
which is the result of the absence of, or overflowing of, or improperly closed
trash or garbage containers, that attracts or is likely to attract mice and
rats, flies and mosquitoes or other pests.
      (3)   An open or unsecured storage or collection place for chemicals,
acids, oils, gasoline, flammable or combustible materials or flammable or
combustible liquids, poisonous materials or other similar harmful or dangerous
substances, gasses or vapors.
      (4)   An open place, collection, storage place or concentration of
combustible items such as mattresses, boxes, paper, automobile tires and tubes,
garbage, trash, refuse, brush, old clothes, rags, or any other combustible
materials collection.
      (5)   An open storage place for old worn out, broken or discarded
machinery, car parts, junk, tire rims, furniture, stoves, refrigerators,
appliances, cans and containers, household goods, plumbing or electrical
fixtures, old rusty metal, fencing materials or other similar materials.
      (6)   Any accumulation of garbage, rubbish, trash, or junk causing or
threatening to cause a fire hazard, or causing or threatening to cause the
accumulation of stagnant water, or causing or threatening to cause the
inhabitation therein of rats, mice, snakes, mosquitoes, or vermin prejudicial
to the public health.
      (7)   Any accumulation of animal or vegetable matter that is offensive by
virtue of odors or vapors or by the inhabitance therein of rats, mice, snakes,
or vermin of any kind which is or may be dangerous or prejudicial to the public
health.
      (8)   The open storage of any discarded ice box, furniture, refrigerator,
stove, glass, building materials, building rubbish or similar items. The use of
carports, open porches, decks, open garages and other outdoor areas that are
visible from the street as a storage or collection place for boxes, appliances,
furniture (not typical outdoor or yard furniture), tools, equipment, junk,
garbage, old worn out broken or discarded machinery and equipment, cans,
containers, household goods or other similar condition that increase the
likelihood of a fire, may conceal dangerous conditions, may be a breeding place
or habitat for mice, rats or other pests, or create an unattractive condition
or visually blighted property
      (9)   A collection place for lumber, bricks, blocks, nails, building
hardware, roofing materials, scaffolding, masonry materials, electrical
supplies or materials, plumbing supplies or materials, heating and air
conditioning supplies or materials or any other type of old or unusable
building supplies (especially those with nails, staples or sharp objects and
edges) unless these conditions are temporary in nature and caused by a current
construction project in progress pursuant to a lawfully issued building permit.
      (10)   Any building or other structure which has been burned, partially
burned or otherwise partially destroyed and which is unsightly or hazardous to
the safety of any person, is a continuing fire hazard or which is structurally
unsound to the extent that the Code Administrator or his or her designee can
reasonably determine that there is a likelihood of personal or property injury
to any person or property entering the premises.
      (11)   The placement, storage or use of upholstered sofas, couches,
chairs or other indoor type furniture, appliances, seats removed from motor
vehicles or other furniture not intended for outdoor use by the manufacturer,
use on any open porch, carport, stoop, deck, veranda, terrace, patio or other
outdoor area that is visible from nearby streets and sidewalks.
      (12)   A collection place, pool or pond of stagnant or foul water or
persistent dampness caused by overflowing septic tanks, manmade dams, open
ditches, overflowing pipes, foundation trenches or other impoundments of any
kind.
      (13)   Barns or farm animal pens, pastures or enclosures for farm animals
which are not kept sanitary and clean or otherwise become a collection place
for animal waste and which because of the conditions associated therewith
attract rats, mice, flies or other pests or emit foul odors that can be
detected or noticed on adjacent properties or are otherwise not kept in a
sanitary condition.
      (14)   Dog lots, pens, pet enclosures of all kinds, outdoor areas where
dogs or other pets are chained or kept or areas where dogs and cats are
permitted to roam which become a collection place for dog, cat or pet waste and
excrement and which attract flies or other pests, emit foul odors which can be
detected or noticed on adjacent property or are not kept in a sanitary
condition.
      (15)   A collection place for sewage and sewage drainage or the seepage
from septic tanks, broken or malfunctioning plumbing and sewer pipes or any
other seepage of dangerous, hazardous or poisonous liquids.
      (16)   A collection place for tree limbs, dried brush, dead vegetation,
stumps or other decayed wood and materials or other similar rubbish.
      (17)   Any discharge into or polluting of any stream, creek, river or
other body of water or the discharge of any dangerous substance or any other
material likely to harm the water or any vegetation, fish or wildlife in or
along the water or the storage of such harmful materials and substances in a
manner so that it is likely that streams, creeks, rivers or other bodies of
water will become polluted or adversely affected in any manner.
      (18)   Any condition which blocks, hinders, or obstructs in any way the
natural flow of branches, streams, creeks, surface waters, ditches, or drains,
to the extent that the premises is not free from standing water.
      (19)   Any conditions or use of property, which results in the emission
of pollutants and particles into the atmosphere or causes noxious odors, vapors
and stenches to be discharged into the air.
      (20)   All fences shall be maintained in good condition, including but
not limited to paint, stain, and repair of damaged portions, rusted metal,
holes, loose components, and sagging fence portions.
      (21)   Nuisance vehicle.  A vehicle on public or private property that is
determined and declared to be a health or safety hazard, a public nuisance, and
unlawful, including a vehicle found to be:
         (a)   A breeding ground or harbor for mosquitoes, other insects, rats
or other pests; or
         (b)   A point of heavy growth of weeds or other noxious vegetation
which exceeds eight inches in height;
         (c)   In a condition allowing the collection of pools or ponds of
water; or
         (d)   A concentration of quantities of gasoline, oil, or other
flammable or explosive materials as evidenced by odor; or
         (e)   An area of confinement which cannot be operated from the inside,
such as, but not limited to, trunks or hoods;
         (f)   So situated or located that there is a danger of it falling or
turning over; or
         (g)   A collection of garbage, food waste, animal waste, or any other
rotten or putrescent matter of any kind; or
         (h)   One which has sharp parts thereof which are jagged or contain
sharp edges of metal or glass; or
         (i)   Any other vehicle specifically declared a health and safety
hazard and a public nuisance by the Town Council.
      (22)   Any condition detrimental to the public health which violates the
rules and regulations of the County Health Departments.
   (C)   (1)   When any condition in violation of this section is found to
exist, the Code Administrator or persons as may be designated by the Town
Council shall give notice to the owner of the premises to abate or remove such
conditions within ten days. The notice shall be in writing, shall include a
description of the premises sufficient for identification and shall set forth
the violation and state that, if the violation is not corrected within ten
days, the city may proceed to correct the same as authorized by this section.
Service of the notice shall be by any one of the following methods.
         (a)   By delivery to any owner personally or by leaving the notice at
the usual place of abode of the owner with a person who is over the age of 16
years and a member of the family of the owner.
         (b)   By depositing the notice in the U.S. Post Office addressed to
the owner at his last known address with regular mail postage prepaid thereon.
         (c)   By posting and keeping posted, for ten days, a copy of the
notice, in placard form, in a conspicuous place on the premises on which the
violation exists, when notice cannot be served by method (a) and (b) above.
      (2)   The town may notify a chronic violator of the town's public
nuisance ordinance that, if the violator's property is found to be in violation
of this chapter, the town shall, without further notice in the calendar year in
which notice is given, take action to remedy the violation. The expense of such
action shall become a lien upon the property and shall be collected as unpaid
taxes. The notice shall be sent by registered or certified mail. When service
is attempted by registered or certified mail, a copy of the notice may also be
sent by regular mail. Service shall be deemed sufficient if the registered or
certified mail is unclaimed or refused, but the regular mail is not returned by
the post office within 10 days after the mailing. If service by regular mail is
used, a copy of the notice shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the
premises affected. A chronic violator is a person who owns property whereupon,
in the previous calendar year, the town gave notice of violation at least three
times under any provision of the public nuisance ordinance.
   (D)   If the owner of any property fails to comply with a notice given
pursuant to this section, within ten days after the service of the notice, he
or she shall be subject to prosecution for violation of this section in
accordance with law and each day that the failure continues shall be a separate
offense. In addition, the town may have the condition described in the notice
abated, removed or otherwise corrected and all expenses incurred thereby shall
be chargeable to and paid by the owner of the property and shall be collected
as taxes and levies are collected. All expenses shall constitute a lien against
the property on which the work was done.
   (E)   The procedure set forth in this section shall be in addition to any
other remedies that may now or hereafter exist under law for the abatement of
public nuisances. In addition to the remedies provided for herein, any
violation of the terms of this section shall subject the violator to the
penalties and remedies as set forth in 10.99 of the Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. passed 9-6-88; Am. Ord. passed 9-6-89; Am. Ord. passed 9-28-2009; Am.
Ord. passed 2-11- 2013; Am. Ord. passed 9-12-2016; Am. Ord. 377, passed 9-9-
2019; Am. Ord. passed 1-24-2022) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.02 LOUD, DISTURBING NOISES PROHIBITED GENERALLY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, groups of persons, or property owner to
create, assist in creating, or allow any unreasonably loud and disturbing noise
in the town.
(Ord. passed 2-9-2009; Am. Ord. passed 11-28-2011; Am. Ord. passed 10-26-2015)
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 MEASUREMENT.
   The following factors incident to the noise shall be considered in
determining whether a noise is unreasonably loud and disturbing:
   (A)   Time of day;
   (B)   Proximity to residential structures;
   (C)   Whether the noise is recurrent, intermittent or constant;
   (D)   The volume and intensity;
   (E)   Whether the noise has been enhanced in volume or range by any type of
electronic or mechanical means;
   (F)   The character and zoning of the area; and
   (G)   Whether the noise is subject to being controlled without unreasonable
effort or expense to the creator thereof.
(Ord. passed 2-9-2009; Am. Ord. passed 11-28-2011; Am. Ord. passed 10-26-2015)
§ 93.04 SOUNDS IMPACTING RESIDENTIAL LIFE.
   It shall be unlawful to carry on the following activities in any
residentially zoned area of the city or within 300 feet of any residentially
occupied structure in any zone of the city:
   (A)   The operation of a front-end loader for refuse collection between the
hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.;
   (B)   The operation of construction machinery between the hours of 9:00 p.m.
and 7:00 a.m.;
   (C)   The operation of garage machinery between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and
7:00 a.m.;
   (D)   The operation of lawn mowers and other domestic tools out-of-doors
between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.;
   (E)   The operation of golf course maintenance equipment between the hours
of 9:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. with the following exceptions:
      (1)   Operation of turf fans required for the health of golf course turf
are not limited by time constraints; and
      (2)   Operation of golf course maintenance equipment may occur between
the hours of 5:30 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. on days there is a previously organized
golf tournament or special golf event being held or when such operations are
occurring more than 300 feet from any residentially occupied structure; and
   (F)   Amplified sound as defined in §
93.05 occurring between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. If a permit is
acquired as per §
93.05, these hours may be extended to 11:00 p.m.
(Ord. passed 2-9-2009; Am. Ord. passed 11-28-2011; Am. Ord. passed 10-26-
2015;Am. Ord. 379, passed 9-9-2019; Am. Ord. 387, passed 9-23-2019; Am. Ord.
388, passed 10-14-2019; Am. Ord. passed 7-13-2020) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 PERMITS FOR ADDITIONAL AMPLIFICATION.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      AMPLIFIED SOUND. Any sound using amplifying equipment, whose source is
outside or whose source is inside and the sound propagates to the outside or to
other dwellings or interior locations under separate ownership or occupancy.
   (B)   Application. An application for a permit for amplification of sound
shall be submitted to the town at least 15 working days in advance of the
planned use except in an emergency. The application shall designate an
individual person who shall be in control of the sound amplification equipment
and ensure that its use complies with the terms of the permit.
   (C)   Notice of tentative approval. Upon tentative approval, the applicant
for a permit shall be responsible for mailing or otherwise delivering to the
occupants of each property within a 1,000-foot radius of the facility for which
the permit has been granted, as shown on the tax maps of the county, a notice
stating the date and hours of the event. The notice shall be delivered at least
72 hours in advance of the event. The permit shall not actually be granted and
issued until the applicant submits an affidavit to the town that such notices
have actually been mailed or otherwise delivered.
   (D)   Limits on hours. No permit shall be issued which shall have the effect
of allowing more than 20 hours of excess amplification per year at any place of
public entertainment having a capacity of 1,000 or more persons or ten hours of
excess amplification at any other location. Permits shall be tentatively
approved and subsequently granted by the Police Department in the order of
receipt unless permits for 20 or more hours have previously been issued for the
same or other locations within a 1,000-foot radius of the facility in the same
calendar year, in which event the applicant shall elect whether to limit his
request so as to keep the year's accumulated hours of excess amplification in
that location below 20 hours or select another location.
   (E)   Denial; issuance of exceptional permit. If an applicant has been
denied a permit under this section and believes the denial is illegal by virtue
of applicable state or federal law, he or she shall promptly submit a copy of
the denied permit application together with a short statement of the reasons he
or she believes he or she is entitled to a permit to the Town Manager or his or
her designee. The Town Manager or his or her designee shall have the discretion
to grant an exceptional permit waiving location or time requirements, upon his
or her determination that the applicant has made a substantial showing of legal
entitlement. Any such exceptional permit shall be promptly reported to the City
Council.
(Ord. passed 2-9-2009; Am. Ord. passed 11-28-2011; Am. Ord. passed 10-26-2015)
§ 93.06 ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep or have in his or her
possession, or harbor, any dog, other animal or bird which, by frequent or
habitually howling, yelping, barking or otherwise, causes loud noises and
produces seriously annoying disturbance to any person or to the neighborhood.
(Ord. passed 2-9-2009; Am. Ord. passed 11-28-2011; Am. Ord. passed 10-26-2015)
Penalty, see §
93.99
Cross-reference:
   Animal control, see
Chapter 91
§ 93.07 MOTOR VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful to operate or allow the operation of any motor vehicle
in the town:
   (A)   Which has had its muffler-exhaust and/or other noise-control equipment
removed, altered or maintained in such disrepair as to create unreasonably loud
and disturbing noises.
   (B)   By engaging in jackrabbit starts, spinning tires, racing engines, or
other operations which create unreasonably loud and disturbing noises.
   (C)   Off the boundaries of a public street for racing or other operations
which create unreasonably loud and disturbing noises.
   (D)   The sounding of any horn, whistle or signal device on any automobile,
motorcycle, bus or other vehicle, except as a danger signal or as required by
law, so as to create any unreasonable, loud or harsh sound, or the sounding of
the device for an unnecessary and unreasonable period of time.
   (E)   The playing, use or operation from a motor vehicle or by pedestrian,
of any radio, tape, CD player, or other sound amplification device emitting
sound that is audible from a distance of 50 or more feet from the source of the
sound.
(Ord. passed 2-9-2009; Am. Ord. passed 11-28-2011; Am. Ord. passed 10-26-2015)
Penalty, see §
93.99
Cross-reference:
   Traffic regulations, see
Chapter 70
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violations of §
93.02 shall constitute a Class 3 misdemeanor pursuant to G.S. § 14-4,
punishable by a fine of up to $200 and imprisonment in the discretion of the
court.
   (B)   Violations may also be subject to a civil penalty pursuant to §
10.99 of this Code of Ordinances. Unless otherwise provided, civil penalties
shall be in the following amounts:
      (1)   First citation: warning;
      (2)   Second citation for same or similar violation: $100; and
      (3)   Third and subsequent citation for same or similar violation: $500.
(Ord. passed 5-10-99; Am. Ord. passed 2-9-2009; Am. Ord. passed 11-28-2011; Am.
Ord. passed 10-26-2015; Am. Ord. passed 1-22-2024)
CHAPTER 94: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Certain activities in streets prohibited
Curb Cut Regulations
   
94.15   Purpose
   
94.16   Administration
   
94.17   Applicability
   
94.18   Driveways and street access
   
94.19   Driveway permit application process
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01 CERTAIN ACTIVITIES IN STREETS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to put, keep or maintain any
basketball goal, football goal, soccer goal, baseball or softball bag or
diamond, or any other similar team sports equipment on or over any public
street, sidewalk or street right-of-way within the corporate limits of the
town.
   (B)   Basketball goals are allowed on residential streets in accordance with
the following conditions:
      (1)   Goals must be removable and not a permanent structure;
      (2)   Goal base structure must be placed off the road and clear of
utility boxes, light poles, sidewalks, or any other permanent structure;
      (3)   The speed limit on the road where the goal is located must be 25
mph or lower;
      (4)   Goal must be in clear sight with no obstructions preventing drivers
from identifying the goal from a safe distance away; and
      (5)   If at any time, the Stallings Police Department or Stallings Code
Enforcement Officer views the goal to be a health and safety risk or a nuisance
to the community for any reason, the goal must be removed.
   (C)   In addition to criminal penalties, violators of this section may be
subject to a civil penalty. Unless otherwise provided, civil penalties shall be
in the following amounts:
      (1)   First citation: warning;
      (2)   Second citation for same or similar violation: $100; and
      (3)   Third and subsequent citation for same or similar violation: $500.
(Ord. passed 8-7-2000; Am. Ord. passed 2-9-2009; Am. Ord. 365, passed 5-13-
2019) Penalty, see §
10.99
CURB CUT REGULATIONS
§ 94.15 PURPOSE.
   It is recognized that driveway connections onto a road serve to increase
traffic flow and volume on that road. Increased traffic flow, if left
unchecked, can lead to traffic congestion, increased travel times, and to an
increase in the number of accidents involving motorists, cyclists and/or
pedestrians. The purpose of this subchapter, per G.S. § 160A-307, is to promote
the orderly flow of traffic on streets through the town and to provide for
increased safety for pedestrians, cyclists and motorists alike, by providing
street curb-cuts and other associated road improvements through the issuance of
driveway permits. No zoning permit shall be approved without the applicant
having first received driveway permit approval.
(Ord. passed 4-3-2000)
§ 94.16 ADMINISTRATION.
   This subchapter shall be administered by the Zoning Administrator or
designee appointed by the Town Council, hereafter referred to as the
Administrator.
(Ord. passed 4-3-2000)
§ 94.17 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   This subchapter shall be applicable within the corporate limits of the
town.
   (B)   This subchapter shall be applicable when a building or parcel of land
is proposed to be used or occupied without any associated building construction
or alteration, or whenever a zoning permit, as stipulated in
Chapter 152, is required. Adherence to this subchapter, however, shall not be
required for any of the following:
      (1)   The initial development of a single-family or two-family dwelling
structure, along with related accessory structures, on a recorded lot;
      (2)   Initial construction or expansion of residential accessory
structures;
      (3)   Initial construction of nonresidential accessory structures which
are less than 500 square feet in area; or an expansion of a nonresidential
accessory structure by less than 500 square feet;
      (4)   An enlargement of an existing principal nonresidential structure by
less than 20% of its existing gross floor area, provided the enlargement does
not necessitate the creation of additional off-street parking or loading spaces
as may be required by
Chapter 152; and/or
      (5)   A change in principal use which would not necessitate the creation
of additional off-street parking and/or loading spaces.
(Ord. passed 4-3-2000)
§ 94.18 DRIVEWAYS AND STREET ACCESS.
   (A)   Any person desiring to construct a driveway or other connection within
the right-of-way of a public street must secure a permit prior to construction.
Connections from single-family and duplex dwellings are excluded unless access
is required to a thoroughfare as identified on the Thoroughfare Plan. Failure
to secure a permit prior to construction may result in the removal of the
driveways at the expense of the property owner and/or denial of access at that
location. All driveways must conform to the design and construction standards
established by the town or NCDOT, whichever is more restrictive. Driveways that
connect to thoroughfares must also comply with the following requirements of
divisions (B) through (G) below.
   (B)   All lots or parcels are entitled to at least one driveway connection
per street frontage on any street except those which access is otherwise
limited or controlled. Requests for two driveways will only be accepted for
lots with a street frontage of 350 feet or more. Request for three driveways
will be considered for tracts with 600 feet or more street frontage. Artificial
division of a single parcel or development to increase the number of access
points is not permitted.
   (C)   No driveway shall be located within 200 feet of the right-of-way of an
existing street intersection. Applicants may seek a variance from the Board of
Adjustments.
   (D)   The town may require a traffic study for any proposed driveway to be
designed to accommodate both current conditions and traffic projections for ten
years into the future. In any case, the location of the proposed driveway
cannot interfere with the daily function of the intersection(s).
   (E)   Nothing in this section exempts any person from complying with any
regulation(s) or requirement(s) of the State Department of Transportation
regarding driveway connections to NCDOT maintained roads, nor does compliance
with any or all of NCDOT's requirements exempt any person from the requirements
of this subchapter. In the case where these regulations may overlap or
conflict, the more restrictive provision will control. The granting of a
driveway permit by the town does not insure the granting of a permit by NCDOT.
The requirements in this section apply to all zoning districts.
   (F)   Existing driveways shall not be altered within the right-of-way
without a permit. The maintenance of all driveways located on or within the
public right-of-way shall be the responsibility of the property owner.
   (G)   When the use of the property is to be changed or altered, a new
driveway permit must be obtained prior to a land use change.
(Ord. passed 4-3-2000; Am. Ord. passed 1-11-2010)
§ 94.19 DRIVEWAY PERMIT APPLICATION PROCESS.
   (A)   An application for a driveway permit may be made and approved by the
Administrator simultaneously with a zoning permit application.
   (B)   Having received and reviewed a complete application, the Administrator
shall have the authority to:
      (1)   Approve the driveway permit without conditions;
      (2)   Where applicable, approve the permit in conformity with any other
conditions previously placed on the property in question by the town;
      (3)   Approve the permit subject to certain fair and reasonable
conditions being attached; or
      (4)   Deny the application.
   (C)   The determination shall be made within 45 days of receipt of a
completed application. The application will be deemed approved if action is
otherwise not taken within the 45-day period.
   (D)   The Administrator may only approve the driveway permit application
having first determined that the proposed development, land improvement or use
of property meets each of the following findings:
      (1)   The proposed use or development will not serve to impede the flow
of traffic through the town.
      (2)   The proposed use or development will not be a safety deterrent for
pedestrians, cyclists and motorists.
      (3)   Conditions, if any, which are placed on the permit are reasonably
attributable to the traffic using ingress and egress from the lot(s) in
question, and the improvements serve the traffic emanating from the points of
ingress and egress.
      (4)   The proposed use or development meets all of the applicable
requirements of
Chapters 151 and
152.
   (E)   The Administrator may deny an application if each of the above
findings of divisions (C)(1) through (4) is not found in the affirmative. Any
conditions placed on the driveway permit by the Administrator shall be in
support of and in harmony with each of the above referenced findings of fact.
   (F)   Any decision of the Administrator regarding the driveway permit may be
appealed to the Board of Adjustment, provided the appeal is made in writing no
greater than 15 days from the date of the decision. The process for hearing
this appeal shall be as prescribed in the town's Unified Development Ordinance.
All other rules and regulations that are applicable in the town's Unified
Development Ordinance and the Board of Adjustment rules of procedure shall
apply.
(Ord. passed 4-3-2000)
Cross-reference:
   Subdivisions, see
Ch. 151
   Zoning, see
Ch. 152
CHAPTER 95: OPEN BURNING OF YARD WASTE
Section
   
95.01   Definitions
   
95.02   Open burning of yard waste prohibited
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words when used in this chapter shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
   OPEN BURNING. The burning of yard waste in such a manner that the products
of combustion resulting from the burning are emitted directly to the atmosphere
without passing through a chimney or a permitted air pollution control device.
   YARD WASTE. Any grass, weeds, leaves, tree trimmings, plants, shrubbery
pruning, and such other similar materials which are generated in the
maintenance of yards and gardens.
(Ord. passed 12-10-2007; Am. Ord. passed 5-24-2021)
§ 95.02 OPEN BURNING OF YARD WASTE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Open burning of yard waste prohibited. In compliance with North
Carolina Administrative Code Section 15A NCAC 02D .1903, all open burning of
leaves, logs, stumps, tree branches or yard trimmings is prohibited where a
public pickup of yard debris service is provided.
   (B)   Permissible open burning.
      (1)   Open burning for land clearing or right-of-way maintenance, if in
accordance with all conditions listed within NCAC 92D .1903(b)(2).
      (2)   Campfires and fires used solely for outdoor cooking and other
recreational purposes or for ceremonial occasions, or for human warmth and
comfort and which do not create a nuisance and do not use synthetic materials
or refuse or salvageable materials for fuel.
(Ord. passed 12-10-2007; Am. Ord. passed 5-24-2021) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Civil penalties. The Code Enforcement Officer may issue a warning
citation for a first offense of this chapter. The Code Enforcement Officer may
issue a civil citation for any subsequent violations of this chapter,
subjecting the violator to a civil penalty of $200 for a second offense and
$500 for the third offense and subsequent offenses.
   (B)   If a person fails to pay the citation within ten days of issuance, the
town may seek to enforce this ordinance through any appropriate equitable
action.
   (C)   Each day the violation continues after the offender has been notified
of the violation shall constitute a separate offense.
   (D)   The town may seek to enforce this chapter by using any one or a
combination of the foregoing remedies.
(Ord. 12-10-2007; Am. Ord. passed 9-28-2009; Am. Ord. passed 5-24-2021)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
111.   ADULT ESTABLISHMENTS
         
APPENDIX A: APPLICATION FOR BUSINESS PRIVILEGE LICENSE: ADULT ESTABLISHMENT
         
APPENDIX B: APPLICATION FOR BUSINESS PRIVILEGE LICENSE: ADULT LIVE ENTERTAINER
      
112.   TAXICAB OPERATIONS
      
113.   PANHANDLING, BEGGING, SOLICITATION AND CANVASSING
CHAPTER 110: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
110.01   Sunday sales
§ 110.01 SUNDAY SALES.
   Pursuant to the authority granted by state law, any establishment located in
the corporate limits of the town and holding an ABC permit issued pursuant to
G.S. § 18B-1001 is permitted to sell beverages allowed by its permit beginning
at 10:00 a.m. on Sundays.
(Ord. passed 9-11-2017)
Cross reference:
   Restrictions on consumption and possession of alcoholic beverages, see §
130.02
CHAPTER 111: ADULT ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
111.01   Purpose
   
111.02   Definitions
   
111.03   Licensing of adult establishment operators
   
111.04   Licensing of persons engaged in the performance of adult live
entertainment
   
111.05   Employer to use licensed employees
   
111.06   Posting of license
   
111.07   Notice and hearing as to revocation of license
   
111.08   Hours of operation
   
111.09   Privilege license annual
      
Appendix A: Application for Business Privilege License: Adult Establishment
      
Appendix B: Application for Business Privilege License: Adult Live Entertainer
§ 111.01 PURPOSE.
   To protect public health, safety, welfare and morals, the following
privilege license provisions and regulations are ordained for the privilege of
carrying on the business, trade or profession of adult live entertainment and
for the operation or carrying on of the businesses, trades or professions
commonly known as adult establishments.
(Ord. passed 1-4-99)
§ 111.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE. A bookstore:
      (1)   Which receives a majority of its gross income during a calendar
month from the sale or rental of publications, including books, magazines,
other periodicals, videotapes, compact disks, other photographic, electronic,
magnetic, digital or other imaging medium, which are distinguished or
characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, as defined in this
section; or
      (2)   Having as a preponderance, either in terms of the weight and
importance of the material or in terms of greater volume of materials, of its
publications books, magazines and other periodicals which are distinguished or
characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, as defined in this
section.
   ADULT ESTABLISHMENT. An adult bookstore, adult motion picture theatre, adult
mini motion picture theatre, or adult live entertainment business, as defined
in this section.
   ADULT LIVE ENTERTAINMENT. Any performance of or involving the actual
presence of real people which exhibits specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas, as defined in this section.
   ADULT LIVE ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS. Any establishment or business wherein
adult live entertainment is shown for observation by patrons.
   ADULT MINI MOTION PICTURE THEATRE. An enclosed building with viewing booths
designed to hold patrons which is used for presenting motion pictures, a
preponderance of which are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities of
specified anatomical areas as defined in this section, for observation by
patrons therein.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATRE. An enclosed building or premises used for
presenting motion pictures, a preponderance of which are distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, as defined in this
section, for observation by patrons therein. ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATRE does
not include any mini motion picture theatre as defined in this section.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED DEVICES. Without limitation, any artificial or simulated
specified anatomical area or other device or paraphernalia that is designed
principally for specified sexual activities, but shall not mean any
contraceptive device.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered:
         (a)   Human genitals or pubic region;
         (b)   Buttock; and/or
         (c)   Female breast below a point immediately above the top of the
areola.
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.
      (1)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
      (2)   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse or sodomy; and/or
      (3)   Fondling or other erotic touchings of human genitals, pubic
regions, buttocks or female breasts.
(Ord. passed 1-4-99)
§ 111.03 LICENSING OF ADULT ESTABLISHMENT OPERATORS.
   (A)   No person shall operate an adult establishment, either as a principal
or accessory use, as herein defined, unless the person shall have first applied
for and received the privilege license provided by this section.
   (B)   Every application for the privilege license prescribed herein shall be
upon a form approved by the Town Council, and shall be filed with the Town
Clerk. Every application shall be made under oath and shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   If the applicant is a person, the name and residence address of the
person. If the applicant is a partnership, corporation or association, the
registered name of the agent and the address of the registered office and the
name and residence address of all persons having any legal or beneficial
interest in the applicant;
      (2)   The address of the premises where the adult establishment business
shall be located;
      (3)   A complete statement of all convictions of any person whose name is
required to be given in subdivision (1) above for any felony, prostitution or
any violation of the law relative to prostitution;
      (4)   A complete statement of any revocation by any governmental unit, of
any license to operate an adult establishment held by any person whose name is
required to be given in subdivision (1) above;
      (5)   A complete statement of any conviction of any person whose name is
required to be given in subdivision (1) above for violation of any statute,
law, ordinance or regulation of any government concerning the operation of an
adult establishment;
      (6)   The name and address of any adult establishment or other
establishment owned or operated by any person whose name is required to be
given in subdivision (1) above, wherein the business of adult establishment is
carried on; and
      (7)   A description of any other business to be operated on the same
premises or on adjoining premises owned or controlled by the applicant.
   (C)   The Town Clerk shall transmit a copy of the application to the County
Sheriff's Department for an investigative report and to determine compliance
with any law relating to fire protection; and to the Town Zoning Enforcement
Officer to determine compliance with all zoning and building regulations and
ordinances.
   (D)   An application in proper form shall be submitted to the Town Council,
which shall approve the application if the Town Council determines that;
      (1)   The application contains no misstatement of fact;
      (2)   The applicant, or any person having any legal or beneficial
ownership interest in the applicant, has not been convicted of any crime
involving sexual misconduct, including but not limited to G.S. §§ 14-177 et
seq. (offenses against public morality and decency) and G.S. §§ 14-203 to 14-
208 (prostitution), or of any violation of any federal statute relating to
prostitution, or of any violation of any law or ordinance of any governmental
unit concerning or related to the business of adult establishment;
      (3)   The applicant conforms to all requirements of applicable zoning,
building and fire prevention codes; and
      (4)   The applicant or any person having a legal or beneficial ownership
interest in the applicant has not, for the three-year period preceding the
application, had a previously issued license for engaging in the business of
adult establishment revoked.
   (E)   Upon approval of the application by the Town Council, and upon receipt
of a $300 license fee, the Tax Collector shall issue a privilege license to the
applicant.
   (F)   A license issued pursuant to this section shall be revoked by action
of the Town Council if the Council determines that:
      (1)   The licensee has violated any provisions of chapter;
      (2)   The licensee, or any agent of the licensee, employs or permits to
be on the premises of the applicant's business any person practicing the
business or profession of adult live entertainment who has not been issued a
privilege license required by §
111.04, or whose license under that section has been revoked.
      (3)   The licensee, or the legal or beneficial owner of any interest in
the licensee, is convicted of any crime involving sexual misconduct including,
but not limited to, G.S. §§ 14-177 to 14-202.1 (offenses against public
morality and decency), and G.S. §§ 14-203 to 14-208 (prostitution); or
      (4)   The licensee violates any zoning, building or fire prevention
ordinance.
   (G)   A license issued pursuant to this chapter is void if the licensee
moves or ceases operating an adult establishment at the location required to be
stated in the application for license pursuant to division (B)(2) above.
(Ord. passed 1-4-99) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.04 LICENSING OF PERSONS ENGAGED IN THE PERFORMANCE OF ADULT LIVE
ENTERTAINMENT.
   (A)   No person shall engage in the business or profession of adult live
entertainment unless the person shall have first applied for and received the
privilege license provided by this section.
   (B)   The application for the license required by this section shall be upon
a form approved by the Town Council, and shall be filed with the Town Clerk.
The application shall be given under oath and shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   The name, age and residence address of the applicant;
      (2)   A complete statement of the previous business or occupation of the
applicant for the two years immediately preceding the date of application,
including adult live entertainment experience;
      (3)   A complete statement of all convictions of the applicant for any
felony or misdemeanor, or violation of a local ordinance;
      (4)   A complete statement of any revocation of any license granted by
any governmental unit to the applicant to engage in the business or profession
of adult live entertainment; and
      (5)   The date and place of the applicant's birth, the name of the
applicant's parents and the residence address or addresses of the applicant for
the five years immediately preceding the date of application.
   (C)   The applicant shall submit, as part of the application required in
division (B) above, the following:
      (1)    Fingerprints of the applicant;
      (2)   Two recent photographs of the applicant’s head and shoulders, of a
size and quality prescribed by the Town Council; and
      (3)   A medical certificate signed by a physician, licensed to practice
in the state, within seven days of the date of the application. The certificate
shall state that the applicant was examined by the certifying physician and
that the applicant is free from communicable disease. The additional
information required by this division shall be provided at the applicant's
expense.
   (D)   The Town Clerk shall transmit a copy of the application to the County
Sheriff's Department for an investigative report.
   (E)   An application in proper form shall be submitted to a review panel
consisting of the Mayor, the Town Attorney and the Town Clerk with all reports
required by this section. The review panel shall approve the application if it
determines:
      (1)   The applicant is at least 18 years of age;
      (2)   The application contains no misstatement of fact;
      (3)   The applicant has not been convicted of any crime involving sexual
misconduct, including, but not limited to, G.S. §§ 14-177 to 14-202.1 (offenses
against public morality and decency), and G.S. §§ 14-203 to 14-208
(prostitution), or of any violation of any federal statute relating to
prostitution, or for violation of any law or ordinance of any governmental unit
concerning or related to the business or profession of adult live
entertainment.
      (4)   The applicant has not, for the three-year period preceding the
application, had a previously issued license for engaging in the business or
profession of adult live entertainment revoked;
      (5)   The applicant is free from communicable disease as evidenced by the
medical certificate required herein; and
      (6)   The applicant has not been previously convicted of any violation of
any provision of this chapter.
   (F)   Upon approval of the application by the review panel and upon receipt
of a $200 license fee, the Tax Collector shall issue a privilege license to the
applicant.
   (G)   The Town Council shall have authority to direct that any person
licensed under this section submit to a medical examination by a licensed
physician approved by the Town Council. This authority shall be exercised only
when the Council has reason to believe that any licensed person has contracted
a communicable disease. Refusal to submit to the examination shall be grounds
for revocation of the license as provided in division (H) below.
Notwithstanding the provisions of this division, every person licensed under
this section shall file and continue to file with the Town Clerk a new medical
certificate with each application for renewal of the license prescribed by this
section. Failure to file the updated certificates shall be grounds for
revocation of the license as provided in division (H) below.
   (H)   A license issued pursuant to this section shall be revoked by action
of the Town Council if the Town Council determines that:
      (1)   The licensee has violated any provision of this chapter;
      (2)   The licensee is afflicted with a communicable disease;
      (3)   The licensee has failed to be examined by a licensed physician when
required by the Town Council pursuant to division (G) above, or has failed to
file any medical certificate required by division (G) above; and/or
      (4)   The licensee has been convicted of a felony or any crime involving
sexual misconduct, including, but not limited to G.S. §§ 14-177 through 14-
202.1 (offenses against public morality and decency), and G.S. §§ 14-203
through 14-208 (prostitution), or under any federal statute relating to
prostitution, or for violation of any law or ordinance of any governmental unit
related to the business or profession of adult live entertainment.
(Ord. passed 1-4-99) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.05 EMPLOYER TO USE LICENSED EMPLOYEES.
   No person licensed under §
111.03 shall allow or permit any person to perform adult live entertainment
upon the premises operated by the licensee unless the person so performing has
complied with all requirements of licensing under §
111.04, including periodic medical examinations by a licensed physician.
Violation of this section shall be grounds for revocation of the license issued
to the violator pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. passed 1-4-99) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.06 POSTING OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Every person engaged in adult live entertainment shall post the
license required by this chapter in his or her work area.
   (B)   Every person licensed under §
111.03 shall display the license in a prominent place.
(Ord. passed 1-4-99)
§ 111.07 NOTICE AND HEARING AS TO REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Before the Town Council revokes a license issued pursuant to this chapter,
or if the Town Council or review panel determined reasonable grounds exist to
deny an application for a license pursuant to this chapter, the Town Council
shall cause a written notice to be sent by certified mail to the licensee
affected or applicant affected at the address stated in the license or
application. This notice shall advise the affected party of a right to appear
before the Town Council, with or without legal counsel, at a stated time and
place, for the purpose of presenting any evidence relevant to the revocation or
denial, and for the purpose of hearing all evidence submitted and examining or
cross-examining any person providing the evidence.
(Ord. passed 1-4-99)
§ 111.08 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   No person licensed under §
111.04 shall engage in the business or profession of adult entertainment before
8:00 a.m. or after 12:00 midnight.
   (B)   No person licensed under §
111.03 shall admit customers or prospective customers, or remain open for
business, before 8:00 a.m. or after 12:00 midnight.
   (C)   No person in charge of managing an adult establishment upon the
premises shall allow, permit or condone the violation of divisions (A) and (B)
above.
(Ord. passed 1-4-99) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.09 PRIVILEGE LICENSE ANNUAL.
   The licenses required under this chapter are privilege licenses. The
licenses shall be due and payable in the same manner as prescribed for other
privilege licenses issued by the town pursuant to
Chapter 110. The licenses required under this chapter are in addition to all
other licenses that an applicant is required to obtain pursuant to
Chapter 110.
(Ord. passed 1-4-99)
APPENDIX A: APPLICATION FOR BUSINESS PRIVILEGE LICENSE: ADULT ESTABLISHMENT
Town of Stallings
P.O. Box 4000
Stallings, NC 28106-4000
The undersigned applicant for an Adult Establishment Privilege License pursuant
to an Ordinance of the Town of Stallings first being duly sworn deposes and
says:
1.   Applicant's name is:
________________________________________________________________
2.   Applicant's residence address is:
______________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________
3.   If applicant is a partnership, corporation or association:
   a.   The name of the registered agent:
_______________________________________________
   b.   The address of the registered office:
______________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________
   c.   The name and address of all persons having any legal or beneficial
interest in the applicant:
_______________________________________________________________________________
_______________________________________________________________________________
_______________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________
4.   The address of the premises where the adult establishment business shall
   be located:
______________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________
5.   The telephone number of the adult establishment business: (___)
__________________________
6.   A complete statement of all convictions of the applicant or any person
listed in 3(c) above for any felony or prostitution or any violation of the law
relative to prostitution:
_______________________________________________________________________________
_______________________________________________________________________________
_______________________________________________________________________________
7.   A complete statement of any revocation by any governmental unit of any
license to operate an adult establishment held by the applicant or any person
listed in 3(c) above:
_______________________________________________________________________________
_______________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________
8.   A complete statement of any conviction of the applicant or any person
listed in 3(c) above for violations of any statute, law, ordinance or
regulation of any government concerning the operation of an adult
establishment: __________________________________________________________
_______________________________________________________________________________
_______________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________________
9.   The name and address of any adult establishment or other establishment
owned or operated by any person whose name is listed in 3(c) above wherein the
business of an adult establishment is carried on other than the business for
which this application applies: _______________________________
_______________________________________________________________________________
_______________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________
10.   A description of any other business to be operated on the same premises
or on adjoining premises owned or controlled by applicant and whether the adult
establishment business is the principal use of said premises or an accessory
use: ________________________________________________
_______________________________________________________________________________
_______________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________
This the _______ day of ___________________, 20 ______.
                              ________________________________________________
                              Applicant
Sworn to and subscribed before me
this ______ day of __________________ 20 ______.
____________________________________________
Notary Public
My commission expires: _______________________
(Ord. passed 1-4-99)
APPENDIX B: APPLICATION FOR BUSINESS PRIVILEGE LICENSE: ADULT LIVE ENTERTAINER
Town of Stallings
P.O. Box 4000
Stallings, NC 28106-4000
The undersigned applicant for an Adult Live Entertainment Privilege License
pursuant to Ordinance of the Town of Stallings first being duly sworn deposes
and says:
1.   Applicant's name is:
______________________________________________________________
2.   Applicant's date of birth is:
________________________________________________________
3.   Applicant's residence address is:
_____________________________________________________
4.   A complete statement of the previous business or occupation of the
applicant for the two years immediately preceding the date of this application
including any adult entertainment experience:
_______________________________________________________________________________
_______________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________
5.   The address of the premises where the adult establishment business where
you will be working is located:
_________________________________________________________________________
6.   The telephone number of the adult establishment business where you will be
working:
(___) ________________________
7.   A complete statement of all convictions of the applicant or any person
listed in paragraph 3 above for any felony or misdemeanor or violation of a
local ordinance:
_______________________________________________________________________________
_______________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________
8.   A complete statement of any revocation by any governmental unit of any
license to engage in the business or professional adult live entertainment held
by the applicant: _____________________
_______________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________
9.   The place of applicant's birth:
______________________________________________________
10.   The name of the applicant's parents:
__________________________________________________
(over)
11.   The residence address or address of the applicant for the past five
years: _____________________
_________________________________________________________________________________
12.   Measurements:   Height    ___________
               Weight    ___________
               Bust    ___________
               Waist    ___________
               Hips    ___________
   This ______ day of ____________________, 20 _____.
                              _______________________________________________
                              Applicant
Sworn to and subscribed before me
this ______ day of _____________________, 20 ____.
_____________________________________________
Notary Public
(Ord. passed 1-4-99)
CHAPTER 112: TAXICAB OPERATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Compliance required
Taxi Drivers Permit
   
112.15   Permit required; application; issuance
   
112.16   Revocation of permit
Certificate of Convenience and Necessity
   
112.30   Certificate required
   
112.31   Application
   
112.32   Hearings
   
112.33   Determination of number of taxicabs to be operated
   
112.34   Determination of convenience and necessity
   
112.35   Burden of proof
   
112.36   Powers of the Town Council to grant or refuse
   
112.37   Form
   
112.38   Term; renewal
   
112.39   Transfer
   
112.40   Effect on certificate of failure to begin operations
   
112.41   Revocation
   
112.42   Substitution of vehicles
Operational Regulations
   
112.55   Bond or insurance required
   
112.56   Owner of taxicab to keep information on file with town
   
112.57   Owner to file quarterly reports
   
112.58   Limitation on hours of driving
   
112.59   Rates for services rendered
   
112.60   Vehicle requirements
   
112.61   Only one person to be transported; exception
   
112.62   Municipal Taxi Tax
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CERTIFICATE.  The certificate of public convenience and necessity granted by
the Town Council to engage in the taxicab business, as provided in this
chapter.
   DRIVER. Any person in charge of or operating a taxicab.
   OWNER. Any person having control of the operation or maintenance and
collection of the revenue of taxicabs.
   TAXICAB. Any motor vehicle seating nine or fewer passengers operated upon
any street or highway on call or on demand, accepting or soliciting passengers
indiscriminately for hire between points along streets or highways as may be
directed by the passenger or passengers so being transported, and shall not
include motor vehicles or motor vehicle carriers as defined in G.S.§§ 62-259 to
62-279.
   TOWN COUNCIL. The Town Council of the Town of Stallings, North Carolina.
   WITHIN THE LIMITS OF THE TOWN. All of the territory within the corporate
limits of the town and within five miles of the corporate limits thereof at any
point where a taxicab is operating between the corporate limits to points
within a radius of five miles of the town.
(Ord. passed 2-1-99)
§ 112.02 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of operating a
taxicab within the limits of the town to drive a taxicab within the limits of
the town unless the person has complied with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 2-1-99) Penalty, see §
10.99
TAXI DRIVER’S PERMIT
§ 112.15 PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION; ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Before any person shall drive a taxicab within the limits of the town,
he or she shall make written application to the Senior County Sheriff’s Deputy
assigned to the town for a driver's permit under this chapter, which
application shall give the following information about the applicant:
      (1)   Age, social security number, driver's permit number, home address;
      (2)   Any previous employment history as a driver or operator, in any
jurisdiction; any information about previous permits or certificates of
convenience and necessity held, and any revocations, suspensions or other
disciplinary actions pertaining thereto;
      (3)   Whether he or she is in sound physical condition, including hearing
and eyesight; whether or not he or she uses intoxicating liquors, drugs or
narcotics; and
      (4)   Whether or not he or she has ever been convicted of or has pleaded
guilty or nolo contendere to the violation of any town, county, state, federal
or other criminal law or traffic offense, and if so the number of times and
kinds of offenses, and any other information as the Town Council may require.
   (B)   The applicant shall also appear in person at the County Sheriff’s
Department or any other location as the Senior Deputy shall direct and have his
or her fingerprints taken, which fingerprints shall constitute a part of his or
her application.
   (C)   Applicants must be at least 18 years of age.
   (D)   A person is ineligible to apply for a taxicab driver's permit for one
year following the date of any revocation or suspension of 60 days or more of
his or her driver's permit for convictions of moving violations, and for two
years following the date of conviction for driving under the influence of
alcohol or drugs, or a substantially equivalent statute.
   (E)   The application shall be submitted along with a fee to defray the cost
of investigation and processing, as set out in the town fee schedule approved
by the Town Council.
   (F)   The Senior Union County Deputy Sheriff assigned to the town is hereby
charged with the duty of investigation if he or she deems it necessary. If the
applicant meets his or her approval, he or she shall order the issuance to the
applicant of a permit card which shall bear a number, shall contain his or her
name, home address, business address, employer, and photograph of the driver,
and the driver shall have the permit with him or her at all times and displayed
in a prominent place in the taxicab at all times when he or she is engaged in
operating or is in charge of a taxicab within the limits of the town, and it
shall be the duty of the driver to expose the permit upon the request of any
person, at any time.
   (G)   Taxicab driver's permits shall expire on June 30 of each year. Any
person desiring to renew a driver's permit shall file a new application at
least 30 days prior to the expiration date.
(Ord. passed 2-1-99)
§ 112.16 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The permit of any driver shall become void and shall be surrendered by
him or her, upon his or her conviction or plea of guilty or nolo contendere, in
any court in this state or any other state on a charge of any offense involving
moral turpitude.
   (B)   The Town Council shall have the authority, after a hearing as it shall
prescribe, upon not less than five-days' notice, to revoke the permit of any
driver under this chapter for the following causes:
      (1)   Repeated violation of traffic and safety laws and ordinances, and
other ordinances relating to the operation of taxicabs within the limits of the
town, whether convicted thereof or charged therewith in any criminal court;
      (2)   Failure to report to the law enforcement authority any accident in
which the driver is involved, however slight;
      (3)   Operation of a taxicab known to the driver not to be in good order
and repair;
      (4)   Dangerous and reckless driving by the driver at any time while
engaged in the operation of a taxicab within the limits of the town under
circumstances as in the opinion of the Town Council, shall constitute reckless
and indifferent disregard of the rules of traffic and the safety of passengers
in the taxicab or of persons or property within the limits of the town;
      (5)   Operation of a taxicab in furtherance of criminal behavior of the
passengers, including, but not limited to, prostitution and drug trafficking,
when the driver knew or should have known the passenger was using the taxicab
for criminal activity;
      (6)   Overcharging the rates prescribed by this chapter;
      (7)   Making a material, false statement in the application for a taxicab
driver's permit, knowing it to be false; and/or
      (8)   Committing other violations on a repeated basis specified as
follows:
         (a)   Transporting more than two passengers in the front seat or more
than four passengers in the rear seat at the same time;
         (b)   Failing, refusing or neglecting to surrender any property left
in a taxicab by a passenger to the owner, who is required to report the same to
the law enforcement authority within 24 hours thereafter;
         (c)   Failing, refusing or neglecting to proceed with all reasonable
dispatch by the nearest practicable route to the destination of the first
person applying to him or her for transportation unless the person has granted
permission to take on or wait for additional passengers;
         (d)   Failing, refusing or neglecting to keep the taxicab he or she is
driving clean, sufficiently ventilated, and efficiently lighted at night so as
to provide ample light for passengers entering or leaving the taxicab; and/or
         (e)   Violating other provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 2-1-99) Penalty, see §
10.99
CERTIFICATE OF CONVENIENCE AND NECESSITY
§ 112.30 CERTIFICATE REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate within the limits of the town any taxicab unless a
certificate of public convenience and necessity allowing the operation of the
taxicab as provided for herein shall have been issued and is in effect.
(Ord. passed 2-1-99) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.31 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Every person or owner desiring to operate a taxicab or taxicabs within
the limits of the town shall file an application for a certificate of
convenience and necessity, and shall furnish the following information:
      (1)   The name and address of the proposed owner. If the proposed
operation is to be financed wholly or partly by means of borrowed money or
capital in any form furnished by any person other than the owner, the name and
address of the person lending the money or furnishing the capital shall be
disclosed on the application. If the owner, or a part owner, is a corporation,
limited liability company or partnership, then the officers, managers or
partners shall be named in the application, along with the names and addresses
of owners of 20% or more of the stock or ownership interest, and a copy of the
articles of incorporation, operating agreement or partnership agreement, if
any, shall be included with the application.
      (2)   Evidence of the financial ability and responsibility of the
applicant;
      (3)   The number and kind of vehicles owned or expected to be owned, and
the character and location of the depots and terminals to be used;
      (4)   The experience of the applicant in the transportation of passengers
for hire, including any previous ownership of or driving of vehicles for hire.
The applicant shall furnish any information about previous taxicab driver's
permits or certificates of convenience and necessity held, and any revocations,
suspensions, or other disciplinary actions pertaining thereto;
      (5)   Any facts upon which the applicant believes public convenience and
necessity require the granting of his or her application; and
      (6)   Any other information requested by the Town Council.
   (B)   Application for a certificate may be filed at any time with the Town
Clerk. The application shall be submitted along with a fee to defray the cost
of investigation and processing, as set out in the fee schedule approved by the
Town Council.
(Ord. passed 2-1-99)
§ 112.32 HEARINGS.
The Town Council shall conduct an initial hearing on or before June 7, 1999,
for the purpose of determining the number of taxicabs for which certificates
shall be issued for the remainder of 1999. The number of taxicabs for which
certificates shall be issued shall be a maximum of two until such time as a
certificate is issued. Thereafter, the Town Council shall conduct a hearing
each year between November 1 and December 15 for the purpose of determining the
number of taxicabs for which certificates shall be issued during the next
calendar year. Such hearing shall be public, after notice has been given by
mail to all holders of certificates and applicants for certificates at the
addresses shown on their certificate or application, and by publication of such
notice in a newspaper of general circulation in the town at least once and not
less than ten days prior to the hearing. A special hearing upon any application
may be held at any time by order of the Town Council upon like notice. Any
hearing may be continued to a fixed time or from time to time without further
notice, but announcement thereof shall be made at the time and place fixed for
the hearing to be continued.
(Ord. passed 2-1-99; Am. Ord. 4-1-2002)
§ 112.33 DETERMINATION OF NUMBER OF TAXICABS TO BE OPERATED.
   At the annual meeting prescribed in §
112.32, the Town Council shall determine the total number of taxicabs the
public convenience and necessity require for the town. If the Town Council
shall determine that certificates are outstanding in excess of the number of
taxicabs required, it shall order the number reduced, and the reduction shall
be distributed pro rata, as nearly as practicable, between the holders of
certificates then outstanding. If the Town Council determines that the public
convenience and necessity requires that certificates be issued for an
additional number of taxicabs, the Town Council shall have the power to grant
certificates reflecting the increase to one or more new applicants, to one or
more existing owners, or to both, with full discretion, as the Town Council
determines is required by the public safety, welfare, convenience and
necessity.
(Ord. passed 2-1-99)
§ 112.34 DETERMINATION OF CONVENIENCE AND NECESSITY.
   The Town Council shall determine whether the public convenience and
necessity require the operation of the taxicabs for which the application has
been filed, and in determining whether the public convenience and necessity
require the franchising of the taxicabs, the Town Council shall take into
consideration the following factors:
   (A)   The adequacy of existing taxicab service and other forms of
transportation for passengers already in existence;
   (B)   The probable permanence of, public satisfaction with, efficiency of
and quality of services offered by the applicant;
   (C)   The financial ability, character and responsibility of the applicant;
   (D)   The number, condition and kind of vehicles, and the character and
location of the depots and terminals to be used;
   (E)   The experience of the applicant in the transportation of passengers
for hire in automobiles, along with the history of the applicant’s compliance
with applicable ordinances, regulations and statutes pertaining to the
transportation of passengers for hire in automobiles;
   (F)   The number of taxicabs now operated and the demand for increased
service, if any, and whether or not the safe use of the streets by the public,
both vehicular and pedestrian, will be preserved, and whether or not adequate
provision has been made for off-street parking of the taxicab; and
   (G)   Any other facts as may be deemed relevant by the Town Council.
(Ord. passed 2-1-99)
§ 112.35 BURDEN OF PROOF.
   The burden of proof shall be upon the applicant to establish the existence
of public convenience and necessity for the operation of the taxicabs
designated in his or her application, and to establish all other facts required
for granting the application.
(Ord. passed 2-1-99)
§ 112.36 POWERS OF THE TOWN COUNCIL TO GRANT OR REFUSE.
   The Town Council shall have the authority to grant a certificate as applied
for, or to grant a certificate to the applicant for a lesser number of vehicles
than specified in the application, or to deny the application, in the exercise
of sound discretion after a consideration of the factors prescribed herein. The
Town Council may attach to the exercise of the rights granted by the
certificate any terms and conditions as in their judgment the public
convenience and necessity may require. If an application is denied, the
applicant must file a new application in order to be considered for the next
calendar year.
(Ord. passed 2-1-99)
§ 112.37 FORM.
   (A)   The form of a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued
under this chapter shall be prescribed by the Town Clerk and shall contain:
      (1)   The name and address of the owner;
      (2)   The address of the location of the business;
      (3)   The number, kind and description of the vehicles, the operation of
which is authorized by the certificate, including permit plate numbers; and
      (4)   The special limitations prescribed by the Town Council in granting
the certificate.
   (B)   The certificate shall state that it is issued subject to the
provisions of this chapter and all other laws and ordinances governing the
operation of taxicabs within the limits of the town.
(Ord. passed 2-1-99)
§ 112.38 TERM; RENEWAL.
   A certificate shall constitute a franchise from the town for the operation
of taxicabs within the limits of the town, subject to the provisions of this
chapter, as it is in effect or thereafter amended, until midnight on December
31 following the date of issue. Application for renewal shall be filed annually
prior to the first day of October, and hearing on the application shall be held
as herein provided.
(Ord. passed 2-1-99)
§ 112.39 TRANSFER.
   A certificate is not transferable without the consent of the Town Council.
Applications for a permit to transfer shall be filed in the same manner as an
application for a certificate of convenience and necessity. The proceedings
upon the application for a transfer shall be the same as those described for
the issuance of a certificate, except that only those factors pertaining to the
question of public convenience and necessity need be proved which are specific
to the qualifications of the applicant.
(Ord. passed 2-1-99)
§ 112.40 EFFECT ON CERTIFICATE OF FAILURE TO BEGIN OPERATIONS.
   If a certificate is granted to an applicant who subsequently fails, in
accordance with the provisions of the certificate and this chapter, to begin
operations within sixty days after the date of the certificate, the certificate
shall become null and void.
(Ord. passed 2-1-99)
§ 112.41 REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Town Council may at any time, after a public hearing, revoke any
certificate issued by authority of this chapter for any one or more of the
following causes:
      (1)   Failure to operate the taxicabs specified in the certificate, or
other taxicabs substituted therefor, in a manner so as to serve the public
adequately and efficiently;
      (2)   Failure to maintain taxicabs in good order and repair;
      (3)   Failure to maintain insurance or bond as required by this chapter;
      (4)   Failure to pay the town taxes or permit fees imposed upon the
taxicabs;
      (5)   Repeated and persistent violation by drivers of ordinances or state
laws pertaining to traffic, safety, alcoholic beverages, drug trafficking or
prostitution;
      (6)   Operation of taxicabs in furtherance of criminal behavior of the
passengers, including, but not limited to, prostitution and drug trafficking,
when the operator knew or should have known passengers were using the taxicabs
for criminal activities;
      (7)   Failure to report any accident as herein required, however slight;
and/or
      (8)   Failure to comply with the provisions of this chapter or other
ordinances or state laws relating to the operation of taxicabs.
   (B)   No certificate shall be revoked until the owner has had at least five-
days' notice by personal service or registered mail of the charges or
complaints against him, and of the time and place of the hearing. If, after the
hearing, it is found that the owner has committed the offenses listed herein,
the Town Council shall have the power to revoke the certificate, or to
condition a revocation upon compliance with its order within any time fixed by
the Town Council.
(Ord. passed 2-1-99)
§ 112.42 SUBSTITUTION OF VEHICLES.
   The person to whom a certificate has been issued may, by appropriate
endorsement thereon by the Town Clerk, substitute another vehicle or other
vehicles for the vehicle or vehicles for which the certificate was granted. In
this instance, the liability insurance or bonds shall also be transferred to
the substitute vehicle or vehicles, and proof of the transfer shall be filed
with the Town Clerk.
(Ord. passed 2-1-99)
OPERATIONAL REGULATIONS
§ 112.55 BOND OR INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every taxicab owner operating in the town shall file with the Town
Council and keep in effect at all times a policy or policies of insurance with
some company duly permitted by the State Insurance Commissioner to do business
in the state, or provide a surety bond approved by the Town Council, with
solvent surety, in the total amount or the penal sum specified herein,
conditioned on the owner responding in damages for any liability incurred on
account of any injury to persons or damage to property resulting from the
operation of any taxicab operated by him or her in the amounts required by G.S.
§ 20-281.
   (B)   The insurance or bond shall secure payment in accordance with the
provisions thereof to any person, except employees of the owner, for personal
injuries to the persons and for any damage to property, except property owned
by, rented to, leased to or transported by the owner, other than baggage of
passengers, caused by the operation of the taxicab for the following amounts:
      (1)   In respect to injuries, to the extent of $500,000 for the injury or
death of any one person and subject to that limit for each person, $1,000,000
for each accident;
      (2)   In respect to damage to property, $50,000 for each accident.
   (C)   In the event that a judgment is rendered against any taxicab owner in
any court of competent jurisdiction by reason of any accident for which the
insurance policy or bond is herein provided, the owner shall, within 24 hours
after the rendition of the judgment, increase the total amount of the insurance
or the penal sum of the bond so that there shall be kept in effect, in the
manner contemplated by law, insurance or bond upon which there has been no
recovery of not less than the minimum provided herein.
   (D)   No taxicab shall be operated within the limits of the town unless the
insurance policy or bond provided for herein is on file with the Town Council
and is in full force and effect, and unless a certificate thereof identifying
the vehicle by motor serial number is carried in the cab and displayed upon
demand of any law enforcement officer. Every bond filed hereunder shall contain
a provision and every insurance policy filed hereunder shall contain a
provision or have an endorsement that no cancellation thereof shall be
effective until not less than 5 full days of 24 hours each have elapsed from
the actual receipt of notice of the proposed cancellation by the Town Council.
The person to whom notice of cancellation is given as herein provided shall
note thereon, in writing, the date and hour at which the notice of cancellation
was received.
   (E)   If the taxicab owner who filed the bond or insurance policy as
required by this section is still operating before the cancellation becomes
effective, all taxicab operations by the owner within the limits of the town
shall cease at the time the cancellation becomes effective, and the owner's
certificate of public convenience and necessity and other rights under this
chapter shall be automatically suspended.
(Ord. passed 2-1-99) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.56 OWNER OF TAXICAB TO KEEP INFORMATION ON FILE WITH TOWN.
   (A)   Every owner shall keep a description of equipment at all times on file
with the Town Council, showing the make, model, passenger capacity, date of
acquisition, from whom acquired, the motor number and serial number and the
state and city permit number of each taxicab for which he or she holds a
certificate. No equipment shall be substituted for that described in the
certificate until it has been inspected by the law enforcement department and
approved, and the substitution or addition of the equipment has been endorsed
on the operator's certificate issued under this chapter.
   (B)   Every owner shall notify the town in writing of any material changes
in the information provided in the application for certificate of convenience
and necessity.
(Ord. passed 2-1-99)
§ 112.57 OWNER TO FILE QUARTERLY REPORTS.
   Every owner holding a certificate shall report to the town, on a quarterly
basis, the following information:
   (A)   The number of cabs then permitted and in actual operation on the
streets.
   (B)   The number of filled and unfilled telephone requests for taxicab
service made during average 24-hour periods.
   (C)   The number and availability of qualified full-time and part-time
drivers to operate existing taxicabs.
(Ord. passed 2-1-99)
§ 112.58 LIMITATION ON HOURS OF DRIVING.
   It shall be unlawful for any driver of any taxicab to continue on active
taxicab duty for more than 12 hours, meal time included, during any 24-hour
period. Each driver shall enter the time of commencing and ending active duty
upon the records which must be made available for inspection by the town.
(Ord. passed 2-1-99) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.59 RATES FOR SERVICES RENDERED.
   Rates for services rendered by taxicabs licensed to do business within the
town shall be as set out in separate rate schedules to be adopted from time to
time by the Town Council.
(Ord. passed 2-1-99)
§ 112.60 VEHICLE REQUIREMENTS.
   Every taxicab operated within the limits of the town and for which a
certificate is issued under this chapter shall comply with the following
requirements:
   (A)   It shall be enclosed, or sedan type, with four doors, at least two
seats and of not less than five-passenger capacity.
   (B)   It shall be at all times in good repair when in operation and shall be
subject to inspection by any law enforcement officer at any time.
   (C)   It shall bear on the outside and on at least two sides the name of the
owner in letters not less than two inches high and plainly visible at a
distance of 100 feet.
   (D)   The name and address of the operator, the license of the driver and
the rates and fares in effect shall be kept posted inside of the taxicab at all
times when it is in operation, and shall be exhibited to any person demanding
it. The rates and fares in effect shall be posted in letters not less than one-
half-inch high.
   (E)   No driver shall operate a radio in any taxicab while the same is being
used to transport passengers for hire in the town, provided that this division
shall not prohibit the use in any taxicab operating under the provisions of
this chapter of a radio device for the purpose of receiving instructions for
the carrying of passengers directed through the radio device from the office or
headquarters of the person or company under whom the taxicab is being operated;
   (F)   Every taxicab shall have affixed thereto and must use a taximeter
which conforms substantially to the following specifications:
      (1)   A taximeter is a mechanical instrument or device by which the
charge for hire of a taxicab is mechanically calculated either for distance
traveled or for waiting time or both, and upon which the charge shall be
indicated by means of legible figures which are electrically lighted each time
the taximeter flag is thrown from non-earning to earning position.
      (2)   The taximeters must register upon visual counters the following
items:
         (a)   Total miles;
         (b)   Paid miles;
         (c)   Number of units;
         (d)   Number of trips; and
         (e)   Number of extras.
      (3)   Each taximeter must be driver direct from the taxicab transmission,
instead of merely connecting with the speedometer driving shaft, to the
taximeter head itself, using a flexible shaft and a flexible housing so
connected and sealed as to be non-tamperable.
      (4)   (a)   No person shall use or permit to be used upon any taxicab a
taximeter which shall be in a condition so as to be over 5% incorrect to the
prejudice of any passenger.
         (b)   No person shall use or permit to be used or driven for hire a
taxicab equipped with a taximeter having a case which is unsealed and not
having its cover and gear intact.
         (c)   If demanded by the passenger, the driver in charge of a taxicab
shall deliver to the person paying for the hiring of the same at the time of
the payment a receipt therefor in legible type or writing containing the name
of the owner, the town license number of the driver's town license or the
taximeter number, and any items for which a charge is made, the total amount
paid, and the day of payment.
         (d)   No person shall drive a taxicab to which is attached a taximeter
that has not been duly inspected and approved. It shall be unlawful to change
the size of the wheels or tires of a taxicab or the gears operating the
taximeter or to change a taximeter from one taxicab to another unless the
taximeter is retested and approved before using.
   (G)   The Senior Union County Deputy Sheriff assigned to the town shall have
the right to inspect, check and ascertain the accuracy of any meter placed on
any taxicab operating under the franchise granted by the Town Council.
(Ord. passed 2-1-99) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.61 ONLY ONE PERSON TO BE TRANSPORTED; EXCEPTION.
   Not more than one person shall be transported in any taxicab at one time
except by the consent of the person first engaging the taxicab.
(Ord. passed 2-1-99)
§ 112.62 MUNICIPAL TAXI TAX.
   A tax of $15 per year upon each vehicle operated within the limits of the
town as a taxicab is hereby levied. The proceeds of the tax may be used for any
lawful purpose.
(Ord. passed 2-1-99)
CHAPTER 113: PANHANDLING, BEGGING, SOLICITATION AND CANVASSING
Section
   
113.01   Purpose
   
113.02   Definitions
   
113.03   Panhandling and begging
   
113.04   Solicitation
   
113.05   Canvassing
   
113.06   Enforcement
§ 113.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to protect the public against criminal
activity, including fraud and burglary, minimize the unwelcome disturbance of
citizens and the disturbance of privacy and to preserve the public health,
safety and welfare by regulating and controlling solicitors, peddlers and
canvassers.
(Ord. passed 5-12-2014; Am. Ord. passed 5-27-2014; Am. Ord. passed 7-14-2014)
§ 113.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AFTER DARK. From one-half hour after sunset until one-half hour before
sunrise. The times of sunset and sunrise will be established by the times
listed in The Charlotte Observer or another publication of similar
distribution.
   ACCOSTING. Approaching or speaking to someone in such a manner as would
cause a reasonable person to fear imminent bodily harm or the commission of a
criminal act upon his or her person, or property in his or her immediate
possession.
   BEG. To ask for money or goods as a charity, whether by words, bodily
gestures, signs, or other means.
   CANVASSING. The act of going upon property or approaching people to discuss
or explain issues which include religious proselytizing, exercising an
individual's freedom of speech or campaigning for political votes, that does
not include the request for contributions or donations or the sale of goods or
products.
   PANHANDLE. To ask for money or goods as a charity, whether by words, bodily
gestures, signs, or other means in a public place.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company, religious
sect or denomination, society, organization or league, and includes any
trustee, receiver, assignee, agent or other similar representative thereof.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. A legal designation of the ownership of property by non-
governmental legal entities. Private property is distinguishable from public
property, which is owned by a state entity; and collective property, which is
owned by a group of non-governmental entities.
   SOLICITOR /SOLICITATION. Any person or organization who travels from place
to place taking or offering to take orders for the sale of goods for future
delivery or for personal services to be performed in the future, whether or not
samples are displayed or money is collected in advance, and any person who uses
or occupies any building or premises for the sole purpose of taking or offering
to take orders for the sale of goods for future delivery or for personal
services to be performed in the future, whether or not samples are displayed or
money is collected in advance.
   TOWN. The Town of Stallings, North Carolina.
(Ord. passed 5-12-2014; Am. Ord. passed 5-27-2014; Am. Ord. passed 7-14-2014)
§ 113.03 PANHANDLING AND BEGGING.
   Prohibited acts. It shall be unlawful for any person to panhandle or beg:
   (A)   On a public sidewalk, public right-of-way or within a public park
owned by the town; or
   (B)   By accosting another, or by forcing oneself upon the company of
another; or
   (C)   Within 20 feet of the entrance of any financial institution or any
automated teller machine, regardless of whether or not such automated teller
machine is located at or near a financial institution; or
   (D)   Within 20 feet of any outdoor dining area or outdoor merchandise area,
provided such areas are in active use at the time; or
   (E)   While the person being solicited is standing in line waiting to be
admitted to a commercial establishment; or
   (F)   By touching the person being solicited without the person's consent;
or
   (G)   After dark by means of verbal communication.
(Ord. passed 5-12-2014; Am. Ord. passed 5-27-2014; Am. Ord. passed 7-14-2014)
§ 113.04 SOLICITATION.
   (A)   Prohibited acts. It shall be unlawful for any person to solicit:
      (1)   On private property where "No Soliciting" or "No Trespassing" signs
are posted;
      (2)   Without acquiring the appropriate permit from the Town of
Stallings.
   (B)   Exceptions. Organizations with 501(c)(3) tax status, including but not
limited to the Boy Scouts of America, Girl Scouts of America, recognized
organized religious organizations and political candidates, shall be exempted
from the requirement to obtain a permit.
   (C)   Permit requirements. Any organization seeking issuance of a permit to
engage in business as a solicitor within the town limits shall be required to
have each individual engaging in soliciting on its behalf make written
application to the Town of Stallings, which application shall show and contain
the following:
      (1)   The name and address of the individual filing the application;
      (2)   The name and address of the principal or employer if the applicant
is an agent or employee;
      (3)   A complete physical description of the applicant including height,
weight, sex, race, date of birth and any distinguishing characteristics;
      (4)   A description of the goods or services to be sold or offered;
      (5)   A statement as to whether the applicant intends to receive payment
or deposit for goods or services to be delivered or rendered in the future;
      (6)   The inclusive dates which the applicant will carry on business
within the town;
      (7)   A statement as to which days of the week the applicant intends to
conduct business;
      (8)   A complete description of the vehicle or method of transportation
the applicant intends to use for business purposes while in the town;
      (9)   A statement as to whether the applicant, his principal or employer
or other person having management or supervisory function in the applicant's
business, has been convicted of a criminal offense and, if so, the name of the
person convicted, the nature of the offense, the punishment assessed and when
and where the offense occurred;
      (10)   Each person filing application for issuance of a permit to solicit
in the town hall shall present a driver's license or an approved state-issued
identification card with photograph at the time of filing the application.
   (D)   Permit fee/privilege license fee. Before any permit shall be issued
under the provisions of this chapter, the applicant shall pay the following: An
application fee in the amount of $150 per organization to the town to cover
processing and enforcement cost.
   (E)   Issuance of permit.
      (1)   The town shall issue a permit to the applicant within five working
days of filing the application if it is determined that the applicant has
complied with the provisions of this chapter and proposes to engage in a lawful
commercial or professional enterprise.
      (2)   The permit will be a letter on Town of Stallings letterhead signed
by the Town Clerk or their designee. The applicant, agent or employee must
carry a copy of said letter along with an approved state identification card
with a photograph at all times while engaged in business. The employee or
agent's name must appear on the initial application and will be included on the
letter.
   (F)   Denial or revocation of permit.
      (1)   Any applicant denied will be mailed a letter within five working
days after making application, stating the reason for denial. Denial will be
made if it is determined that provisions of this chapter have not been met or
the applicant does not propose to engage in a lawful commercial or professional
enterprise. Conviction or criminal offenses by the applicant or principals in
the business which indicate a propensity for violence, theft, fraud or similar
offenses may be cause for denial of a permit.
      (2)   The Town of Stallings may revoke a permit issued under this chapter
when there is a reasonable factual basis that doing so would be in the best
interest of the health, safety, welfare or morals of the public. A letter shall
be mailed to the address listed for the applicant on the application notifying
them of the reason for revocation.
   (G)   Terms of permit. A permit shall be issued for the period requested in
the application, provided however no permit shall be issued for a period
exceeding 12 calendar months. Upon expiration of the permit, the applicant may
apply for a new permit. If approved, a new permit may be issued for an
additional term not to exceed 12 calendar months.
   (H)   Transfer of permit. A permit issued under this chapter is not
transferable.
(Ord. passed 5-12-2014; Am. Ord. passed 5-27-2014; Am. Ord. passed 7-14-2014)
§ 113.05 CANVASSING.
   (A)   Prohibited acts. It shall be unlawful for any person to canvass:
      (1)   On private property where "No Soliciting" or "No Trespassing" signs
are posted;
      (2)   On a public sidewalk, public right-of-way or within a public park
owned by the town; or
      (3)   By accosting another, or by forcing oneself upon the company of
another; or
      (4)   Within 20 feet of the entrance of any financial institution or any
automated teller machine, regardless of whether or not such automated teller
machine is located at or near a financial institution; or
      (5)   Within 20 feet of any outdoor dining area or outdoor merchandise
area, provided such areas are in active use at the time; or
      (6)   While the person being solicited is standing in line waiting to be
admitted to a commercial establishment; or
      (7)   By touching the person being solicited without the person's
consent; or
      (8)   After dark by means of verbal communication.
   (B)   Exceptions. Organizations with 501(c)(3) tax status, including but not
limited to the Boy Scouts of America, Girl Scouts of America, recognized
organized religious organizations and political persons, shall be exempted.
(Ord. passed 5-12-2014; Am. Ord. passed 5-27-2014; Am. Ord. passed 7-14-2014;
Am. Ord. passed 11-14-2016)
§ 113.06 ENFORCEMENT
   This chapter may be enforced by any of the following ways as provided by
law. A violation of this chapter shall subject the violator to issuance of a
citation as defined in §
10.99 of the Stallings Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. passed 5-12-2014; Am. Ord. passed 5-27-2014; Am. Ord. passed 7-14-2014)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
General Offenses
   
130.01   Loitering for the purpose of engaging in drug related activity
prohibited
   
130.02   Restrictions on consumption and possession of alcoholic beverages
   
130.03   Regulation of the use of firearms
   
130.04   Possession of weapons on town-owned property prohibited
   
130.05   Discharge of firearms, pellet guns and the like prohibited
   
130.06   Urban Archery season
Activities on Town Property
   
130.20   Definitions
   
130.21   Camping and other activity prohibited
   
130.22   Possession of obstruction devices prohibited
   
130.23   Possession and dispersal of noxious substances
   
130.24   Police lines and barricades
   
130.25   Kindling bonfires
 
   
130.99   Penalty
GENERAL OFFENSES
§ 130.01 LOITERING FOR THE PURPOSE OF ENGAGING IN DRUG RELATED ACTIVITY
PROHIBITED.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any street, sidewalk, bridge, alley or alleyway, plaza,
park, driveway, parking lot, transportation facility, the doorways and
entranceways to any building which fronts on any of these places, a motor
vehicle in or on any of those places, or any property owned by the town.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for a person to remain or wander about in a
public place under circumstances manifesting the purpose to engage in a
violation of the State Controlled Substances Act, the same being G.S. §§ 90-86
et seq. These circumstances include:
      (1)   Repeatedly beckoning to, stopping or attempting to stop passers-by
in conversation;
      (2)   Repeatedly stopping or attempting to stop motor vehicles;
      (3)   Repeatedly interfering with the free passage of other persons;
      (4)   Behaving in a manner so as to raise a reasonable suspicion that the
person is about to engage in or is engaged in an unlawful drug-related
activity;
      (5)   Repeatedly passing to or receiving from passers-by, whether on foot
or in a vehicle, money or objects;
      (6)   Taking flight upon the approach or appearance of a police officer;
and/or
      (7)   Being at a location frequented by persons who use, possess or sell
drugs.
(Ord. passed 11-13-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.02 RESTRICTIONS ON CONSUMPTION AND POSSESSION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Any beverage containing at least 0.5% alcohol by
volume, including malt beverages, unfortified wine, fortified wine, spirituous
liquor, and mixed beverages.
      OPEN CONTAINER. A container whose seal has been broken, or a container
other than the manufacturer's unopened original container.
      PUBLIC STREET. Any highway, road, street, avenue, boulevard, alley,
bridge or other way within and/or under the control of the town and open to
public use, including sidewalks of any PUBLIC STREET.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to consume or possess any open
container of an alcoholic beverage while a pedestrian on the public streets
within the corporate limits. Furthermore, it shall be unlawful for any person
to consume or possess any open container of an alcoholic beverage on any
property, whether located inside or outside the corporate limits, owned,
occupied, or controlled by the town, including, but not limited to, public
buildings and the grounds appurtenant thereto, municipal parking lots, public
parks, playgrounds, recreational areas, tennis courts and other athletic
fields.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to consume or possess any open
container of an alcoholic beverage while a pedestrian on public streets,
alleys, or parking lots, within the corporate limits, which are temporarily
closed to regular traffic for special events.
   (D)   Exceptions to the provisions of this section can only be made by the
Town Council on a case- by-case basis. Such exemptions shall apply to the
annual barbeque event.
(Ord. passed 12-4-95; Am. Ord. passed 8-10-2015; Am. Ord. passed 11-14-2016)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross reference:
   Sunday sales of alcoholic beverages, see §
110.01
§ 130.03 REGULATION OF THE USE OF FIREARMS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      FIELD OF FIRE. The area included within a semicircle described by a 90°
arc to either side of the line of fire, and having a radius equal to the range
of the firearm, unless the line of fire is so totally obstructed as to prevent
the bullet or shot from carrying to its normal range.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any firearm within or
into the municipal limits of the town, except as permitted by the provisions of
divisions (C) through (E) below.
   (C)   It shall not be deemed a violation of this section to discharge a
firearm while engaged in lawful defense of persons or property.
   (D)   It shall not be deemed a violation of this section to discharge a
firearm while engaged in otherwise lawful hunting or target shooting, provided
that the person is not within 750 feet of any dwelling, and provided further
that there is no person, vehicle, domestic animal, livestock, building or
public street or highway within the field of fire.
   (E)   It shall not be deemed a violation of this section for any person to
shoot rats or other common pests or vermin upon the person's own premises,
provided the person complies with the provisions of division (D) above relating
to hunting and target shooting.
(Ord. passed 4-11-77; Am. Ord. passed 11-28-2011) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.04 POSSESSION OF WEAPONS ON TOWN-OWNED PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, all persons are prohibited
from possessing weapons in town-owned buildings, their appurtenant premises,
and at town parks.
   (B)   This prohibition shall not apply to the following persons:
      (1)   Officers and enlisted personnel of the armed forces of the United
States when in discharge of their official duties as the same and acting under
orders requiring them to carry arms and weapons;
      (2)   Civil officers of the United States while in the discharge of their
official duties;
      (3)   Officers and soldiers of the militia and the national guard when
called into actual service;
      (4)   Sworn law enforcement officers; and/or
      (5)   County animal control officers.
   (C)   A conspicuous notice shall be posted at each entrance to any property
set forth in division (A) above stating: Possession of weapons or carrying a
concealed handgun is prohibited.
   (D)   Weapons possessed in violation of this section are hereby declared to
be contraband. The County Sheriff, his or her deputies or his or her designee
(s), shall hold the weapons for disposal pursuant to court order. In the
absence of any court order, the weapons shall be destroyed.
(Ord. passed 12-1-95) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS, PELLET GUNS AND THE LIKE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Firearms; exceptions. No person shall discharge any firearm, within or
into the corporate limits of the town, except as permitted as follows:
      (1)   It shall not be a violation to discharge a firearm while engaged in
lawful defense of persons or property or pursuant to lawful directions of law-
enforcement officers.
      (2)   It shall not be a violation to discharge a firearm while engaged in
otherwise lawful hunting or target shooting, provided that the person is not
within 750 feet of any dwelling, school, church, any occupied building, a
public or private park and any type of public gathering place; and provided
further that there is no person, vehicle, domestic animal, livestock, building
or public street or highway within the field of fire.
      (3)   It shall not be a violation for a law enforcement officer of any
governmental agency or body charged with the duties of protecting life or
property or enforcing the laws and regulations while engaged in the performance
of their official duty to discharge a firearm.
   (B)   Pellet guns and the like. No person shall discharge a pellet gun, BB
gun, or any other mechanism or device designed or used to project a missile by
compressed air or mechanical action with less than deadly force, within 500
feet of any dwelling, school, church, any occupied building, a public or
private park and any type of public gathering place; and provided further that
there is no person, vehicle, domestic animal, livestock, building or public
street or highway within the field of fire.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicated or requires a different
meaning.
      DWELLING. A dwelling is a structure regularly used by a person or persons
for sleeping.
      FIELD OF FIRE. The area included within a semicircle described by a 90
degree arc to either side of the line of fire, and having a radius equal to the
range of the firearm, unless the line of fire is so totally obstructed as to
prevent the bullet or shot from carrying to its normal range.
      FIREARM. A firearm is a weapon that propels shot, shell or bullets by the
action of an explosive within it.
      REGULARLY USED. Use that occurs in ordinary practice or in the ordinary
course of events.
   (D)   Penalty. If any person shall violate this section he or she shall,
upon conviction, be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor and shall be fined $100 or
imprisoned for not more than 20 days, or both.
(Ord. passed 11-27-2006; Am. Ord. passed 11-28-2011)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate or prohibit the discharge of firearms, see G.S. §
160A-189
   Authority to regulate pellet guns and similar devices, see G.S. § 160A-190
§ 130.06 URBAN ARCHERY SEASON.
   Anyone participating in the Urban Archery season in the town is required to
follow the rules listed below in addition to any rules and regulations set
forth by the North Carolina Department of Wildlife.
   (A)   There shall be no hunting on public property.
   (B)   All hunting must be done from an elevated stand at least 8 feet in
height.
   (C)   Hunting is not allowed on parcels less than five acres.
   (D)   Hunting is not allowed within 750 feet of any dwelling, school,
church, and occupied building, a public or private park and any type of public
gathering place.
   (E)   There is to be no hunting where a person, vehicle, domestic animal,
livestock, building or public street or highway is within the field of fire.
(Ord. passed 3-11-2013)
ACTIVITIES ON TOWN PROPERTY
§ 130.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAMP OR CAMPING. The use of town property for living accommodation purposes
such as sleeping, or making preparations to sleep (including the laying down of
bedding for the purpose of sleeping), or storing personal belongings, or
placing any tents or a temporary shelter on town property for living
accommodation purposes.
   NOXIOUS SUBSTANCE. Any substance that is harmful or destructive or foul or
offensive to human beings, such as, without limitation, garbage, trash, refuse,
animal parts or fluids, manure, urine, feces, or other organic waste by-
products.
   OBSTRUCTION OBJECT OR INSTRUMENT. A device commonly known as a lock box or
sleeping dragon or any of the components of such a device including, without
limitation, pipes, tubes, wire handcuffs, chains, carabiners, or padlocks, or
containers either weighted or not.
   TEMPORARY SHELTER. Tents, tarps, or any type of structure or cover that
provides partial shelter from the elements.
   TOWN PROPERTY. Property owned or leased by the town, or otherwise in the
town’s lawful possession.
(Ord. passed 9-24-2012)
§ 130.21 CAMPING AND OTHER ACTIVITY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to camp on any town property.
   (B)   Camping as defined in this section is deemed a public nuisance and the
town may summarily remove a temporary shelter, bedding or personal belongings.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to light or use a campfire or bonfire on town
property, except as may be specifically authorized by a permit or policy.
(Ord. passed 9-24-2012)
§ 130.22 POSSESSION OF OBSTRUCTION DEVICES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than governmental employees
in the performance of their duty, to possess any obstruction object or
instrument on town property with the intent to obstruct public ingress to or
egress from town property, or otherwise to obstruct pedestrian or vehicular
movement on town property.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than governmental employees
in the performance of their duty, to place any instrument, tripod, bipod or
other pole or object on town property with the intent to obstruct public
ingress to or egress from town property, or otherwise to obstruct pedestrian or
vehicular movement on town property.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than governmental employees
in the performance of their duty, to attach themselves to another person,
building, vehicle or fixture on town property with the intent to obstruct
public ingress to or egress from town property, or otherwise to obstruct
pedestrian or vehicular movement on town property.
(Ord. passed 9-24-2012)
§ 130.23 POSSESSION AND DISPERSAL OF NOXIOUS SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than governmental employees
in the performance of their duty, to possess any noxious substance on town
property with the intent to use the noxious substance to interfere with a
lawful assembly or to interfere with emergency services or to interfere with a
person's right of entry or right to leave a place.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person on town property, other than
governmental employees in the performance of their duty, to throw, emit, or
cause to be used as a projectile, or otherwise disperse any noxious substance.
(Ord. passed 9-24-2012)
§ 130.24 POLICE LINES AND BARRICADES.
   (A)   Officers of the Police Department are authorized to establish police
lines and barricades on town property to preserve the public peace, arrest
offenders, and to protect the rights of persons and property.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to intentionally cross over a police
line or barricade.
(Ord. passed 9-24-2012)
§ 130.25 KINDLING BONFIRES.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to set a fire on town property unless
expressly allowed by a permit.
(Ord. passed 9-24-2012)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The town shall have all remedies provided pursuant to G.S. § 160A-175,
including, but not necessarily limited to, those penalties and remedies set out
below.
   (B)   Any person in violation of §
130.04 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction shall be fined
$500 or imprisoned for six months or both.
   (C)   Violations of §§
130.21 through
130.25 or failure to comply with any of its requirements shall constitute a
Class 3 misdemeanor punishable by a fine for up to $500, or the maximum amount
allowed by law, if lower, or up to 20 days imprisonment.
   (D)   Violations of §§
130.21 through
130.25 or failure to comply with any of its requirements shall be subject to
the following civil penalties for each offense:
      (1)   First citation: warning;
      (2)   Second citation: $100;
      (3)   Third and subsequent citations: $500.
   (E)   The town may seek equitable relief from a court of competent
jurisdiction pursuant to G.S. § 160A-175, which relief may include but is not
limited to a mandatory or prohibitory injunction and order of abatement
commanding the offender to correct the unlawful condition upon or cease the
unlawful use of town property.
   (F)   Each day that any violation continues after notification of the
violation by, or on behalf of, the Police Department may be considered a
separate violation for purposes of the penalties and remedies set forth in this
section.
   (G)   Any one, all, or any combination of the foregoing penalties and
remedies may be used to enforce this chapter.
(Ord. passed 12-1-95; Am. Ord. passed 9-24-2012)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   FLOOD HAZARD REGULATIONS
      
151.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
      
152.   ZONING
      
153.   MINIMUM HOUSING CODE STANDARDS
      
154.   LANDSCAPING AND TREE PRESERVATION REQUIREMENTS
      
155.   NON-RESIDENTIAL BUILDING OR STRUCTURE STANDARDS
CHAPTER 150: FLOOD HAZARD REGULATIONS
Section
   
150.01   Incorporation by reference
§ 150.01 INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE.
   The town's flood hazard regulations are set forth in the town's Development
Ordinance, which is hereby incorporated by reference, as amended, and made a
part of this code, the same as if set forth in full herein. Copies of this
document shall be kept on file in the office of the Town Clerk and shall be
available for public inspection during regular business hours.
((Ord. passed 2-26-2018)
CHAPTER 151: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
   
151.01   Incorporation by reference
§ 151.01 INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE.
   The town's subdivision regulations are set forth in the town's Development
Ordinance, which is hereby incorporated by reference, as amended, and made a
part of this code, the same as if set forth in full herein. Copies of this
document shall be kept on file in the office of the Town Clerk and shall be
available for public inspection during regular business hours.
(Ord. passed 2-26-2018)
CHAPTER 152: ZONING
Section
   
152.01   Incorporation by reference
§ 152.01 INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE.
   The town's zoning regulations are set forth in the town's Development
Ordinance, which is hereby incorporated by reference, as amended, and made a
part of this code, the same as if set forth in full herein. Copies of this
document shall be kept on file in the office of the Town Clerk and shall be
available for public inspection during regular business hours.
(Ord. passed 2-26-2018)
CHAPTER 153: MINIMUM HOUSING CODE STANDARDS
Section
   
153.01   Finding; purpose; authority
   
153.02   Scope
   
153.03   Definitions
   
153.04   Minimum standards of fitness for dwellings and dwelling units
   
153.05   Minimum standards for structural condition
   
153.06   Minimum standards for basic plumbing, heating and electrical equipment
and facilities
   
153.07   Minimum standards for ventilation
   
153.08   [Reserved]
   
153.09   Minimum standards for safe and sanitary maintenance
   
153.10   Minimum standards for control of insects, rodents and infestations
   
153.11   Minimum standards applicable to rooming houses; exceptions
   
153.12   Dwellings not in compliance but not unfit for human habitation
   
153.13   Powers and duties of Building Inspector
   
153.14   Inspections
   
153.15   Procedure for enforcement
   
153.16   Methods of service of complaints and orders
   
153.17   Alternative remedies
   
153.18   Appeals to Board of Adjustment
   
153.19   Conflict with other provisions
 
   
153.99   Penalty
§ 153.01 FINDING; PURPOSE; AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Pursuant to state law, it is hereby found and declared that there
exists in the town dwellings which are unfit for human habitation due to
dilapidation, defects increasing the hazards of fire, accidents and other
calamities, lack of ventilation, light and sanitary facilities, and due to
other conditions rendering such dwellings unsafe or unsanitary, dangerous and
detrimental to the health, safety and morals, and otherwise inimical to the
welfare of the residents of the town.
   (B)   In order to protect the health, safety and welfare of the residents of
the town as authorized by state law, it is the purpose of this chapter to
establish minimum standards of fitness for the initial and continued occupancy
of all buildings used for human habitation, as expressly authorized by state
law.
   (C)   In addition, it is hereby found and declared, under the authority of
G.S 160A-174, that there exist in the town dwellings which, although not
meeting the classification as unfit for human habitation, fail to fully comply
with all the minimum standards for housing fitness as established herein and
therefore have present one or more conditions which are inimical to the public
health, safety and general welfare. These conditions, if not corrected can lead
to deterioration and dilapidation of dwellings which render them unfit for
human habitation.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2005; Am. Ord. passed 2-11-2013)
§ 153.02 SCOPE.
   (A)   This chapter is hereby declared to be remedial and shall be construed
to secure the beneficial interests and purposes thereof which are public
safety, health and general welfare through structural strength, stability,
sanitation, adequate light and ventilation and safety to life and property from
fire and other hazards incident to the construction, alteration, repair,
removal, demolition, use and occupancy of dwellings, apartment houses, rooming
houses or buildings, structures or premises used or intended for use as such.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all existing housing and
to all housing hereafter constructed within the town. Portable, mobile or
demountable buildings or structures, including trailers, manufactured homes and
mobile homes when used or intended for use for housing within the jurisdiction,
shall be subject to the applicable provisions of this chapter. This chapter
establishes minimum requirements for the initial and continued occupancy of all
buildings used for human habitation and does not replace or modify requirements
otherwise established for the construction, repair, alteration or use of
buildings, equipment or facilities except as provided in this chapter.
   (C)   The provisions of this chapter shall also apply to abandoned
structures which are found by the Town Council to be a health or safety hazard
as a result of the attraction of insects or rodents, conditions creating a fire
hazard, dangerous conditions constituting a threat to children or frequent use
by vagrants as living quarters in the absence of sanitary conditions.
(Ord. passed 2-11-2013)
§ 153.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED STRUCTURE. Any structure, whether designed and intended for
residential or other uses, which has been vacant or not in active use,
regardless of purpose or reason, for the past two-year period and which is
determined by the Housing Inspector to be unfit for human habitation or
occupancy based upon the standards as set forth in this chapter.
   BASEMENT. A portion of a dwelling, which is located partly underground,
having access to light and air from windows located above the level of the
adjoining ground.
   CELLAR. A portion of a building located partly or wholly underground having
an inadequate access to light and air from windows located partly or wholly
below the level of the adjoining ground.
   DETERIORATED DWELLING. A dwelling is unfit for human habitation and can be
repaired, altered, or improved to comply with all of the minimum standards
established by this chapter at a cost not in excess of 50% of its value, as
determined by finding of the Housing Inspector.
   DILAPIDATED DWELLING. A dwelling is unfit for human habitation and cannot be
repaired, altered or improved to comply with all of the minimum standards
established by this chapter, at a cost in excess of 50% of its value, as
determined by finding of the Housing Inspector.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, manufactured home or mobile home, or part
thereof, used and occupied for human habitation or intended to be so used, and
includes any accessory buildings and structures and appurtenances belonging
thereto or usually enjoyed therewith, except that it does not include any
manufactured home or mobile home, which is used solely for a seasonal vacation
purpose.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms located within a dwelling and
forming a single habitable unit with facilities which are used or intended to
be used for living, sleeping, cooking and eating.
   EXTERMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rodents or other
pests by eliminating their harborage places, by removing or making inaccessible
materials that may serve as their food; by poisoning, spraying, fumigating, or
trapping; or by any other recognized and legal pest elimination methods
approved by the Housing Inspector.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   HABITABLE ROOM. A room or enclosed floor space used or intended to be used
for living, sleeping, cooking or eating purposes, excluding bathrooms, water
closet compartments, laundries, heater rooms, foyers, or communicating
corridors, closets and storage spaces.
   HOUSING INSPECTOR. The person appointed by the Town Council to carry out the
administration and enforcement of this chapter.
   INFESTATION. The presence, within or around a dwelling, of any insects,
rodents or other pests in such number as to constitute a menace to the health,
safety or welfare of the occupants or the public.
   MANUFACTURED HOME (MOBILE HOME). A structure as defined in G.S. § 143-145
(7).
   MULTIPLE DWELLING. Any dwelling containing more than two dwelling units.
   OCCUPANT. Any person over one year of age, living, sleeping, cooking or
eating in, or having actual possession of a dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming
unit.
   OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care or control of a building, or part
thereof, in which dwelling units or rooming units are let.
   OWNER. The holder of the title in fee simple and every mortgagee of record.
   PARTY OR PARTIES IN INTEREST. All individuals, associations and corporations
who have interests of record in a dwelling, dwelling and any who are in
possession thereof.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Any housing authority or any officer who is in charge of
any department or branch of the government of the town, county, or state
relating to health, fire, building regulations or other activities concerning
dwellings in the town.
   ROOMING HOUSE. Any dwelling, or that part of any dwelling containing one or
more rooming units, in which space is let by the owner or operator to three or
more persons who are not husband or wife, son or daughter, mother or father, or
sister or brother of the owner or operator.
   ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
used or intended to be used for living and sleeping, but not for cooking or
eating purposes.
   RUBBISH. Combustible and noncombustible waste materials except garbage and
ashes, and the term shall include but not be limited to paper, rags, cartons,
boxes, wood, excelsior, rubber, leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin
cans, metals, mineral matter, glass crockery, and dust.
   SUPPLIED. Paid for, furnished, or provided by, or under the control of, the
owner or operator.
   Words having certain meaning. Whenever the words DWELLING, DWELLING UNIT,
ROOMING HOUSE, ROOMING UNIT, PREMISES are used in this chapter, they shall be
construed as though they were followed by the words "or any part thereof".
(Ord. passed 11-28-2005; Am. Ord. passed 2-11-2013)
§ 153.04 MINIMUM STANDARDS OF FITNESS FOR DWELLINGS AND DWELLING UNITS.
   (A)   The Housing Inspector shall determine that a dwelling is unfit for
human habitation if he or she finds that any one of the following conditions
exist in the dwelling:
      (1)   Interior walls or vertical studs which seriously list, lean or
buckle to such an extent as to render the dwelling unsafe.
      (2)   Supporting member or members which show 33% or more damage or
deterioration, or non-supporting, enclosing or outside walls or covering which
shows 50% or more of damage or deterioration.
      (3)   Floors or roofs which have improperly distributed loads, which are
overloaded or which have insufficient strength to be reasonably safe for the
purpose used.
      (4)   Such damage by fire, wind or other causes as to render the dwelling
unsafe.
      (5)   Dilapidation, decay, unsanitary conditions or disrepair which is
dangerous to the health, safety or welfare of the occupants or other people in
the town.
      (6)   Inadequate facilities for egress in case of fire or panic.
      (7)   Defects significantly increasing the hazards of fire, accident or
other calamities.
      (8)   Lack of adequate ventilation, light, heating or sanitary facilities
to such extent as to endanger the health, safety or general welfare of the
occupants or other residents of the town.
      (9)   Lack of proper electrical, heating or plumbing facilities required
by this chapter which constitutes a definite health or safety hazard.
      (10)   Lack of connection to a potable water supply and/or to the public
sewer or other approved sewage disposal system, the lack of either one of which
renders a dwelling unfit for human habitation. For the purposes of this
standard, a dwelling is not connected to a potable water supply if the water
supply has been cut off because of nonpayment of the water bill or otherwise or
if the system for any reason is not receiving a flow of potable water to the
tap.
   (B)   In addition to the ten conditions stated above, any one of which
renders a dwelling unfit for human habitation, the Housing Inspector shall
determine that a dwelling is unfit for human habitation if he or she finds that
a dwelling fails to fully comply with seven or more of the standards of
dwelling fitness listed in §§
153.04 through
153.10. (Note: full compliance with a standard means that if any part of the
stated standard is not complied with by a particular dwelling then that
dwelling has failed to fully comply with the standard. For example, in regard
to the standard in §
153.05(A)(1), if all standards are met in a dwelling except that a supply of
hot water is not provided then the dwelling fails to fully comply with the
standard in § 154.05(A)(1).)
(Ord. passed 11-28-2005; Am. Ord. passed 2-11-2013) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.05 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR STRUCTURAL CONDITION.
   (A)   Structural integrity. Walls, partitions, supporting members, sills,
joists, rafters or other structural members shall not list, lean or buckle, and
shall not be rotted, deteriorated, or damaged, and shall not have holes or
cracks which might admit rodents.
   (B)   Supports. Floors or roofs shall have adequate supporting members and
strength to be reasonably safe for the purpose used.
   (C)   Foundations. Foundations, foundation walls, piers or other foundation
supports shall not be deteriorated or damaged.
   (D)   Steps. Steps, stairs, landings, porches, or other parts or
appurtenances shall be maintained in such condition that they will not fail or
collapse.
   (E)   Egress. Adequate facilities for egress in case of fire or panic shall
be provided.
   (F)   Interior materials. Interior walls and ceilings of all rooms, closets
and hallways shall be finished of suitable materials, which will, by use of
reasonable household methods promote sanitation and cleanliness, and shall be
maintained in such a manner so as to enable the occupants to maintain
reasonable privacy between various spaces.
   (G)   Weatherization. The roof, flashing, exterior walls, basement walls,
floors, and all doors and windows exposed to the weather shall be constructed
and maintained so as to be weather and watertight.
   (H)   Chimneys. There shall be no chimneys or parts thereof which are
defective, deteriorated or in danger of falling, or in such condition or
location as to constitute a fire hazard.
   (I)   Floors. There shall be no use of the ground for floors, or wood floors
on the ground.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2005; Am. Ord. passed 2-11-2013) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.06 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR BASIC PLUMBING, HEATING AND ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
AND FACILITIES.
   (A)   Plumbing standards.
      (1)   Facilities. Each dwelling unit shall contain not less than a
kitchen sink, lavatory, tub or shower, water closer, and an adequate supply of
both cold water and hot water. All water shall be supplied through an approved
pipe distribution system connected to a potable water supply. For the purpose
of this standard, a dwelling is not connected to a potable water supply if the
water supply has been cut off because of non-payment of the water bill or
otherwise if the system for any reason is not receiving a flow of potable water
to the tap.
      (2)   Maintenance. All plumbing fixtures shall meet the standards of the
Plumbing Code and shall be maintained in a state of good repair and in good
working order.
      (3)   Accessible. All required plumbing fixtures shall be located within
the dwelling unit and be accessible to the occupants of same. The water closet
and tub or shower shall be located in a room or rooms affording privacy to the
user.
   (B)   Heating standards. Every dwelling shall have facilities for providing
heat in accordance with either division (1) or (2) below. The facilities shall
be maintained in a state of good repair and good working order.
      (1)   Central and electric heating systems. Every central or electric
heating system shall be of sufficient capacity to heat all habitable rooms,
bathrooms and water closet compartments in every dwelling unit to which it is
connected with a minimum temperature of 70 degrees Fahrenheit measured at a
point three feet above the floor during average winter conditions.
      (2)   Other heating facilities. Where a central or electric heating
system is not provided, each dwelling shall be provided with a sufficient
electrical receptacles, fireplaces, chimneys, flues or gas vents whereby
heating appliances may be connected so as to heat all habitable rooms,
bathrooms and water closet compartments to a minimum temperature of 70 degrees
Fahrenheit measured three feet above the floor during average winter
conditions.
   (C)   Electrical standards.
      (1)   Wiring. Every dwelling and dwelling unit shall be wired for
electric lights and convenience receptacles. Every habitable room shall contain
at least two floor or wall-type electric convenience receptacles, connected in
such manner as determined by the State Electrical Code. There shall be
installed in every bathroom, water closet room, laundry room and furnace room
at least one supplied ceiling or wall-type electric light fixture. In the event
wall or ceiling light fixtures are not provided in any habitable room, then
each such habitable room shall contain at least three floor or wall-type
electric convenience receptacles.
      (2)   Hall lights. Every public hall and stairway in every multiple
dwelling shall be adequately lighted by electric lights at all times when
natural daylight is not sufficient.
      (3)   Maintenance. All fixtures, receptacles, equipment and wiring shall
be maintained in a state of good repair, safe, capable of being used, and
installed in accordance with the State Electrical Code.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2005; Am. Ord. passed 2-11-2013) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.07 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR VENTILATION.
   (A)   General. Every habitable room shall have at least one window or
skylight facing directly to the outdoors. The minimum total window area,
measured between stops, for every habitable room shall be 10% of the floor area
of such room. Whenever walls or other portions of structures face a window or
any room and such light-obstructing structures are located less than five feet
from the window and extend to a level above that of the ceiling of the room,
such a window shall not be deemed to face directly to the outdoors and shall
not be included as contributing to the required minimum total window area.
Whenever the only window in a room is a skylight-type window in the top of such
room, the total window area of such skylight shall equal at least 15% of the
total floor area of such room.
   (B)   Habitable rooms. Every habitable room shall have at least one window
or skylight which can easily be opened, or such other device as will adequately
ventilate the room. The total openable window area in every habitable room
shall be equal to at least 45% of the minimum window area size or minimum
skylight-type window size as required, or shall have other approved, equivalent
ventilation.
   (C)   Bathroom and water closet rooms. Every bathroom equipped with more
than one water closet compartment shall comply with the light and ventilation
requirements for habitable rooms.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2005; Am. Ord. passed 2-11-2013) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.08 [RESERVED].
§ 153.09 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR SAFE AND SANITARY MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Exterior foundation, walls and roofs. Every foundation wall, exterior
wall and exterior roof shall be substantially weathertight and rodent proof;
shall be kept in sound condition and good repair; shall be capable of affording
privacy; and shall be safe to use and capable of supporting the load which
normal use would cause to be placed thereon. Every exterior wall shall be
protected with paint or other protective covering, to prevent the entrance or
penetration of moisture or the weather.
   (B)   Interior floors, walls and ceilings. Every floor, interior wall and
ceiling shall be substantially rodent proof; shall be kept in sound condition
and good repair; and shall be safe to use and capable of supporting the load
which normal use would cause to be placed thereon.
   (C)   Windows and doors. Every window, exterior door, basement or cellar
door and hatchway shall be substantially weathertight, watertight and rodent
proof and shall be kept in sound working condition and good repair.
   (D)   Stairs, porches and appurtenances. Every outside and inside stair,
porch and any appurtenance thereto shall be safe to use and capable of
supporting the load that normal use would cause to be placed thereon and shall
be kept in sound condition and good repair.
   (E)   Bathroom and kitchen floors. Every bathroom and kitchen floor surface
and water closet compartment floor surface shall be constructed and maintained
so as to be reasonably impervious to water and will permit such floor to be
easily kept in sound condition and good repair.
   (F)   Supplied facilities. Every supplied facility, piece of equipment or
utility which is required under this chapter shall be so constructed or
installed that it will function safely and effectively and shall be maintained
in satisfactory working condition.
   (G)   Drainage. Every yard shall be properly graded so as to obtain thorough
drainage and so as to prevent the accumulation of stagnant water.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2005; Am. Ord. passed 2-11-2013) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.10 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR CONTROL OF INSECTS, RODENTS AND INFESTATIONS.
   (A)   Screens. For protection against mosquitoes, flies and other insects
every dwelling shall have:
      (1)   Supplied and installed screens on every door opening leading
directly from the dwelling to outdoor space. Except, that sliding doors, doors
with self closing devices, doors on mobile homes with self closing devices and
doors that open into rooms of living spaces that are artificially ventilated or
air conditioned are exempt from this provision.
      (2)   Supplied and installed screens on every window or other device with
an opening to outdoor space, except that this requirement shall not apply for
any room or rooms of a dwelling that are ventilated year round with an operable
and installed heating and air conditioning system.
   (B)   Rodent control. Every basement or cellar window used or intended to be
used for ventilation, and every other opening to a basement which might provide
an entry for rodents, shall be supplied with screens installed or such other
approved device as will effectively prevent their entrance.
   (C)   Infestation. Every dwelling shall be maintained in a manner to be free
of any infestations of insects, rodents or other pests. Every occupant of a
dwelling containing a single dwelling unit shall be responsible for the
extermination of any insects, rodents or other pests therein or on the
premises; and every occupant of a dwelling unit in a dwelling containing more
than one dwelling unit shall be responsible for such extermination whenever his
dwelling unit is the only one infested. Whenever infestation exists in two or
more of the dwelling units in any dwelling or in the shared or public parts of
any dwelling containing two or more dwelling units, extermination shall be the
responsibility of the owner.
   (D)   Rubbish storage and disposal. Every dwelling shall be supplied with
approved containers and covers for storage of rubbish as required by town
ordinances, and the owner, operator or agent in control of such dwelling or
dwelling unit shall be responsible for the removal of rubbish.
   (E)   Garbage storage and disposal. Every dwelling shall be supplied with an
approved garbage disposal facility, which may be an adequate mechanical garbage
disposal unit (mechanical sink grinder) in each dwelling unit or an incinerator
unit, to be approved by the Inspector in the structure for the use of the
occupants of each dwelling unit, or an approved outside garbage can as required
by town codes.
   (F)   Smoke detector systems. Every dwelling unit shall be provided with an
approved listed smoke detector installed in accordance with the manufacturer’s
recommendations and listing. When activated, the detector shall provide an
audible alarm. The detector shall be tested in accordance with and meet the
requirements of UL 217, single and multiple station smoke detectors.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2005; Am. Ord. passed 2-11-2013) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.11 MINIMUM STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO ROOMING HOUSES; EXCEPTIONS.
   All of the provisions of this chapter, and all of the minimum standards and
requirements of this chapter, shall be applicable to rooming houses, and to
every person who operates a rooming house, or who occupies or lets to another
for occupancy any rooming unit in any rooming house, except as provided in the
following divisions:
   (A)   Water closet, hand lavatory and bath facilities. At least one water
closet, lavatory basin and bathtub or shower, properly connected to an approved
water and sewer system and in good working condition, shall be supplied for
each four rooms within a rooming house wherever these facilities are shared.
All such facilities shall be located within the residence building served and
shall be directly accessible from a common hall or passageway and shall be not
more than one story removed from any of the persons sharing such facilities.
Every lavatory basin and bathtub or shower shall be supplied with hot and cold
water at all times. Such required facilities shall not be located in a cellar.
   (B)   Minimum floor area for sleeping purposes. Every room occupied for
sleeping purposes by one occupant shall contain at least 70 square feet of
floor area, and every room occupied for sleeping purposes by more than one
occupant shall contain at least 50 square feet of floor area for each occupant
12 years of age and over and at least 35 square feet of floor area for each
occupant under 12 years of age.
   (C)   Sanitary conditions. The operator of every rooming house shall be
responsible for the sanitary maintenance of all walls, floors, and ceilings,
and for the sanitary maintenance of every other part of the rooming house. He
shall be further responsible for the sanitary maintenance of the entire
premises where the entire structure or building within which the rooming house
is contained is leased or occupied by the operator.
   (D)   Sanitary facilities. Every water closet, flush urinal, lavatory basin
and bathtub or shower required by division (A) of this section shall be located
within the rooming house and within a room or rooms which afford privacy, are
separate from the habitable rooms, are accessible from a common hall, and are
accessible without going outside the rooming house or through any other room
therein.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2005; Am. Ord. passed 2-11-2013) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.12 DWELLINGS NOT IN COMPLIANCE BUT NOT UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION.
   In any case where the Housing Inspector determines that a dwelling fails to
fully comply with one or more but less than seven of the above standards of
dwelling fitness (§§
153.04 through
153.10), the dwelling shall not be found to be unfit for human habitation and
shall not be subject to the procedures and remedies as provided for in this
chapter for dwellings unfit for human habitation. Each such failure or
noncompliance, however, shall constitute a violation of the terms of this
chapter and shall subject the violator to the penalties and enforcement
procedures of §
10.99. In making the determination as described in this section, the Housing
Inspector shall not be required to make notice and hold the hearing as called
for in §
153.15, but the Housing Inspector may do so if the determination of the
severity and classification of dwelling fitness is not clear to the Housing
Inspector upon preliminary investigation.
(Ord. passed 2-11-2013)
§ 153.13 POWERS AND DUTIES OF BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   For the purposes of administering and enforcing the provisions of this
chapter the office of Housing Inspector is hereby created. The Housing
Inspector shall be appointed by the Town Manager, and shall have the powers as
may be necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the purposes and
provisions of this chapter, including, without limiting the generality of the
foregoing, in addition to others herein granted, the following powers:
   (A)   To investigate the dwelling and building conditions in the town, in
order to determine which dwellings therein are unfit for human habitation and
dangerous, being guided in the examination of dwellings and buildings by the
requirements set forth in this chapter;
   (B)   To administer oaths and affirmations, examine witnesses and receive
evidence;
   (C)   To enter upon premises for the purpose of making examinations and
inspections; provided, such entries shall be made in such manner as to cause
the least possible inconvenience to the persons in possession;
   (D)   To swear criminal warrants, issue citations and to take such other
actions as may be necessary to carry out the enforcement procedures of this
chapter.
   (E)   To delegate any of his or her functions and powers under this chapter
to the officers and agents as he or she may designate.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2005; Am. Ord. passed 2-11-2013)
§ 153.14 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of carrying out the intent of this chapter, the
Housing Inspector, upon proper identification, is hereby authorized to enter,
examine and survey at all reasonable times all dwellings, dwelling units,
rooming houses, rooming units and premises, including abandoned structures. The
owners or occupants of every dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house or rooming
unit, or the person in charge thereof, shall give the Housing Inspector free
access to such dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house or rooming unit and its
premises at all reasonable times for the purposes of such inspection,
examination and survey.
   (B)   Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall give the owner
thereof, or his or her agent or employee, access to any part of such dwelling
or dwelling unit and its premises at all reasonable times for the purpose of
making such repairs or alterations as are necessary to effect compliance with
the provisions of this chapter or with any lawful order issued pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2005; Am. Ord. passed 2-11-2013)
§ 153.15 PROCEDURE FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Preliminary investigation; notice; hearing.
      (1)   Whenever a petition is filed with the Housing Inspector by a public
authority or by at least five residents of the town charging that any dwelling
is unfit for human habitation, or whenever it appears to the Housing Inspector
(on his or her own motion) that any dwelling or dwelling unit is unfit for
human habitation, the Housing Inspector shall, if his or her preliminary
investigation discloses a basis for such charges, issue and cause to be served
upon the owner and parties in interest in such dwelling a complaint stating the
charges in that respect and containing a notice that a hearing will be held
before the Housing Inspector or his or her designated agent) at a place within
the town therein fixed, not less than ten nor more than 30 days after the
serving of the complaint.
      (2)   The owner and parties in interest shall be given the right to file
an answer to the complaint and to appear in person, or otherwise, and give
testimony at the place and time fixed in the complaint and that the rules of
evidence prevailing in courts of law or equity shall not be controlling in
hearings before the Housing Inspector.
   (B)   Filing of lis pendens. Upon issuance of a complaint and notice of
hearing pursuant to this section, the Inspector may cause the filing of a
notice of lis pendens, with a copy of the compliant and notice of hearing
attached thereto, in the Office of the Clerk of Superior Court of the county in
which the subject property exists, to be indexed and cross-indexed in
accordance with the indexing procedures of the state statutes. The Inspector
shall cause a copy of the notice of lis pendens to be served upon the owners
and parties in interest in the dwelling at the time of filing in accordance
with state law as applicable. Upon compliance with the requirements of any
order based upon such complaint and hearing the Inspector shall direct the
Clerk of Superior Court to cancel the notice of lis pendens.
   (C)   Procedure after hearing.
      (1)   If, after notice and hearing, the Housing Inspector determines that
the dwelling under consideration is unfit for human habitation in accordance
with the standards set forth above, he or she shall state in writing his or her
findings of fact in support of that determination and shall issue and cause to
be served upon the owner thereof an order:
         (a)   If the repair, alteration or improvement of the dwelling can be
made at a cost of less than 50% of the value of the dwelling, requiring the
owner, within the time specified, to repair, alter or improve the dwelling in
order to render it fit for human habitation or to vacate and close the dwelling
as a human habitation, based upon the Housing Inspector's standards for closing
dwellings; or
         (b)   If the repair, alteration or improvement of the dwelling cannot
be made at a cost of less than 50% of the value of the dwelling, requiring the
owner, within the time specified in the order, to remove or demolish the
dwelling.
      (2)   If, after notice and hearing the Housing Inspector determines that
the dwelling under consideration is not unfit for human habitation but is not
in full compliance with one or more standards of dwelling fitness as set forth
above, he or she may proceed with the enforcement procedures of §
10.99.
      (3)   Whenever a determination is made pursuant to divisions (C)(1)(a) or
(b) of this section that a dwelling must be vacated and closed, or removed or
demolished, under the provisions of this chapter, notice of the order shall be
given by first-class mail to any organization involved in providing or
restoring dwellings for affordable housing that has filed a written request for
the notices. A minimum period of 45 days from the mailing of the notice shall
be given before removal or demolition by action
of the Inspector, to allow the opportunity for any organization to negotiate
with the owner to make repairs, lease, or purchase the property for the purpose
of providing affordable housing. The Inspector shall certify the mailing of the
notices, and the certifications shall be conclusive in the absence of fraud.
Only an organization that has filed a written request for such notices may
raise the issue of failure to mail the notices, and the sole remedy shall be an
order requiring the Inspector to wait 45 days before causing removal or
demolition.
   (D)   Failure to comply with order. 
      (1)   If the owner fails to comply with an order to repair, alter or
improve or to vacate and close the dwelling, the Housing Inspector may:
         (a)   Cause the dwelling to be repaired, altered or improved or to be
vacated and closed.
         (b)   Cause to be posted on the main entrance of any such dwelling, a
placard with the following words: "This building is unfit for human habitation;
the use or occupation of this building for human habitation is prohibited and
unlawful." Occupation of a building so posted shall constitute a violation of
this chapter.
      (2)   If the owner fails to comply with an order to repair, alter or
improve or to remove or demolish the dwelling, the Housing Inspector may:
         (a)   Cause the dwelling to be vacated and removed or demolished.
         (b)   Cause to be posted on the main entrance of any such dwelling, a
placard with the following words: "This building is unfit for human habitation;
the use or occupation of this building for human habitation is prohibited and
unlawful." Occupation of a building so posted shall constitute a violation of
this chapter.
      (3)   The duties of the Housing Inspector set forth in divisions (D)(1)
and (2) shall not be exercised until the Town Council shall have by ordinance
ordered the Housing Inspector to proceed to effectuate the purpose of this
chapter with respect to the particular property or properties which the Housing
Inspector shall have found to be unfit for human habitation and which property
or properties shall be described in the ordinance. No ordinance shall be
adopted to require demolition of a dwelling until the owner has first been
given a reasonable opportunity to bring it into conformity with the Housing
Standards. For the purposes of this section, a period of 90 days following the
date of the Housing Inspector's order shall constitute a reasonable
opportunity. The chapter shall be recorded in the Office of the Register of
Deeds in the county wherein the property or properties are located and shall be
indexed in the name of the property owner in the grantor index.
      (4)   The amount of the cost of repairs, alterations or improvements, or
vacating and closing, or removal or demolition by the Housing Inspector shall
be a lien against the real property upon which the cost was incurred, which
lien shall be filed, have the same priority, and be collected as the lien for
special assessment provided in G.S. Chapter 160A, Article 10. If the dwelling
is removed or demolished by the Housing Inspector, he or she shall sell the
materials of the dwelling, and any personal property, fixture or appurtenances
found in or attached to the dwelling, and shall credit the proceeds of the sale
against the cost of the removal or demolition and any balance remaining shall
be deposited in the Superior Court by the Housing Inspector, shall be secured
in a manner directed by the Court, and shall be disbursed by the Court to the
persons found to be entitled thereto by final order of the decree of the Court.
      (5)   If any occupant fails to comply with an order to vacate a dwelling,
the Housing Inspector may file a civil action in the name of the town to remove
the occupant. The action to vacate the dwelling shall be in the nature of
summary ejectment and shall be commenced by filing a complaint naming as
parties-defendant any persons occupying the dwelling. The Clerk of Superior
Court shall issue a summons requiring the defendant to appear before a
magistrate at a certain time, date and place not to exceed ten days from the
issuance of the summons to answer the complaint. The summons and complaint
shall be served as provided in G.S. § 42-29. The summons shall be returned
according to its tenor, and if on its return it appears to have been duly
served, and if at the hearing the Housing Inspector produces the certified copy
of an ordinance adopted by the Town Council pursuant to division (D)(3)
authorizing the Housing Inspector to proceed to vacate the occupied dwelling,
the magistrate shall enter judgment ordering that the premises be vacated and
that all persons be removed. The judgement ordering that the dwelling be
vacated shall be enforced in the same manner as the judgment for summary
ejectment entered under G.S. § 42-30. An appeal from any judgment entered
hereunder by the magistrate may be taken as provided in G.S. § 7A-228, and the
execution of the judgement may be stayed as provided in G.S. § 7A-227. An
action to remove an occupant of a dwelling who is a tenant of the owner may not
be in the nature of a summary ejectment proceeding pursuant to this division
unless the occupant was served with notice at least 30 days before the filing
of the summary ejectment proceeding that the Town Council has ordered the
Housing Inspector to proceed to exercise his or her duties under divisions (D)
(1), (2), and (3) of this section to vacate and close or remove and demolish
the dwelling.
      (6)   If the Town Council shall have adopted an ordinance, or the Housing
Inspector shall have issued an order, ordering a dwelling to be repaired or
vacated and closed, as provided in §
153.14(C)(1)(a), and if the owner has vacated and closed the dwelling and kept
the dwelling vacated and closed for a period of one year pursuant to the
ordinance or order, then if the Town Council shall find that the owner has
abandoned the intent and purpose to repair, alter, or improve the dwelling in
order to render it fit for human habitation and that the continuation of the
dwelling in its vacated and closed status would be inimical to the health,
safety, moral, and welfare of the town in that the dwelling would continue to
deteriorate, would create a fire and safety hazard, would be a threat to
children and vagrants, would attract persons intent on criminal activities,
would cause or contribute to blight and the deterioration of property values in
the area, and would render unavailable property and a dwelling which might
otherwise have been made available to ease the persistent shortage of decent
and affordable housing in the town, then in the circumstances, the Town Council
may, after the expiration of the one year period, enact an ordinance and serve
the ordinance on the owner, setting forth the following:
         (a)   If it is determined that the repair of the dwelling to render it
fit for human habitation can be made at a cost not exceeding 50% of the then
current value of the dwelling, the ordinance shall require that the owner
either repair or demolish and remove the dwelling within 90 days; or
         (b)   If it is determined that the repair of the dwelling to render it
fit for human habitation cannot be made at a cost not exceeding 50% of the then
current value of the dwelling, the ordinance shall require the owner to
demolish and remove the dwelling within 90 days.
      (7)   This chapter shall be recorded in the Office of the Register of
Deeds in the county wherein the property or properties are located and shall be
indexed in the name of the property owner in the grantor index. If the owner
fails to comply with this chapter, the Housing Inspector shall effect the
purpose of the chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2005; Am. Ord. passed 2-11-2013)
§ 153.16 METHODS OF SERVICE OF COMPLAINTS AND ORDERS.
   (A)   Complaints issued by the Housing Inspector shall be served upon
persons either personally or by registered or certified mail. When service is
made by registered or certified mail, a copy of the complaint or order may also
be sent by regular mail. Service shall be deemed sufficient if the registered
or certified mail is unclaimed or refused, but the regular mail is not returned
by the post office within ten days after the mailing. If regular mail is used,
a notice of the pending proceedings shall be posted in a conspicuous place on
the premises affected.
   (B)   If the identities of any owners or the whereabouts of persons are
unknown and cannot be ascertained by the inspector in the exercise of
reasonable diligence, or, if the owners are known but have refused to accept
service by registered or certified mail, and the Inspector makes an affidavit
to that effect, then the serving of the complaint or order upon the owners or
other persons may be made by publication in a newspaper having general
circulation in the town at least not later than the time at which personal
service would be required under the provisions of this chapter. When service is
made by publication, a notice of the pending proceedings shall be posted in a
conspicuous place on the premises thereby affected.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2005; Am. Ord. passed 2-11-2013)
§ 153.17 ALTERNATIVE REMEDIES.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter nor any of its provisions shall be construed
to impair or limit in any way the power of the town to define and declare
nuisances and to cause their removal or abatement by summary proceedings or
otherwise nor shall enforcement of one remedy provided herein prevent the
enforcement of any other remedy or remedies provided herein or in other
chapters or laws. In addition to the remedies provided for herein, any
violation of the terms of this chapter shall subject the violator to the
penalties and remedies, as set forth in §
10.99.
   (B)   No dwelling shall be hereafter erected, altered, moved, or changed in
occupancy without a Certificate of Occupancy. In any case where the Housing
Inspector, after notice and hearing as required herein, finds that a dwelling
or dwelling unit is unfit for human habitation, he or she shall withhold
issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy for the dwelling or dwelling unit until
the time that he or she determines that it is fit for human habitation. In
addition, in any case where the Housing Inspector, after preliminary
investigation as provided for herein, concludes, based upon that investigation,
that a dwelling or dwelling unit is unfit for human habitation and believes
that the occupancy of such dwelling or dwelling unit could cause imminent peril
to life or property from fire or other hazards, he or she shall withhold
issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy for the dwelling or dwelling unit until
the time that he or she determines that it is fit for human habitation.
   (C)   If any dwelling is erected, constructed, altered, repaired, converted,
maintained, or used in violation of this chapter or of any valid order or
decision of the Housing Inspector or Board made pursuant to any chapter or code
adopted under authority of this chapter, the Housing Inspector may institute
any appropriate action or proceedings to prevent the unlawful erection,
construction, reconstruction, alteration or occupancy, to restrain, correct or
abate the violation, to prevent the occupancy of the dwellings, or to prevent
any illegal act, conduct or use in or about the premises of the dwelling.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2005; Am. Ord. passed 2-11-2013)
§ 153.18 APPEALS TO BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment is hereby appointed as the Housing Appeals
Board to which appeals from any decision or order of the Housing Inspector may
be taken. Except where this chapter provides for different rules or procedures,
the Board of Adjustment acting as the Housing Appeals Board shall follow its
rules of procedure, which may be amended to provide specifically for this
function.
   (B)   An appeal from any decision or order of the Housing Inspector may be
taken by any person aggrieved thereby or by any officer, board or commission of
the town. Any appeal from the Housing Inspector shall be taken within ten days
from the rendering of the decision or service of the order by filing with the
Housing Inspector and with the Board a notice of appeal which shall specify the
grounds upon which the appeal is based. Upon the filing of any notice of
appeal, the Housing Inspector shall forthwith transmit to the Board all the
papers constituting the record upon which the decision appealed from was made.
When an appeal is from a decision of the Housing Inspector refusing to allow
the person aggrieved thereby to do any such act, his or her decision shall
remain in force until modified or reversed. When any appeal is from a decision
of the Housing Inspector requiring the person aggrieved to do any act, the
appeal shall have the effect of suspending the requirement until the hearing by
the Board, unless the Housing Inspector certifies to the Board after the notice
of appeal is filed with him or her, that because of facts stated in the
certificate (a copy of which shall be furnished the appellant), a suspension of
his or her requirement would cause imminent peril to life or property. In that
case the requirement shall not be suspended except by a restraining order,
which may be granted for due cause shown upon not less than one day's written
notice to the Housing Inspector, by the Board, or by a court of record upon
petition made pursuant to division (E) of this section.
   (C)   The Board of Adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for hearing
appeals, shall give due notice to the parties, and shall render its decision
within a reasonable time. Any party may appear in person or by agent or
attorney. The Board may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the
decision or order appealed from, and may make any decision and order that in
its opinion ought to be made in the matter, and to that end it shall have all
the powers of the Housing Inspector, but the concurring vote of four-fifths of
the members of the Board shall be necessary to reverse or modify any decision
or order of the Housing Inspector. The Board shall have power also in passing
upon appeals, when practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships would result
from carrying out the strict letter of the chapter, to adapt the application of
the chapter to the necessities of the case to the end that the spirit of the
chapter shall be observed, public safety and welfare secured, and substantial
justice done.
   (D)   Every decision of the Board shall be subject to review by proceedings
in the nature of certiorari instituted within 15 days of the decision of the
Board, but not otherwise.
   (E)   Any person aggrieved by an order issued by the Housing Inspector or a
decision rendered by the Board may petition the Superior Court for an
injunction, restraining the Housing Inspector from carrying out the order or
decision and the Court may, upon such petition, issue a temporary injunction
restraining the Housing Inspector pending a final disposition of the cause. The
petition shall be filed within 30 days after issuance of the order or rendering
of the decision. Hearings shall be had by the Court on a petition within 20
days, and shall be given preference over other matters on the Court's calendar.
The Court shall hear and determine the issues raised and shall enter such final
order or decree as law and justice may require. It shall not be necessary to
file bond in any amount before obtaining a temporary injunction under this
section.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2005; Am. Ord. passed 2-11-2013)
§ 153.19 CONFLICT WITH OTHER PROVISIONS.
   In the event any provision, standard, or requirement of this chapter is
found to be in conflict with any provision of any other ordinance or code of
the town, the provision, which establishes the higher standard or more
stringent requirement for the promotion and protection of the health and safety
of the residents of the town’s jurisdiction shall prevail. The North Carolina
Building Code, current edition, shall serve as the standard for all
alterations, additions, removals, demolitions and other acts of building made
or required pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2005; Am. Ord. passed 2-11-2013)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   In addition to the conditions, acts or failures to act that constitute
violations specified in this chapter above, it shall be unlawful for the owner
of any dwelling or dwelling unit to fail, neglect, or refuse to repair, alter,
or improve the same, or to vacate and close or vacate and remove or demolish
the same, upon order of the Inspector duly made and served as herein provided,
within the time specified in such order.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dwelling or dwelling unit,
with respect to which an order has been issued pursuant to §
153.15, to occupy or permit the occupancy of the same after the time prescribed
in such order for its repair, alteration or improvement or its vacation and
closing, or vacation and removal or demolition.
(Ord. passed 11-28-2005; Am. Ord. passed 2-11-2013)
CHAPTER 154: LANDSCAPING AND TREE PRESERVATION REQUIREMENTS
Section
   
154.01   Incorporation by reference
§ 154.01 INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE.
   The town's landscaping and tree preservation requirements are set forth in
the town's Development Ordinance, which is hereby incorporated by reference, as
amended, and made a part of this code, the same as if set forth in full herein.
Copies of this document shall be kept on file in the office of the Town Clerk
and shall be available for public inspection during regular business hours.
(Ord. passed 2-26-2018)
CHAPTER 155: NON-RESIDENTIAL BUILDING OR STRUCTURE STANDARDS
Section
General Provisions
   
155.01   Title
   
155.02   Purpose
   
155.03   Findings; authority
   
155.04   Scope; jurisdiction
   
155.05   General definitions and interpretations
   
155.06   Special definitions and interpretations
   
155.07   Office of Non-Residential Building or Structure Standards Inspector
Duties and Standards
   
155.15   Duties and responsibilities of the owner
   
155.16   Duties and responsibilities of the occupant
   
155.17   Relationship of duties and responsibilities to occupancy
   
155.18   Conflict with other provisions
   
155.19   Unlawful to own unsafe buildings and structures
Enforcement
   
155.30   Buildings and premises not declared unsafe but which are not in
compliance with all standards
   
155.31   Investigation
   
155.32   Complaint and notice of hearing
   
155.33   Order to take corrective action; contents; issuance
   
155.34   Service of complaints and orders
   
155.35   Appeals
   
155.36   Failure to comply
   
155.37   Remedies; lien for cost of demolition and removal
   
155.38   Failure of occupant to comply with order to vacate
   
155.39   Abandonment of intent to repair
   
155.40   Demolition of non-residential building by owner
   
155.41   Inspections
   
155.42   Defects in buildings to be corrected
   
155.43   Violations
   
155.44   Procedure is alternative
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Non-Residential Building or Structure
Standards” for the town, and may be cited as such, and will be referred to
hereinafter as “this chapter.”
(Ord. passed 2-11-2013)
§ 155.02 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of the provisions of this chapter to provide a just,
equitable and practicable method to evaluate whether non-residential buildings
or structures fail to meet minimum standards of maintenance, sanitation, and
safety established by the town. The minimum standards address conditions that
are dangerous and injurious to public health, safety, and welfare and identify
circumstances under which a public necessity exists for the repair, closing, or
demolition of the buildings or structures. The provisions of this chapter are
cumulative with and in addition to any other remedy provided by law including
the current editions of standard codes adopted by the town.
(Ord. passed 2-11-2013)
§ 155.03 FINDINGS; AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Pursuant to state law, it is hereby found and declared that there
exist in the town non-residential buildings or structures which are unsafe and
especially dangerous to life because of liability to fire or because of bad
conditions of walls, overloaded floors, defective construction, decay, unsafe
wiring or heating systems, inadequate means of egress and other causes.
   (B)   In addition, it is hereby found and declared, that there exist in the
town non-residential buildings or structures which, although not meeting the
classification of unsafe and especially dangerous to life, fail to fully comply
with all the minimum standards for non-residential buildings or structures
fitness as established herein and, therefore, have present one or more
conditions which are inimical to the public health, safety and general welfare.
These conditions, if not corrected, can lead to deterioration and dilapidation
of non-residential buildings or structures which render them unsafe and
especially dangerous to life.
(Ord. passed 2-11-2013)
§ 155.04 SCOPE; JURISDICTION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all existing non-residential
buildings or structures and to all non-residential buildings or structures
hereafter constructed within the corporate town limits as now or hereafter
established.
(Ord. passed 2-11-2013)
§ 155.05 GENERAL DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS.
   (A)   Unless specifically defined in §
155.06, words used in the Non-Residential Building or Structure Standards shall
have their respective customary dictionary definitions.
   (B)   For the purpose of these regulations certain words, terms or phrases
used herein are interpreted and defined as follows:
      (1)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future tense.
      (2)   Words used in the singular shall include the plural and words used
in the plural shall include the singular.
      (3)   The words SHALL and WILL always indicate mandatory. The words
SHOULD and MAY always indicate optional.
      (4)   The word LOT includes the words PLOT and/or PARCEL.
      (5)   The word BUILDING includes the word STRUCTURE.
      (6)   The word PERSON includes a firm, association, organization,
partnership, trust, company, corporation and/or individual.
      (7)   The word USE includes the terms arranged, designed, and/or intended
for a use, activity and/or purpose.
      (8)   The term BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT shall always indicate the Board of
Adjustment of the Town of Stallings, North Carolina as created and appointed by
the Town Council.
      (9)   The term  TOWN COUNCIL shall always indicate the Town Council of
the Town of Stallings, North Carolina.
(Ord. passed 2-11-2013)
§ 155.06 SPECIAL DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING.  Any covered structure intended for shelter, housing or enclosure
of persons, animals, facilities, equipment or chattels; the term BUILDING shall
be construed to include the term STRUCTURE; furthermore, it shall be construed
as if followed by the term or part thereof.
   BUILDING, ACCESSORY.  A detached subordinate building located on a lot,
parcel or tract whose use is incidental to that of the principal building. A
building cannot be considered accessory unless it accompanies a principal
building on the same lot, parcel or tract.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A building in which the principal use of the lot,
parcel or tract is conducted.
   BUILDING CODE. The North Carolina State Building Code.
   DETERIORATION. The condition of a building or part thereof, characterized by
holes, breaks, rot, crumbling, rusting, peeling paint or other evidence of
physical decay or loss of structural integrity.
   FIRE HAZARD (see also NUISANCE). Any thing or act which increases, or may
cause an increase of, the hazard, likelihood or menace of fire to a greater
degree than reasonable for the conduct of the non-residential use on the
premises, or which may unreasonably obstruct, delay, or hinder, or may
unreasonably become the cause of an obstruction, a delay, a hazard or an
unreasonable hindrance to the prevention, suppression or extinguishment of
fire.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   INFESTATION. The haunting or overrunning by rats, snakes, birds, insects or
other destructive vermin or animals that endanger the public health and safety.
   NON-RESIDENTIAL BUILDING OR STRUCTURES STANDARDS INSPECTOR. The person
delegated as such by the Town Council. (Hereinafter referred to as the
Inspector.)
   NUISANCE:
      (1)   Any public nuisance known as common law or in equity jurisprudence,
or as provided by the statutes of the state, or the ordinances of the town;
      (2)   Any condition including an attractive nuisance which may prove
detrimental to human health or safety whether in a building, on the premises of
a building, or part of a building or upon an occupied lot;
      (3)   Physical conditions dangerous to human life or detrimental to
health of persons in, on or near the premises where the condition exists; or
      (4)   Unsanitary conditions or conditions that are dangerous to public
health, well-being or the general welfare; or
      (5)   Fire hazards or other safety hazards.
   OCCUPANT. Any person who has charge, care or control of a non-residential
building or structure or a part thereof, whether with or without the knowledge
and consent of the owner, or any person, individually or jointly, entitled to
possession regardless of whether the building or structure is actually occupied
or not.
   OWNER. The holder of the title in fee simple and every mortgagee of record
of a property.
   PARTIES IN INTEREST. All individuals, associations, and corporations who
have interests of record in a non-residential building or structure and any who
are in possession thereof.
   PHYSICAL VALUATION. The estimated cost to replace a building in kind.
   PLUMBING. All of the following supplies, facilities and equipment: gas
pipes, gas burning equipment, water pipes, water heaters, garbage disposal
units, waste pipes, water closets, sinks, installed dishwashers, lavatories,
bathtubs, shower baths, installed clothes washing machines, catch basins, vents
and other similar fixtures, together with all connections to water, sewer or
gas lines, and water pipes and lines utilized in conjunction with HVAC
equipment.
   PREMISES. A lot, plot or parcel of land including the buildings or
structures thereon, under control by the same owner or occupant, devoted to or
zoned for non-residential use.
   PUBLIC SANITARY SEWER.  Any sanitary sewer owned, operated and maintained by
the town and available for public use for the disposal of sewage.
   RUBBISH. Combustible and non-combustible waste materials, except garbage and
ashes, including, but not limited to, paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood,
excelsior, rubber, leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin cans, metals,
mineral matter, glass crockery and dust.
   SEWAGE. Waste from a flush toilet, bathtub, sink, lavatory, dishwashing or
laundry machine, or water-carried waste from any other fixture, equipment or
machine.
   STRUCTURALLY SOUND. Substantially free from flaw, defect, decay or
deterioration to the extent that such structure or structural member is capable
of adequately or safely accomplishing the purpose for which it was intended or
designed.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected which requires location on the
ground. (Refer to the definition of BUILDING herein.)
   SUPPLIED. Paid for, furnished or provided by, or under control of, the owner
or occupant.
   VACANT INDUSTRIAL WAREHOUSE.  Any building or structure designed for the
storage of goods or equipment in connection with manufacturing processes, which
has not been used for that purpose for at least one year and has not been
converted to another use.
   VACANT MANUFACTURING FACILITY. Any building or structure previously used for
the lawful production or manufacturing of goods, which has not been used for
that purpose for at least one year and has not been converted to another use.
(Ord. passed 2-11-2013)
§ 155.07 OFFICE OF NON-RESIDENTIAL BUILDING OR STRUCTURE STANDARDS INSPECTOR.
   (A)   For the purposes of administering and enforcing the provisions of this
chapter the Office of Non-Residential Building or Structures Standards
Inspector, (herein called Inspector), is hereby created.
   (B)   The Inspector shall be appointed by the Town Manager and shall have
such powers as may be necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the
purposes and provision of this chapter, including without limiting the
generality of the foregoing, in addition to others herein granted, the
following powers:
      (1)   To investigate the non-residential building conditions in the
jurisdiction in order to determine which buildings therein are unsafe, being
guided in these examinations of buildings by the requirements set forth in this
chapter and for the purpose of carrying out the objectives of this chapter with
respect to non-residential buildings or structures.
      (2)   To administer oaths and affirmations and to examine witnesses and
receive evidence.
      (3)   To enter upon and within premises and buildings for the purpose of
making examinations and investigations; provided, that entries shall be made at
reasonable hours in such a manner as to cause the least possible inconvenience
to the persons in possession.
      (4)   To delegate any of his or her functions and powers under this
chapter to such officers and agents as he or she may designate.
(Ord. passed 2-11-2013)
DUTIES AND STANDARDS
§ 155.15 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE OWNER.
   It shall be the duty and responsibility of the owner to maintain all non-
residential buildings or structures in accordance with all standards for non-
residential buildings or structures fitness as stated in this chapter.
(Ord. passed 2-11-2013)
§ 155.16 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE OCCUPANT.
   It shall be the duty and responsibility of the occupant to ensure that:
   (A)   All parts of the premises under the control of the occupant shall be
kept in a safe, clean and sanitary condition consistent with the non-
residential use and the occupant shall refrain from performing any acts which
would render any part of the building or premises unsafe or unsanitary or which
would obstruct any adjacent owner/occupant from performing any duty required,
or from maintaining his or her building or premises in a safe and sanitary
condition.
   (B)   Every occupant shall be responsible for the elimination of infestation
in and on the premises, subject to his or her control.
   (C)   Every occupant shall maintain all supplied plumbing fixtures in a safe
and sanitary condition and shall be responsible for the exercise of reasonable
care in the proper use and operation of same.
   (D)   No garbage or solid waste shall be stored or allowed by the occupant
to accumulate on the premises unless contained in a trash receptacle(s) which
is in accordance with the ordinances of the town.
   (E)   Damage to public sidewalks and/or curb and gutter located in the
public right-of-way shall be repaired or replaced at no expense to the town
when the damage is caused by vehicles making deliveries to the non-residential
use under the control of the occupant.
   (F)   Where the owner would not otherwise know of a defect of any facility,
utility or equipment required to be furnished hereunder and the same is found
to be defective or inoperable, the occupant affected thereby shall, upon
learning of such defect, provide notice to the owner.
(Ord. passed 2-11-2013)
§ 155.17 RELATIONSHIP OF DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES TO OCCUPANCY.
   The provisions of this chapter that apply to the exterior or exterior
components of a structure or building or to the premises shall be complied with
whether the structure or building or premises is occupied or vacant. All
unoccupied or vacant structures or buildings shall be secured by their owners
to prevent the entry of unauthorized persons or the formation of nuisance
conditions such as infestation.
(Ord. passed 2-11-2013)
§ 155.18 CONFLICT WITH OTHER PROVISIONS.
   In the event any provision, standard or requirement of this chapter is found
to be in conflict with any provision of any other ordinance or code of the
town, the provision which establishes the higher standard or more stringent
requirement for the promotion and protection of the health and safety of the
residents of the jurisdiction shall prevail. The North Carolina State Building
Code, current edition, shall serve as the standard for all alterations,
repairs, additions, removals, demolitions and other acts of building made or
required pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. passed 2-11-2013)
§ 155.19 UNLAWFUL TO OWN UNSAFE BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any firm, person or corporation to own a
building or a structure situated in the jurisdiction of the town which is in
such a defective or hazardous condition that it is unsafe and especially
dangerous to life. The Town Council has determined that unsafe and especially
dangerous buildings and structures are detrimental to the health, safety and
welfare of the citizens of the town, that the unsafe and especially dangerous
buildings and structures shall be condemned, and that the owners of the unsafe
and especially dangerous buildings and structures shall immediately remedy the
unsafe, dangerous, hazardous or unlawful conditions or demolish the buildings
or structures.
   (B)   A building or structure shall be found to be especially dangerous to
life and held unsafe by the Inspector if the Inspector finds that any one of
the following conditions exists in the building or structure:
      (1)   Interior walls or vertical studs which seriously list, lean or
buckle to an extent as to render the building unsafe.
      (2)   Supporting member or members which show 33% or more damage or
deterioration, or non-supporting, enclosing or outside walls or covering which
shows 50% or more of damage or deterioration.
      (3)   Floors or roofs which have improperly distributed loads, which are
overloaded or which have insufficient strength to be reasonably safe for the
purpose used.
      (4)   Such damage by fire, wind or other causes as to render the building
unsafe.
      (5)   Dilapidation, decay, unsanitary conditions or disrepair which is
dangerous to the health, safety or welfare of the occupants or other people of
the jurisdiction.
      (6)   Inadequate facilities for egress in case of fire or panic.
      (7)   Defects significantly increasing the hazards of fire, accident or
other calamities.
      (8)   Lack of adequate ventilation, light, heating or sanitary facilities
to such extent as to endanger the health, safety or general welfare of the
occupants or other residents of the jurisdiction.
      (9)   Lack of proper electrical, heating or plumbing facilities required
by this chapter which constitutes a health or a definite safety hazard.
      (10)   For any building whose occupancy classification requires it, lack
of connection to a potable water supply and/or to the public sanitary sewer or
other approved sewage disposal system. For the purposes of this standard, a
building is not connected to a potable water supply if the water supply has
been cut off because of nonpayment of the water bill or otherwise or if the
system for any reason is not receiving a flow of potable water to the tap.
      (11)   Any violation of the State Fire Prevention Code which constitutes
a condition which is unsafe and especially dangerous to life.
      (12)   Any abandoned non-residential building or structure which is found
to be a health or safety hazard by the Inspector as a result of the attraction
of insects or rodents, conditions creating a fire hazard, dangerous conditions
constituting a threat to children, or frequent use by vagrants as living
quarters in the absence of sanitary facilities.
   (C)   In addition to conditions (1) through (12) enumerated in division (B)
above, any one of which renders a building or structure unsafe, the Inspector
shall determine that a non-residential building or structure is unsafe if he or
she finds that a building or structure fails to fully comply with any five or
more of the following enumerated standards of building and premises fitness.
Full compliance with a standard means that if any part of the stated standard
is not complied with by a particular building and premises, then that building
and premises has failed to fully comply with the enumerated standard.
   (D)   General.
      (1)   Buildings and premises shall be kept clear of accumulations of
garbage, trash, or rubbish which create health and sanitation problems. All
garbage and solid waste shall be in approved containers or stored in a safe and
sanitary way.
      (2)   Flammable, combustible, explosive or other dangerous or hazardous
materials shall be stored in a manner approved for such materials and
consistent with the State Fire Prevention Code.
      (3)   Buildings and premises shall be kept free of loose and
insufficiently anchored overhanging objects which constitute a danger of
falling on persons or property.
      (4)   The premises shall be kept free of insufficiently protected holes,
excavations, breaks, projections, obstructions and other dangerous impediments
on and around fences, walls, walks, driveways, parking lots and other areas
which are accessible to and generally used by persons on the premises.
      (5)   Building and premise surfaces shall be kept clear of cracked or
broken glass, loose shingles, loose wood, crumbling stone or brick, loose or
broken plastic or other dangerous objects or similar hazardous conditions.
Exterior surfaces shall be maintained in such material or treated in such a
manner as to prevent deterioration.
      (6)   Buildings and premises shall be kept free of objects and elements
protruding from building walls, roof or premises which are unsafe or not
properly secured or which can create a hazard such as abandoned electrical
boxes and conduits, wires, sign brackets and other brackets, and similar
objects.
   (E)   Appurtenances.
      (1)   All chimneys, flues and vent attachments thereto shall be
maintained structurally sound. Chimneys, flues, gas vents or other draft-
producing equipment which are in use shall provide sufficient draft to develop
the rated output of the connected equipment, shall be structurally safe,
durable, smoke-tight and capable of withstanding the action of flue gases.
      (2)   All exterior porches, landings, balconies, stairs and fire escapes
shall be provided with banisters or railings properly designed and maintained
to minimize the hazard of falling, and the same shall be kept structurally
sound, in good repair, and free of defects.
      (3)   All cornices shall be made structurally sound. Rotten or weakened
portions shall be removed and/or replaced. All exposed wood shall be treated or
painted.
      (4)   Gutters and down spouts shall be replaced or repaired as necessary
and shall be appropriately located and securely installed so as not to cause a
hazard to pedestrians, vehicular traffic or property.
      (5)   Attached and unattached accessory structures shall be maintained in
a state of good repair.
      (6)   Advertising sign structures, attached or freestanding, awnings,
marquees and their supporting members and other similar attachments and
structures shall be maintained in good repair and shall not cause a nuisance or
safety hazard.
   (F)   Structural.
      (1)   Walls, partitions, supporting members, sills, joists, rafters or
other structural members shall not list, lean or buckle, shall not be rotted,
deteriorated or damaged, and shall not have holes or cracks which might admit
rodents.
      (2)   Floors or roofs shall have adequate supporting members and strength
to be reasonably safe for the purpose used.
      (3)   Foundations, foundation walls, piers or other foundation supports
shall not be deteriorated or damaged.
      (4)   Interior and exterior steps, railings, landings, porches or other
parts or appurtenances shall be maintained in such condition that they will not
fall or collapse.
      (5)   Where a wall of a building has become exposed as a result of
demolition of an adjacent building the wall must have all doors, windows, vents
or other similar openings closed with material of the type comprising the wall
unless such doors, windows, vents or other similar openings are to be
maintained in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. No protrusions or
loose material shall be in the wall. The exposed wall shall be painted,
stuccoed or bricked and weatherproofed if necessary to prevent deterioration of
the wall.
   (G)   Plumbing, electrical and supplied facilities.
      (1)   All plumbing fixtures and pipes shall meet the standards of the
State Plumbing Code and shall be maintained in a state of good repair and in
good working order.
      (2)   All electrical fixtures, receptacles, equipment and wiring shall be
maintained in a state of good repair, safe, capable of being used, and
installed in accordance with the State Electric Code.
      (3)   Every supplied facility, piece of equipment or utility which is
required under this chapter or the State Building Code for occupancy or use
shall be so constructed or installed that it will function safely and
effectively and shall be maintained in satisfactory working condition.
   (H)   Egress.
      (1)   Facilities for egress in case of fire or panic shall be adequate
and shall remain clear for such purposes.
      (2)   All windows must be tight-fitting and have sashes of proper size
and design and free from rotten wood, broken joints, or broken or loose
mullions.
      (3)   All windows shall be maintained free of broken glass that could be
dangerous to the public, invitees or third parties ordinarily expected to use
the premises, from falling or shattering.
      (4)   All openings originally designed as windows shall be maintained as
windows, unless specifically approved by the Inspector for enclosure.
   (I)   Drainage. All yards and premises shall be properly graded and
maintained so as to obtain thorough drainage and so as to prevent the
accumulation of stagnant water.
(Ord. passed 2-11-2013)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 155.30 BUILDING AND PREMISES NOT DECLARED UNSAFE BUT WHICH ARE NOT IN
COMPLIANCE WITH ALL STANDARDS.
   In any case where the Inspector determines that a non-residential building
or structure fails to fully comply with one or more but less than five of the
standards of non-residential buildings or structures fitness set forth in §
155.14(D) through (I), the building or structure shall not be found to be
unsafe and shall not be subject to the procedures and remedies as provided for
in this chapter for unsafe buildings and premises. Each failure of non-
compliance, however, shall constitute a violation of the terms of this chapter
and shall subject the violator to the penalties and enforcement procedures,
civil or criminal or both, of §
155.44. In such case the Inspector shall notify the owner as provided for in §
155.34.
(Ord. passed 2-11-2013)
§ 155.31 INVESTIGATION.
   Whenever it appears to the Inspector that any non-residential building or
structure has not been properly maintained so that the safety or health of its
occupants or members of the general public are jeopardized for failure of the
property to meet the minimum standards established by the Town Council, the
Inspector shall undertake a preliminary investigation. If entry upon the
premises for purposes of investigation is necessary, the entry shall be made
pursuant to a duly issued administrative search warrant in accordance with G.S.
§ 15-27.2 or with permission of the owner, the owner's agent, a tenant, or
other person legally in possession of the premises.
(Ord. passed 2-11-2013)
§ 155.32 COMPLAINT AND NOTICE OF HEARING.
   If the preliminary investigation discloses evidence of a violation of the
minimum standards, the Inspector shall issue and cause to be served upon the
owner of and parties in interest in the non-residential building or structure a
complaint. The complaint shall state the charges and contain a notice that a
hearing will be held before the Inspector (or his or her designated agent) at a
place within the county scheduled not less than ten days nor more than 30 days
after the serving of the complaint; that the owner and parties in interest
shall be given the right to answer the complaint and to appear in person, or
otherwise, and give testimony at the place and time fixed in the complaint; and
that the rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law or equity shall not be
controlling in hearings before the Inspector.
(Ord. passed 2-11-2013)
§ 155.33 ORDER TO TAKE CORRECTIVE ACTION; CONTENTS; ISSUANCE.
   If, after notice and hearing, the Inspector determines that the non-
residential building or structure has not been properly maintained so that the
safety or health of its occupants or members of the general public is
jeopardized for failure of the property to meet the minimum standards as
established by the Town Council, the Inspector shall state in writing the
findings of fact in support of that determination and shall issue and cause to
be served upon the owner thereof an order. The order may require the owner to
take remedial action, within a reasonable time specified, subject to the
procedures and limitations herein.
   (A)   An order may require the owner to repair, alter, or improve the non-
residential building or structure in order to bring it into compliance with the
minimum standards established by the Town Council or to vacate and close the
non-residential building or structure for any use.
   (B)   An order may require the owner to remove or demolish the non-
residential building or structure if the cost of repair, alteration, or
improvement of the building or structure would exceed 50% of its then current
value. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, if the non-residential
building or structure is designated as a local historic landmark, listed in the
National Register of Historic Places, or located in a locally designated
historic district or in a historic district listed in the National Register of
Historic Places and the Town Council determines, after a public hearing as
provided by ordinance, that the non-residential building or structure is of
individual significance or contributes to maintaining the character of the
district, and the non-residential building or structure has not been condemned
as unsafe, the order may require that the non-residential building or structure
be vacated and closed until it is brought into compliance with the minimum
standards established by this chapter.
   (C)   An order may not require repairs, alterations, or improvements to be
made to vacant manufacturing facilities or vacant industrial warehouse
facilities to preserve the original use. The order may require the building or
structure to be vacated and closed, but repairs may be required only when
necessary to maintain structural integrity or to abate a health or safety
hazard that cannot be remedied by ordering the building or structure closed for
any use.
(Ord. passed 2-11-2013)
§ 155.34 SERVICE OF COMPLAINTS AND ORDERS.
   Complaints or orders issued by the Inspector pursuant to this chapter shall
be served upon persons either personally or by registered or certified mail so
long as the means used are reasonably designed to achieve actual notice. When
service is made by registered or certified mail, a copy of the complaint or
order may also be sent by regular mail. Service shall be deemed sufficient if
the registered or certified mail is refused, but the regular mail is not
returned by the post office within ten days after the mailing. If regular mail
is used, a notice of the pending proceedings shall be posted in a conspicuous
place on the premises affected. If the identities of any owners or the
whereabouts of persons are unknown and cannot be ascertained by the Inspector
in the exercise of reasonable diligence, and the Inspector makes an affidavit
to that effect, the serving of the complaint or order upon the owners or other
persons may be made by publication in a newspaper having general circulation in
the town at least once no later than the time that personal service would be
required under this section. When service is made by publication, a notice of
the pending proceedings shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises
affected.
(Ord. passed 2-11-2013)
§ 155.35 APPEALS.
   Any owner who has received an order under §
155.33 may appeal from the order to the Town Board of Adjustment by giving
notice of appeal in writing to the Inspector and to the Town Clerk within ten
days following issuance of the order. In the absence of an appeal to the Board
of Adjustment within the prescribed time, the order of the Inspector shall be
final. The Board of Adjustment shall hear appeals within a reasonable time
after receipt of the notice of appeal and it may modify and affirm or revoke
the order. Any person aggrieved by a decision or order of the Inspector shall
have the remedies provided under state law.
(Ord. passed 2-11-2013)
§ 155.36 FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   (A)   If the owner fails to comply with an order to repair, alter, or
improve or to vacate and close the non-residential building or structure, the
Town Council may adopt an ordinance ordering the Inspector to proceed to
effectuate the purpose of this section with respect to the particular property
or properties that the Inspector found to be jeopardizing the health or safety
of its occupants or members of the general public. The property or properties
shall be described in the ordinance. The ordinance shall be recorded in the
Office of the Register of Deeds and shall be indexed in the name of the
property owner or owners in the grantor index. Following adoption of an
ordinance, the Inspector may cause the building or structure to be repaired,
altered, or improved or to be vacated and closed. The Inspector may cause to be
posted on the main entrance of any non-residential building or structure so
closed a placard with the following words: "This building is unfit for any use;
the use or occupation of this building for any purpose is prohibited and
unlawful." Any person who occupies or knowingly allows the occupancy of a
building or structure so posted shall be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor.
   (B)   If the owner fails to comply with an order to remove or demolish the
non-residential building or structure, the Town Council may adopt an ordinance
ordering the Inspector to proceed to effectuate the purpose of this section
with respect to the particular property or properties that the Inspector found
to be jeopardizing the health or safety of its occupants or members of the
general public. No ordinance shall be adopted to require demolition of a non-
residential building or structure until the owner has first been given a
reasonable opportunity to bring it into conformity with the minimum standards
established by the Town Council. The property or properties shall be described
in the ordinance. The ordinance shall be recorded in the Office of the Register
of Deeds and shall be indexed in the name of the property owner or owners in
the grantor index. Following adoption of an ordinance, the Inspector may cause
the building or structure to be removed or demolished.
(Ord. passed 2-11-2013)
§ 155.37 REMEDIES; LIEN FOR COST OF DEMOLITION AND REMOVAL.
   (A)   The amount of the cost of repairs, alterations, or improvements, or
vacating and closing, or removal or demolition by the Inspector shall be a lien
against the real property upon which the cost was incurred, which lien shall be
filed, have the same priority, and be collected as the lien for special
assessment provided in G.S. Chapter 160A, Article 10.
   (B)   The amount of the costs is also a lien on any other real property of
the owner located within the town limits except for the owner's primary
residence. The additional lien provided in this subdivision is inferior to all
prior liens and shall be collected as a money judgment.
   (C)   If the non-residential building or structure is removed or demolished
by the Inspector, he or she shall offer for sale the recoverable materials of
the building or structure and any personal property, fixtures, or appurtenances
found in or attached to the building or structure and shall credit the proceeds
of the sale, if any, against the cost of the removal or demolition, and any
balance remaining shall be deposited in the superior court by the Inspector,
shall be secured in a manner directed by the court, and shall be disbursed by
the court to the persons found to be entitled thereto by final order or decree
of the court. Nothing in this section shall be construed to impair or limit in
any way the power of the Town Council to define and declare nuisances and to
cause their removal or abatement by summary proceedings or otherwise.
(Ord. passed 2-11-2013)
§ 155.38 FAILURE OF OCCUPANT TO COMPLY WITH ORDER TO VACATE.
   If any occupant fails to comply with an order to vacate a non-residential
building or structure, the Inspector may file a civil action in the name of the
town to remove the occupant. The action to vacate shall be in the nature of
summary ejectment and shall be commenced by filing a complaint naming as
parties-defendant any person occupying the non-residential building or
structure. The Clerk of Superior Court shall issue a summons requiring the
defendant to appear before a magistrate at a certain time, date, and place not
to exceed ten days from the issuance of the summons to answer the complaint.
The summons and complaint shall be served as provided in G.S. § 42-29. The
summons shall be returned according to its tenor, and if on its return it
appears to have been duly served and if at the hearing the Inspector produces a
certified copy of an ordinance adopted by the Town Council pursuant to §
155.36 of this chapter to vacate the occupied non-residential building or
structure, the magistrate shall enter judgment ordering that the premises be
vacated and all persons be removed. The judgment ordering that the non-
residential building or structure be vacated shall be enforced in the same
manner as the judgment for summary ejectment entered under G.S. § 42-30. An
appeal from any judgment entered under this section by the magistrate may be
taken as provided in G.S. § 7A-228, and the execution of the judgment may be
stayed as provided in G.S. § 7A-227. An action to remove an occupant of a non-
residential building or structure who is a tenant of the owner may not be in
the nature of a summary ejectment proceeding pursuant to this subsection unless
the occupant was served with notice, at least 30 days before the filing of the
summary ejectment proceeding, that the governing body has ordered the Inspector
to proceed to exercise his or her duties under §
155.36 of this chapter to vacate and close or remove and demolish the non-
residential building or structure.
(Ord. passed 2-11-2013)
§ 155.39 ABANDONMENT OF INTENT TO REPAIR.
   (A)   If the Town Council has adopted an ordinance or the Inspector has
issued an order requiring the building or structure to be repaired or vacated
and closed and the building or structure has been vacated and closed for a
period of two years pursuant to the ordinance or order, the Town Council may
make findings that the owner has abandoned the intent and purpose to repair,
alter, or improve the building or structure and that the continuation of the
building or structure in its vacated and closed status would be inimical to the
health, safety, and welfare of the municipality in that it would continue to
deteriorate, would create a fire or safety hazard, would be a threat to
children and vagrants, would attract persons intent on criminal activities, or
would cause or contribute to blight and the deterioration of property values in
the area. Upon such findings, the Town Council may, after the expiration of the
two year period, enact an ordinance and serve such ordinance on the owner,
setting forth the following:
      (1)   If the cost to repair the non-residential building or structure to
bring it into compliance with the minimum standards is less than or equal to
50% of its then current value, the ordinance shall require that the owner
either repair or demolish and remove the building or structure within 90 days;
or
      (2)   If the cost to repair the non-residential building or structure to
bring it into compliance with the minimum standards exceeds 50% of its then
current value, the ordinance shall require the owner to demolish and remove the
building or structure within 90 days.
   (B)   In the case of vacant manufacturing facilities or vacant industrial
warehouse facilities, the building or structure must have been vacated and
closed pursuant to an order or ordinance for a period of five years before the
Town Council may take action under this subsection. The ordinance shall be
recorded in the office of the register of deeds in the county wherein the
property or properties are located and shall be indexed in the name of the
property owner in the grantor index. If the owner fails to comply with the
ordinance, the Inspector shall effectuate the purpose of the ordinance.
(Ord. passed 2-11-2013)
§ 155.40 DEMOLITION OF NON-RESIDENTIAL BUILDING BY OWNER.
   Where a non-residential building or structure is under the jurisdiction of
this chapter, the building may be demolished by the owner provided that the
following requirements are met:
   (A)   The owner shall obtain a demolition permit from the Building
Inspections Department.
   (B)   All sewer, gas, water and similar taps or connections shall be
properly closed and disconnected.
   (C)   All debris from the building shall be removed from the site. This
requirement is for the removal of all debris that is above the street level of
the building.
   (D)   The lot shall be graded to a smooth, even, finished grade, free from
building material, debris, holes, and/or depressions. Where building debris
remains on the site below street level, the owner must back fill the lot with
12 inches of clean fill which shall be graded to a smooth, even finished grade.
   (E)   Where walls of adjacent buildings become exposed as a result of the
demolition, the walls must have all doors, windows, vents or other similar
openings closed with material of the type comprising the wall, unless the
doors, windows, vents, or other similar openings are to be maintained in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter. No protrusions or loose
material shall be in the wall. The exposed wall shall be painted, stuccoed or
bricked and weatherproofed if necessary to prevent deterioration of the wall.
(Ord. passed 2-11-2013)
§ 155.41 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of carrying out the intent of this chapter, the
Inspector is hereby authorized to enter, examine and survey at all reasonable
times all non-residential buildings and premises, including abandoned
structures. The owner or occupant of every non-residential building or the
person in charge thereof, shall give the Inspector free access to the building
and its premises, at all reasonable times for the purposes of the inspection,
examination and survey. Every occupant of a non-residential building shall give
the owner thereof, or his or her agent or employee, access to any part of the
building and its premises at all reasonable times for the purpose of making
such repairs or alterations as are necessary to effect compliance with the
provisions of this chapter or with any lawful order issued pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Inspector may make periodic inspections for unsafe, unsanitary or
otherwise hazardous and unlawful conditions in non-residential structures
within the jurisdiction. In addition, he or she may make inspections when he or
she has reason to believe that such conditions may exist in a particular
structure or premises.
(Ord. passed 2-11-2013)
§ 155.42 DEFECTS IN BUILDINGS TO BE CORRECTED.
   When the Inspector finds any defects in a non-residential building, or finds
that a building has not been constructed in accordance with applicable state
and town laws, or that a building because of its condition is dangerous or
contains fire hazardous conditions, it shall be his or her duty to notify the
owner or occupant of the building of its defects, hazardous conditions or
failure to comply with law. The owner or occupant shall each immediately remedy
the defects, hazardous conditions or violations of law in the property he or
she owns. Failure to do so shall constitute a violation of this chapter. Each
day any violation of this chapter shall continue shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Ord. passed 2-11-2013)
§ 155.43 VIOLATIONS.
   In addition to the conditions, acts or failure to act that constitute
violations specified in this chapter, it shall be unlawful for the owner of any
building or structure to fail, neglect or refuse to repair, alter or improve
the same, or to vacate and close or vacate and remove or demolish the same,
upon order of the Inspector duly made and served as herein provided, within the
time specified in such order. It shall be unlawful for the owner of any
building, with respect to which an order has been issued pursuant to §
155.33, to occupy or permit the occupancy of the same after the time prescribed
in the order for its repair, alteration or improvement or its vacation and
closing, or vacation and removal or demolition.
(Ord. passed 2-11-2013)
§ 155.44 PROCEDURE IS ALTERNATIVE.
   Neither this chapter nor any of its provisions shall be construed to impair
or limit in any way the power of the town to define and declare nuisances and
to cause their abatement by summary action or otherwise, or to enforce this
chapter by criminal process, and the enforcement of any remedy provided herein
shall not prevent the enforcement of any other remedy or remedies provided
herein or in other ordinance or laws. In addition to the remedies provided for
herein, any violation of the terms of this chapter shall subject the violator
to the penalties and remedies as set forth in §
10.99.
(Ord. passed 2-11-2013)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
Annex. No. Passage Date Area
Annex. No. Passage Date Area
1          9-1-82       Privette Road
2          4-20-83      Weddington Road
3          4-20-83      Fairforest
4          7-15-85      Smith Farm Road
5          7-15-85      Smith Farm Road
6          7-25-85      Forest Park
7          10-5-87      Waterbed Way
8          3-7-88       Potters Road/Chestnut Lane
10         11-5-90      Boles property
11         10-2-95      Crescent Resources
12         6-10-96      Decoy Trucking
13         7-7-97       Blackberry Ridge
14         6-1-98       Oak Spring
15         11-9-98      Eaglecrest
16         9-13-99      Gibson/Potters Road property
17         10-4-99      Snead
18         2-7-2000     Forest Park, Ph IV
19         2-7-2000     Weber
20         6-5-2000     Stevens Mill
21         3-27-2000    Ard
22         8-20-2001    Willowbrook
23         9-10-2001    Phillips
24         8-20-2001    Idlewild
25         5-13-2002    Crescent Resources
26         5-13-2002    Shannamara
27         6-3-2002     Stevens Mill (3) lots
28         11-12-2002   Shannamara Area
29         11-10-2003   Faulk property
30         11-10-2003   Lifeline Community Church property
–        12-8-2003    Establishing an extraterritorial jurisdiction
31         3-1-2004     Property at 15346 Marshall Hooks Road
32         6-29-2004    Woodbridge Subdivision
33         6-29-2004    Price/Rittenour properties
34         6-29-2004    Love/Britt properties
35         3-14-2005    Weddington Investors property
36         5-9-2005     Marsh property
37         12-12-2005   Area 1, Emerald Lake
37         12-12-2005   Area 2, Emerald Lake
37         12-12-2005   Area 3, Emerald Lake
37         12-12-2005   Area 4, Shannamara
–        5-9-2011     Gribble Road property
–        1-9-2012     A parcel containing 2.114 acres and a parcel containing
                        1.267 acres
–        7-9-2012     19.796 acres
–        1-13-2014    A parcel containing 19.90 acres
–        2-24-2014    A parcel on Lawyers Road containing 32.245 acres
–        2-24-2014    A parcel containing 32.17 acres
–        6-9-2014     A parcel on Cupped Oak Drive containing 2.183 acres
–        9-14-2015    Parcels on Stevens Mill Drive and Lawrence Daniel Drive
                        containing 35.059 acres
–        9-28-2015    Parcels on Hawthorne Drive containing 55.5 acres
–        11-14-2016   Parcels off Allen Black Road containing 60 acres
–        3-12-2018    Parcels off Idlewild Road containing 2.016 acres and
                        1.011 acres
                        Parcel along the southerly right-of-way of Boyd
367        5-13-2019    Funderburk Drive to a computed point, said point being
                        at the county line of Mecklenburg and Union County
                        containing 3.378 acres
369        7-8-2019     Parcel on Funderburk Road containing 12.38 acres
—        11-25-2019   Portion of parcel on Funderburk Road containing 1.776
                        acres
—        1-27-2020    Parcel on Chestnut Lane containing 13.82 acres
—        8-8-2022     Parcel on Castlebridge Lane containing 15,652 square
                        feet
—        10-24-2022   Parcel on Castlebridge Lane containing 49.12 acres
—        8-14-2023    Parcel on Lawyers Road containing 1.23 acres
                       
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to North Carolina General Statutes
References to Annexations
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTES
G.S. References Code Section
G.S. References         Code Section
7A-227                  153.15;
                        155.38
7A-228                  153.15;
                        155.38
11-7.1(5)               30.02
                        10.99;
                        31.99;
14-4                    50.99;
                        70.06;
                        Ch. 71, Sched. I;
                        93.99
14-4(b)                 70.99
14-159.13               92.02
14-177 et seq.          111.03
14-177–14-202.1       111.03;
                        111.04
14-203–14-208         111.03;
                        111.04
14-288.8(c)(5)          31.15
15-27.2                 155.31
15A-302(d)              70.06
18B-1001                110.01
Ch. 20                  70.17
Ch. 20, Art. 3, Part 10 70.17
20-4.01(49)             Ch. 71, Sched. I
20-37.6                 70.10
20-141(f)               Ch. 71, Sched. I
20-219.11               90.21
20-281                  112.55
42-29                   153.15;
                        155.38
42-30                   153.15;
                        155.38
44A-1 et seq.           90.23
62-259–62-279         112.01
90-86 et seq.           130.01
105-360                 51.18
136-141 et seq.         90.26
136-143                 90.26
Ch. 143, Art. 8         31.02
143-145(7)              153.03
143-212(6)              53.02
143-318.10 et seq.      32.14;
                        51.30
Ch. 160A                Charter, Sec. 1;
                        51.04
160A-29                 30.02
160A-39                 30.02
160A-51                 30.02
160A-67                 30.02
160A-71                 30.02
160A-71(c)              30.02
160A-86                 32.42
160A-101(6)(c)          30.01
160A-108                30.02
Ch. 160A-147            Charter, Sec. 3
160A-174                153.01
                        50.99;
160A-175                70.99;
                        130.99
160A-175(c)             70.06
160A-186                91.17
160A-189                130.05
160A-190                130.05
Ch. 160A, Art. 10       153.15;
                        155.37
160A-256 et seq.        31.01
160A-266(c)             31.01
160A-303                Ch. 90;
                        90.01
160A-303.2              Ch. 90;
                        90.01
160A-307                94.15
160D-604                32.10
Ch. 163                 Charter, Sec. 5
166A-8                  31.10
                        
 
REFERENCES TO ANNEXATIONS
Annex. No. Date Passed Code Section
Annex. No. Date Passed Code Section
1          9-1-82      TSO I
2          4-20-83     TSO I
3          4-20-83     TSO I
4          7-15-85     TSO I
5          7-15-85     TSO I
6          7-25-85     TSO I
7          10-5-87     TSO I
8          3-7-88      TSO I
10         11-5-90     TSO I
11         10-2-95     TSO I
12         6-10-96     TSO I
13         7-7-97      TSO I
14         6-1-98      TSO I
15         11-9-98     TSO I
16         9-13-99     TSO I
17         10-4-99     TSO I
18         2-7-2000    TSO I
19         2-7-2000    TSO I
20         6-5-2000    TSO I
21         3-27-2000   TSO I
22         8-20-2001   TSO I
23         9-10-2001   TSO I
24         8-20-2001   TSO I
25         5-13-2002   TSO I
26         5-13-2002   TSO I
27         6-3-2002    TSO I
28         11-12-2002  TSO I
29         11-10-2003  TSO I
30         11-10-2003  TSO I
–        12-8-2003   TSO I
31         3-1-2004    TSO I
32         6-29-2004   TSO I
33         6-29-2004   TSO I
34         6-29-2004   TSO I
35         3-14-2005   TSO I
36         5-9-2005    TSO I
37         12-12-2005  TSO I
37         12-12-2005  TSO I
37         12-12-2005  TSO I
37         12-12-2005  TSO I
–        5-9-2011    TSO I
–        1-9-2012    TSO I
–        7-9-2012    TSO I
–        1-13-2014   TSO I
–        2-24-2014   TSO I
–        2-24-2014   TSO I
–        6-9-2014    TSO I
–        9-14-2015   TSO I
–        9-28-2015   TSO I
–        11-14-2016  TSO I
–        3-12-2018   TSO I
367        5-13-2019   TSO I
369        7-8-2019    TSO I
–        11-25-2019  TSO I
–        1-27-2020   TSO I
–        8-8-2022    TSO I
–        10-24-2022  TSO I
–        8-14-2023   TSO I
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
–      10-10-2011  Charter, Sec. 6
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
                     130.03;
–      4-11-77     Charter, Sec. 4;
                     Charter, Sec. 5
–      1-8-79      70.02;
                     Ch. 71, Sched. II
–      11-5-87     91.01
–      5-2-88      Ch. 71, Sched. IV
–      9-6-88      93.01
–      9-6-89      93.01
–      6-4-90      Ch. 71, Sched IV
–      6-15-92     70.01;
                     Ch. 71, Sched. I
–      1-4-94      92.01
–      8-1-94      Ch. 72, Sched. I
–      1-9-95      Ch. 71, Sched V
–      3-6-95      Ch. 71, Sched V;
                     Ch. 72, Sched. II
–      6-26-95     91.15
–      12-1-95     130.04;
                     130.99
–      12-4-95     130.02;
                     Ch. 72, Sched. I
–      9-9-96      50.01;
                     50.99
                     90.01;
82       1-6-97      90.15-
                     90.27;
                     90.40
–      3-2-98      Ch. 71, Sched IV
–      5-2-98      70.04
–      5-11-98     70.03
–      6-1-98      Ch. 71, Sched. III
–      8-25-98     Ch. 71, Sched. III
–      11-9-98     70.05
                     111.01–
–      1-4-99      111.09;
                     Ch. 111, App. A;
                     Ch. 111, App. B
                     112.01;
                     112.02;
                     112.15;
–      2-1-99      112.16;
                     112.30-
                     112.42;
                     112.55-
                     112.62
–      5-10-99     93.99
–      4-3-2000    94.15–
                     94.19
–      8-7-2000    94.01
–      11-13-2000  91.15;
                     130.01
–      4-4-2001    30.01
–      4-5-2001    Charter, Sec. 3;
                     Charter, Sec. 5
–      10-1-2001   Ch. 71, Sched. I
–      1-7-2002    30.01;
                     Ch. 71, Sched. I
–      3-4-2002    31.01
–      4-1-2002    112.32
–      5-13-2002   Charter, Sec. 3
–      7-8-2002    Ch. 71, Sched I;
                     Ch. 71, Sched V
                     31.10–
–      12-17-2002  31.22;
                     31.99
–      5-19-2003   30.01
–      4-12-2004   30.01
–      4-12-2004   Ch. 72, Sched I
–      7-12-2004   30.01
–      7-12-2004   30.01
–      7-12-2004   30.01
–      7-12-2004   Ch. 71, Sched I
–      10-11-2004  Ch. 71, Sched I
–      10-11-2004  Ch. 71, Sched V
–      10-11-2004  Ch. 71, Sched V
–      10-11-2004  Ch. 72, Sched I
–      11-8-2004   Ch. 71, Sched V
–      5-23-2005   30.01
–      5-23-2005   30.01
–      7-25-2005   Charter, Sec. 4
–      8-22-2005   32.01–
                     32.05
                     153.01;
                     153.03-
                     153.07;
–      11-28-2005  153.09-
                     153.11;
                     153.13-
                     153.19;
                     153.99
–      5-22-2006   Ch. 71, Sched I
–      6-26-2006   30.02
–      11-27-2006  Ch. 71, Sched I
–      11-27-2006  130.05
–      12-11-2006  Ch. 71, Sched I
                     51.01–
                     51.05;
                     51.15-
–      6-25-2007   51.20;
                     51.30,
                     51.40-
                     51.42;
                     95.01;
–      12-10-2007  95.02;
                     95.99
–      3-10-2008   Ch. 71, Sched I
–      3-10-2008   Ch. 71, Sched III
–      3-10-2008   Ch. 71, Sched V
–      10-27-2008  Ch. 71, Sched I
–      10-27-2008  Ch. 71, Sched I
–      11-10-2008  30.02
–      12-8-2008   Ch. 71, Sched I
                     50.99;
–      2-9-2009    70.99; 91.31;
                     92.01;
                     94.01
                     93.02–
–      2-9-2009    93.07;
                     93.99
–      9-28-2009   91.01
–      9-28-2009   91.15
–      9-28-2009   93.01
–      9-28-2009   95.99
–      11-9-2009   70.15–
                     70.18
–      1-11-2010   94.18
–      5-10-2010   Ch. 72, Sched. I
–      9-27-2010   Adopting Ordinance
–      11-28-2011  Adopting Ordinance
                     93.02–
–      11-28-2011  93.07;
                     93.99
–      11-28-2011  130.03;
                     130.05
–      9-10-2012   92.01
                     130.20–
–      9-24-2012   130.25;
                     130.99
–      1-14-2013   Ch. 71, Sched. I
–      1-14-2013   91.16
–      2-11-2013   10.99
                     90.01;
                     90.15-
–      2-11-2013   90.27;
                     90.40;
                     90.41
–      2-11-2013   93.01
                     153.01–
                     153.07;
–      2-11-2013   153.09–
                     153.19;
                     153.99
                     155.01–
                     155.07;
–      2-11-2013   155.15-
                     155.19;
                     155.30-
                     155.44
–      3-11-2013   130.06
–      4-22-2013   51.30
–      6-10-2013   Adopting Ordinance
–      8-12-2013   Adopting Ordinance
–      3-24-2014   Ch. 71, Sched. I
                     53.01–
                     53.13;
–      5-27-2014   53.25-
                     53.29;
                     53.99
–      12-8-2014   Adopting Ordinance
–      8-10-2015   130.02
                     93.02–
–      10-26-2015  93.07;
                     93.99
–      11-9-2015   70.06
–      3-14-2016   Adopting Ordinance
–      8-8-2016    Repeals 91.16–19.19, 91.30–91.32
–      9-12-2016   93.01
–      11-14-2016  113.05
–      11-14-2016  130.02
–      10-9-2017   Ch. 71, Sched. IV
–      9-11-2017   Ch. 71, Sched. IV
–      9-11-2017   110.01
–      11-13-2017  32.10–
                     32.15
                     52.01,
                     150.01,
–      2-26-2018   151.01,
                     152.01,
                     154.01
–      5-14-2018   Adopting Ordinance
362      2-25-2019   Adopting Ordinance
364      4-8-2019    32.11
365      5-13-2019   94.01
377      9-9-2019    93.01
379      9-9-2019    93.04
387      9-23-2019   93.04
388      10-14-2019  93.04
–      1-27-2020   31.02
–      2-10-2020   Adopting Ordinance
–      7-13-2020   93.04
                     95.01,
–      5-24-2021   95.02,
                     95.99
–      6-28-2021   Adopting Ordinance
–      1-10-2022   91.15
–      1-24-2022   Adopting Ordinance
–      1-24-2022   32.10
–      1-24-2022   93.01
–      7-11-2022   32.10
–      11-14-2022  90.17
–      11-28-2022  Adopting Ordinance
–      9-11-2023   92.02,
                     92.03
–      11-13-2023  32.11,
                     32.12
–      12-11-2023  70.06 -
                     70.10
–      1-22-2024   93.99
–      3-11-2024   32.11,
                     32.12
–      3-11-2024   70.11
                    
 
