TOWN OF STONEVILLE, NORTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2021 S-5 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through 9-1-2021
State legislation current through 2021 A.L.S. # 1
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TOWN CHARTER
Chapter I: Incorporation and Corporate Powers
   
Section 1.   Incorporation and Corporate Powers
Chapter II: Corporate Boundaries
   
Section 1.   Town Boundaries
Chapter III: Governing Body
   
Section 1.   Structure of Governing Body: Number of Members
   
Section 2.   Manner of Election of Council
   
Section 3.   Term of Office of Members of Council
   
Section 4.   Election of Mayor, Term of Office
Chapter IV: Elections
   
Section 1.   Conduct of Town Elections
   
Section 2.   Time of Elections
Chapter V: Administration
   
Section 1.   Town to Operate Under Council-Manager Plan
   
Section 2.   Town Manager
   
Section 3.   Town Attorney
   
Section 4.   Tax Collector
   
Section 5.   Town Clerk
   
Section 6.   Other Administrative Officers and Employees
Chapter VI: Repeal of Previous Local Acts
   
Section 1.   Repeal
CHAPTER I: INCORPORATION AND CORPORATE POWERS
Section 1. Incorporation and Corporate Powers.
   The Town of Stoneville, heretofore incorporated by the General Assembly,
shall continue to operate as a body politic and corporate under the name of the
“Town of Stoneville.” Under that name, the inhabitants of the Town of
Stoneville have all the powers, duties, rights, privileges and immunities
conferred and imposed on cities by the general law of North Carolina, by local
law and by this Charter.
CHAPTER II: CORPORATE BOUNDARIES
Section 1. Town Boundaries.
   The corporate limits of the Town shall be those existing at the time of
ratification of this Charter, as the same are set forth on the official map of
Stoneville, and as the same may be altered from time to time in accordance with
law. An official map of the Town, showing the current Town boundaries, shall be
maintained permanently (as required by G.S. § 160A-22) in the office of the
Town Clerk, and shall be available for public inspection. Upon alteration of
the corporate boundaries made pursuant to law, the corresponding changes to the
official map of the Town shall be made.
CHAPTER III: GOVERNING BODY
Section 1. Structure of Governing Body: Number of Members.
   The governing board of the Town of Stoneville is the Town Council, which has
five members, and the Mayor.
Section 2. Manner of Election of Council.
   The qualified voters of the entire Town elect the members of the Council.
Section 3. Term of Office of Members of Council.
   At the regular municipal election to be held in 2015, the three candidates
who receive the highest number of votes shall be elected for four-year terms,
while the two candidates who receive the next highest number of votes shall be
elected for two-year terms. At the regular municipal election to be held in
2017, and every four years thereafter, two members of the Town Council shall be
elected to serve for four-year terms. At the regular municipal election to be
held in 2019, and every four years thereafter, three members of the Town
Council shall be elected to four-year terms. (Ord. passed 4-7-2015)
Section 4. Election of Mayor, Term of Office.
   The qualified voters of the entire Town elect the Mayor. At the regular
municipal election to be held in 2015 and at subsequent mayoral elections, the
candidates who receive the highest number of votes shall be elected for four-
year mayoral terms. (Ord. passed 5-5-2015)
CHAPTER IV: ELECTIONS
Section 1. Conduct of Town Elections.
   Town officers shall be elected on a non-partisan basis and the results
determined by plurality, as provided by G.S. § 163-292.
Section 2. Time of Elections.
   Regular municipal elections shall be held in the Town every four years in
odd-numbered years, and shall be conducted in accordance with the uniform
municipal election laws of North Carolina.
CHAPTER V: ADMINISTRATION
Section 1. Town to Operate Under Mayor-Council Plan.
   The Town of Stoneville operates under the council-manager form of government
as provided in G.S. Chapter 160A, Article 7, Part 2.
Editor’s note:
   This section was amended pursuant to a resolution introduced and adopted on
12-4-1990 to hold a special election on a referendum to allow the town to
operate under a Mayor-Council plan instead of a Council-Manager Plan, which
said referendum was certified by the Rockingham County Board of Elections on
March 5, 1991 allowing said change, and then passed pursuant to an ordinance
introduced and adopted on March 12, 1991 with an effective date of March 29,
1991. This section was further amended by Ord. 0-2016-01, adopted March 1, 2016
to change to a council-manager form of government.
Section 2. Town Administrator.
   The Town Council shall appoint a Town Manager who shall be the
administrative head of Town government, and who shall be responsible to the
Council for the proper administration of the affairs of the Town. The Town
Manager shall hold office at the pleasure of the Council, and shall receive
such compensation as the Council shall determine.
Section 3. Town Attorney.
   The Town Council shall appoint a Town Attorney who shall be licensed to
engage in the practice of law in the State of North Carolina and who shall
serve at its pleasure and shall be its legal advisor.
Section 4. Tax Collector.
   As provided in G.S. § 105-349, the Council shall either appoint a tax
collector or confer the duties of tax collector upon a qualified employee
appointed by the manager.
Section 5. Town Clerk.
   The Manager shall appoint a Clerk to keep a journal of the proceedings of
the Council, to maintain in a safe place all records and documents pertaining
to the affairs of the Town, and to perform such other duties as may be required
by law or as the Board may direct.
Section 6. Other Administrative Officers and Employees.
   Consistent with applicable State laws, the Town Council may establish other
positions, provide for the appointment of other administrative officers and
employees, and generally organize the Town government in order to promote the
orderly and efficient administration of the affairs of the Town.
CHAPTER VI: REPEAL OF PREVIOUS LOCAL ACTS
Section 1. Repeal.
   Except as provided in this section, all previous local acts dealing with the
incorporation and powers of the Town of Stoneville and all other laws and
clauses of laws in conflict with this act are repealed.
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10:  RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time; computing time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinances
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend code; effect of new ordinances
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
 
   
10.99   Penalty
§ 10.01  TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the Town of Stoneville shall be
designated as the “Code of Stoneville, North Carolina”, and may be so cited.
§ 10.02  INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03  APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04  CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain,
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CHARTER. The Charter of the Town of Stoneville, North Carolina.
      CODE,THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      COMPUTATION OF TIME. The time within which an act is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and the last day; and, if the last day is
Saturday, Sunday or a legal holiday, that day shall be excluded.
      COUNCIL. The governing body of the Town of Stoneville, North Carolina.
      COUNTY. The County of Rockingham, North Carolina, except as otherwise
provided.
      GENDER. Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine
and neuter.
      GENERAL STATUTES or GS. The latest edition of the GENERAL STATUTES of
North Carolina, as amended.
      GOVERNOR. The Governor of North Carolina.
      JOINT AUTHORITY. All words giving a joint authority to three or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving the authority to a majority of
persons or officers.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MAYOR. The Mayor of Stoneville, North Carolina.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      NUMBER. Words used in the singular include the plural, and the plural
includes the singular number.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath and, in those cases, the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of the town unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD. Whenever certain hours are named in this code,
they shall mean standard time or daylight saving time as may be in current use
in the town.
      OWNER. Applied to any property, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the whole
or a part of the property.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as applied to
any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Every species of property, except real property.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property.
      REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of North Carolina.
      STREET. Any public way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard,
parkway, dedicated alley, lane, viaduct, bridge and the approaches thereto
within the town and shall mean the entire width of the right-of-way between
abutting property lines.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      TENANT or OCCUPANT. When applied to a building or land, shall include any
person who occupies the whole or a part of the building or land, whether alone
or with others.
      TENSE. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well
as the past and present.
      TOWN. The Town of Stoneville, in the County of Rockingham, North
Carolina.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
Statutory reference:
   Computation of time, see G.S. § 1-593
   Rules of construction, see G.S. § 12-3
§ 10.06  RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of the town shall be by the following
rules, unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   “And” or “or”. Either conjunction shall include the other as if
written “and/or”, if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of an act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07  SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08  REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09  REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the town exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10  ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, that spelling shall be corrected and the word
or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11  OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within the town for the transaction of all municipal
business.
§ 10.12  REASONABLE TIME; COMPUTING TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13  ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14  ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   (A)   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other
ordinances pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in
full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary
implication.
   (B)   Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall be
construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
      (1)   Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture
incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective
date of this code;
      (2)   Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment
of money for the town or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the town or
any evidence of the town’s indebtedness;
      (3)   Any contract or obligation assumed by the town;
      (4)   Any ordinance fixing the salary of any town officer or employee;
      (5)   Any right or franchise granted by the town;
      (6)   Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating,
relocating, opening, widening, paving and the like, any street or public way in
the town;
      (7)   Any appropriation ordinance;
      (8)   Any ordinance which, by its own terms, is effective for a stated or
limited term;
      (9)   Any ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing taxes
therefor;
      (10)   Any zoning ordinance or zoning map amendment;
      (11)   Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any subdivision plat;
      (12)   Any ordinance describing or altering the boundaries of the town;
      (13)   The administrative ordinances or resolutions of the town not in
conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this code;
      (14)   Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes not included herein;
      (15)   Any ordinance establishing or prescribing street grades in the
town; and/or
      (16)   Any personnel ordinance.
   (C)   Nor shall any ordinance be construed to revive any ordinance or part
thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance which is repealed by
this chapter; and all ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full
force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length herein.
Statutory reference:
   Statutes not repealed by general statutes, see G.S. § 164-7
§ 10.15  EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from
their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16  REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17  ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND CODE; EFFECT OF NEW ORDINANCES.
   (A)   (1)   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend,
repeal or in any way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the
numbering system hereof and printed for inclusion herein.
      (2)   When subsequent ordinances repeal any chapter or section or any
portion thereof, the repealed portions may be excluded from this code by
omission from reprinted pages.
      (3)   The subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted in
the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence that the subsequent
ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new code by the town.
   (B)   Amendments to any of the provisions of the code shall be made by
amending provisions by specific reference to the section number of this code in
language substantially similar to the following: “Section                of the
Code of Ordinances, Town of Stoneville, North Carolina, is hereby amended as
follows...” The new provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (C)   If a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to be added,
language substantially similar to the following shall be used: “The Code of
Ordinances, Town of Stoneville, North Carolina, is hereby amended by adding a
section, to be numbered               , which section shall read as
follows:...” The new section shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (D)   All sections, chapters or provisions desired to be repealed must be
specifically repealed by section or chapter number, as the case may be.
§ 10.18  SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text
of the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example: (G.S. §
160A-11)
      (2)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
      § 39.01  PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
         Inspection of public records, see G.S. §§ 132-1 et seq.
§ 10.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   In accordance with G.S. § 160A-175, and unless this code of ordinances
provides otherwise, violation of any provision hereof shall be a misdemeanor as
provided in G.S. § 14-4, punishable upon conviction by a fine not exceeding $50
or by imprisonment not exceeding 30 days. An ordinance may provide by express
statement that the maximum fine or term or imprisonment to be imposed for its
violation shall be some figure or number of days less than the maximum
penalties prescribed by G.S. § 14-4.
   (B)   By express statement, an ordinance contained herein may provide for
its enforcement by other remedies, as authorized in G.S. § 160-175, including
the imposition of civil fines, the ordering of appropriate equitable relief,
including injunctions or a combination of remedies.
   (C)   An ordinance may provide, when appropriate, that each day’s continuing
violation shall be a separate and distinct offense.
Statutory reference:
   Authorizing municipalities to employ alternate remedies in the enforcement
of local ordinances, see G.S. § 160A-175
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GOVERNING BODY
      
31.   ORGANIZATIONS AND EMPLOYEES
      
32.   RESERVED
      
33.   STATE OF EMERGENCY
CHAPTER 30:  GOVERNING BODY
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Qualifications for office
   
30.02   Appointments
   
30.03   Reference to Robert’s Rules of Order
Meetings
   
30.15   Regular meetings
   
30.16   Special meetings
   
30.17   Emergency meetings
   
30.18   Continued or recessed meetings
Meeting Procedures
   
30.30   Agenda
   
30.31   Order of business
   
30.32   Presiding officer
   
30.33   Quorum
   
30.34   Taking official action
   
30.35   Debate
   
30.36   Voting
   
30.37   Adoption of ordinances
   
30.38   Executive, closed and private sessions
   
30.39   Public hearings
   
30.40   Minutes
Motions
   
30.55   Substantive and procedural motions
   
30.56   Motion to amend
   
30.57   Motions to dispose of issue without deciding merits
   
30.58   Motions to revive or reconsider an issue
   
30.59   Reconsideration of matters disposed of on merits
   
30.60   Motion to terminate debate
   
30.61   Miscellaneous motions
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01  QUALIFICATIONS FOR OFFICE.
   (A)   Upon the motion of any member, the Council shall determine the
qualifications of any member.
   (B)   An office may be declared vacant by majority vote of the Council
membership if the member fails to meet any of the statutory or constitutional
requirements of office.
(Prior Code, § 2-31)
§ 30.02  APPOINTMENTS.
   The Council shall use the following procedure to appoint individuals to
various subordinate boards and offices.
   (A)   The Mayor shall open the floor to nominations, whereupon the names of
possible appointees shall be put forward by the members and debated. Upon the
conclusion of the debate, the Mayor shall propose each name in alphabetical
order and the members shall cast their votes.
   (B)   If only one appointee is to be selected, the voting shall continue
until one nominee receives a majority of the votes cast, whereupon he or she
shall be appointed.
   (C)   If more than one appointee is to be selected, then each member shall
have as many votes as there are slots to be filled. A member must cast all of
his or her votes and cast them for different nominees. The nominees receiving
the highest number of votes shall be appointed.
(Prior Code, § 2-32)
§ 30.03  REFERENCE TO ROBERT’S RULES OF ORDER.
   Robert’s Rules of Order shall govern all procedural matters not addressed by
the provisions of this chapter. However, no action taken by the Council shall
be invalidated by a failure to abide by Robert’s Rules of Order.
(Prior Code, § 2-33)
MEETINGS
§ 30.15  REGULAR MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Council shall hold a regular meeting on the first Tuesday of each
month, unless that day is a legal holiday or an election day, in which case the
meeting shall be held on the next Tuesday.
   (B)   The meeting shall be held at the Town Hall and shall begin at 7:00
p.m.
(Prior Code, § 2-1)
§ 30.16  SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   A special meeting is any non-emergency meeting of the Council held at
any time other than that specified in §
30.15 of this chapter.
   (B)   The Mayor, the Mayor pro tempore or any two members of the Council
may, at any time, call a special meeting by signing a written statement stating
the time and place of the meeting and the subjects to be considered.
   (C)   Notice of the meeting shall be given to Council members as provided in
this division (C), preferably 24 hours, but not less than six hours, before the
meeting:
      (1)   Written notice shall be delivered personally to each Council
member; or
      (2)   If notice cannot be personally delivered, notice may be left at the
Council member’s usual place of dwelling. In this event, the Town Clerk shall
make every reasonable effort to contact the Council member by telephone.
   (D)   Special meetings may also be held when all Council members are present
and consent thereto or when those not present have signed a written waiver of
notice; provided that, the notice to the media required by division (E) below
is given.
   (E)   The Town Clerk shall give notice of a special meeting to the public
and the media, at least 48 hours before the meeting, by:
      (1)   Posting a notice of the time and place of the meeting on the town’s
principal bulletin board;
      (2)   Mailing or delivering notice of the meeting to each of the media
who has requested it in accordance with the Open Meetings Law, being G.S. §§
143.318.9 through 143.318.18; or
      (3)   Mailing or delivering notice of the meeting to any person who has
filed with the Clerk a written request for it in accordance with the Open
Meetings Law, being G.S. §§ 143.318.9 through 143.318.18.
   (F)   Only the items of business specified in the notice may be transacted
at a special meeting unless all members are present or have signed a written
waiver of notice.
(Prior Code, § 2-2)
§ 30.17  EMERGENCY MEETINGS.
   (A)   An EMERGENCY MEETING is a meeting of the Council called because of
generally unexpected circumstances that require immediate consideration.
   (B)   The Mayor, the Mayor pro tempore or any two members of the Council
may, at any time, call an emergency meeting by signing a written statement
stating the time and place of the meeting and the subjects to be considered.
   (C)   Notice of the meeting shall be given to Council members in the same
manner as notice of special meetings.
   (D)   Emergency meetings may also be held when all Council members are
present and consent thereto or when those not present have signed a written
waiver of notice; provided that, the notice to the media required by division
(E) below is given.
   (E)   (1)   The Town Clerk shall give notice of an emergency meeting to each
of the media who has requested it in accordance with the Open Meetings Law,
being G.S. §§ 143.318.9 through 143.318.18.
      (2)   This notice shall be given either by telephone or by the same
method used to notify Council members and shall be given immediately after the
notice has been given to those members.
   (F)   Only business connected with the emergency may be transacted at an
emergency meeting.
(Prior Code, § 2-3)
§ 30.18  CONTINUED OR RECESSED MEETINGS.
   (A)   By majority vote, the Council may continue or recess any regular,
special or emergency meeting to any place and time specified in the motion to
continue or recess the meeting.
   (B)   No further notice need be given of any continued or recessed session
of a meeting set in accordance with division (A) above.
(Prior Code, § 2-4)
MEETING PROCEDURES
§ 30.30  AGENDA.
   (A)   Preparation. The Mayor shall prepare the agenda for the meeting.
   (B)   Requests to be placed on agenda. A request to have any item of
business placed on the agenda must be received by the Town Clerk in sufficient
time so that the agenda may be printed and distributed in accordance with
division (E) below and, to this end, the Mayor may establish an appropriate
deadline to receive such requests.
   (C)   Requests to address Council.
      (1)   Any individual or group that wishes to address the Council shall
make a request to be on the agenda to the Mayor or Town Clerk.
      (2)   However, the Council shall determine at the meeting whether the
individual or group will be heard by the Council.
   (D)   Contents. The agenda shall include, for each item of business placed
on it, as much background information on the subject as is available and
feasible to reproduce. Whenever possible, a copy of all proposed ordinances
shall be attached to the agenda and distributed simultaneously.
   (E)   Additions. The Council may, by consensus or majority vote of the
Council membership, add an item of business that is not on the agenda. Unless
otherwise specified by the Council, additions to the agenda shall be taken up
at the conclusion of all other regular business.
(Prior Code, § 2-6)
§ 30.31  ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   Items of business shall be taken up at a meeting in the order that
they appear on the agenda, except as provided in division (D) below.
   (B)   Items shall be placed on the agenda according to the “order of
business” established by the Council upon recommendation of the Mayor.
   (C)   In establishing “order of business”, the Council may authorize broad
categories of business to be included as agenda items, such as “members or in
public wishing to be heard” or “matters by the Mayor” or “matters by the
attorney.”
   (D)   Items may be considered out of order by consent of all members present
or by majority and upon a motion.
(Prior Code, § 2-7)
§ 30.32  PRESIDING OFFICER.
   (A)   The Mayor may preside at meetings of the Council, except as provided
in division (C) below. A member must be recognized by the Mayor in order to
address the Council.
   (B)   As presiding officer, the Mayor shall have the following powers, in
addition to those conferred elsewhere in this chapter:
      (1)   To rule motions in or out of order, including the right to rule out
of order any motion patently offered for obstructive or dilatory purposes;
      (2)   To determine whether a speaker has gone beyond reasonable standards
of courtesy in his or her remarks and to entertain and rule upon objections
from other members on this ground;
      (3)   To entertain and answer questions of parliamentary law or
procedure, subject to being overruled by a two-thirds vote of the membership of
the Council;
      (4)   To call a brief recess at any time; and
      (5)   To adjourn in the event of an emergency.
   (C)   If the Mayor becomes actively engaged in debate on a particular
proposal, he or she may delegate the duty to preside over the debate to the
Mayor pro tempore or to any other member of the Council who is not so engaged
and who acquiesces in the delegation. The temporary chairperson may only
preside over the debate and may not participate in it; however, he or she does
not forfeit his or her right to vote on the issue by acting as temporary
chairperson. The chairperson shall resume the duty to preside as soon as action
upon the matter is concluded.
(Prior Code, § 2-8)
§ 30.33  QUORUM.
   A majority of the actual membership of the Council, excluding vacant seats,
shall constitute a quorum. A quorum is necessary for the Council to take any
official action. A member who has withdrawn from a meeting without being
excused by majority vote of the remaining members present shall be counted as
present for purposes of determining whether a quorum is present.
(Prior Code, § 2-9)
§ 30.34  TAKING OFFICIAL ACTION.
   (A)    The Council shall proceed by motion. A motion, when duly seconded,
brings the matter before the Council for its consideration.
   (B)   A motion may be withdrawn by the introducer at any time prior to a
vote if the member who seconded the motion concurs.
   (C)   Subject to §
30.37 of this chapter and other provisions of law, official action of the
Council shall be by majority vote.
(Prior Code, § 2-10)
§ 30.35  DEBATE.
   (A)   Once a motion has been stated and seconded, the Mayor shall open the
floor to debate upon it.
   (B)   The Mayor shall preside over the debate according to the following
general principles:
      (1)   The member who makes the motion is entitled to speak first;
      (2)   A member who has not spoken on the issue shall be recognized before
someone who has already spoken; and
      (3)   To the extent possible, the debate shall alternate between
proponents and opponents of the measure.
(Prior Code, § 2-11)
§ 30.36  VOTING.
   (A)   Once a member is physically present at a Council meeting, any
subsequent failure to vote shall be recorded as an affirmative vote unless the
member has been excused from voting in accordance with division (B) below or
has been allowed to withdraw from the meeting in accordance with division (C)
below.
   (B)   A member may be excused from voting on a particular issue by majority
vote of the remaining members present if the matter at issue involves that
member’s own financial interest or official conduct.
   (C)   A member may be allowed to withdraw from the entire remainder of a
meeting by majority vote of the remaining members present for any good and
sufficient reason other than the member’s desire to avoid voting on matters to
be considered at that meeting.
   (D)   A motion to allow a member to be excused from voting or excused from
the remainder of the meeting is only in order if made by or at the initiative
of the member directly affected.
   (E)   A roll call vote shall be taken upon the request of any member.
   (F)   When this chapter specifies that action shall be taken by majority
vote or fails to specify the vote required, that shall be interpreted to mean a
vote of the majority of those present and not excused from voting. When a two-
thirds vote is required, that shall be interpreted to mean a vote of two-thirds
of those present and not excused from voting. When a vote of a certain
percentage of the Council membership is required, that shall be interpreted to
mean the specified percentage of all seats on the Council, excluding vacant
seats.
(Prior Code, § 2-12)
§ 30.37  ADOPTION OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   An affirmative vote equal to a majority of all the members of the
Council not excused from voting on the question in issue (including the Mayor’s
vote in case of an equal division) shall be required to adopt an ordinance or
take any action having the effect of an ordinance.
   (B)   Subject to the provisions of G.S. Ch. 159, no ordinance, nor any
action having the effect of any ordinance, may be finally adopted on the date
on which it is introduced, except by an affirmative vote equal to or greater
than two-thirds of the Council membership. When an ordinance requires a public
hearing, the ordinance shall be considered introduced at the meeting when the
Council sets a date for the public hearing.
   (C)   Franchise ordinances and amendments shall not be finally adopted until
passed at two regular meetings of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-13)
§ 30.38  EXECUTIVE, CLOSED AND PRIVATE SESSIONS.
   The Council may hold executive sessions in accordance with the Open Meetings
Law (G.S. Ch. 143, Art. 33c) and other provisions of law. The Council shall
commence an executive session by a majority vote to do so and shall terminate
an executive session in the same manner. Minutes shall be kept of executive,
closed and private sessions, but may be withheld from public inspection so long
as public inspection would frustrate the purpose of the executive session.
(Prior Code, § 2-14)
§ 30.39  PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   (A)   Public hearings required by law or deemed advisable by the Council
shall be scheduled pursuant to a motion adopted by a majority vote setting
forth the subject, date, place and time of the hearing as well as any rules
regarding the length of time of each speaker and other matters regarding the
conduct of the hearing.
   (B)   At the appointed time, the Mayor shall call the hearing to order and
then preside over it. Upon the expiration of the allotted time, or when there
are no individuals who wish to speak who have not done so, the Mayor shall
declare the hearing ended.
   (C)   A quorum of the Council shall be required at all public hearings
required by state law.
(Prior Code, § 2-15)
§ 30.40  MINUTES.
   Minutes shall be kept of all meetings of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-16)
MOTIONS
§ 30.55  SUBSTANTIVE AND PROCEDURAL MOTIONS.
   (A)   A SUBSTANTIVE MOTION is a motion that seeks to have the Council
exercise any of its powers, duties or responsibilities. A motion to amend a
substantive motion is also a substantive motion. A substantive motion, other
than to amend, is out of order while another substantive motion is pending.
   (B)   A PROCEDURAL MOTION is a motion that relates either to the manner in
which the Council conducts its business in general or the manner in which the
Council deals with a particular substantive issue or substantive motion that is
before it.
   (C)   Unless otherwise specifically provided, all motions authorized by this
subchapter may be amended and debated.
(Prior Code, § 2-21)
§ 30.56  MOTION TO AMEND.
   (A)   An amendment to a motion must be germane to the subject matter of the
motion, but it may achieve the opposite effect of the motion.
   (B)   There may be an amendment to the motion, and an amendment to an
amendment, but no further amendments.
   (C)   Any amendment to a proposed ordinance shall be reduced to writing upon
the call of any member.
(Prior Code, § 2-22)
§ 30.57  MOTIONS TO DISPOSE OF ISSUE WITHOUT DECIDING MERITS.
   (A)   Motion to defer consideration until a date certain. This motion
requires that a date be set when without further action by the Council a matter
will again be placed on the agenda.
   (B)   Motion to defer consideration indefinitely. Adoption of this motion
removes the issue from the Council’s consideration until such time as a motion
to revive consideration is adopted (see §
30.58(A) of this chapter) or a new motion dealing with the same issue is
introduced and seconded (see §
30.59(A) of this chapter).
   (C)   Motion to refer to a committee. Unless this motion includes an
instruction to report the matter back by a date certain, or unless a motion is
adopted under §
30.58(B) of this chapter, a matter referred to a committee remains there until
returned to the Council by the committee.
(Prior Code, § 2-23)
§ 30.58  MOTIONS TO REVIVE OR RECONSIDER AN ISSUE.
   (A)   Motion to revive consideration of an issue. Adoption of this motion
brings an issue back before the Council for its consideration, regardless of
whether the issue had been deferred indefinitely or to a date certain.
   (B)   Motion to recall an issue from committee. Adoption of this motion may
bring a matter immediately before the Council, or the motion may direct a
committee to report an issue back to the Council by a date certain.
   (C)   Motion to reconsider a vote. This motion may be made only at the
meeting at which the vote in question was taken and only by a member who voted
with the prevailing side. If adopted, the effect is to negate the earlier vote
and then bring the matter back before the Council as if the earlier vote had
never taken place.
(Prior Code, § 2-24)
§ 30.59  RECONSIDERATION OF MATTERS DISPOSED OF ON MERITS.
   (A)   Renewal of motions. A motion that is defeated may be renewed at any
subsequent meeting unless a motion has been adopted in accordance with division
(B) below.
   (B)   Motion to prevent reconsideration for six months. This motion is in
order immediately following the defeat of a substantive motion and at no other
time. It requires a two-thirds vote for adoption. A matter concerning which
this motion has been adopted may be brought before the Council prior to the
expiration of six months pursuant to a vote to suspend the rules. This motion
does not bind a new Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-25)
§ 30.60  MOTION TO TERMINATE DEBATE.
   A motion to call the previous question is a motion to cut off debate on a
matter under consideration and put the matter to a vote. This motion shall be
in order at any time, but unless each Council member present has had an
opportunity to speak at least once on the issue, the motion requires a two-
thirds vote for adoption. This motion is not debatable and may not be amended.
(Prior Code, § 2-26)
§ 30.61  MISCELLANEOUS MOTIONS.
   In addition to others authorized by this subchapter, the following motions
shall be in order:
   (A)   Divide a complex question and consider it by paragraph;
   (B)   Suspend the rules. This motion shall require a two-thirds vote for
adoption;
   (C)   Take a recess; and
   (D)   Adjourn. This motion may not be amended.
(Prior Code, § 2-27)
CHAPTER 31:  ORGANIZATIONS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
General Provisions
   
31.001   Oaths and bonds of officers and employees
   
31.002   Council to appoint department heads, other positions
   
31.003   Clerk
   
31.004   Attorney
Finance
   
31.015   Finance Officer
   
31.016   Budget Officer
   
31.017   Tax Collector
Personnel
   
31.030   Personnel responsibilities of Council
   
31.031   Personnel Officer
Public Safety
   
31.045   Police Department
   
31.046   Auxiliary law enforcement personnel
   
31.047   Fire Department
Planning and Regulation of Development
   
31.060   Building Inspections Department
Public Works and Utilities
   
31.075   Water and Sewer Treatment Plant Supervisors
Parks and Recreation Advisory Board
   
31.085   Name
   
31.086   Purpose
   
31.087   Duties and functions
   
31.088   Membership
   
31.089   Officers and duties
   
31.090   Meetings
   
31.091   Amendments
Cross-reference:
   Personnel Policies, see
Ch. 32
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.001  OATHS AND BONDS OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   All officers and employees appointed by the Council shall serve at the
pleasure of the Council, except as otherwise provided by law, and shall receive
for their services such compensation as may be established annually in the
budget ordinance.
   (B)   The Council shall prescribe the required bond for each officer or
employee that it deems necessary to be bonded, and no such officer or employee
may begin the duties of his or her office until the required bond has been
obtained.
   (C)   All town officers shall take the following oath before beginning their
duties:
      “I,                                                                      
   , do solemnly swear (affirm) that I will support and maintain the
Constitution and laws of the United States and the Constitution and laws of
North Carolina not inconsistent therewith, and that I will faithfully discharge
the duties of my office as                                                    
         , so help me God.”
   (D)   This oath may be administered by the Mayor or by any other official
authorized to administer oaths by G.S. § 11-7.1, and shall be subscribed and
filed with the Town Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 3-31)
§ 31.002  COUNCIL TO APPOINT DEPARTMENT HEADS, OTHER POSITIONS.
   (A)   Except as the Council may from time to time delegate, the Council
shall appoint, suspend and remove all town employees. It may also appoint
interim department heads while searching for a person to fill a vacancy.
   (B)   Each department head shall shall see that all laws and policies
relating to his or her department are faithfully executed. Except as the
Council may change from time to time, personnel actions not involving the
appointment, suspension or dismissal of employees shall be taken by department
heads. The department heads shall keep the Council apprised of any such
personnel actions.
   (C)   By letter filed with the Town Clerk, each department head may
designate a qualified person to perform his or her duties during his or her
temporary absence or disability. This designation is subject to the approval of
the Council, which may revoke it at any time and appoint another individual to
serve as head of that department until the department head returns or his or
her disability ceases.
(Prior Code, § 3-1)
§ 31.003  CLERK.
   (A)   Appointment. The Town Clerk shall be appointed by the Council.
   (B)   Duties. The Town Clerk shall:
      (1)   Give notice of meetings of the Council;
      (2)   Keep a journal of the proceedings of the Council;
      (3)   Record in a book kept for the purpose all ordinances and
resolutions;
      (4)   Be the custodian of all town records; and
      (5)   Perform such other duties as are prescribed by law or by the Town
Charter or by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 3-2)
§ 31.004  ATTORNEY.
   The Council shall appoint a Town Attorney to serve at its pleasure and shall
prescribe his or her duties and his or her rate of compensation.
(Prior Code, § 3-3)
FINANCE
§ 31.015  FINANCE OFFICER.
   (A)   Appointment. The Council shall appoint a Finance Officer.
   (B)   Duties. The duties of the Finance Officer shall be to:
      (1)   Keep the town’s accounts in accordance with generally accepted
principles of governmental accounting and the rules and regulations of the
Local Government Commission;
      (2)   Disburse all funds of the town in strict compliance with the Local
Government Budget and Fiscal Control Act, the budget ordinance, each project
ordinance and pre-audit obligations and disbursements as required by the Local
Government Budget and Fiscal Control Act;
      (3)   Prepare and file with the Council a statement of the financial
condition of the town whenever requested to do so by the Council;
      (4)   Receive and deposit all monies accruing to the town and supervise
the receipt and deposit of money by other duly authorized officers or
employees;
      (5)   Maintain all records concerning the town’s bonded debt, determine
the amount of money that will be required for debt service during each fiscal
year and maintain all sinking funds;
      (6)   Supervise the investment of the town’s idle funds; and
      (7)   Perform such other duties as may be assigned to him or her by law,
the Budget Officer, the Council or by rules and regulations of the Local
Government Commission.
(Prior Code, § 3-4)
§ 31.016  BUDGET OFFICER.
   (A)   Appointment. The Council shall appoint a Budget Officer.
   (B)   Duties. The Budget Officer shall perform those duties and
responsibilities assigned to him or her by the Local Government Budget and
Fiscal Control Act (G.S. Ch. 159, Art. III).
(Prior Code, § 3-5)
§ 31.017  TAX COLLECTOR.
   (A)   Appointment.
      (1)   The Council shall appoint a Tax Collector to serve for a term of
two years and until his or her successor has been appointed and qualified.
      (2)   The Council may remove the Tax Collector under the circumstances
and in accordance with state statutes, the procedure specified in G.S. § 105-
349(a).
      (3)   The Tax Collector shall not begin his or her duties until he or she
has furnished a bond in accordance with G.S. § 105-349(c), nor shall he or she
continue collecting taxes after such bond has expired without renewal.
   (B)   Duties. In addition to other duties and responsibilities provided by
law, the Tax Collector shall:
      (1)   Employ all lawful means to collect all property, dog license,
privilege and franchise taxes with which he or she is charged by the Council;
      (2)   Perform such duties in connection with the preparation of the tax
records and tax receipts as the Council may direct under the provisions of G.S.
§§ 105-319;
      (3)   Keep adequate records of all collections he or she makes;
      (4)   Account for all monies coming into his or her hands, in such form
and detail as may be required by the Finance Officer;
      (5)   Make settlement at the times required by G.S. § 105-373 and at any
other time the Council may require him or her to do so;
      (6)   Send bills or notices of taxes due to taxpayers if instructed to do
so by the Council; and
      (7)   Visit delinquent taxpayers to encourage payment of taxes if
instructed to do so by the Council.
   (C)   Deputy Tax Collector. The Council may appoint one or more Deputy Tax
Collectors. The term of office, removal procedures and bonding requirements of
such Deputy Tax Collector shall be identical to those of the Tax Collector.
   (D)   Oath of office. The Tax Collector and any Deputy Tax Collector
appointed shall take and subscribe the following oath and file it with the Town
Clerk:
      “I,                                                              , do
solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support and maintain the Constitution
and laws of the United States, and the Constitution and laws of North Carolina
not inconsistent therewith, and that I will faithfully discharge the duties of
my office as (deputy) tax collector of the town of                            
         , and that I will not allow my actions as tax collector to be
influenced by personal or political friendships or obligations, so help me God.
Signature                                                          “
(Prior Code, § 3-6)
PERSONNEL
§ 31.030  PERSONNEL RESPONSIBILITIES OF COUNCIL.
   (A)   The Council shall, by adopting and amending the annual budget, fix or
approve the schedule of pay, expense/allowances, fringe benefits and all other
compensation of all town employees.
   (B)   The Council may also adopt rules and regulations governing all aspects
of the employment relationship between the town and its employees.
(Prior Code, § 3-10)
§ 31.031  PERSONNEL OFFICER.
   (A)   The Council shall appoint a Personnel Officer, or confer the duties of
a personnel officer on some administrative officer.
   (B)   The Personnel Officer shall be responsible for administering any pay
plan adopted by the Council, recommending to the Council the creation of new
positions or the modification of the duties of existing positions and generally
administering all town policies and Council directives concerning personnel.
(Prior Code, § 3-11)
PUBLIC SAFETY
§ 31.045  POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The Police Department shall consist of a Chief of Police and as many
other police officers as may be provided for from time to time by the Council.
   (B)   As provided in G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 13, police officers shall:
      (1)   Take, subscribe and file with the Clerk the oath of office
prescribed by Art. VI, § 7, of the State Constitution, which oath is set forth
in §
31.001(C) of this chapter; and
      (2)   Have all the powers invested in law enforcement officers by statue
or common law within the corporate limits of the town and within one mile
thereof and on property owned or leased by the town.
(Prior Code, § 3-15)
§ 31.046  AUXILIARY LAW ENFORCEMENT PERSONNEL.
   Auxiliary law enforcement personnel may be hired from time to time by the
town. A list of all such officers shall be placed on file with the Town Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 3-16)
§ 31.047  FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   Fire protection services are provided to the town by a Volunteer Fire
Department. The Chief of this Department shall be appointed by the Council and
serve at its pleasure.
(Prior Code, § 3-17)
PLANNING AND REGULATION OF DEVELOPMENT
§ 31.060  BUILDING INSPECTIONS DEPARTMENT.
   There shall be a Building Inspections Department which shall have the
authority and responsibility to enforce the North Carolina State Building Code.
The Building Inspections Department shall have the authority and shall follow
the procedures set forth in G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 19, and Ch. 1 of the North
Carolina State Building Code. From time to time, the Council may make
arrangements to have the functions of the Building Inspections Department
performed by other than town employees and/or by the Rockingham County
Department of Building Inspections, as provided in G.S. § 160A-413.
(Prior Code, § 3-20)
PUBLIC WORKS AND UTILITIES
§ 31.075  WATER AND SEWER TREATMENT PLANT SUPERVISORS.
   The Council shall appoint a Water and Sewer System Supervisor, a Water
Treatment Plant Supervisor and any other supervisors the Council deems
necessary to carry out street maintenance, trash collection or other public
works services performed by the town.
(Prior Code, § 3-26)
PARKS AND RECREATION ADVISORY BOARD
§ 31.085  NAME.
   This body shall be known as the Stoneville Parks and Recreation Advisory
Board, hereinafter the "Advisory Board".
(Ord. O-2017-06, passed 10-3-2017)
§ 31.086  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the Advisory Board is to advise the Town Council (Council)
and Manager on parks and recreation issues to include, but not be limited to,
town parks and recreation areas, safety matters in town parks and recreation
areas, and recreational activities in town parks and recreation areas. The
Advisory Board shall work on other issues assigned by the Council or Manager.
The Board shall propose principles, goals, and methods, and offer guidance to
the Council and Manager on all parks and recreation issues.
(Ord. O-2017-06, passed 10-3-2017)
§ 31.087  DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS.
   The duties and functions of the Advisory Board shall include, but not be
limited to:
   (A)   Solicit public comment regarding parks, recreation and trails matters
by holding regular public meetings, distributing questionnaires and conducting
workshops.
   (B)   Make recommendations regarding acquisition and use of specific parcels
of land for parks and recreation purposes.
   (C)   Recommend approval of contracts with consultants to prepare master
plans and construction documents for parks, recreation and trails facilities,
and to recommend construction contracts for said facilities.
   (D)   Coordinate with Rockingham County, local private, non-profit
recreation providers and neighboring towns regarding park locations, recreation
facilities and trails so as to avoid duplication and maximize regional
potential.
   (E)   Review operational reports and expenditures, and prepare
recommendations to the Council and Manager on ways to improve parks and
recreation operations and finances.
   (F)   Establish operating rules, fees and charges for town parks and
recreation facilities.
   (G)   Identify, organize and manage fundraising activities to support town
parks and recreation programs and facilities.
   (H)   Make periodic reports to Council regarding activities of the Advisory
Board.
(Ord. O-2017-06, passed 10-3-2017)
§ 31.088  MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Advisory Board shall be composed of six members and the Parks and
Recreation Director. The members shall be appointed by the Council. The Parks
and Recreation Director will serve as an ex-officio member of the Advisory
Board. The elected Town Council member appointed to the Parks and Recreation
Advisory Board will serve as Chairman of the Board.
   (B)   Board terms shall run from July 1 in the year appointed to June 30 of
the expiration year. At the time the Advisory Board is formed, two members will
be appointed for one year each, two for two years each and two for three years.
After that time, appointments or reappointments shall be for a three-year term.
Members will serve at the pleasure of Council without monetary compensation.
(Ord. O-2017-06, passed 10-3-2017; Ord. O-2017-06, passed 8-14-2018)
§ 31.089  OFFICERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Chairman. The elected Town Council member appointed to the Parks and
Recreation Advisory Board shall serve as the Chairman. The Chairman will vote
only to break a tie vote when a quorum is present. The Chairman shall decide
matters of order and procedure, unless directed otherwise by a majority of the
Advisory Board in session at the time. The Chairman shall appoint any
committees found necessary to investigate any matter before the Advisory Board.
   (B)   Vice-Chairman. A Vice-Chairman shall be elected by the Advisory Board
from among its members. The term of the Vice-Chairman shall be one year,
beginning as of the first meeting in July. The Vice-Chairman shall preside in
the absence of the Chairman and assume all duties and responsibilities
delegated by the Chairman.
(Ord. O-2017-06, passed 10-3-2017; Ord. O-2017-06, passed 8-14-2018)
§ 31.090  MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings of the Advisory Board shall be held once a month, and
shall be scheduled for the year each July. Special meetings of the Advisory
Board may be called at any time by the Chairman, provided that at least 24
hours notice is given. All meetings shall be open to the public.
   (B)   A written agenda shall be prepared and published no less than 48 hours
prior to a meeting. A written record of each meeting shall be kept and shall
include information on attendance, findings, recommendations, and actions taken
by the Board. This record shall be made available to the public.
   (C)   Whenever there is no business for the Advisory Board, the Chairman may
dispense with the regular meeting by giving notice to all members at least 24
hours in advance.
   (D)   A quorum shall consist of a simple majority of the full Advisory Board
membership. The vote of a majority of those members present shall be sufficient
to decide matters before the Advisory Board, provided that there is a quorum.
(Ord. O-2017-06, passed 10-3-2017)
§ 31.091  AMENDMENTS.
   These by-laws may be amended by a majority vote of the full Advisory Board
with approval of the Council.
(Ord. O-2017-06, passed 10-3-2017)
CHAPTER 32:  RESERVED
 
CHAPTER 33:  STATE OF EMERGENCY
Section
   
33.01   Definition
   
33.02   Declaration by Mayor
   
33.03   Contents of proclamation
   
33.04   Publication of proclamation
   
33.05   Effect of proclamation; curfew
   
33.06   Termination of state of emergency
 
   
33.99   Penalty
§ 33.01  DEFINITION.
   A STATE OF EMERGENCY exists whenever, during times of public crisis,
disaster, rioting, catastrophe or similar public emergency, for any reason,
town public safety authorities are unable to maintain public order or afford
adequate protection for lives, safety or property, or whenever the occurrence
of any such condition is imminent.
(Prior Code, § 9-1)
§ 33.02  DECLARATION BY MAYOR.
   (A)   Whenever the Mayor finds that a state of emergency exists within all
or a portion of the town, he or she shall issue a proclamation declaring such
state of emergency in accordance with §§
33.03 and
33.04 of this chapter.
   (B)   This proclamation, and any prohibitions and restrictions made
effective by it, shall take effect immediately upon publication unless the
proclamation sets a later time.
(Prior Code, § 9-2)
§ 33.03  CONTENTS OF PROCLAMATION.
   The proclamation issued by the Mayor shall declare to all persons that a
state of emergency exists and shall set forth:
   (A)   The area within which the state of emergency exists, which may be the
entire town or a specifically described portion of it;
   (B)   The date and time from which the proclamation shall be effective;
   (C)   Any restrictions and prohibitions that shall be effective during the
state of emergency and the penalties for violations; and
   (D)   The date and time when the state of emergency shall terminate, unless
extended or earlier terminated in accordance with §
33.06 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-3)
§ 33.04  PUBLICATION OF PROCLAMATION.
   (A)   For the purpose of making effective the prohibitions and restrictions
imposed by the proclamation, publication may consist of reports of the
substance of the proclamation’s contents, including such prohibitions and
restrictions, in the mass communications media serving the affected area or
other effective methods of disseminating the necessary information quickly.
   (B)   Notwithstanding division (A) above, the full text of the proclamation
shall be published as soon as practicable in one or more newspapers serving the
affected area and may be posted in various places or otherwise disseminated to
give the clearest notice practicable of its contents.
(Prior Code, § 9-4)
§ 33.05  EFFECT OF PROCLAMATION; CURFEW.
   (A)   A proclamation of a state of emergency shall activate any local civil
preparedness plan and shall authorize the town to seek assistance from the
county, state and federal governments in accordance with the provisions of G.S.
Ch. 166A.
   (B)   The Mayor is authorized in the proclamation to impose a curfew
applicable to all persons within the area described in the proclamation. The
curfew may be made effective during all or any portion of any day during the
state of emergency. During such curfew, no person may, within the area affected
by the curfew:
      (1)   Possess off his or her own premises, buy, sell, give away or
otherwise transfer or dispose of any explosives, firearms ammunition or
dangerous weapon of any kind;
      (2)   Sell beer, wines or intoxicating beverages of any kind or possess
or consume the same off his or her own premises;
      (3)   Sell gasoline or any similar petroleum products, except when pumped
or piped directly into the tank of a motor vehicle; and/or
      (4)   Travel upon any public street or highway or upon public property
unless such person is in search of medical assistance, food or other commodity
or service necessary to sustain the well-being of himself or herself or his or
her family or some member thereof or unless such person is engaged in the
performance of some function necessary to preserve the public health or safety,
such as police and fire officers, other emergency service personnel, utility
employees, doctors and nurses and the like.
(Prior Code, § 9-5)
§ 33.06  TERMINATION OF STATE OF EMERGENCY.
   A state of emergency and any restrictions imposed in connection therewith
shall automatically terminate at the end of five days after it becomes
effective; except that, the same:
   (A)   May be continued for another five-day period by the publication of a
new proclamation; or
   (B)   May be earlier terminated by the Mayor, who may issue a proclamation
declaring the state of emergency to be over at any time he or she concludes
that to be the case, and who shall issue such a proclamation if the Council
concludes that the state of emergency has ended.
(Prior Code, § 9-6)
§ 33.99  PENALTY.
   As provided in G.S. § 14-288.20A, any person who violates any provision of §
33.05(B) of this chapter after a curfew has been imposed pursuant to this
chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not more than
$50 or imprisonment for not more than 30 days, or both.
(Prior Code, § 9-7)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SOLID WASTE; NUISANCES
      
51.   UTILITY USE
      
52.   FATS, OIL AND GREASE CONTROL
      
53.   BACKFLOW PREVENTION
      
54.   CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL
CHAPTER 50:  SOLID WASTE; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Nuisances; abatement
Solid Wastes, Scrap Materials and Noxious Growth
   
50.15   Accumulation of solid wastes
   
50.16   Dumping or littering on public or private property
   
50.17   Transportation of solid waste within the town
   
50.18   Burning or burying solid wastes
   
50.19   Scrap materials; declaration of policy
   
50.20   Accumulation of scrap materials
   
50.21   Noxious growth
Storage and Collection of Solid Waste
   
50.35   Property owners provide adequate solid waste receptacles
   
50.36   Storage and collection practices
   
50.37   Special collections
   
50.38   Miscellaneous
Abandoned and Junked Motor Vehicles
   
50.50   Administration
   
50.51   Definitions
   
50.52   Abandoned vehicle unlawful; removal authorized
   
50.53   Nuisance vehicle unlawful; removal authorized
   
50.54   Junked motor vehicle regulated; removal authorized
   
50.55   Removal of abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicles; pre-towing
notice requirements
   
50.56   Exceptions to prior notice requirement
   
50.57   Removal of vehicles; post-towing notice requirements
   
50.58   Right to probable cause hearing before sale or final disposition of
vehicle
   
50.59   Redemption of vehicle during proceedings
   
50.60   Sale and disposition of unclaimed vehicle
   
50.61   Conditions on removal of vehicles from private property
   
50.62   Protection against criminal or civil liability
   
50.63   Exceptions
   
50.64   Unlawful removal of impounded vehicle
 
   
50.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle that:
      (1)   Is left on public grounds or town-owned property in violation of a
law or ordinance prohibiting parking;
      (2)   Is left for longer than 24 hours on property owned or operated by
the town;
      (3)   Is left for longer than two hours on private property without the
consent of the owner, occupant or lessee of the property; or
      (4)   Is left for longer than seven days on public grounds.
   GARBAGE. All solid wastes capable of being rapidly decomposed by
microorganisms, including, but not limited to, animal and vegetable wastes
resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food, as
well as animal offal and carcasses, but excluding sewage and human wastes.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES. An abandoned motor vehicle that also:
      (1)   Is partially dismantled or wrecked;
      (2)   Cannot be self-propelled or moved in the manner in which it was
originally intended to move;
      (3)   Is more than five years old and appears to be worth less than $100;
or
      (4)   Does not display a current license plate when the motor vehicle is
required by laws of the state to have such a license plate to operate on the
public roads.
   MOTOR VEHICLES. Any machine designed or intended to travel over land or
water by self-propulsion or while attached to a self-propelled vehicle.
   PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR. The Public Works Director or any other person
designated by the Council to perform the functions and exercise the
responsibilities assigned by this chapter to the Public Works Director.
   REFUSE. All solid wastes, except:
      (1)   Garbage; and
      (2)   Solids that are dissolved or suspended in domestic, commercial or
industrial wastewater effluent.
   SCRAP MATERIALS.
      (1)   Pieces or fragments of metal, wood, glass, masonry, plastic,
textiles, rope, leather, rubber, paper or any other substance that formerly
were part of the construction of some useful object or thing or that consist of
the excess resulting from the creation of some useful object or thing;
      (2)   Objects or things, including, but not limited to, machines, tools,
equipment, hardware, furniture, appliances and the like, or parts of the same
that are no longer in serviceable condition or are valuable only as raw
material for reprocessing; or
      (3)   Motor vehicles or remnants thereof that:
         (a)   Do not display current license plates;
         (b)   Cannot without substantial repairs be made to operate in the
manner originally intended; and
         (c)   Are valuable only as raw materials for reprocessing, but that do
not constitute solid wastes as herein defined because they are or may be useful
to or wanted by or had not been discarded by the person in control of the
premises where they have been located.
   SOLID WASTES. Wastes that are non-gaseous and non-liquid; except that,
liquid wastes resulting from the processing of food are deemed SOLID WASTES for
the purposes of this chapter.
   WASTES. All useless, unwanted or discarded materials resulting from
domestic, industrial, commercial or community activities.
(Prior Code, § 11-1)
§ 50.02  NUISANCES; ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Enforcement by Public Works Director or his or her designee. The
Public Works Director or his or her designee is charged with the duty of full
enforcement of this section and any Public Works Director thereof or his or her
designee is clothed with full power and authority imposed by this chapter and
is hereby authorized and directed to proceed to carry out the provisions of the
same.
   (B)   Nuisances enumerated. The following enumerated and described
conditions are hereby found, deemed and declared to constitute a detriment,
danger and hazard to health, safety, morals and general welfare of the
inhabitants of the town and found, deemed and declared to be public nuisances
wherever the same may exist. The creation, maintenance or failure to abate the
nuisances is hereby declared unlawful:
      (1)   Any accumulation of animal or vegetable matter that is offensive by
virtue of odors or vapors or by the inhabitancy therein of rats, mice, snakes
or vermin of any kind and which may be dangerous or prejudicial to public
health;
      (2)   Any developed place of uncontrolled growth of weeds, grass or other
noxious vegetation in excess of 18 inches above the surrounding ground;
provided that, the following shall not be considered as part of this condition:
trees and ornamental shrubs; cultured plant; natural vegetation on undeveloped
property; and growing and producing vegetable plants;
      (3)   Any shrubs or similar vegetation, vines, including, but not limited
to, honeysuckle or similar vegetation, growth of poison sumac, ivy, oak or
other noxious vegetation that encroaches on any sidewalk, curb or edge of
pavement of any abutting street, encroaches on any adjoining property with a
dwelling or commercial property or obstructs the site distance along any public
street or right-of-way;
      (4)   Any accumulation of fallen, dead trees, any accumulation of tree
limbs or branches that have fallen or been cut and/or any accumulation of
firewood or logs that are rotten or decayed, except in heavily wooded or
undeveloped lots;
      (5)   Any open place of collection of stagnant water that has no natural
drainage, including swimming pools that cause or threaten to cause a breeding
ground or inhabitancy therein of mosquitoes, flies, snakes or other such
vermin;
      (6)   Any open place of concentration of combustible items including, but
not limited to, building materials, mattresses, boxes, paper, tires and tubes,
garbage, trash, refuse, brush, leaves, old clothes, rags or any other
combustible materials or objects of like matter;
      (7)   Any open place of collection of garbage, food waste, animal waste
or any other rotten or putrescible matter of any kind;
      (8)   Any open storage of discarded or junked ice box, refrigerator,
stove, washer, dryer, water heater, other “white goods”, glass, metal products,
furniture or similar items which may, but not necessarily, contain jagged or
rough edges or areas of confinement;
      (9)   Any unsecured building, including, but not limited to, houses,
apartments, non-residential and accessory structures which are currently or
likely to contribute to conditions such as vagrancy, alcohol and illegal drugs,
trespassing or any type of criminal activity or creates any condition which
constitutes a hazard to the health, safety and welfare of the residents; and
      (10)   Any building or other structure which has been damaged or
destroyed as a result of fire, wind, flood or other disaster and which is
hazardous to the safety of any person, is a continuing fire hazard or which is
structurally unsound to the extent that the Town Manager or his or her designee
can reasonably determine that a likelihood exists for personal or private
property injury to any person or property entering the premises.
   (C)   Initiation of proceedings. In addition to the specific conditions
enumerated in division (B) above, a nuisance shall be any other condition
specifically declared to be a danger to the public health, safety, morals and
general welfare of inhabitants of the town and a public nuisance by the Town
Council. The proceeding may be initiated by the Public Works Director or his or
her designee before the Town Council after giving written notice in conformity
with division (D) below. The notice shall state the condition existing, the
location and that the Town Council will be requested on a day certain, after a
public hearing at which the person notified may appear and be heard, to declare
that the conditions existing constitute a danger to the public health, safety,
morals and general welfare of the inhabitants of the town and a public
nuisance. After the declaration by the Town Council in the form of an
ordinance, the condition will be abated as provided for in division (E) below.
No appeal shall die from a proceeding initiated by the Public Works Director or
his or her designee before the Town Council, as provided in this section.
   (D)   Notice to property owner.
      (1)   When any public nuisance, as set out in divisions (B) and (C)
above, is found to exist on any property within the town, the Public Works
Director or his or her designee shall notify, in writing, the owner of the
premises where the nuisance is located. The notice shall state that conditions
exist which constitute a public nuisance, shall state those conditions and
shall state that unless the condition is abated within ten days from the
mailing of the notice the conditions constituting a nuisance will be abated and
the cost of the abatement shall constitute a lien against the premises. The
notice shall be sent by registered mail, return receipt requested.
      (2)   According to G.S. § 160A-200.1, the town may notify a chronic
violator of divisions (B) and (C) above that, if the violator’s property is
found to be in violation of the section, the town shall, without further notice
in the calendar year in which the notice was given, take action to abate or
remedy the violation, and the expense of the action shall become a lien upon
the property and collected as an unpaid tax. The notification shall be sent by
certified mail return receipt requested. A chronic violator shall be described
as a person who owns property whereupon, in the previous calendar year, the
town gave notice of violation at least three times under any provision of this
section.
   (E)   Right of entry for abatement; appeal to Council stays abatement
proceedings. The Public Works Director or his or her designee is hereby given
full power and authority to enter upon the premises involved for the purpose of
abating the nuisance found to exist as set out in this section. Within the ten-
day period mentioned in division (D) above, the owner of the property where the
nuisance exists may appeal the findings of the Public Works Director or his or
her designee made pursuant to divisions (B) and (C) above to the Town Council
by giving written notice of appeal to the Public Works Director or his or her
designee. The appeal shall stay the abatement of the nuisance by the Public
Works Director or his or her designee until a final determination by the Town
Council. If no appeal is taken, the Public Works Director or his or her
designee may proceed to abate the nuisance.
   (F)   Determination of Council; adoption of ordinance for abatement by town.
If an appeal is taken as provided in division (E) above, the Town Council may,
after hearing all interested persons and reviewing the findings of the Public
Works Director or his or her designee, reverse the finding made pursuant to
divisions (B) and (C) above. If the Town Council determines that the findings
of the Public Works Director or his or her designee made pursuant to divisions
(B) and (C) above are correct and proper, it shall adopt an ordinance
specifically declaring the condition existing on the property to be a danger
and hazard to the health, safety, morals and general welfare of the inhabitants
of the town and a nuisance and directing the Public Works Director or his or
her designee to cause the conditions to be abated.
   (G)   Costs of abatement; lien.
      (1)   After the abatement of a nuisance as provided in divisions (D), (E)
and (F) above, the cost of the abatement shall become a lien against the
premises upon confirmation of the cost thereof by the Town Council. The
confirmation shall take place only after ten days’ written notice to the owner
of the premises where the nuisance existed of the proposed confirmation.
      (2)   Upon confirmation, the cost of abatement shall be a lien against
the premises from which the nuisance was abated, the same to be recorded as
required by the state statutes and to be collected as unpaid taxes.
   (H)   Transporting meat products. It shall be unlawful for any person to
drive over any street or to park on any street or at any filling station,
parking lot or other place within the town any vehicle containing wet meat, or
meat products or seafood or seafood products unless the vehicle is so
constructed or equipped as to prevent leakage or seepage of the water or waste
therefrom or unless the same is free from noxious odors.
(Ord. passed 2-7-2012)  Penalty, see §
50.99
SOLID WASTES, SCRAP MATERIALS AND NOXIOUS GROWTH
§ 50.15  ACCUMULATION OF SOLID WASTES.
   (A)   Subject to the qualifications contained in division (B) below, a
person may cause, suffer or permit solid wastes to accumulate or remain on
premises under his or her control, except in accordance with the provisions of
§§
50.35 through
50.38 of this chapter.
   (B)   Natural solid waste materials resulting from lawn or garden work, such
as bush and tree trimmings, leaves, grass, stumps, dirt and stones may be
allowed to accumulate or remain on premises under a person’s control unless
these materials become or threaten to become a fire hazard or a harboring place
for rats, mice, snakes or other vermin or otherwise pose a danger to the public
health or safety.
(Prior Code, § 11-2)
§ 50.16  DUMPING OR LITTERING ON PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person may place, discard, throw, drop or deposit, or cause to be
placed, discarded, thrown, dropped or deposited any solid wastes on:
      (1)   Any public street or sidewalk within the town or on any property
owned or operated by the town or any other public property, except in properly
designated receptacles; or
      (2)   Any property not owned by him or her without the consent of the
owner, occupant or lessee thereof.
   (B)   Note: G.S. § 14-399 makes the acts prohibited in this section a
misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not more than $200. Therefore, this
section may be enforced by the town only through civil penalties or injunctive
relief.
(Prior Code, § 11-3)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.17  TRANSPORTATION OF SOLID WASTE WITHIN THE TOWN.
   (A)   No person may transport or cause to be transported any solid wastes on
the public streets of the town unless the solid wastes are so secured that no
solid wastes escape from the transporting vehicle.
   (B)   In addition, any garbage so transported shall be carried in closed
containers that prevent the escape of noxious odors or liquids.
(Prior Code, § 11-4)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.18  BURNING OR BURYING SOLID WASTES.
   (A)   No person may burn or cause to be burned any garbage for purposes of
disposal, and no person may burn or cause to be burned any refuse, except as
specifically authorized by
Ch. 91 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   No person may bury or cause to be buried any solid waste for purposes
of disposal.
(Prior Code, § 11-5)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.19  SCRAP MATERIALS; DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   The Council hereby declares that the uncontrolled accumulation of scrap
materials on any premises constitutes a danger to the health, safety and
welfare of the citizens of the town in that such accumulations can furnish
shelter and breeding places for vermin, present physical dangers to the safety
and well-being of children and other citizens, pose danger of fire and
depreciate property values or cause a loss of business by detracting from the
appearance and character of residential and commercial neighborhoods.
(Prior Code, § 11-6)
§ 50.20  ACCUMULATION OF SCRAP MATERIALS.
   No person may cause, suffer or permit scrap materials to accumulate or
remain on premises under his or her control unless the scrap materials are:
   (A)   Surrounded by a fence of sufficient height, strength and construction
to deny persons, especially small children, access to them and to shield
neighboring premises from the view of them; or
   (B)   Are so stored within a structure or within a container outside of a
structure as to minimize substantially the dangers set forth in §
50.19 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-7)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.21  NOXIOUS GROWTH.
   No person may cause, suffer or permit on premises under his or her control
any growth of weeds, grasses or other plants or bushes that becomes or
threatens to become a fire hazard or a harboring place for rats, mice, snakes
or other vermin or otherwise poses a danger to the public health or safety.
(Prior Code, § 11-8)  Penalty, see §
50.99
STORAGE AND COLLECTION OF SOLID WASTE
§ 50.35  PROPERTY OWNERS PROVIDE ADEQUATE SOLID WASTE RECEPTACLES.
   (A)   The owner of every premises shall be responsible for providing
adequate solid waste receptacles in accordance with this section to store the
solid wastes generated by activities taking place on those premises between
scheduled pickups.
   (B)   Every premises shall be served by at least one of the receptacles
specified in division (C) below, and the Public Works Director may require the
owner to provide more than one if necessary to meet the objective stated in
division (A) above.
   (C)   The receptacle required by this section shall be a 20- to 32-gallon
container made of galvanized metal, plastic, rubber or other material resistant
to rust, corrosion or rapid deterioration. Each required container shall be
water-tight and provided with handles and a tight-fitting cover.
(Prior Code, § 11-16)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.36  STORAGE AND COLLECTION PRACTICES.
   (A)   Garbage may be stored pending collection by the town only in the
receptacles described in §
50.35(C) of this chapter. Refuse may be stored (between scheduled collections
only) in any appropriate and convenient fashion.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, solid wastes may not be
stored between scheduled pickups within 45 feet of the centerline of any public
street unless such solid wastes are stored within a completely enclosed
substantial structure such as a house, garage or shed.
   (C)   Solid wastes shall be placed adjacent to the street for collection on
the scheduled collection day or after dark on the preceding day. After
collection, all solid waste receptacles and all uncollected solid wastes shall
be removed to a storage location that complies with division (B) above by 6:00
a.m. on the day following the second collection day.
   (D)   If the Public Works Director determines that because of the physical
infirmity of the occupant of any premises, the occupant cannot without severe
hardship transport the solid wastes from the storage location required by
division (B) above to the collection point required by division (C) above, he
or she may do one of the following:
      (1)   Authorize the occupant to store solid wastes at or near the pickup
location between scheduled pickups;
      (2)   Provide solid wastes receptacles mounted on wheels or otherwise
constructed so that the occupant can transport the solid wastes from the point
of storage to the point of pickup; or
      (3)   Provide rear-yard pickup service.
   (E)   Containers other than those described in §
50.35(C) of this chapter will be treated as solid wastes and collected by the
town.
   (F)   Bagged grass cuttings and bagged leaves, hedge clippings, tree
trimmings and similar materials less than four inches in diameter and 72 inches
in length will be collected by the town as part of its bi-weekly collection if
placed at the edge of the street, but not in the street or on the sidewalk.
Items that cannot be burned will not be collected by the town, except during
pickup week in the spring when the county landfill is open for solid wastes at
no cost to the town. A schedule of the bi-weekly collection will be posted on
an annual basis in a newspaper of local circulation, on the town’s website,
Town Hall announcements and in flyers circulated by the town, and in such other
manner as the town deems advisable for communication of same.
   (G)   Containers weighing more than 75 pounds and heavy or bulky items such
as tree trunks, tree trimmings or hedge cuttings more than 60 inches in length
or four inches in diameter, furniture, and similar items will be collected only
in accordance with §
50.37 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-17)  (Ord. passed 12-6-2011)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.37  SPECIAL COLLECTIONS.
   Solid wastes that are too bulky or too heavy or too cumbersome to be
collected by the town as part of its regular bi-weekly collection service, in
accordance with §
50.36(F) of this chapter, shall be removed by the property owner, occupier or
other person(s) responsible for the property.
(Prior Code, § 11-18)  (Ord. passed 12-6-2011)
§ 50.38  MISCELLANEOUS.
   (A)   The Public Works Director shall establish collection routes and
schedules and may alter these routes and schedules from time to time. A copy of
the current routes and schedules shall be kept on file in the office of the
Town Clerk. Notice of any changes in the routes or schedules shall be published
in the local newspaper at least ten days before the changes are to become
effective.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever this chapter authorizes the Public Works Director to
make a discretionary determination, all persons affected by that determination
shall comply with it within 15 calendar days after receiving written notice of
the determination and the reasons for it. Thereafter, a failure on the part of
any person receiving such notice to comply with the determination shall
constitute a violation of this chapter.
      (2)   The Public Works Director or his or her designee shall make a
discretionary determination of persons in violation of §
50.37 of this chapter. The following actions will be taken against violators:
         (a)   Initial written notice shall be provided via certified mail by
the Public Works Director or his or her designee to the property owner,
occupier or the person(s) responsible for the property that he or she is in
violation of §
50.37 of this chapter and that the debris must be removed within two weeks of
the initial written warning.
         (b)   In the event that the property owner, occupier or other person
(s) responsible for the property fails to comply with §
50.37 of this chapter after the initial written notice, a second notice shall
be mailed by certified mail to the property owner, occupier or the person(s)
responsible for the property that a $5 fine shall be placed on the next water/
sewer bill. The fine shall occur repeatedly biweekly until the debris is
removed by the property owner, occupier or the person(s) responsible for the
property. The date of the initial $5 fine shall be stated in the certified
letter.
   (C)   No person may damage, displace or otherwise interfere with solid waste
receptacles or solid wastes stored or prepared for collection, except with the
consent of the owner, lessee or occupant of the premises where those
receptacles or solid wastes are located.
(Prior Code, § 11-19)  (Ord. passed 12-6-2011)  Penalty, see §
50.99
ABANDONED AND JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES
§ 50.50  ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The Police Department shall be responsible for the administration and
enforcement of this subchapter. The Police Department shall be responsible for
administering the removal and disposition of vehicles determined to be
“abandoned” on the public streets and highways within the town, and on property
owned by the town. The town shall be responsible for administering the removal
and disposition of “abandoned”, “nuisance” or “junked motor vehicles” located
on private property. The town may, on an annual basis, contract with private
tow truck operators or towing businesses to remove, store and dispose of
abandoned vehicles, nuisance vehicles and junked motor vehicles in compliance
with this subchapter and applicable state laws.
   (B)   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to limit the legal
authority or powers of officers of the Town Police Department and Fire
Department in enforcing other laws or in otherwise carrying out their duties.
(Ord. passed 1-3-2012)
§ 50.51  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. As authorized and defined in G.S. § 160A-303, an
abandoned motor vehicle is one that:
      (1)   Is left upon a public street or highway in violation of a law or
ordinance prohibiting parking;
      (2)   Is left on a public street or highway for longer than seven days;
      (3)   Is left on property owned or operated by the town for longer than
24 hours; or
      (4)   Is left on private property without the consent of the owner,
occupant or lessee thereof, for longer than two hours.
   AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL. The supervisory employee of the Police Department is,
designated to authorize the removal of vehicles under the provisions of this
chapter.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE. As authorized and defined in G.S. § 160A-303.2, means
a vehicle that does not display a current license plate lawfully upon that
vehicle and that:
      (1)   Is partially dismantled or wrecked;
      (2)   Cannot be self-propelled or moved in the manner in which it
originally was intended to move; or
      (3)   Is more than five years old and appears to be worth less than $100.
   MOTOR VEHICLE or VEHICLE. All machines designed or intended to travel over
land by self-propulsion or while attached to any self-propelled vehicle.
   NUISANCE VEHICLE. A vehicle on public or private property that is determined
to be a health or safety hazard, a public nuisance and unlawful, including a
vehicle found to be:
      (1)   A breeding ground for mosquitoes, other insects, rats or other
pests;
      (2)   A point of heavy growth of weeds or other noxious vegetation over
eight inches in height;
      (3)   A point of collection of pools or ponds of water;
      (4)   A point of concentration of quantities of gasoline, oil or other
flammable or explosive materials as evidenced by odor;
      (5)   One which has areas of confinement which cannot be operated from
the inside, such as trunks, hoods and the like;
      (6)   So situated or located that there is a danger of it falling or
turning over;
      (7)   One which is a point of collection of garbage, food waste, animal
waste or any other rotten or putrid matter of any kind;
      (8)   One which has sharp parts thereof which are jagged or contain sharp
edges or metal or glass; or
      (9)   Any other vehicle specifically declared a health and safety hazard
and a public nuisance by the Town Council.
(Ord. passed 1-3-2012)
§ 50.52  ABANDONED VEHICLE UNLAWFUL; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a vehicle to cause or allow the vehicle to be abandoned as the
term is defined herein.
   (B)   Upon investigation, proper authorizing officials of the town may
determine that a vehicle is an abandoned vehicle and order the vehicle removed.
(Ord. passed 1-3-2012)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.53  NUISANCE VEHICLE UNLAWFUL; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee or occupant of the real
property upon which the vehicle is located to leave or allow the vehicle to
remain on the property after it has been declared a nuisance vehicle.
   (B)   Upon investigation, the authorizing official may determine and declare
that a vehicle is a health or safety hazard and a nuisance vehicle as defined
above, and order the vehicle removed.
(Ord. passed 1-3-2012)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.54  JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE REGULATED; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
the possession of a junked motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee or occupant
of the real property upon which a junked motor vehicle is located to leave or
allow the vehicle to remain on the property after the vehicle has been ordered
removed.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to have more than one junked motor vehicle, as
defined herein, on the premises of public or private property. A single,
permitted junked motor vehicle must strictly comply with the location and
concealment requirements of this section.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, person entitled to the possession
of a junked motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee or occupant of the real
property upon which a junked motor vehicle is located to fail to comply with
the locational requirements or the concealment requirements of this section.
   (D)   Subject to the provisions of division (E) below, upon investigation,
the Town Building Inspector may order the removal of a junked motor vehicle, as
defined in this subchapter, after finding in writing that the aesthetic
benefits of removing the vehicle outweigh the burdens imposed on the private
property owner. The finding shall be based on a balancing of the monetary loss
of the apparent owner against the corresponding gain to the public by promoting
or enhancing community, neighborhood or area appearance. The following among
other relevant factors may be considered:
      (1)   Protection of property values;
      (2)   Promotion of tourism and other economic development opportunities;
      (3)   Indirect protection of public health and safety;
      (4)   Preservation of the character and integrity of the community; and
      (5)   Promotion of the comfort, happiness and emotional stability of area
residents.
   (E)   (1)   One junked motor vehicle, in its entirety, can be located in the
rear yard as defined by the Town Zoning Ordinance if the junked motor vehicle
is entirely concealed from public view from a public street and from abutting
premises by an acceptable covering. The Town Building Inspector has the
authority to determine whether any junked motor vehicle is adequately concealed
as required by this provision. The covering must remain in good repair and must
not be allowed to deteriorate. The covering or enclosure must be compatible
with the objectives stated in the preamble of the ordinance codified in this
chapter.
      (2)   Any other junked motor vehicle(s) must be kept in a garage or
building structure that provides a complete enclosure so that the junked motor
vehicle(s) cannot be seen from a public street or abutting property. A garage
or building structure means either a lawful, non-conforming use or a garage or
building structure erected pursuant to the lawful issuance of a building permit
and which has been constructed in accordance with all zoning and Building Code
regulations.
(Ord. passed 1-3-2012)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.55  REMOVAL OF ABANDONED, NUISANCE OR JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES; PRE-TOWING
NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as set forth in §
50.56 of this chapter, an abandoned, nuisance or junked vehicle which is to be
removed shall be towed only after notice to the registered owner or person
entitled to possession of the vehicle. In the case of a nuisance vehicle or a
junked motor vehicle, if the names and mailing addresses of the registered
owner or person entitled to the possession of the vehicle, or the owner, lessee
or occupant of the real property upon which the vehicle is located can be
ascertained in the exercise of reasonable diligence, the notice shall be given
by first-class mail. The person who mails the notice(s) shall retain a written
record to show the name(s) and address(es) to which mailed, and the date
mailed. If the names and addresses cannot be ascertained or if the vehicle to
be removed is an abandoned motor vehicle, notice shall be given by affixing on
the windshield or some other conspicuous place on the vehicle a notice
indicating that the vehicle will be removed by the town on a specified date (no
sooner than seven days after the notice is affixed). The notice shall state
that the vehicle will be removed by the town on a specified date, no sooner
than seven days after the notice is affixed or mailed, unless the vehicle is
moved by the owner or legal possessor prior to that time.
   (B)   With respect to abandoned vehicles on private property, nuisance
vehicles and junked motor vehicles to which notice is required to be given, if
the registered owner or person entitled to possession does not remove the
vehicle, but chooses to appeal the determination that the vehicle is abandoned,
a nuisance vehicle or in the case of a junked motor vehicle that the aesthetic
benefits of removing the vehicle outweigh the burdens, the appeal shall be made
to the Town Council in writing, heard at the next regularly scheduled meeting
of the Town Council, and further proceedings to remove the vehicle shall be
stayed until the appeal is heard and decided.
(Ord. passed 1-3-2012)
§ 50.56  EXCEPTIONS TO PRIOR NOTICE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   The requirement that notice be given prior to the removal of an
abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle may, as determined by the
authorizing official, be omitted in those circumstances where there is a
special need for prompt action to eliminate traffic obstructions or to
otherwise maintain and protect the public safety and welfare. The findings
shall, in all cases, be entered by the authorizing official in the appropriate
daily records.
   (B)   Circumstances justifying the removal of vehicles without prior notice
include:
      (1)   Vehicles abandoned on the streets. For vehicles left on the public
streets and highways, the Town Council hereby determines that immediate removal
of the vehicles may be warranted when they are:
         (a)   Obstructing traffic;
         (b)   Parked in violation of an ordinance prohibiting or restricting
parking;
         (c)   Parking in a no stopping or standing zone;
         (d)   Parked in loading zones;
         (e)   Parked in bus zones; or
         (f)   Parked in violation of temporary parking restrictions imposed
under code sections.
      (2)   Other abandoned or nuisance vehicles. With respect to abandoned or
nuisance vehicles left on town-owned property other than the streets and
highways, and on private property, the vehicles may be removed without giving
prior notice only in those circumstances where the authorizing official finds a
special need for prompt action to protect and maintain the public health,
safety and welfare. By way of illustration and not of limitation, the
circumstances include vehicles blocking or obstructing ingress or egress to
businesses and residences, vehicles parked in such a location or manner as to
pose a traffic hazard, and vehicles causing damage to public or private
property.
(Ord. passed 1-3-2012)
§ 50.57  REMOVAL OF VEHICLES; POST-TOWING NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle which has been ordered
removed may, as directed by the town, be removed to a storage garage or area by
the tow truck operator or towing business contracting to perform the services
for the town. Whenever such a vehicle is removed, the authorizing town official
shall immediately notify the last known registered owner of the vehicle, the
notice to include the following:
      (1)   The description of the removed vehicle;
      (2)   The location where the vehicle is stored;
      (3)   The violation with which the owner is charged, if any;
      (4)   The procedure the owner must follow to redeem the vehicle; and
      (5)   The procedure the owner must follow to request a probable cause
hearing on the removal.
   (B)   The town shall attempt to give notice to the vehicle owner by
telephone; however, whether or not the owner is reached by telephone, written
notice, including the information set forth in divisions (A)(1) through (A)(5)
above, shall also be mailed to the registered owner’s last known address,
unless this notice is waived in writing by the vehicle owner or his or her
agent.
   (C)   If the vehicle is registered in the state, notice shall be given
within 24 hours. If the vehicle is not registered in the state, notice shall be
given to the registered owner within 72 hours from the removal of the vehicle.
   (D)   Whenever an abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle is removed,
and the vehicle has no valid registration or registration plates, the
authorizing town official shall make reasonable efforts, including checking the
vehicle identification number, to determine the last known registered owner of
the vehicle and to notify him or her of the information set forth in divisions
(A)(1) through (A)(5) above.
(Ord. passed 1-3-2012)
§ 50.58  RIGHT TO PROBABLE CAUSE HEARING BEFORE SALE OR FINAL DISPOSITION OF
VEHICLE.
   After the removal of an abandoned vehicle, nuisance vehicle or junked motor
vehicle, the owner or any other person entitled to possession is entitled to a
hearing for the purpose of determining if probable cause existed for removing
the vehicle. A request for hearing must be filed in writing with the County
Magistrate designated by the Chief District Court Judge to receive the hearing
requests. The Magistrate will set the hearing within 72 hours of receipt of the
request, and the hearing will be conducted in accordance with the provisions of
G.S. § 20-219.11, as amended.
(Ord. passed 1-3-2012)
§ 50.59  REDEMPTION OF VEHICLE DURING PROCEEDINGS.
   At any stage in the proceedings, including before the probable cause
hearing, the owner may obtain possession of the removed vehicle by paying the
towing fee, including any storage charges, or by posting a bond for double the
amount of the fees and charges to the tow truck operator or towing business
having custody of the removed vehicle. Upon regaining possession of such a
vehicle, the owner or person entitled to the possession of the vehicle shall
not allow or engage in further violations of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 1-3-2012)
§ 50.60  SALE AND DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLE.
   (A)   Any abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle which is not claimed
by the owner or other party entitled to possession will be disposed of by the
tow truck operator or towing business having custody of the vehicle.
   (B)   Disposition of such a vehicle shall be carried out in coordination
with the town and in accordance with G.S. Ch. 44A, Art. 1.
(Ord. passed 1-3-2012)
§ 50.61  CONDITIONS ON REMOVAL OF VEHICLES FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   As a general policy, the town will not remove a vehicle from private
property if the owner, occupant or lessee of the property could have the
vehicle removed under applicable state law procedures. In no case will a
vehicle be removed by the town from private property without a written request
of the owner, occupant or lessee, except in those cases where a vehicle is a
nuisance vehicle or is a junked motor vehicle which has been ordered removed by
the town. The town may require any person requesting the removal of an
abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle from private property to indemnify
the town against any loss, expense or liability incurred because of the
removal, storage or sale thereof.
(Ord. passed 1-3-2012)
§ 50.62  PROTECTION AGAINST CRIMINAL OR CIVIL LIABILITY.
   No person shall be held to answer in any civil or criminal action to any
owner or other person legally entitled to the possession of an abandoned,
nuisance or junked motor vehicle, for disposing of the vehicle as provided in
this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 1-3-2012)
§ 50.63  EXCEPTIONS.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall apply to any vehicle:
   (A)   Which is located in a bona fide “automobile graveyard” or “junkyard”
as defined in G.S. § 136-143, in accordance with the Junkyard Control Act, G.S.
§§ 136-141 et seq.;
   (B)   Which is in an enclosed building;
   (C)   Which is on the premises of a business enterprise being operated in a
lawful place and manner if the vehicle is necessary to the operation of the
enterprise; or
   (D)   Which is in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained in a
lawful place and manner by the town.
(Ord. passed 1-3-2012)
§ 50.64  UNLAWFUL REMOVAL OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or attempt to remove from any
storage facility designated by the town any vehicle which has been impounded
pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter unless and until all towing and
impoundment fees which are due, or bond in lieu of the fees, have been paid.
(Ord. passed 1-3-2012)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Penalties and remedies.
      (1)   A violation of any of the following provisions of this chapter
shall constitute a misdemeanor, punishable as provided in G.S. § 14-4: §§
50.15 through
50.21 (except §
50.16) and §§
50.35 through
50.38.
      (2)   A violation of any of the provisions specified in division (A)(1)
above (as well as §
50.16) shall also subject the offender to a civil penalty of $25. If the
offender fails to pay this penalty within 15 calender days after being cited
for a violation, the penalty may be recovered by the town in a civil action in
the nature of debt.
      (3)   Each day that any violation continues after a person has been
notified that such violation exists and that he or she is subject to the
penalties specified in divisions (A)(1) and (A)(2) above shall constitute a
separate offense.
      (4)   This chapter may also be enforced by any appropriate equitable
action, including injunctions or orders of abatement.
      (5)   The town may enforce this chapter by any one or any combination of
the foregoing remedies.
(Prior Code, § 11-36)
   (B)   Violations resulting from continuing conditions.
      (1)   Whenever a violation of this chapter results from a continuing
condition rather than a discrete event, a written notice shall be sent to the
last known address of the responsible person, specifying the nature of the
violation and what must be done to correct it, requiring the responsible person
to correct the violation within ten calendar days after delivery of the notice,
and informing the responsible person of the possible consequences of his or her
failure to comply.
      (2)   Whenever a violation of this chapter results from a continuing
condition rather than a discrete event, the penalties and remedies provided for
in division (A) above may not be invoked until after the ten-day correction
period specified in the section has expired.
(Prior Code, § 11-37)
   (C)   Summary abatement of conditions dangerous or prejudicial to the public
health. If the Council concludes, after notice and hearing as provided herein,
that any condition or situation prohibited by this chapter or any other
condition or situation is dangerous or prejudicial to the public health or
safety, it may order town officials to summarily remove, abate or remedy
everything so found within the town limits or within one mile thereof.
(Prior Code, § 11-38)
   (D)   Notice required.
      (1)   Before the action authorized by division (C) above is taken, notice
shall be sent to the respondent, informing him or her:
         (a)   What condition or situation is alleged to be dangerous or
prejudicial to the public health or safety;
         (b)   When and where the Council will meet to hold a hearing on the
issue of whether the condition cited is dangerous or prejudicial to public
health; and
         (c)   If the Council determines that the cited condition is dangerous
or prejudicial to public health or safety, it may order town officials to
summarily abate, remedy or correct the offending condition.
      (2)   The expenses incurred by the town in connection with the actions
described in division (D)(1)(c) above, if not paid by the respondent, shall
become a lien upon the land where the offending condition is located, to be
collected as unpaid taxes. If after due diligence, the respondent’s address
cannot be determined, then the notice required by this section shall be posted
conspicuously on the offending property not later than three days before the
scheduled hearing. This notice shall be sent by mail (certified, deliver to
addressee only, return receipt requested) not later than five calendar days
prior to the scheduled hearing or delivered to the respondent by a town officer
or employee, not later than three days prior to the scheduled hearing. For
purposes of this division (D), the RESPONDENT is the person who is responsible
for the offending condition, as well as the owner of the property where the
offending condition is located, if different from the former.
(Prior Code, § 11-39)
   (E)   Hearing procedures. At the hearing held pursuant to this division (E),
the town administration shall be responsible for presenting sufficient evidence
to the Council to substantiate a finding that a condition exists that is
dangerous or prejudicial to the public health or safety. The Council may
consider all reliable evidence and need not be bound by the strict rules of
evidence applicable to courts of law, but all witnesses shall be sworn. The
respondent may be represented by counsel and may present evidence. All parties
may cross-examine adverse witnesses. At the conclusion of the hearing, the
Council shall make findings of fact, state its conclusions and enter an
appropriate order. The Council’s findings of fact, conclusion and order shall
be reduced to writing and a copy sent by mail or delivered to the respondent
within three days following the hearing.
(Prior Code, § 11-40)
   (F)   Order. If the Council concludes that a situation or condition exists
that is dangerous or prejudicial to the public health or safety, it may:
      (1)   Order appropriate town officials or employees to summarily remove,
abate or remedy everything so found and to assess the cost of this action
against the respondent in accordance with division (C) above; or
      (2)   Order the respondent to correct the situation within a specified
time period and order town officials to abate, correct or remedy the offending
condition if the respondent falls to act within the prescribed time limits.
(Prior Code, § 11-41)
   (G)   Storage and collection practices.
      (1)   The failure to comply with §
50.36 of this chapter shall result in the following:
         (a)   First violation. The Public Works Director or his or her
designee shall notify the property owner/occupier in the form of a pre-printed
sticker that he or she is in violation of §
50.36 of this chapter. The sticker shall be placed on the top of the property
owner’s garbage receptacle. The portion of the policy that has been violated
shall be identified on the sticker. This sticker shall advise the property
owner/occupier that a subsequent violation will result in a $5 penalty, which
shall be added to his or her next water and/or sewer invoice.
         (b)   Second violation. The Public Works Director or his or her
designee shall notify the property owner/occupier in the form of a pre-printed
sticker that he or she is in violation of §
50.36 of this chapter. The sticker shall be placed on the top of the property
owner’s garbage receptacle. The portion of the policy that has been violated
shall be identified on the sticker. This sticker shall advise the property
owner/occupier that a $5 penalty has been added to his or her water and/or
sewer invoice.
         (c)   Subsequent violations. The Public Works Director or his or her
designee shall notify the property owner/occupier in the form of a pre-printed
sticker that he or she is in violation of §
50.36 of this chapter. The sticker shall be placed on the top of the property
owner’s garbage receptacle. The portion of the policy that has been violated
shall be identified on the sticker. This sticker shall advise the property
owner/occupier that a $5 per week penalty has been added to his or her water
and/or sewer invoice and will continue until such time as the property owner/
occupier is in compliance with §
50.36 of this chapter.
      (2)   The Public Works Director or his or her designee shall be
responsible for ensuring compliance with and enforcement of §
50.36 of this chapter. The Public Works Director shall be responsible for
advising the Finance Officer of any violations of this division (G), as well as
the number of occasions on which a property owner/occupier has been cited since
the previous water and/or sewer invoice was delivered. The Finance Officer
shall provide penalty(ies) assessed and the names of property owner(s)/occupier
(s) in violation of this division (G) to the Town Clerk at least 24 hours prior
to the printing of regular water and/or sewer invoices. Any violations not
provided within 24 hours prior to the printing of regular water and/or sewer
invoices shall be added to the next water and/or sewer invoice.
   (H)   Penalty for §
50.02. Any person violating §
50.02 of this chapter shall be subject to §
10.99.
(Ord. passed 12-6-2011; Ord. passed 2-7-2012)
CHAPTER 51:  UTILITY USE
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Definition
   
51.02   Water rates, deposits, charges
   
51.03   Sewer rates
   
51.04   Billing
   
51.05   Collection
   
51.06   Meter accuracy and test rates
   
51.07   Severability
   
51.08   Conflict
   
51.09   Effective date
Water System
   
51.20   Control authority
   
51.21   Use of town water
   
51.22   Private water supplies
   
51.23   Access to property
   
51.24   Performance of work generally
   
51.25   Unauthorized tampering prohibited
   
51.26   Connections
Collection System; Wastewater System
   
51.40   Purpose and policy
   
51.41   Definitions and abbreviations
   
51.42   Use of public sewers required
   
51.43   Use of private sewage disposal systems
   
51.44   Protection from damages
   
51.45   Connection specifications and restrictions
   
51.46   Separate connections required
   
51.47   Connections outside town
   
51.48   Maintenance and repair of connections
   
51.49   Prohibited discharge standards
   
51.50   National categorical pretreatment standards
   
51.51   Local limits
   
51.52   State requirements
   
51.53   Right of revision
   
51.54   Dilution
   
51.55   Pretreatment of wastewater
   
51.56   Accidental discharge/slug control plans
   
51.57   Hauled wastewater
   
51.58   Interlocal sewer agreement
   
51.59   Fees
   
51.60   Wastewater discharge permit application and issuance
   
51.61   Reporting requirements
   
51.62   Compliance monitoring
   
51.63   Confidential information
 
   
51.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   UTILITY. The town’s water supply service, sewage disposal service and
sanitation (solid waste collection and disposal) service, or any combination of
such services.
(Ord. 2007-13, passed 11-6-2012)
§ 51.02  WATER RATES, DEPOSITS, CHARGES.
   Water rates, deposits, connection and reconnection charges shall be
determined from time to time by the Council and shall be kept on file in the
office of the Clerk.
(Ord. 2007-13, passed 11-6-2012)
§ 51.03  SEWER RATES.
   (A)   A sewer charge of a percentage of the monthly water consumption, fixed
by the Council, shall be made to cover cost of maintaining the POTW.
   (B)   Any person who can show proof that the monthly water meter reading is
not indicative of the quantity of waste being discharged to the town sewer
system may present this proof to the Council at a regularly scheduled meeting.
If, after examination of the evidence, the Council is satisfied as to its
validity, suitable adjustment may be made in computing the sewer charge and/or
surcharge. The burden of proof shall rest on the person receiving the bill.
(Ord. 2007-13, passed 11-6-2012)
§ 51.04  BILLING.
   (A)   Person responsible for payment.
      (1)   Utility charges, rents, fees, rates and penalties connected
therewith shall be the legal obligation of the property owner only when:
         (a)   The owner is also the tenant; or
         (b)   The property or premises is leased or rented to more than one
tenant and services rendered to more than one tenant are measured by the same
meter.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (A)(1) above, water, sewer and/or
sanitation charges, rents, fees, rates and penalties shall be the legal
obligation of the person contracting for such services.
   (B)   Multiple meter users.
      (1)   Multiple minimums. Two or more commercial or industrial units or
residential dwelling units, including, but not limited to, multi-family houses,
apartments, duplexes and mobile homes, receiving water through the same water
meter shall pay, if separate meters are not installed, the minimum utility bill
for water, sewer and sanitation service, as applicable, for each unit being
served through the meter. Any water usage exceeding the total minimum usage for
the number of units served by one meter shall be charged in accordance with
approved water and sewer rate schedules.
      (2)   Reduction of minimum number. Once established the number of utility
minimums to be paid for any water meter shall not be reduced until the property
owner notifies the Director of Finance in writing for the reduction.
      (3)   Increase of minimum number. The property owner is hereby
responsible for immediately notifying the Director of Finance of any increase
in the number of units being served by any water meter.
      (4)   Mobile home minimum number. The town water meter reader shall
report each month the number of mobile homes connected to or in position to be
connected to the town water system or to a private system which obtains its
water from the town. The number reported by the meter reader if greater than
the number established in this section shall be the number of minimums charged
to the applicable meter.
      (5)   Determination of unit vacancy. The town cannot determine whether or
not a dwelling, commercial or industrial unit has been vacant for some or all
of any utility billing period. Therefore, the number of minimum charged for
each billing period will be equal to the number of active or potential
commercial, industrial or dwelling units served by the water meter in
accordance with this section.
   (C)   Penalties for late payment and non-payment.
      (1)   Due date. Utility bills mailed on or about the first workday of any
month shall be past due and delinquent if not paid by 5:00 p.m. on the
twentieth day of the month. All customers or user accounts past due and
delinquent shall be placed on a list which shall be continually modified to
reflect last payments. Any utility account paid after 5:00 p.m. on the
twentieth day of the month  shall have added to the month’s total due a late
payment fee, in the amount established from time to time by the Council, to
cover the administrative costs of processing the late payment.
      (2)   Cut-off for non-payment. A cut-off list indicating the unpaid
utility accounts shall be delivered to the appropriate public works personnel
approximately 30 days after bills are mailed. Upon receipt, authorized public
works personnel shall immediately begin cutting off all water meters serving
the users listed on the cut-off list.
      (3)   Delinquency fee. Customers paying utility bills on or after the
cut-off day of the month shall also be assessed, in addition to the monthly
total due and the late payment fee, a delinquency fee in the amount established
from time to time by the Council. In the event that a customer’s service is
disconnected for non-payment the customer must pay the current amount due plus
any late fee and delinquency fee prior to service being established.
      (4)   Extensions of due date. The Town Manager may establish policies and
procedures for granting short term, temporary extensions of the utility bill
due date for users to pay the current month’s utility bill because of temporary
unexpected circumstances.
      (5)   Removal and reinstallation of meters. If any utility user or
customer, after having their water meter cut-off by the town cuts on, has his
or her meter cut on or allows his or her meter to be cut on, the water meter
shall be immediately removed. A meter shall not be reinstalled until the entire
amount due is paid, including, but not limited to, unpaid usage charges, late
fee, delinquency fee, tampering fee and installation fee.
      (6)   Severing sewer connections. Failure to pay utility bills in
accordance with this section may result in the disconnection of the individual
sewer collection line or building sewer. If disconnected or severed, the line
or sewer will not be reconnected until the total bill due, fees and penalties
are paid in full. In addition, the user will pay the cost of reconnection
including material and labor in full. Disconnection or severance of lines shall
automatically make the user in violation of §
51.42 of this chapter.
   (D)   Leak adjustments. A customer protesting an unusually high water and
sewer bill due to a leak may claim a hardship if the charges are significantly
higher than their normal average bill, upon providing evidence that repairs
have been made and the system is up to standard. Once approved, the sewer bill
may be reduced by one-third of the current billed usage. The customer must pay
for all water used. Customers are limited to one leak adjustment in a 12 month
period.
   (E)   Pool adjustments. Pool adjustments are limited to one per customer per
12 month period. Customers who have a swimming pool and do not wish to pay
sewer charges when filling the pool have two options:
      (1)   At the customer’s expense, install a dedicated water line connected
to a separate water meter. The line and meter must be pre-approved by town
public works staff and pass inspection prior to being used.
      (2)   Contact public works to schedule a pre and post water meter
reading. The customer meter must be read by public works staff prior to filling
the pool and after filling is complete. This service is only available when
Town Hall is open during normal operating hours Monday through Friday (8:30
a.m. to 4:00 p.m.).
(Ord. 2007-13, passed 11-6-2012; Ord. O-2017-01, passed 7-1-2017)
§ 51.05  COLLECTION.
   No employee of the town, except those employees assigned to the Finance
Department, shall accept any money, check or other negotiable instrument as
payment of any utility bill or utility fee. All fees shall be submitted as
directed on the utility bill.
(Ord. 2007-13, passed 11-6-2012)
§ 51.06  METER ACCURACY AND TEST RATES.
   The town shall test or cause to be tested and make a thorough examination of
water meters and all fixtures where so desired by the customer under the
following conditions.
   (A)   Should the test of meter and inspection prove an excessive bill to be
caused by negligence of the town or inaccuracy of the meter, then the expense
of the investigation shall be borne by the town.
   (B)   Should the test and inspection prove to be the fault of the consumer
or any person not connect with or in the employ of the town, then the actual
cost of the investigation is to be borne by the customer making the protest and
asking for the inspection. The Council shall fix the actual cost.
(Ord. 2007-13, passed 11-6-2012)
§ 51.07  SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision, paragraph, word, section or subchapter of this chapter is
invalidated by any court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining provisions,
paragraphs, words, sections and chapters shall not be affected and shall
continue in full force and effect.
(Ord. 2007-13, passed 11-6-2012)
§ 51.08  CONFLICT.
   All other ordinances and parts of other ordinances inconsistent or
conflicting with any part of this chapter are hereby repealed to the extent of
such inconsistency or conflict.
(Ord. 2007-13, passed 11-6-2012)
§ 51.09  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be in full force and effect as approved by the Town
Council on 11-6-2012.
(Ord. 2007-13, passed 11-6-2012)
WATER SYSTEM
§ 51.20  CONTROL AUTHORITY.
   The water system of the town shall be under the control of the Council and
the duty of prescribing and enforcing full compliance with all rules and
regulations governing all connections with the water system shall be vested in
the Council or its authorized agent. The water system of the town shall be
under the supervision of the Department of Public Works.
(Ord. 2007-13, passed 11-6-2012)
§ 51.21  USE OF TOWN WATER.
   (A)   No person shall take or carry away water from any fire hydrant, public
fountain, plug, street washer or other public place, except for firefighting
purposes, without prior approval of the Town Manager or his or her designee.
   (B)   Any person receiving water in any manner as described above shall
receive the water through a water meter provided by the town and shall pay for
the water received in accordance with the water rates in effect at the time.
(Ord. 2007-13, passed 11-6-2012)
§ 51.22  PRIVATE WATER SUPPLIES.
   (A)   Prohibited use. It shall be unlawful for any person to furnish, supply
or provide any water from a private well or pumps in or to any dwelling house,
boarding house, inn, hotel, café or other commercial establishment, or any room
of the same when the dwelling house or any room therein, is rented, or offered
for rent to the public, or when the boarding house, inn, hotel, café or other
commercial establishment is open to, or used by, the public.
   (B)   Permitted use. Private wells, ponds or other water sources shall be
allowed for irrigation of lawns, yards, gardens and the like. However, no such
private water system shall be in any way connected to any water or sewer system
constituting a part of the town water or sewer system, nor to any private
systems connected in any way to the town systems.
   (C)   Providing water to others. No owner, occupant or agent having access
to or control of a private water system shall sell, give, lease, rent or in any
other manner furnish, supply or provide any water from a private source to any
other person for the purpose of or when used for human consumption.
(Ord. 2007-13, passed 11-6-2012)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.23  ACCESS TO PROPERTY.
   The Director of Public Works or his or her assistant shall, at all
reasonable hours, have free access to all premises, public or private, for the
purpose of examining hydrants, fixtures or connections or for reading or
repairing water meters on which town water pressure is maintained.
(Ord. 2007-13, passed 11-6-2012)
§ 51.24  PERFORMANCE OF WORK GENERALLY.
   All work on the water system and all connections or disconnections thereto
shall be performed by the authorized employees of the town or its authorized
contracts. All work shall be performed in accordance with the Plumbing Code of
the state and the town and such amendments thereto that the Council may from
time to time adopt.
(Ord. 2007-13, passed 11-6-2012)
§ 51.25  UNAUTHORIZED TAMPERING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall touch, tamper with or in any manner manipulate or turn
the cut-offs on the waterlines, mains or appurtenances forming a part of the
water system of the town, nor shall any person tamper with or harm in any
manner whatsoever any water line, main or any appurtenance thereto. No person
other than authorized town employees shall throw or deposit any material or
substance into any waterline, main or appurtenance thereto.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person other than a person authorized by
town officials to cut off or cut on the town supply of water.
(Ord. 2007-13, passed 11-6-2012)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.26  CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Connection requirement. All owners of improved property located within
the corporate limits and upon or within a reasonable distance of any waterline
owned and operated by the town shall connect their premises with the town water
system.
   (B)   Water permit. No person shall be connected with the water system of
the town until he or she shall have made application for permission to be so
connected in writing to the Clerk. This application shall not be approved until
the plans and specifications for the construction, reconstruction, alteration,
repair, maintenance or modification of the house, building or structure have
been approved by the Building Inspector and a building permit has been issued.
When a building permit is not required, the application shall not be issued
until approved by the Director of Public Works or the Town Plumbing Inspector.
   (C)   Separate connection and meter required for each unit. Each residential
dwelling unit whether of single or multiple occupancy, commercial establishment
or unit and industrial activity or unit that receives water from the town
system shall have installed a separate water connection and water meter.
   (D)   Inspection.
      (1)   The Director of Public Works or Plumbing Inspector shall not
approve the application as specified in division (B) above until he or she has
entered upon the property to be served by the requested connection and has made
sure by physical inspection that the connection will not contaminate the town’s
water system or any part thereof, that the property has an adequate sewerage
disposal system which will not create a nuisance or health hazard to any
person, and that the property owner or occupant is aware of any improvements in
the water or sewer system of the house, building or structure that should be
made before connecting to the town water system.
      (2)   Upon the exercise of reasonable effort and diligence by the
Director of Public Works or Plumbing Inspector in performing those duties
required of him or her under this section, neither the Director of Public
Works, the Plumbing Inspector, nor the town shall have or assume any liability
for any inconvenience, damage or other occurrence after connection is made to
the town’s water system.
   (E)   Specifications. The town shall extend any individual water service
connection pipe from the applicable water main or line to a water meter
enclosed in an acceptable meter box or container located within the public
right-of-way but near the boundary of the right-of-way. The property owner or
his or her authorized and licensed plumber shall construct, extend, maintain,
repair or modify the water service connection pipe from the out flow end of the
meter across private property and into the dwelling unit, building or structure
in accordance with town specifications, requirements, codes and designs
therefore. Existing water meters located on private property shall be removed
from the private property and reinstalled on the public right-of-way as
opportunity permits.
(Ord. 2007-13, passed 11-6-2012)
COLLECTION SYSTEM; WASTEWATER SYSTEM
§ 51.40  PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   (A)   This subchapter sets forth uniform requirements for direct and
indirect contributors into the wastewater collection and treatment system for
the town, hereafter referred to as the town, and enables the town to comply
with all applicable state and federal laws, including the Clean Water Act (33
U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.) and the general pretreatment regulations (40 C.F.R.
part 403).
   (B)   The objectives of this subchapter are:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants and wastewater discharges
into the municipal wastewater system which will interfere with the operation of
the system or contaminate the resulting sludge;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants and wastewater discharges
into the municipal wastewater system which will pass through the system,
inadequately treated, into any waters of the state or otherwise be incompatible
with the system;
      (3)   To promote reuse and recycling of industrial wastewater and sludges
from the municipal system;
      (4)   To protect both municipal personnel who may be affected by sewage,
sludge and effluent in the course of their employment as well as protecting the
general public;
      (5)   To provide for equitable distribution of the cost of operation,
maintenance and improvement of the municipal wastewater system; and
      (6)   To ensure that the municipality complies with its NPDES or non-
discharge permit conditions, sludge use and disposal requirements and any other
federal or state laws to which the municipal wastewater system is subject.
   (C)   This subchapter provides for the regulation of direct and indirect
contributors to the municipal wastewater system, through the issuance of
permits to certain non-domestic users and through enforcement of general
requirements for the other users, authorizes monitoring and enforcement
activities, requires user reporting and provides for the setting of fees for
the equitable distribution of costs resulting from the program established
herein.
   (D)   This subchapter shall apply to all users of the municipal wastewater
system as authorized by G.S. §§ 160A-312 and/or 153A-275. The town shall
designate an administrator of the publicly owned treatment works or POTW and
pretreatment program hereafter referred to as the POTW Director. Except as
otherwise provided herein, the POTW Director shall administer, implement and
enforce the provisions of this subchapter. Any powers granted to or imposed
upon the POTW Director may be delegated by the POTW Director to other town
personnel. By discharging wastewater into the municipal wastewater system,
industrial users located inside or outside the town limits agree to comply with
the terms and conditions established in this chapter, as well as any permits,
enforcement actions or orders issued hereunder. This includes all industrial
users discharging in the wastewater collection system owned by any satellite
POTW.
(Ord. 2007-13, passed 11-6-2012)
§ 51.41  DEFINITIONS AND ABBREVIATIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACT or THE ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as
the Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
      APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The Director of the Division of Water Quality of the
North Carolina Department of Environment and Natural Resources or his or her
designee.
      AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE INDUSTRIAL USER.
         (a)   If the industrial user is a corporation, AUTHORIZED
REPRESENTATIVE shall mean:
            1.   The president, secretary or a vice-president of the
corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who
performs similar policy or decision-making functions for the corporation; or
            2.   The manager of one or more manufacturing, production or
operation facilities, provided, the manager is authorized to make management
decisions which govern the operation of the regulated facility including having
the explicit or implicit duty of making major capital investment
recommendations, and initiate and direct comprehensive measures to assure long-
term environmental compliance with environmental laws and regulations; can
ensure that the necessary systems are established or actions taken to gather
complete and accurate information for control mechanism requirements; and where
authority to sign documents has been assigned or delegated to the manager in
accordance with corporate procedures.
         (b)   If the industrial user is a partnership or sole proprietorship,
an AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE shall mean a general partner or the proprietor,
respectively.
         (c)   If the industrial user is a federal, state or local government
facility, an AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE shall mean a director or highest
official appointed or designated to oversee the operation and performance of
the activities of the government facility, or their designee.
         (d)   The individuals described in divisions (a) through (c) above may
designate another authorized representative if the authorization is in writing,
the authorization specifies the individual or position responsible for the
overall operation of the facility from which the discharge originates or having
overall responsibility for environmental matters for the company, and the
written authorization is submitted to the town.
         (e)   If the designation of an AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE is no longer
accurate because a different individual or position has responsibility for the
overall operation of the facility, or overall responsibility for environmental
matters for the company, a new authorization satisfying the requirements of
this section must be submitted to POTW Director prior to or together with any
reports to be signed by an AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE.
      BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures
for five days at 20°C, usually expressed as a concentration (e.g., mg/l).
      BUILDING SEWER. A sewer conveying wastewater from the premises of a user
to the POTW.
      BYPASS. The intentional diversion of wastestreams from any portion of a
user’s treatment facility.
      CATEGORICAL STANDARDS. National categorical pretreatment standards or
pretreatment standard.
      CONTROL AUTHORITY. Refers to the POTW organization if the POTW
organization’s pretreatment program approval has not been withdrawn.
      ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY or EPA. The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency, or where appropriate the term may also be used as a designation for the
Administrator or other duly authorized official of said agency.
      GRAB SAMPLE. A sample which is taken from a waste stream on a one-time
basis without regard to the flow in the waste stream and over a period of time
not to exceed 15 minutes.
      HOLDING TANK WASTE. Any waste from holding tanks, including, but not
limited to, such holding tanks as vessels, chemical toilets, campers, trailers,
septic tanks and vacuum-pump tank trucks.
      INDIRECT DISCHARGE or DISCHARGE. The discharge or the introduction from
any non-domestic source regulated under § 307(b), (c) or (d) of the Act, (33
U.S.C. § 1317), into the POTW (including holding tank waste discharged into the
system).
      INDUSTRIAL USER or USER. Any person which is a source of indirect
discharge.
      INTERFERENCE. The inhibition, or disruption of the POTW collection
system, treatment processes, operations or its sludge process, use or disposal,
which causes or contributes to a violation of any requirement of the control
authority’s (and/or POTWs, if different from the control authority) NPDES,
collection system or non-discharge permit or prevents sewage sludge use or
disposal in compliance with specified applicable state and federal statutes,
regulations or permits. The term includes prevention of sewage sludge use or
disposal by the POTW in accordance with § 405 of the Act, (33 U.S.C. § 1345) or
any criteria, guidelines or regulations developed pursuant to the Solid Waste
Disposal Act (SWDA) (42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.) the Clean Air Act, the Toxic
Substances Control Act, the Marine Protection Research and Sanctuary Act
(MPRSA) or more stringent state criteria (including those contained in any
state sludge management plan prepared pursuant to Title IV of SWDA) applicable
to the method of disposal or use employed by the POTW.
      MEDICAL WASTE. Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and blood
products, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding,
surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes and dialysis
wastes.
      NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD or CATEGORICAL STANDARD. Any
regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in
accordance with § 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1317) which applies to
a specific category of industrial users, and which appears in 40 C.F.R. Ch. 1,
Subch. N, parts 405 through 471.
      NATIONAL POLLUTION DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM PERMIT or NPDES PERMIT. A
permit issued pursuant to § 402 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1342), or pursuant to
G.S. § 143-215.1 by the state under delegation from EPA.
      NATIONAL PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE STANDARD or PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE
STANDARD. Absolute prohibitions against the discharge of certain substances;
these prohibitions appear in §
51.21 of this chapter and are developed under the authority of § 307(b) of the
Act and 40 C.F.R. § 403.5.
      NEW SOURCE.
         (a)   Any building, structure, facility or installation from which
there may be a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced
after the publication of proposed categorical pretreatment standards under §
307(c) of the Act which will be applicable to such source if such standards are
thereafter promulgated in accordance with § 307(c); provided that:
            1.   The building, structure, facility or installation is
constructed at a site at which no other source is located;
            2.   The building, structure, facility or installation totally
replaces the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of
pollutants at an existing source; or
            3.   The production or wastewater generating processes of the
building, structure, facility or installation are substantially independent of
an existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are
substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source, should
be considered.
         (b)   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located
results in a modification rather than a new source if the construction does not
create a new building, structure, facility or installation meeting the criteria
of divisions (a)1. or (a)2. above, but otherwise alters, replaces or adds to
existing process or production equipment.
         (c)   For purposes of this definition, construction of a NEW SOURCE
has commenced if the owner or operator has:
            1.   Begun, or caused to begin, as part of a continuous on-site
construction program:
               a.   Any placement, assembly or installation of facilities or
equipment; or
               b.   Significant site preparation work including clearing,
excavation or removal of existing buildings, structures or facilities which is
necessary for the placement, assembly or installation of new source facilities
or equipment.
            2.   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase
of facilities or equipment which are intended to be used in its operation
within a reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts which can be
terminated or modified without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility,
engineering and design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation under
this definition.
      NON-CONTACT COOLING WATER. Water used for cooling which does not come
into direct contact with any raw material, intermediate product, waste product
or finished product.
      NON-DISCHARGE PERMIT. A permit issued by the state pursuant to G.S. §
143-215.1(d) for a waste which is not discharged directly to surface waters of
the state or for a wastewater treatment works which does not discharge directly
to surface waters of the state.
      PASS THROUGH. A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the state
in quantities or concentrations which, alone or with discharges from other
sources, causes a violation, including an increase in the magnitude or duration
of a violation, of the control authority’s (and/or POTWs, if different from the
control authority) NPDES, collection system or non-discharge permit or a
downstream water quality standard even if not included in the permit.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity or any other legal entity, or their legal representatives, agents or
assigns. This definition includes all federal, state and local government
entities.
      pH. A measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a substance, expressed as
standard units, and calculated as the logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of
the concentration of hydrogen ions expressed in grams per liter of solution.
      POLLUTANT. Any “waste”, as defined in G.S. § 143-213(18), and dredged
spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage, garbage, sewage sludge,
munitions, medical wastes, chemical wastes, biological materials, radioactive
materials, heat, wrecked or discarded equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt and
industrial, municipal and agricultural waste and certain characteristics of
wastewater (e.g., pH, temperature, TSS, turbidity, color, metals, BOD, COD,
toxicity and odor).
      POTW DIRECTOR. The Town of Stoneville, Town Manager.
      POTW TREATMENT PLANT. The portion of the POTW designed to provide
treatment to wastewater.
      PRETREATMENT or TREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the
elimination of pollutants or the alteration of the nature of pollutant
properties in wastewater prior to or in lieu of discharging or otherwise
introducing such pollution into a POTW collection system and/or treatment
plant. The reduction or alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical or
biological processes, or process changes or other means, except by diluting the
concentration of the pollutants unless allowed by an applicable pretreatment
standard.
      PRETREATMENT PROGRAM. The program for the control of pollutants
introduced into the POTW from non-domestic sources which was developed by the
town in compliance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.8 and approved by the approval
authority as authorized by G.S. § 143-215.3(a)(14) in accordance with 40 C.F.R.
§ 403.11.
      PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement
related to pretreatment, other than a pretreatment standard.
      PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. Prohibited discharge standards, categorical
standards or local limit which applies to an industrial user.
      PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW) or MUNICIPAL WASTEWATER SYSTEM. A
treatment works as defined by § 212 of the Act, (33 U.S.C. § 1292) which is
owned in this instance by the town. This definition includes any devices or
systems used in the collection, storage, treatment, recycling and reclamation
of municipal sewage or industrial wastes of a liquid nature. It also includes
sewers, pipes and other conveyances only if they convey wastewater to the POTW
treatment plant. For the purposes of this subchapter, POTW shall also include
any sewers that convey wastewaters to the POTW from persons outside the town
who are, by contract or agreement with the town, or in any other way, users of
the town’s POTW.
      SATELLITE POTW. City, town or entity which the Town of Stoneville has
agreed to receive and treat their wastewater.
      SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE. Substantial physical damage to property, damage
to the user’s treatment facilities which causes them to become inoperable or
substantial and permanent loss of natural resources which can reasonably be
expected to occur in the absence of a bypass. SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE does not
mean economic loss caused by delays in production.
      SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER or SIU. An industrial user that discharges
wastewater into a publicly owned treatment works and that:
         (a)   Discharges an average of 25,000 gallons per day or more of
process wastewater to the POTW (excluding sanitary, non-contact cooling and
boiler blowdown wastewaters);
         (b)   Contributes process wastewater which makes up 5% or more of the
NPDES or non-discharge permitted flow limit or 5% or more of the maximum
allowable headworks loading of the POTW treatment plant for any POTW pollutant
of concern;
         (c)   Is subject to categorical pretreatment standards under 40 C.F.R.
§ 403.6 and 40 C.F.R. Ch. I, Subch. N, parts 405 through 471;
         (d)   Is designated as such by the control authority, the Division of
Water Quality or the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) on the basis
that the industrial user has a reasonable potential, either singly or in
combination with other contributing industrial users, for adversely affecting
the POTW’s operation, or for violating any pretreatment standard or
requirement, or for contributing to violations of the POTW’s effluent
limitations and conditions in its NPDES or non-discharge permit, or for
contributing to violations of the POTW’s receiving stream standard or for
limiting the POTW’s sludge disposal options;
         (e)   Subject to Division approval under 15A NCAC 02H .0907(b), the
control authority may determine that an industrial user meeting the criteria in
divisions (a) and (b) above has no reasonable potential for adversely affecting
the POTW’s operation or for violating any pretreatment standards or
requirement, or for contributing to violations of the POTW’s effluent
limitations and conditions in its NPDES or non-discharge permit, or for
contributing to violations of the POTW’s receiving stream standard, or for
limiting the POTW’s sludge disposal options, and thus is not a SIGNIFICANT
INDUSTRIAL USER;
         (f)   Subject to Division approval under 15A NCAC 02H .0907(b), the
control authority may determine that an industrial user meeting the criteria
herein meets the requirements of 40 C.F.R. § 403.3(v)(2) and thus is a non-
significant categorical industrial user; or
         (g)   Subject to Division approval under 15A NCAC 02H .0907(b), the
control authority may determine that an industrial user meeting the criteria
herein meets the requirements of 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(e)(3) and thus is a middle
tier significant industrial user. Sampling and inspection requirements may be
cut in half as per 40 C.F.R. §§ 403.8(f)(2)(v)(C) and 403.12(e)(3).
      SIGNIFICANT NON-COMPLIANCE or SNC. The status of non-compliance of a
significant industrial user or any industrial user which meets the criteria
herein when one or more of the following criteria are met.
         (a)   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here
as those in which 66% or more of all the measurements taken for the same
pollutant parameter (not including flow) during a six-month period exceed (by
any magnitude) a numeric pretreatment standard or requirement including
instantaneous limits, as defined by 40 C.F.R. § 403.3(1);
         (b)   Technical review criteria (TRC) violations, defined here as
those in which 33% or more of all the measurements taken for the same pollutant
parameter during a six-month period equal or exceed the product of the numeric
pretreatment standard or requirement including instantaneous limits, as defined
by 40 C.F.R. § 403.3(1) multiplied by the applicable TRC; (TRC = 1.4 for BOD,
TSS, fats, oil and grease, 1.2 for all other pollutants (except flow and pH));
         (c)   Any other violation of a pretreatment standard or requirement as
defined by 40 C.F.R. § 403.3(1) (daily maximum, long-term average,
instantaneous limit or narrative standard) that the control authority and/or
POTW determines has caused, alone or in combination with other discharges,
interference or pass through (including endangering the health of POTW
personnel or the general public);
         (d)   Any discharge of a pollutant or wastewater that has caused
imminent endangerment to human health, welfare or to the environment or has
resulted in either the control authority’s or the POTWs, if different from the
control authority, exercise of its emergency authority under 40 C.F.R. § 403.8
(f)(l)(vi)(B) and §
51.99(A) of this chapter to halt or prevent such a discharge;
         (e)   Violations of compliance schedule milestones, contained in a
pretreatment permit or enforcement order, for starting construction, completing
construction and attaining final compliance by 90 days or more after the
schedule date;
         (f)   Failure to provide reports for compliance schedule, self-
monitoring data, baseline monitoring reports, 90-day compliance reports and
periodic compliance reports within 30 days from the due date;
         (g)   Failure to accurately report non-compliance; and
         (h)   Any other violation or group of violations that the control
authority and/or POTW determines will adversely affect the operation or
implementation of the local pretreatment program.
      SLUG LOAD OR DISCHARGE. Any discharge at a flow rate or concentration
which has a reasonable potential to cause interference or pass-through, or in
any other way violates the POTW’
51.49 of this chapter.
      STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC). A classification pursuant to
the Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the Executive Office of
the President, Office of Management and Budget, 1987.
      STORM WATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting therefrom.
      SUPERINTENDENT. The person designated by the town to supervise the
operation of the publicly owned treatment works and who is charged with certain
duties and responsibilities by this chapter or his or her duly authorized
representative.
      SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The total suspended matter that floats on the surface
of, or is suspended in, water, wastewater or other liquids, and which is
removable by laboratory filtering.
      UPSET. An exceptional incident in which there is unintentional and
temporary non-compliance with categorical pretreatment standards because of
factors beyond the reasonable control of the user. An upset does not include
non-compliance to the extent caused by operational error, improperly designed
treatment facilities, inadequate treatment facilities lack of preventive
maintenance or careless or improper operation.
      WASTEWATER. The liquid and water-carried industrial or domestic wastes
from dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities, mobile sources,
treatment facilities and institutions, together with any ground water, surface
water and storm water that may be present, whether treated or untreated, which
are contributed into or permitted to enter the POTW.
      WASTEWATER PERMIT. As set forth in §
51.60(B) of this chapter.
      WATERS OF THE STATE. All streams, rivers, brooks, swamps, sounds, tidal
estuaries, bays, creeks, lakes, waterways, reservoirs and all other bodies or
accumulations of water, surface or underground, natural or artificial, public
or private, which are contained within, flow through or border upon the state
or any portion thereof.
   (B)   This chapter is gender neutral and the masculine gender shall include
the feminine and vice-versa. “Shall” is mandatory; “may” is permissive or
discretionary. The use of the singular shall be construed to include the plural
and the plural shall include the singular as indicated by the context of its
use.
   (C)   The following abbreviations when used in this subchapter, shall have
the designated meanings.
      BOD. Biochemical oxygen demand.
      C.F.R. Code of Federal Regulations.
      COD. Chemical oxygen demand.
      EPA. Environmental Protection Agency.
      gpd. Gallons per day.
      G.S. North Carolina General Statutes.
      l. Liter.
      mg. Milligrams.
      mg/l. Milligrams per liter.
      NPDES. National Pollution Discharge Elimination System.
      O&M. Operation and maintenance.
      POTW. Publicly-owned treatment works.
      RCRA. Resource Conservation and Recovery Act.
      SIC. Standard Industrial Classification.
      SWDA. Solid Waste Disposal Act.
      TSS. Total suspended solids.
      TKN. Total kjeldahl nitrogen.
      U.S.C. United States Code.
(Ord. 2007-13, passed 11-6-2012)
§ 51.42  USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
town or in any area under the jurisdiction of the town any human or animal
excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
town or in any area under the jurisdiction of the town any wastewater or other
polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with this subchapter and with regulations of the Division Water
Quality.
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of wastewater.
   (D)   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the town
and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located
or may in the future be located a public sanitary sewer of the town, is hereby
required at the owner’s expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein,
and to connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer in
accordance with the provisions of this subchapter, within 90 days after date of
official notice to do so; provided that, the public sewer is within 150 feet of
the property line or the owner or tenant will be assessed a monthly access fee
equal to the minimum monthly sewer charge.
(Ord. 2007-13, passed 11-6-2012)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.43  USE OF PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available, the building sewer
shall be connected to a private wastewater disposal system complying with
applicable state stands. Before commencement of construction of a private water
disposal system, the owner shall first obtain a written approval of the state
acting through the County Health Department. The type, capacities, location and
layout of a private wastewater disposal system shall comply with all
recommendations of the Department of Public Health and Division of Water
Quality. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any
natural outlet. The owner shall operate and maintain the private wastewater
disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the
town.
   (B)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private wastewater disposal system a direct connection shall be made to
the public sewer within 60 days. Under unusual and/or special circumstances,
the town may extend the time of compliance or waive the requirement.
(Ord. 2007-13, passed 11-6-2012)
§ 51.44  PROTECTION FROM DAMAGES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to damage, tamper with or
otherwise do harm to the mains, pipes, manholes, apparatus or other parts of
the sanitary sewer system, or to place or cause to be placed any object of any
nature whatsoever into the system that blocks or obstructs or impedes the
normal flow in the sewer system.
   (B)   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently
break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any equipment or
materials, belonging to the town, used for the purpose of making tests or
examinations and left upon the premises of a person discharging wastes into the
sewers.
(Ord. 2007-13, passed 11-6-2012)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.45  CONNECTION SPECIFICATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Authorized employees of the town in accordance with specifications
shall make all connections to the sanitary sewer system for such connection
that may be adopted by the town. If authorized by the Town Council, connections
may be made by plumbers licensed to perform plumbing work in the town. All
construction shall be in conformity with the State Plumbing and Building Codes,
as amended. The approving authority shall inspect any sewer connection made by
an authorized licensed plumber after such work has been completed and prior to
the time such connection is covered.
   (B)   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, foundation drains,
areaway drains or other sources of infiltration/inflow to a building sewer or
building drain which in turn is connected directly or indirectly to a public
sanitary sewer.
(Ord. 2007-13, passed 11-6-2012)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.46  SEPARATE CONNECTIONS REQUIRED.
   Each separate dwelling, structure, business or other building shall have a
separate connection to the system; provided, however, that, apartments or other
multi-use or occupancy buildings may have one combined connection within the
discretion of the town.
(Ord. 2007-13, passed 11-6-2012)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.47  CONNECTIONS OUTSIDE TOWN.
   Any person owning or controlling premises beyond the corporate limits of the
town and desiring to install a plumbing system for the purpose of discharging
domestic and/or industrial waste into the sanitary sewers of the town may do so
by complying with the requirements of the town shall be the responsibility of
the property owner and shall be done under the general supervision of the
Public Works Director of the town.
(Ord. 2007-13, passed 11-6-2012)
§ 51.48  MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR OF CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Whenever any service to any building or premises becomes clogged,
broken, out of order or in any condition detrimental to the use of the sewer
service, the owner, agent or occupant having charge of such building or
premises shall be held responsible for the immediate renewal or repair of the
sewer service necessary to maintain an uninterrupted sanitary disposal system.
   (B)   Renewal or repair of sewer service from the main to the property line
shall be made at the expense of the town by authorized personnel only from the
property line to source of discharge the responsibility of the property line.
(Ord. 2007-13, passed 11-6-2012)
§ 51.49  PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS.
   (A)   General prohibitions.
      (1)   No user shall contribute or cause to be contributed into the POTW,
directly or indirectly, any pollutant or wastewater which causes interference
or pass through.
      (2)   These general prohibitions apply to all users of a POTW whether or
not the user is a significant industrial user or subject to any national, state
or local pretreatment standards or requirements.
   (B)   Specific prohibitions. No user shall contribute or cause to be
contributed into the POTW the following pollutants, substances or wastewater:
      (1)   Pollutants which create a fire or explosive hazard in the POTW,
including, but not limited to, wastestreams with a closed cup flashpoint of
less than 140°F (60°C) using the test methods specified in 40 C.F.R. § 261.21;
      (2)   Solid or viscous substances in amounts which will cause obstruction
of the flow in the POTW resulting in interference but in no case solids greater
than one-half inch in any dimension (including wood, glass, ashes, sand cinders
and non-shredded garbage and the like);
      (3)   Petroleum oil, non-biodegradable cutting oil or products of mineral
oil origin, in amounts that will cause interference or pass through;
      (4)   Any wastewater having a pH less than 5.0 or more than 9.0 or
wastewater having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage to the
POTW or equipment;
      (5)   Any wastewater containing pollutants, including oxygen-demanding
pollutants (BOD and the like) in sufficient quantity, (flow or concentration)
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to cause interference
with the POTW;
      (6)   Any wastewater having a temperature greater than 150°F (66°C), or
which will inhibit biological activity in the POTW treatment plant resulting in
interference, but in no case wastewater which causes the temperature at the
introduction into the treatment plant to exceed 104°F (40°C);
      (7)   Any pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors
or fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems;
      (8)   Any trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points
designated by the POTW Director in accordance with §
51.57 of this chapter;
      (9)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases or solids or other
wastewater which, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are
sufficient to create a public nuisance or hazard to life or are sufficient to
prevent entry into the sewers for maintenance and repair;
      (10)   Any substance which may cause the POTW’s effluent or any other
product of the POTW such as residues, sludges or scums, to be unsuitable for
reclamation and reuse or to interfere with the reclamation process. In no case,
shall a substance discharged to the POTW cause the POTW to be in non-compliance
with sludge use or disposal regulations or permits issued under § 405 of the
Act; the Solid Waste Disposal Act, the Clean Air Act, the Toxic Substances
Control Act or state criteria applicable to the sludge management method being
used;
      (11)   Any wastewater which imparts color which cannot be removed by the
treatment process, including, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions, which consequently imparts sufficient color to the treatment
plant’s effluent to render the waters injurious to public health or secondary
recreation or to aquatic life and wildlife or to adversely affect the
palatibility of fish or aesthetic quality or impair the receiving waters for
any designated uses or which causes a violation of the town’s state or federal
wastewater permit(s);
      (12)   Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes,
except as specifically approved by the POTW Director in compliance with
applicable state or federal regulations;
      (13)   Storm water, surface water, ground water, arterisan well water,
roof runoff, subsurface drainage, swimming pool drainage, condensate, deionized
water, non-contact cooling water and unpolluted industrial wastewater, unless
specifically authorized by the POTW Director;
      (14)   Any wastewater containing more than 100 mg/l of total fats, wax,
grease, oils, whether emulsified or not, or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at a temperature between 32°F and 160°F (0°C and
71°C) unless authorized by the POTW Director. The use of chemical or biological
agents, physical methods, or any other means to dissolve, liquefy, suspend,
disperse, emulsify, entrain or otherwise cause any oil, grease or other similar
material to flow through the sewer collection system is prohibited;
      (15)   Any sludges, screenings or other residues from the pretreatment of
industrial wastes;
      (16)   Any medical wastes, except as specifically authorized by the POTW
Director in a wastewater discharge permit;
      (17)   Any material containing ammonia, ammonia salts or other chelating
agents which will produce metallic complexes that interfere with the municipal
wastewater system;
      (18)   Any material that would be identified as hazardous waste according
to 40 C.F.R. part 261 if not disposed of in a sewer except as may be
specifically authorized by the POTW Director;
      (19)   Any wastewater causing the treatment plant effluent to violate
State Water Quality Standards for toxic substances as described in 15A NCAC 2B
.0200;
      (20)   Wastewater causing, alone or in conjunction with other sources,
the treatment plant’s effluent to fail a toxicity test;
      (21)   Recognizable portions of the human or animal anatomy;
      (22)   Any wastes containing detergents, surface active agents or other
substances which may cause excessive foaming in the municipal wastewater
system;
      (23)   Any wastes causing two successive readings on an explosion hazard
meter, at the point of discharge into the system (or at any point in the
system) of more than 5%, nor any single reading over 10% of the lower explosive
limit (LEL) of the meter;
      (24)   At no time shall any sanitary wastewater be discharged or allowed
to be discharged into the storm sewer system without exception; and
      (25)   At no time shall any ground paper products be discharged or
allowed to be discharged into the sewer system. The POTW Director may require a
grinder to be installed as necessary for the proper handling of excessive
amounts of trash, rags and the like in a discharge.
   (C)   Processing, storage.
      (1)   Pollutants, substances, wastewater or other wastes prohibited by
this section shall not be processed or stored in such a manner that they could
be discharged to the municipal wastewater system. All floor drains located in
process or materials storage areas must discharge to the industrial user’s
pretreatment facility before connecting with the system.
      (2)   When the POTW Director determines that a user(s) is contributing to
the POTW, any of the above-enumerated substances in such amounts which may
cause or contribute to interference of POTW operation or pass through, the POTW
Director shall:
         (a)   Advise the user(s) of the potential impact of the contribution
on the POTW in accordance with §
51.99(A) of this chapter; and
         (b)   Take appropriate actions in accordance with §
51.60 of this chapter for such user to protect the POTW from interference or
pass through.
(Ord. 2007-13, passed 11-6-2012)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.50  NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   Users subject to categorical pretreatment standards are required to comply
with applicable standards as set out in 40 C.F.R. Ch. 1, Subch. N, parts 405
through 471 and incorporated herein.
   (A)   Where a categorical pretreatment standard is expressed only in terms
of either the mass or the concentration of a pollutant in wastewater, the POTW
Director may impose equivalent concentration or mass limits in accordance with
40 C.F.R. § 403.6(c).
   (B)   When wastewater subject to a categorical pretreatment standard is
mixed with wastewater not regulated by the same standard, the POTW Director
shall impose an alternate limit using the combined wastestream formula in 40
C.F.R. § 403.6(e).
   (C)   A user may obtain a variance from a categorical pretreatment standard
if the user can prove, pursuant to the procedural and substantive provisions in
40 C.F.R. § 403.13, that factors relating to its discharge are fundamentally
different from the factors considered by EPA when developing the categorical
pretreatment standard.
   (D)   A user may obtain a net gross adjustment to a categorical standard in
accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.15.
(Ord. 2007-13, passed 11-6-2012)
§ 51.51  LOCAL LIMITS.
   (A)   An industrial waste survey is required prior to a user discharging
wastewater containing in excess of the following average discharge limits:
250 mg/l    BOD
250 mg/l    TSS
40 mg/l     TKN
0.003 mg/l  arsenic
0.003 mg/l  cadmium
0.061 mg/l  copper
0.015 mg/l  cyanide
0.049 mg/l  lead
0.0003 mg/l mercury
0.021 mg/l  nickel
0.005 mg/l  silver
0.05 mg/l   total chromium
0.175 mg/l  zinc
 
   (B)   (1)   Industrial waste survey information will be used to develop
user-specific local limits when necessary to ensure that the POTW’s maximum
allowable headworks loading is not exceeded for particular pollutants of
concern. User-specific local limits for appropriate pollutants of concern shall
be included in wastewater permits.
      (2)   The POTW Director may impose mass limits in addition to, or in
place of, the concentration-based limits above.
(Ord. 2007-13, passed 11-6-2012)
§ 51.52  STATE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   State requirements and limitations on discharges shall apply in any
case where they are more stringent than federal requirements and limitations or
those in this subchapter.
   (B)   All such state requirements and limitations are incorporated herein by
this reference.
(Ord. 2007-13, passed 11-6-2012)
§ 51.53  RIGHT OF REVISION.
   The town reserves the right to establish by ordinance or as provided
wastewater discharge permits, limitations and requirements which are more
stringent than those required by either state or federal regulation if deemed
appropriate by the town or if necessary to comply with the objectives presented
in §
51.40 of this chapter or the general and specific prohibitions in §
51.49 of this chapter, as is allowed by 40 C.F.R. § 403.4.
(Ord. 2007-13, passed 11-6-2012)
§ 51.54  DILUTION.
   No user shall ever increase the use of process water or, in any way, attempt
to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with a discharge limitation, unless expressly
authorized by an applicable pretreatment standard or requirement.
(Ord. 2007-13, passed 11-6-2012)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.55  PRETREATMENT OF WASTEWATER.
   (A)   Pretreatment facilities. Users shall provide wastewater treatment as
necessary to comply with this subchapter and wastewater permits issued under §
51.60(B) of this chapter and shall achieve compliance with all national
categorical pretreatment standards, local limits and the prohibitions set out
in §
51.49 of this chapter within the time limitations as specified by EPA, the
state or the POTW Director, whichever is more stringent. Any facilities
necessary for compliance shall be provided, operated and maintained at the
user’s expense. Detailed plans showing the pretreatment facilities and
operating procedures shall be submitted to the town for review, and shall be
approved by the POTW Director before construction of the facility. The review
of such plans and operating procedures shall in no way relieve the user from
the responsibility of modifying the facility as necessary to produce an
effluent acceptable to the town under the provisions of this subchapter. Any
subsequent changes in the pretreatment facilities or method of operation shall
be reported to and be approved by the POTW Director prior to the user’s
initiation of the changes.
   (B)   Additional pretreatment measures.
      (1)   Whenever deemed necessary, the POTW Director may require users to
restrict their discharge during peak flow periods, designate that certain
wastewater be discharged only into specific sewers, relocate and/or consolidate
points of discharge, separate sewage wastestreams from industrial wastestreams
and such other conditions as may be necessary to protect the POTW and determine
the user’s compliance with the requirements of this subchapter.
      (2)   The POTW Director may require any person discharging into the POTW
to install and maintain, on his or her property and at his or her expense, a
suitable storage and flow-control facility to ensure equalization of flow. A
wastewater discharge permit may be issued solely for flow equalization.
      (3)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the POTW Director, they are necessary for the proper handling of
wastewater containing excessive amounts of grease and oil, or sand. All
interception units shall be of type and capacity approved by the POTW Director
and shall be so located to be easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
Such interceptors shall be inspected, cleaned and repaired regularly, as
needed, by the user at his or her expense. Whenever the POTW’s inspection of
the interceptor results in a written notice for action on the part of the
person responsible for the interceptor, such action shall be completed within
the compliance period granted by the POTW. No waste removed from the
interceptor shall be introduced into the sanitary sewer or back into the
interceptor which will cause the interceptor’s discharge to exceed the limits
established by this subchapter. The owner shall maintain a written record of
interceptor disposals and maintenance for three years.
      (4)   Users with the potential to discharge flammable substances may be
required to install and maintain an approved combustible gas detection meter at
the user’s sole expense.
(Ord. 2007-13, passed 11-6-2012)
§ 51.56  ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE/SLUG CONTROL PLANS.
   (A)   The POTW Director shall evaluate whether each significant industrial
user needs a plan or other action to control and prevent slug discharges and
accidental discharges as defined in §
51.41 of this chapter. All SIUs must be evaluated within one year of being
designated an SIU. The POTW Director may require any user to develop, submit
for approval and implement such a plan or other specific action. Alternatively,
the POTW Director may develop such a plan for any user.
   (B)   All SIUs are required to notify the POTW immediately of any changes at
its facility affecting the potential for spills and other accidental discharge,
discharge, of a non-routine, episodic nature, a non-customary batch discharge
or a slug load. Also see §
51.61(E) and (F) of this chapter.
   (C)   An accidental discharge/slug control plan shall address, at a minimum,
the following:
      (1)   Description of discharge practices, including non-routine batch
discharges;
      (2)   Description of stored chemicals;
      (3)   Procedures for immediately notifying the POTW Director of any
accidental or slug discharge, as required by §
51.61(F) of this chapter; and
      (4)   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or slug
discharge. Such procedures include, but are not limited to, inspection and
maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and
unloading operations, control of plant site runoff, worker training, building
of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic organic
pollutants, including solvents, and/or measures and equipment for emergency
response.
(Ord. 2007-13, passed 11-6-2012)
§ 51.57  HAULED WASTEWATER.
   (A)   Septic tank waste may be introduced into the POTW only at locations
designated by the POTW Director, and at such times as are established by the
POTW Director. Such waste shall not violate §§
51.42 through
51.58 of this chapter or any other requirements established by the town. The
POTW Director may require septic tank waste haulers to obtain wastewater
discharge permits.
   (B)   The POTW Director shall require haulers of industrial waste to obtain
wastewater discharge permits. The POTW Director may require generators of
hauled industrial waste to obtain wastewater discharge permits. The POTW
Director also may prohibit the disposal of hauled industrial waste. The
discharge of hauled industrial waste is subject to all other requirements of
this subchapter.
   (C)   Industrial waste haulers may discharge loads only at locations
designated by the POTW Director. No load may be discharged without prior
consent of the POTW Director. The POTW Director may collect samples of each
hauled load to ensure compliance with applicable standards. The POTW Director
may require the industrial waste hauler to provide a waste analysis of any load
prior to discharge.
   (D)   Industrial waste haulers must provide a waste-tracking form for every
load. This form shall include, at a minimum, the name and address of the
industrial waste hauler, permit number, truck identification, names and
addresses of sources of waste, and volume and characteristics of waste. The
form shall identify the type of industry, known or suspected waste
constituents, and whether any wastes are RCRA hazardous wastes.
(Ord. 2007-13, passed 11-6-2012)
§ 51.58  INTERLOCAL SEWER AGREEMENT.
   The Towns of Mayodan, Madison and Stoneville have agreed to the conditions
set forth in an interlocal sewer agreement, which is incorporated herein by
reference.
(Ord. 2007-13, passed 11-6-2012)
§ 51.59  FEES.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to provide for the recovery
of costs from users of the town’s wastewater disposal system for the
implementation of the program established herein. The applicable charges or
fees shall be set forth by the town’s schedule of charges and fees which is
included with the ordinance codified in this subchapter. The intent of such
user charge is to equitably distribute the cost of administration, operation
and maintenance of the POTW to each user proportional to the amount of
wastewater treatment service each user receives; and to promote self-
sufficiency of the POTW with respect to administration, operation and
maintenance costs.
   (B)   User charges.
      (1)   Authority. Pursuant to the provisions of Pub. Law No. 92-500, § 240
(b), and subsequent amendments to it, the town, having received EPA financial
assistance for the construction of treatment works, shall adopt a system of
charges to assure that each user pays a share of the annual administration,
operation and maintenance (including replacement) costs of the POTW.
      (2)   Intent. The intent of such user charges is to equitably distribute
the cost of administration, operation and maintenance of the POTW to each user
proportional to the amount of wastewater treatment service each user receives;
and to promote self-sufficiency of the POTW with respect to administration,
operation and maintenance costs.
      (3)   Definition. The term REPLACEMENT, referred to in division (B)(1)
above, is defined as those expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances that are necessary during the service life of the
treatment works to maintain the treatment works capacity and performance. The
term “operation and maintenance” includes REPLACEMENT.
      (4)   User class. Each user shall be charged a share of the treatment
works operation and maintenance cost based on the measured proportional
contribution to the treatment works loading. Generally, the user charge will be
dependent upon flow insofar as BOD, COD, TSS and other pollutant contributions
discharged by all users are approximately equal. Where such pollutants exceed
the range of concentration of these pollutants in normal domestic sewage, a
surcharge will be added to the base charge. The models used in calculating the
user charge are defined in division (B)(6) below.
      (5)   User charge criteria. The user charge system shall be approved by
the Town Council and shall be maintained by the town in accordance with the
following requirements.
         (a)   The user charge system must result in the distribution of the
cost of operation and maintenance of treatment works within the town
jurisdiction to each user (or user class) in proportion to such user’s
contribution to the total wastewater loading of the treatment works. Factors
such as strength, volume and delivery flow rate characteristics shall be
considered and included as the basis for the user’s contribution to ensure a
proportional distribution of operation and maintenance costs to each user (or
user class).
         (b)   The user charge system must generate sufficient revenue to
offset the cost of all treatment works operation and maintenance provided by
the town.
      (6)   Model user charge system. The user charge system adopted by the
town shall result in the equitable distribution of annual treatment works
administration, operation and maintenance costs to each user (or user class) in
approximate proportion to each user’s (or user class) contribution towards the
total wastewater loading of the treatment works. The following user charge
models shall be used for this purpose. The symbols used in the models are as
defined below:
   Cf =   Total fixed operation and maintenance (O&M) costs per unit of time
   Ct =   Total variable operation and maintenance (O&M) costs per unit of time
   Cu =   A user’s charge for O&M per unit of time
   Cs =   A surcharge for wastewater of excessive strength
   Vu =   Volume contribution from a user per unit of time
   Vt =   Total volume contribution from all users per unit of time
   Bc =   O&M cost for treatment of a unit of biochemical oxygen demand (BOD)
   B =   Contribution of BOD from a user above a base level
   Sc =   O&M cost for treatment of a unit of suspended solids
   S =   Contribution of SS from a user above a base level
   Nc =   O&M cost for treatment of unit of ammonia
   N =   Concentration of ammonia from a user above a base level
   Pc =   O&M cost for treatment of a unit of any pollutant having identifiable
contributions to overall treatment
   P =   Concentration of a pollutant from a user above a base level
         (a)   Model No. 1. Whereas the treatment works is primarily flow
dependent as the BOD, suspended solids and other pollutant concentrations
discharged by the majority of users are approximately equal; therefore, the
user charge will be developed on a volume basis in accordance with the model
below:
Cu =                   Cf            +          Vux Ct           
        No. of Users                      Vt
         (b)   Model No. 2. When determined by the town that BOD, COD, TSS,
ammonia and any other appropriate pollutant concentrations from a user exceeds
the range of concentration of these pollutants typically found in normal
domestic sewage, a surcharge calculated by means of Model No. 1, shall be
levied in addition to the base sewer use charge. The surcharge shall be
computed by the model below:
Cu = [Bc(B)+Sc(S)+Nc(N)+Pc(P)]
      (7)   Baselines. Baseline pollutant concentrations shall be BOD5-300 mg/
l, TSS-300 mg/l, Total Nitrogen-50 mg/l, TKN-40 mg/l and Ammonia Nitrogen-25
mg/l or as established by the POTW Director and held as a standard for the
town.
      (8)   Inclusions. Model No. 1 shall include all costs for operation and
maintenance associated with extraneous flows not attributable to any one user
or user class, thereby distributing these costs to all users.
      (9)   Other considerations. User charges may be established based on a
percentage of the charge for water usage. However, the unit rate sewer charge
for the largest volume users must be as great as or greater than the unit cost
of operation and maintenance (excluding debt service). In any event, a
surcharge shall still be levied in accordance with the provisions of Model No.
2 above. The system of user charges for the wastewater treatment system shall
be based on total annual system costs, including operation and maintenance
expenses.
      (10)   Notification. Each user shall be notified no less often than
annually of the rates for user charges. Such notification shall be done in
conjunction with a regular bill and, if the regular bill also includes charges
for other services, shall clearly identify the portion of the bill attributable
to wastewater user charges.
      (11)   Review. The Town Council shall review annually the sewage
contributions of users, the total annual costs of debt service, operation and
maintenance of the POTW and will make adjustments in the schedule of charges
and fees as necessary to support the intent of this subchapter.
      (12)   Contracts, agreements. The user charge system shall take
precedence over any terms or conditions of any contracts or agreements that are
inconsistent with § 204(b)(1)(a) of the Clean Water Act (“the Act” as defined
by this subchapter).
   (C)   Surcharges.
      (1)   All industrial users of the POTW are subject to industrial waste
surcharges on discharges which exceed the levels as established in the schedule
of fees and charges which is included with the ordinance codified in this
subchapter.
      (2)   The amount of surcharge will be based upon the mass emission rate
(in pounds per day) discharged above the levels in the schedule of fees and
charges. The amount charged per pound of excess will be set forth in the
schedule of charges and fees.
         (a)   The volume of flow used in determining the total discharge of
wastewater for payment of user charges and surcharges shall be based on the
following:
            1.   Metered water consumption as shown in the records of meter
readings maintained by the town;
            2.   If required by the town or at the individual dischargers
option, other flow monitoring devices which measure the actual volume of
wastewater discharged to the sewer. Such devices shall be accessible and safely
located, and the measuring system shall be installed in accordance with plans
approved by the town. The metering system shall be installed and maintained at
the users expense according to arrangements that may be made with the town; or
            3.   Where any user procures all or part of his or her water supply
from sources other than the town, the user shall install and maintain at his or
her own expense a flow-measuring device of a type approved by the town.
         (b)   The character and concentration of the constituents of the
wastewater used in determining surcharges shall be determined by samples
collected and analyzed by the town. Samples shall be collected in such a manner
as to be representative of the actual discharge and shall be analyzed using
procedures set forth in 40 C.F.R. part 136.
         (c)   The determination of the character and concentration of the
constituents of the wastewater discharge by the POTW Director or his or her
duly appointed representatives shall be binding as a basis for charges.
         (d)   The amount of surcharge is based on the current treatment costs
associated with the removal of the designated parameter. O&M costs used to
derive the surcharge is based on the most current costs of treating the given
parameter to produce the acceptable discharge characteristics as defined in the
town’s current NPDES permit. All noted surcharges shall be imposed as herein
provided in addition to any existing sewer user charge and/or other fees
imposed after the adoption of this subchapter. Rates shall be as stated in
Appendix A of Ordinance 2007-13.
   (D)   Pretreatment program administration charges. The schedule of charges
and fees adopted by the town may include charges and fees for:
      (1)   Reimbursement of costs of setting up and operating the pretreatment
program;
      (2)   Monitoring, inspections and surveillance procedures;
      (3)   Reviewing slug control plans, including accidental and/or slug load
discharge procedures and construction plans and specifications;
      (4)   Permitting; and
      (5)   Other fees as the town may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements of the pretreatment program.
(Ord. 2007-13, passed 11-6-2012)
§ 51.60  WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT APPLICATION AND ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Wastewater dischargers. It shall be unlawful for any person to connect
or discharge to the POTW without first obtaining the permission of the Town of
Mayodan. When requested by the POTW Director, a user must submit information on
the nature and characteristics of its wastewater within ten days of the
request. The POTW Director is authorized to prepare a form for this purpose and
may periodically require users to update this information.
   (B)   Wastewater permits. All significant industrial users shall obtain a
significant industrial user permit prior to the commencement of discharge to
the POTW. Existing industrial users who are determined by the POTW Director to
be significant industrial users shall obtain a significant industrial user
permit within 180 days of receiving notification of the POTW Director’s
determination. Industrial users who do not fit the significant industrial user
criteria may, at the discretion of the POTW Director, be required to obtain a
wastewater discharge permit for non-significant industrial users.
      (1)   Significant industrial user determination. All persons proposing to
discharge non-domestic wastewater or proposing to change the volume or
characteristics of an existing discharge of non-domestic wastewater shall
request from the POTW Director a significant industrial user determination. If
the POTW Director determines or suspects that the proposed discharge fits the
significant industrial user criteria, he or she will require that a significant
industrial user permit application be filed.
      (2)   Significant industrial user permit application. Users required to
obtain a significant industrial user permit shall complete and file with the
town, an application in the form prescribed by the POTW Director, and
accompanied by an application fee in the amount prescribed in the schedule of
charges and fees. Significant industrial users shall apply for a significant
industrial user permit within 90 days after notification of the POTW Director’s
determination in division (B)(1) above. The application shall include at a
minimum:
         (a)   Name of industrial user;
         (b)   Address of industrial user;
         (c)   Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) code(s) or expected
classification and industrial user category;
         (d)   Wastewater flow;
         (e)   Types and concentrations (or mass) of pollutants contained in
the discharge;
         (f)   Major products manufactured or services supplied;
         (g)   Description of existing on-site pretreatment facilities and
practices;
         (h)   Locations of discharge points;
         (i)   Raw materials used or stored at the site;
         (j)   Flow diagram or sewer map for the industrial user;
         (k)   Number of employees;
         (l)   Operation and production schedules; and
         (m)   Description of current and projected waste reduction activities
in accordance with G.S. § 143-215.1(g).
      (3)   Application signatories and certification. All wastewater discharge
permit applications and user reports must be signed by the current authorized
representative of the user on file with the control authority and/or
municipality as defined in §
51.41 of this chapter and contain the following certification statement:
         “1 certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments
were prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system
designed to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the
information submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage
the system, or those persons directly responsible for gathering the
information, the information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and
belief, true, accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant
penalties for submitting false information, including the possibility of fine
and imprisonment for knowing violations.”
      (4)   Application review and evaluation. The POTW Director will evaluate
the data furnished by the user and may require additional information.
         (a)   The POTW Director is authorized to accept applications for the
town and shall refer all applications to the POTW staff for review and
evaluation.
         (b)   Within 30 days of receipt the POTW Director shall acknowledge
and accept the complete application; or if not complete, shall return the
application to the applicant with a statement of what additional information is
required.
      (5)   Tentative determination and draft permit.
         (a)   The POTW staff shall conduct a review of the application and an
on-site inspection of the significant industrial user, including any
pretreatment facilities, and shall prepare a written evaluation and tentative
determination to issue or deny the significant industrial user permit.
         (b)   If the staff’s tentative determination in division (B)(5)(a)
above is to issue the permit, the following additional determinations shall be
made in writing:
            1.   Proposed discharge limitations for those pollutants proposed
to be limited;
            2.   A proposed schedule of compliance, including interim dates and
requirements, for meeting the proposed limitations; and
            3.   A brief description of any other proposed special conditions
which will have significant impact upon the discharge described in the
application.
         (c)   The staff shall organize the determinations made pursuant to
divisions (B)(5)(a) and (B)(5)(b) above and the town’s general permit
conditions into a significant industrial user permit.
      (6)   Permit supporting documentation. The control authority staff shall
prepare the following documents for all significant industrial user permits.
         (a)   An allocation table (AT) listing permit information for all
significant industrial users, including, but not limited to, permit limits,
permit effective and expiration dates, and a comparison of total permitted
flows and loads with Division-approved maximum allowable loadings of the POTW,
including flow, on forms or in a format approved by the Division. The AT shall
be updated as permits are issued or renewed, and as permits are modified where
the permitted limits or other AT information is revised.
         (b)   The basis, or rationale, for the pretreatment limitations,
including the following:
            1.   Documentation of categorical determination, including
documentation of any calculations used in applying categorical pretreatment
standards; and
            2.   Documentation of the rationale of any parameters for which
monitoring has been waived under 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(e)(2).
      (7)   Final action on significant industrial user permit applications.
         (a)   The POTW Director shall take final action on all applications
not later than 90 days following receipt of a complete application.
         (b)   The POTW Director is authorized to:
            1.   Issue a significant industrial user permit containing such
conditions as are necessary to effectuate the purposes of this subchapter and
G.S. § 143-215.1;
            2.   Issue a significant industrial user permit containing time
schedules for achieving compliance with applicable pretreatment standards and
requirements;
            3.   Modify any permit upon not less than 60 days notice and
pursuant to division (B)(8) below;
            4.   Revoke any permit pursuant to §
51.99 of this chapter;
            5.   Suspend a permit pursuant to §
51.99 of this chapter; or
            6.   Deny a permit application when, in the opinion of the POTW
Director, such discharge may cause or contribute to pass-through or
interference of the wastewater treatment plant or where necessary to effectuate
the purposes of G.S. § 143-215.1.
      (8)   Hearings.
         (a)   Initial adjudicatory hearing. An applicant whose permit is
denied, or is granted subject to conditions he or she deems unacceptable, a
permittee/user assessed a civil penalty under §
51.99 of this chapter, or one issued an administrative order under §
51.99 of this chapter shall have the right to an adjudicatory hearing before a
hearing officer designated by the POTW Director upon making written demand,
identifying the specific issues to be contested, to the POTW Director within 30
days following receipt of the significant industrial user permit, civil penalty
assessment or administrative order. Unless such written demand is made within
the time specified herein, the action shall be final and binding. The hearing
officer shall make a final decision on the contested permit, penalty or order
within 45 days of the receipt of the written demand for a hearing. The POTW
Director shall transmit a copy of the hearing officer’s decision by registered
or certified mail.
            1.   New permits. Upon appeal, including judicial review in the
general courts of justice, of the terms or conditions of a newly issued permit,
the terms and conditions of the entire permit are stayed and the permit is not
in effect until either the conclusion of judicial review or until the parties
reach a mutual resolution.
            2.   Renewed permits. Upon appeal, including judicial review in the
general courts of justice, of the terms or conditions of a renewed permit, the
terms and conditions of the existing permit remain in effect until either the
conclusion of judicial review or until the parties reach a mutual resolution.
            3.   Terminated permits. Upon appeal, including judicial review in
the general courts of justice, of a terminated permit, no permit is in effect
until either the conclusion of judicial review or until the parties reach a
mutual resolution.
         (b)   Final appeal hearing. Any decision of a hearing officer made as
a result of an adjudicatory hearing held under division (B)(8)(a) above may be
appealed, to the Town Council upon filing a written demand within ten days of
receipt of notice of the decision. Hearings held under this division (B)(8)
shall be conducted in accordance with local hearing procedure cite. Failure to
make written demand within the time specified herein shall bar further appeal.
The Town Council shall make a final decision on the appeal within 90 days of
the date the appeal was filed and shall transmit a written copy of its decision
by registered or certified mail.
         (c)   Official record. When a final decision is issued under division
(B)(8)(b) above, the Town Council shall prepare an official record of the case
that includes:
            1.   All notices, motions and other like pleadings;
            2.   A copy of all documentary evidence introduced;
            3.   A certified transcript of all testimony taken, if testimony is
transcribed. If testimony is taken and not transcribed, then a narrative
summary of any testimony taken; and
            4.   A copy of the final decision of Town Council.
         (d)   Judicial review. Any person against whom a final order or
decision of the Town Council is entered, pursuant to the hearing conducted
under division (B)(8)(b) above, may seek judicial review of the order or
decision by filing a written petition within 30 days after receipt of notice by
registered or certified mail of the order or decision, but not thereafter, with
the Superior Court of the county along with a copy to the town. Within 30 days
after receipt of the copy of the petition of judicial review, the Town Council
shall transmit to the reviewing court the original or a certified copy of the
official record.
      (9)   Permit modification.
         (a)   Modifications of permits shall be subject to the same procedural
requirements as the issuance of permits, except as listed below. Any changes or
new conditions in the permit shall include a reasonable time schedule for
compliance.
            1.   Changes in the ownership of the discharge when no other change
in the permit is indicated;
            2.   A single modification of any compliance schedule not in excess
of four months; and
            3.   Modification of compliance schedules (construction schedules)
in permits for new sources where the new source will not begin to discharge
until control facilities are operational.
         (b)   Within nine months of the promulgation of a national categorical
pretreatment standard, the wastewater discharge permit of users subject to such
standards shall be revised to require compliance with such standard within the
time frame prescribed by such standard. Where a user, subject to a national
categorical pretreatment standard, has not previously submitted an application
for a wastewater discharge permit as required by division (B)(2) above, the
user shall apply for a wastewater discharge permit within 180 days after the
promulgation of the applicable national categorical pretreatment standard.
         (c)   A request for a modification by the permittee shall constitute a
waiver of the 60-day notice required by G.S. § 143-215.1(b) for modifications.
      (10)   Permit conditions.
         (a)   The POTW Director shall have the authority to grant a permit
with such conditions attached as he or she believes necessary to achieve the
purpose of this subchapter and G.S. § 143-215.1. Wastewater permits shall
contain, but are not limited to, the following:
            1.   A statement of duration (in no case more than five years);
            2.   A statement of non-transferability;
            3.   Applicable effluent limits based on categorical standards or
local limits or both;
            4.   Applicable monitoring, sampling, reporting, notification and
record keeping requirements. These requirements shall include an identification
of pollutants to be monitored, sampling location, sampling frequency and sample
type based on federal, state and local law;
            5.   Requirements for notifying the POTW in the event of an
accidental discharge or slug load, as defined in §
51.41 of this chapter;
            6.   Requirements to implement a plan or other controls for
prevention of accidental discharges and/or slug loads, as defined in §
51.41 of this chapter, if determined by the POTW Director to be necessary for
the user;
            7.   Requirements for immediately notifying the POTW of any changes
at its facility affecting the potential for spills and other accidental
discharges, or slug load, as defined in §
51.41 of this chapter; also see §
51.61(E) and (F) of this chapter; and
            8.   A statement of applicable civil and/or criminal penalties for
violation of pretreatment standards and requirements and any applicable
compliance schedule.
         (b)   In addition, permits may contain, but are not limited to, the
following:
            1.   Limits on the average and/or maximum rate of discharge, and/or
requirements for flow regulation and equalization;
            2.   Limits on the instantaneous, daily and/or monthly average and/
or maximum concentration, mass or other measure of identified wastewater
pollutants or properties;
            3.   Requirements for the installation of pretreatment technology
or construction of appropriate containment devices and the like, designed to
reduce, eliminate or prevent the introduction of pollutants into the treatment
works;
            4.   Development and implementation of waste minimization plans to
reduce the amount of pollutants discharged to the municipal wastewater system;
            5.   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
management of the wastewater discharged to the system;
            6.   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection
and sampling facilities and equipment;
            7.   Specifications for monitoring programs which may include
sampling locations, frequency of sampling, number, types and standards for
tests, and reporting schedules;
            8.   Requirements for immediate reporting of any instance of non-
compliance and for automatic resampling and reporting within 30 days where
self-monitoring indicates a violation(s);
            9.   Compliance schedules for meeting pretreatment standards and
requirements;
            10.   Requirements for submission of periodic self-monitoring or
special notification reports;
            11.   Requirements for maintaining and retaining plans and records
relating to wastewater discharges as specified in §
51.61(M) of this chapter and affording the POTW Director, or his or her
representatives, access thereto;
            12.   Requirements for prior notification and approval by the POTW
Director of any new introduction of wastewater pollutants or of any significant
change in the volume or character of the wastewater prior to introduction in
the system;
            13.   Requirements for the prior notification and approval by the
POTW Director of any change in the manufacturing and/or pretreatment process
used by the permittee;
            14.   A statement that compliance with the permit does not relieve
the permittee of responsibility for compliance with all applicable federal and
state pretreatment standards, including those which become effective during the
terms of the permit; and
            15.   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the POTW Directors
to ensure compliance with this subchapter, and state and federal laws, rules
and regulations.
      (11)   Permits duration. Permits shall be issued for a specified time
period, not to exceed five years. A permit may be issued for a period less than
a year or may be stated to expire on a specific date.
      (12)   Permit transfer. Wastewater permits are issued to a specific user
for a specific operation. A wastewater discharge permit shall not be reassigned
or transferred or sold to a new owner, new user, different premises or a new or
changed operation.
      (13)   Permit reissuance. A significant industrial user shall apply for
permit reissuance by submitting a complete permit application in accordance
with this division (B) above a minimum of 180 days prior to the expiration of
the existing permit.
(Ord. 2007-13, passed 11-6-2012)
§ 51.61  REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Baseline monitoring reports
      (1)   Within either 180 days after the effective date of a categorical
pretreatment standard, or the final administrative decision on a category
determination under 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(a)(4), whichever is later, existing
categorical users currently discharging to or scheduled to discharge to the
POTW shall submit to the POTW Director a report which contains the information
listed in division (A)(2) below. At least 90 days prior to commencement of
their discharge, new sources and sources that become categorical users
subsequent to the promulgation of an applicable categorical standard, shall
submit to the POTW Director a report which contains the information listed in
division (A)(2) below. A new source shall report the method of pretreatment it
intends to use to meet applicable categorical standards. A new source also
shall give estimates of its anticipated flow and quantity of pollutants to be
discharged.
      (2)   Users described above shall submit the information set forth below.
         (a)   Identifying information. The name and address of the facility,
including the name of the operator and owner;
         (b)   Environmental permits. A list of any environmental control
permits held by or for the facility;
         (c)   Description of operations. A brief description of the nature,
average rate of production and standard industrial classifications of the
operation(s) carried out by such user. This description should include a
schematic process diagram which indicates points of discharge to the POTW from
the regulated processes;
         (d)   Flow measurement. Information showing the measured average daily
and maximum daily flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW from regulated process
streams and other streams, as necessary, to allow use of the combined
wastestream formula set out in 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(e);
         (e)   Measurement of pollutants.
            1.   The categorical pretreatment standards applicable to each
regulated process.
            2.   The results of sampling and analysis identifying the nature
and concentration, and/or mass, where required by the standard or by the POTW
Director, of regulated pollutants in the discharge from each regulated process.
Instantaneous, daily maximum and long-term average concentrations, or mass,
where required, shall be reported. The sample shall be representative of daily
operations and shall be analyzed in accordance with procedures set out in
division (J) below.
            3.   Sampling must be performed in accordance with procedures set
out in division (K) below and 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(b) and (g), including 40
C.F.R. § 403.12(g)(4).
         (f)   Certification. A statement, reviewed by the user’s current
authorized representative as defined in §
51.41 of this chapter; and certified by a qualified professional, indicating
whether pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis, and, if
not, whether additional operation and maintenance (O&M) and/or additional
pretreatment is required to meet the pretreatment standards and requirements;
         (g)   Compliance schedule. If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will
be required to meet the pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which
the user will provide such additional pretreatment and/or O&M. The completion
date in this schedule shall not be later than the compliance date established
for the applicable pretreatment standard. A compliance schedule pursuant to
this section must meet the requirements set out in division (B) below; and
         (h)   Signature and certification. All baseline monitoring reports
must be signed and certified in accordance with §
51.60(B) of this chapter.
   (B)   Compliance schedule progress reports. The following conditions shall
apply to the compliance schedule required by division (A)(2)(g) above.
      (1)   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of dates
for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction
and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to meet the
applicable pretreatment standards (such events include, but are not limited to,
hiring an engineer, completing preliminary and final plans, executing contracts
for major components, commencing and completing construction, and beginning and
conducting routine operation).
      (2)   No increment referred to above shall exceed nine months.
      (3)   The user shall submit a progress report to the POTW Director no
later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and the final date of
compliance including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress, the reason for any delay, and, if appropriate, the steps
being taken by the user to return to the established schedule.
      (4)   In no event shall more than nine months elapse between such
progress reports to the POTW Director.
   (C)   Reports on compliance with categorical pretreatment standard deadline.
Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with applicable
categorical pretreatment standards, or in the case of a new source following
commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any user subject
to such pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to the POTW
Director a report containing the information described in divisions (A)(2)(d)
through (A)(2)(f) above. For users subject to equivalent mass or concentration
limits established in accordance with the procedures in 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(c),
this report shall contain a reasonable measure of the user’s long-term
production rate. For all other users subject to categorical pretreatment
standards expressed in terms of allowable pollutant discharge per unit of
production (or other measure of operation), this report shall include the
user’s actual production during the appropriate sampling period. All compliance
reports must be signed and certified in accordance with §
51.60(B)(3) of this chapter.
   (D)   Periodic compliance reports.
      (1)   All significant industrial users shall, at a frequency determined
by the POTW Director, but in no case less than once every six months, submit a
report indicating the nature and concentration of pollutants in the discharge
which are limited by pretreatment standards and the applicable flows for the
reporting period. Sampling and analysis must be performed in accordance with
procedures set out in divisions (J) and (K) below. All periodic compliance
reports must be signed and certified in accordance with §
51.60(B)(3) of this chapter.
      (2)   If a user subject to the reporting requirement in this section
monitors any pollutant more frequently than required by the POTW Director,
using the procedures prescribed in division (J) below, the results of this
monitoring shall be included in the report.
   (E)   Reports of changed conditions. Each user must notify the POTW Director
of any planned significant changes to the user’s operations or system which
might alter the nature, quality or volume of its wastewater at least 60 days
before the change. The permittee shall not begin the changes until receiving
written approval from the control authority. See division (F)(4) below for
other reporting requirements.
      (1)   The POTW Director may require the user to submit such information
as may be deemed necessary to evaluate the changed condition, including the
submission of a wastewater discharge permit application under §
51.60(B) of this chapter.
      (2)   The POTW Director may issue a wastewater discharge permit under §
51.60(B) of this chapter or modify an existing wastewater discharge permit
under §
51.60(B) of this chapter in response to changed conditions or anticipated
changed conditions.
      (3)   For purposes of this requirement, significant changes include, but
are not limited to, flow or pollutant increases of 20% or greater, and the
discharge of any previously unreported pollutants, increases or decreases to
production; increases in discharge of previously reported pollutants; discharge
of pollutants not previously reported to the control authority and/or
municipality; new or changed product lines; new or changed manufacturing
processes and/or chemicals; or new or changed customers.
   (F)   Reports of potential problems.
      (1)   In the case of any discharge, including, but not limited to,
accidental discharges, discharges of a non-routine, episodic nature, a non-
customary batch discharge or a slug load, as defined in §
51.41 of this chapter, that may cause potential problems for the POTW, the user
shall immediately telephone and notify the POTW Director of the incident. This
notification shall include the location of the discharge, type of waste,
concentration and volume, if known, and corrective actions taken by the user.
      (2)   Within five days following such discharge, the user shall, unless
waived by the POTW Director, submit a detailed written report describing the
cause(s) of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user to prevent
similar future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the user of any
expense, loss, damage or other liability which may be incurred as a result of
damage to the POTW, natural resources or any other damage to person or
property; nor shall such notification relieve the user of any fines, penalties
or other liability which may be imposed pursuant to this subchapter.
      (3)   A notice shall be permanently posted on the user’s bulletin board
or other prominent place advising employees whom to call in the event of a
discharge described in division (F)(1) above. Employers shall ensure that all
employees, who may cause such a discharge to occur, are advised of the
emergency notification procedure.
      (4)   All SIUs are required to notify the POTW immediately of any changes
at its facility affecting the potential for spills and other accidental
discharge, discharge of a non-routine, episodic nature, a non-customary batch
discharge or a slug load, as defined in §
51.41 of this chapter.
   (G)   Reports from unpermitted users.
      (1)   All users not required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit
shall provide appropriate reports to the POTW Director as the POTW Director may
require.
      (2)   All users classified as non-significant categorical industrial
users under §
51.41 of this chapter shall provide appropriate reports to the POTW Director as
the POTW Director may require. At a minimum, this shall include the annual
certification of continuing to meet the non-significant categorical industrial
user criteria as required under 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(q).
   (H)   Notice of violation/repeat sampling and reporting.
      (1)   If sampling performed by a user indicates a violation, the user
must notify the POTW Director within 24 hours of becoming aware of the
violation. The user shall also repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the
results of the repeat analysis to the POTW Director within 30 days after
becoming aware of the violation. If allowed by the POTW Director, the user is
not required to resample:
         (a)   If the POTW monitors at the user’s facility at least once a
month; or
         (b)   If the POTW samples between the user’s initial sampling and when
the user receives the results of this sampling.
      (2)   If the POTW has performed the sampling and analysis in lieu of the
industrial user and the POTW sampling of the user indicates a violation, the
POTW shall repeat the sampling and obtain the results of the repeat analysis
within 30 days after becoming aware of the violations, unless one of the
following occurs:
         (a)   The POTW monitors at the user’s facility at least once a month;
         (b)   The POTW samples the user between his, her or their initial
sampling and when the POTW receives the results of this initial sampling; or
         (c)   The POTW Director requires the user to perform sampling and
submit the results to the POTW Director within the 30 day deadline of the POTW
becoming aware of the violation.
   (I)   Notification of the discharge of hazardous waste. The town prohibits
the discharge of any hazardous wastes without notification to and approval by
the POTW Director.
      (1)   Any user who commences the discharge of hazardous waste shall
notify the POTW, the EPA Regional Waste Management Division Director and state
hazardous waste authorities, in writing, of any discharge into the POTW of a
substance which, if otherwise disposed of, would be a hazardous waste under 40
C.F.R. part 261. Such notification must include the name of the hazardous waste
as set forth in 40 C.F.R. part 261, the EPA hazardous waste number and the type
of discharge (continuous, batch or other). If the user discharges more than 100
kilograms of such waste per calendar month to the POTW, the notification also
shall contain the following information to the extent such information is known
and readily available to the user: an identification of the hazardous
constituents contained in the wastes, an estimation of the mass and
concentration of such constituents in the wastestream discharge during the
calendar month, and an estimation of the mass and concentration of such
constituents in the wastestream expected to be discharged during the following
12 months. All notifications must take place no later than 180 days before the
discharge commences. The user shall not begin the discharge until receiving
written approval from the town. Any notification under this division (I)(1)
need be submitted only once for each hazardous waste discharge. However,
notifications of changed conditions must be submitted under division (E) above.
The notification requirement in this section does not apply to pollutants
already reported by users subject to categorical pretreatment standards under
the self-monitoring requirements of divisions (A), (C) and (D) above.
      (2)   Dischargers are exempt from the requirements of division (I)(1)
above, during a calendar month in which they discharge no more than 15
kilograms of hazardous wastes, unless the wastes are acute hazardous wastes as
specific in 40 C.F.R. §§ 261.30(d) and 261.33(e). Discharge of more than 15
kilograms of non-acute hazardous wastes in a calendar month, or of any quantity
of acute hazardous wastes as specified in 40 C.F.R. §§ 261.30(d) and 261.33(e),
requires a onetime notification. Subsequent months during which the user
discharges more than such quantities of any hazardous waste do not require
additional notification.
      (3)   In the case of any new regulation under § 3001 of RCRA identifying
additional characteristics of hazardous waste or listing any additional
substance as a hazardous waste, the user must notify the POTW Director, the EPA
Regional Waste Management Waste Division Director and state hazardous waste
authorities of the discharge of such substance within 90 days of the effective
date of such regulations.
      (4)   In the case of any notification made under this section, the user
shall certify that it has a program in place to reduce the volume and toxicity
of hazardous wastes generated to the degree it has determined to be
economically practical.
      (5)   This provision does not create a right to discharge any substance
not otherwise permitted to be discharged by this subchapter, a permit issued
thereunder, or any applicable federal or state law.
   (J)   Analytical requirements. All pollutant analyses, including sampling
techniques, to be submitted as part of a wastewater discharge permit
application or report shall be performed by a laboratory certified by the state
to perform the wastewater analyses in accordance with the techniques prescribed
in 40 C.F.R. part 136, unless otherwise specified in an applicable categorical
pretreatment standard or unless otherwise performed in accordance with
procedures approved by the EPA or the town. If 40 C.F.R. part 136 does not
contain sampling or analytical techniques for the pollutant in question,
sampling and analyses must be performed in accordance with procedures approved
by the EPA and the town. Analyses must be performed by a state-certified lab
for each parameter analyzed, if such certification exists for that parameter.
   (K)   Grab and composite sample collection.
      (1)   All wastewater samples must be representative of the user’s
discharge. Wastewater monitoring and flow measurement facilities shall be
properly operated, kept clean and maintained in good working order at all
times. The failure of a user to keep its monitoring facility in good working
order shall not be grounds for the user to claim that sample results are
unrepresentative of its discharge.
      (2)   Grab samples musts be used for pH, cyanide, total phenols, oil and
grease, sulfide, volatile organic compounds, and any other pollutants as
required by 40 C.F.R. part 136. The POTW shall determine the number of grabs
necessary to be representative of the user’s discharge. See 40 C.F.R. § 403.12
(g)(5) for additional grab sample number requirements for BMR and 90-day
compliance reports. Additionally, the POTW Director may allow collection of
multiple grabs during a 24-hour period which are composited prior to analysis
as allowed under 40 C.F.R. part 136.
      (3)   Composite samples: all wastewater composite samples shall be
collected with a minimum of hourly aliquots or grabs for each hour that there
is a discharge. All wastewater composite samples shall be collected using flow
proportional composite collection techniques, unless time-proportional
composite sampling or grab sampling is authorized by the POTW Director. When
authorizing time-proportional composites or grabs, the samples must be
representative and the decision to allow the alternative sampling must be
documented.
   (L)   Timing. Written reports will be deemed to have been submitted on the
date postmarked. For reports which are not mailed, postage prepaid, into a mail
facility serviced by the United States Postal Service, the date of receipt of
the report shall govern.
   (M)   Record keeping. Users subject to the reporting requirements of this
subchapter shall retain, and make available for inspection and copying, all
records of information obtained pursuant to any monitoring activities required
by this subchapter and any additional records of information obtained pursuant
to monitoring activities undertaken by the user independent of such
requirements. Records shall include the date, exact place, method and time of
sampling, and the name of the person(s) taking the samples; the dates analyses
were performed; who performed the analyses; the analytical techniques or
methods used; and the results of such analyses. These records shall remain
available for a period of at least three years. This period shall be
automatically extended for the duration of any litigation concerning the user
or the town, or where the user has been specifically notified of a longer
retention period by the POTW Director.
   (N)   Special reporting requirements for IUs in satellite POTWs. In the case
of industrial user located in a satellite POTW organization’s jurisdiction, all
information required to be reported to the industrial user’s pretreatment
program control authority by this subchapter shall also be reported to the POTW
treatment plant organization.
(Ord. 2007-13, passed 11-6-2012)
§ 51.62  COMPLIANCE MONITORING.
   (A)   Monitoring facilities.
      (1)   The town requires the user to provide and operate at the user’s own
expense, monitoring facilities to allow inspection, sampling and flow
measurement of the building sewer and/or internal drainage systems. The
monitoring facility should normally be situated on the user’s premises, but the
town may, when such a location would be impractical or cause undue hardship on
the user, allow the facility to be constructed in the public street or sidewalk
area and located so that it will not be obstructed by landscaping or parked
vehicles.
      (2)   There shall be ample room in or near such sampling manhole or
facility to allow accurate sampling and preparation of samples for analysis.
The facility, sampling and measuring equipment shall be maintained at all times
in a safe and proper operating condition at the expense of the user.
      (3)   Whether constructed on public or private property, the sampling and
monitoring facilities shall be provided in accordance with the town’s
requirements and all applicable local construction standards and
specifications. Construction shall be completed within 90 days following
written notification by the town.
   (B)   Inspection and sampling. The town will inspect the facilities of any
user to ascertain whether the purpose of this subchapter is being met and all
requirements are being complied with. Persons or occupants of premises where
wastewater is created or discharged shall allow the town, approval authority
and EPA or their representative ready access at all reasonable times to all
parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, records
examination and copying or in the performance of any of their duties. The town,
approval authority and EPA shall have the right to set up on the user’s
property such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling, inspection,
compliance monitoring and/or metering operations. Where a user has security
measures in force which would require proper identification and clearance
before entry into his or her premises, the user shall make necessary
arrangements with their security guards so that upon presentation of suitable
identification, personnel from the town, approval authority and EPA will be
permitted to enter, without delay, for the purposes of performing their
specific responsibilities. Denial of the POTW’s, approval authority’s or EPA’s
access to the user’s premises shall be a violation of this subchapter.
Unreasonable delays may constitute denial of access.
   (C)   Search warrants. If the POTW Director, approval authority or EPA has
been refused access to a building, structure or property, or any part thereof,
and is able to demonstrate probable cause to believe that there may be a
violation of this subchapter, or that there is a need to inspect and/or sample
as part of a routine inspection and sampling program of the town designed to
verify compliance with this subchapter or any permit or order issued hereunder,
or to protect the overall public health, safety and welfare of the community,
then the POTW, approval authority or EPA may seek issuance of a search warrant
from the County Superior Court.
(Ord. 2007-13, passed 11-6-2012)
§ 51.63  CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   Information and data provided by an industrial user to the POTW
Director pursuant to this subchapter identifying the nature and frequency of a
discharge, shall be available to the public without restriction. All other
information which may be so submitted by an industrial user to the POTW
Director in connection with any required reports shall also be available to the
public unless the industrial user or other interested person specifically
identifies the information as confidential upon submission and is able to
demonstrate to the satisfaction of the POTW Director that the disclosure of
such information or a particular part thereof to the general public would
divulge methods or processes entitled to protection as trade secrets.
   (B)   Information provided by an industrial user to the POTW Director that
is determined to be entitled to confidential treatment shall be made available
upon written request to the Division of Water Quality or any state agency for
uses related to the pretreatment program, the National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System (NPDES) permit, collection system permit, storm water permit
and/or non-discharge permit, and for uses related to judicial review or
enforcement proceedings involving the person furnishing the report.
   (C)   Information and data received by the Division or other state agency
under division (B) above shall be subject to the processes set forth in G.S. §
143-215.3C.
(Ord. 2007-13, passed 11-6-2012)
§ 51.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Administrative remedies.
      (1)   Notification of violation. Whenever the POTW Director finds that
any industrial user has violated or is violating this chapter, wastewater
permit or any prohibition, limitation or requirements contained therein or any
other pretreatment requirement the POTW Director may serve upon such a person a
written notice stating the nature of the violation. Notice shall be by U.S.
mail first class postage prepaid addressed to the user’s permit address. Within
30 days from the date of this notice, an explanation for the violation and a
plan for the satisfactory correction thereof shall be submitted to the town by
the user. Submission of this plan does not relieve the discharger of liability
for any violations occurring before or after the notice of violation.
      (2)   Consent orders. The POTW Director is hereby empowered to enter into
consent orders, assurances of voluntary compliance or other similar documents
establishing an agreement with the person responsible for the non-compliance.
Such orders will include specific action to be taken by the discharger to
correct the non-compliance within a time period also specified by the order.
Consent orders shall have the same force and effect as an administrative order
issued pursuant to division (A)(4) below.
      (3)   Show cause hearing.
         (a)   The POTW Director may order any industrial user who causes or is
responsible for an unauthorized discharge, has violated this chapter or is in
non-compliance with a wastewater discharge permit to show cause why a proposed
enforcement action should not be taken. In the event the POTW Director
determines that a show cause order should be issued, a notice shall be served
on the user specifying the time and place for the hearing, the proposed
enforcement action, the reasons for such action and a request that the user
show cause why this proposed enforcement action should not be taken. The notice
of the hearing shall be served personally or by registered or certified mail
(return receipt requested) at least ten days before the hearing. Service may be
made on any agent or officer of a corporation.
         (b)   The POTW Director shall review the evidence presented at the
hearing and determine whether the proposed enforcement action is appropriate.
         (c)   A show cause hearing under this section is not a prerequisite to
the assessment of a civil penalty under division (B) below, nor is any action
or inaction taken by the POTW Director under this section subject to an
administrative appeal under §
51.60(B)(8) of this chapter.
      (4)   Administrative orders. When the POTW Director finds that an
industrial user has violated or continues to violate this chapter, permits or
orders issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment requirement the POTW
Director may issue an order to cease and desist all such violations and direct
those persons in non-compliance to do any of the following:
         (a)   Immediately comply with all requirements;
         (b)   Comply in accordance with a compliance time schedule set forth
in the order;
         (c)   Take appropriate remedial or preventive action in the event of a
continuing or threatened violation; and
         (d)   Disconnect unless adequate treatment facilities, devices or
other related appurtenances are installed and properly operated within a
specified time period.
      (5)   Emergency suspensions.
         (a)   The POTW Director may suspend the wastewater treatment service
and/or wastewater permit when such suspension is necessary in order to stop an
actual or threatened discharge which presents or may present an imminent or
substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons or the
environment, interferes with the POTW or causes the POTW to violate any
condition of its NPDES or non-discharge permit.
         (b)   Any user notified of a suspension of the wastewater treatment
service and/or the wastewater permit shall immediately stop or eliminate the
contribution. A hearing will be held within 15 days of the notice of suspension
to determine whether the suspension may be lifted or the user’s waste discharge
permit terminated. In the event of a failure to comply voluntarily with the
suspension order, the POTW Director shall take such steps as deemed necessary
including immediate severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize
damage to the POTW system or endangerment to any individuals. The POTW Director
shall reinstate the wastewater permit and the wastewater treatment service upon
proof of the elimination of the non-compliant discharge. The industrial user
shall submit a detailed written statement describing the causes of the harmful
contribution and the measures taken to prevent any future occurrence to the
POTW Director prior to the date of the above-described hearing.
      (6)   Termination of permit or permission to discharge.
         (a)   The POTW Director may revoke a wastewater discharge permit or
permission to discharge for good cause, including, but not limited to, the
following reasons:
            1.   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of his or her discharge;
            2.   Failure to report significant changes in operations, or
wastewater constituents and characteristics;
            3.   Refusal of reasonable access to the user’s premises for the
purpose of inspection or monitoring; or
            4.   Violation of conditions of the permit or permission to
discharge, conditions of this chapter or any applicable state and federal
regulations.
         (b)   Non-compliant industrial users will be notified of the proposed
termination of their wastewater permit and will be offered an opportunity to
show cause under division (A) above why the proposed action should not be
taken.
   (B)   Civil penalties.
      (1)   Any user who is found to have failed to comply with any provision
of this chapter, or the orders, rules, regulations and permits issued
hereunder, may be assessed a civil penalty up to $25,000 per day per violation.
         (a)   Penalties between $10,000 and $25,000 per day per violation may
be assessed against a violator if:
            1.   For any class of violation, only if a civil penalty has been
imposed against the violator within the five years preceding the violation; or
            2.   In the case of failure to file, submit or make available, as
the case may be any documents, data or reports required by this chapter, or the
orders, rules, regulations and permits issued hereunder, only if the POTW
Director determines that the violation was intentional and a civil penalty has
been imposed against the violator within the five years preceding the
violation.
      (2)   Any user who is found to have conducted malicious damage to the
public sewer system, treatment works and/or all appurtenances shall be subject
to punitive action and penalties.
      (3)   In determining the amount of the civil penalty, the POTW Director
shall consider the following:
         (a)   The degree and extent of the harm to the natural resources, to
the public health or to public or private property resulting from the
violation;
         (b)   The duration and gravity of the violation;
         (c)   The effect on ground or surface water quantity or quality or on
air quality;
         (d)   The cost of rectifying the damage;
         (e)   The amount of money saved by non-compliance;
         (f)   Whether the violation was committed willfully or intentionally;
         (g)   The prior record of the violator in complying or failing to
comply with the pretreatment program; and
         (h)   The costs of enforcement to the town.
      (4)   Appeals of civil penalties assessed in accordance with this section
shall be as provided in §
51.60(B)(8) of this chapter.
   (C)   Other available remedies. Remedies, in addition to those previously
mentioned in this chapter, are available to the POTW Director who may use any
single one or combination against a non-compliant user. Additional available
remedies include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Criminal violations. The District Attorney for the county may, at
the request of the town, prosecute non-compliant users who violate the
provisions of G.S. § 143-215.6B;
      (2)   Injunctive relief. Whenever a user is in violation of the
provisions of this chapter or an order or permit issued hereunder, the POTW
Director, through the Town Attorney, may petition the Superior Court of Justice
for the issuance of a restraining order or a preliminary and permanent
injunction which restrains or compels the activities in question;
      (3)   Water supply severance. Whenever an industrial user is in violation
of the provisions of this chapter or an order or permit issued hereunder, water
service to the industrial user may be severed and service will only recommence,
at the user’s expense, after it has satisfactorily demonstrated ability to
comply; and
      (4)   Public nuisances. Any violation of the prohibitions or effluent
limitations of this chapter or of a permit or order issued hereunder, is hereby
declared a public nuisance and shall be corrected or abated as directed by the
POTW Director. Any person(s) creating a public nuisance shall be subject to the
provisions of the town’s regulations governing such nuisances, including
reimbursing the POTW for any costs incurred in removing, abating or remedying
said nuisance.
   (D)   Remedies non-exclusive. The remedies provided for in this chapter are
not exclusive. The POTW Director may take any, all or any combination of these
actions against a non-compliant user. Enforcement of pretreatment violations
will generally be in accordance with town’s enforcement response plan. However,
the POTW Director may take other action against any user when the circumstances
warrant. Further, the POTW Director is empowered to take more than one
enforcement action against any non-compliant user.
   (E)   Annual publication of significant non-compliance. At least annually,
the POTW Director shall publish in a newspaper of general circulation that
provides meaningful public notice within the jurisdiction(s) served by the
POTW, a list of those industrial users which were found to be in significant
non-compliance, also referred to as reportable non-compliance, in 15A NCAC 2H
.0903(b)(10), with applicable pretreatment standards and requirements, during
the previous 12 months.
   (F)   Affirmative defenses to discharge violations.
      (1)   Upset.
         (a)   An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an action
brought for non-compliance with categorical pretreatment standards if the
requirements of division (F)(1)(b) below are met.
         (b)   A user who wishes to establish the affirmative defense of upset
shall demonstrate, through properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs or
other relevant evidence that:
            1.   An upset occurred and the user can identify the cause(s) of
the upset;
            2.   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
workman-like manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures; and
            3.   The user has submitted the following information to the POTW
Director within 24 hours of becoming aware of the upset. If this information is
provided orally, a written submission must be provided within five days:
               a.   A description of the indirect discharge and cause of non-
compliance;
               b.   The period of non-compliance, including exact dates and
times or, if not corrected, the anticipated time the non-compliance is expected
to continue; and
               c.   Steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate and
prevent recurrence of the non-compliance.
         (c)   In any enforcement proceeding, the user seeking to establish the
occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof.
         (d)   Users will have the opportunity for a judicial determination on
any claim of upset only in an enforcement action brought for non-compliance
with categorical pretreatment standards.
         (e)   Users shall control production of all discharges to the extent
necessary to maintain compliance with categorical pretreatment standards upon
reduction, loss or failure of its treatment facility until the facility is
restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement
applies in the situation where, among other things, the primary source of power
of the treatment facility is reduced, lost or fails.
      (2)   Prohibited discharge standards defense. A user shall have an
affirmative defense to an enforcement action brought against it for non-
compliance with the general prohibitions in §
51.49(A) of this chapter or the specific prohibitions in §
51.49(B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(5) through (B)(7) and (B)(9) through (B)(23) of this
chapter if it can prove that it did not know, or have reason to know, that its
discharge, alone or in conjunction with discharges from other sources, would
cause pass through or interference and that either:
         (a)   A local limit exists for each pollutant discharged and the user
was in compliance with each limit directly prior to, and during, the pass
through or interference; or
         (b)   No local limit exists, but the discharge did not change
substantially in nature or constituents from the user’s prior discharge when
the town was regularly in compliance with its NPDES permit, and in the case of
interference, was in compliance with applicable sludge use or disposal
requirements.
      (3)   Bypass.
         (a)   A user may allow any bypass to occur which does not cause
pretreatment standards or requirements to be violated, but only if it also is
for essential maintenance to assure efficient operation. These bypasses are not
subject to the provision of divisions (F)(1) and (F)(2) above.
         (b)   1.   If a user knows in advance of the need for a bypass, it
shall submit prior notice to the POTW Director, at least ten days before the
date of the bypass, if possible.
            2.   A user shall submit oral notice to the POTW Director of an
unanticipated bypass that exceeds applicable pretreatment standards within 24
hours from the time it becomes aware of the bypass. A written submission shall
also be provided within five days of this time the user becomes aware of the
bypass. The written submission shall contain a description of the bypass and
its cause; the duration of the bypass, including exact dates and times, and, if
the bypass has not been corrected, the anticipated time it is expected to
continue; and steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate and prevent
reoccurrence of the bypass. The POTW Director may waive the written report on a
case-by-case basis if the oral report has been received within 24 hours.
         (c)   1.   Bypass is prohibited, and the POTW Director may take an
enforcement action against a user for a bypass, unless:
               a.   Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal
injury or severe property damage;
               b.   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as
the use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate back-up equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventive maintenance; and
               c.   The user submitted notices as required under division (F)
(3)(b) above.
            2.   The POTW Director may approve an anticipated bypass, after
considering its adverse effects, if the POTW Director determines that it will
meet the three conditions listed in division (F)(3)(c)1. above.
(Ord. 2007-13, passed 11-6-2012)
CHAPTER 52:  FATS, OIL AND GREASE CONTROL
Section
   
52.01   Purpose
   
52.02   Definitions
   
52.03   Grease interceptors required
   
52.04   Compliance date
   
52.05   Discharge criteria
   
52.06   Service/inspection ports and monitoring ports
   
52.07   Under the sink grease interceptors
   
52.08   Interceptor maintenance
   
52.09   Grease interceptor treatment products
   
52.10   Monitoring, inspection and entry
   
52.11   Prohibited discharges
   
52.12   Severability
 
   
52.99   Penalty
§ 52.01  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to aid in the prevention of sanitary sewer
blockages and obstructions from the accumulation of fats, oils and grease in
the town’s sewer system.
(Ord. passed 8-3-2010)
§ 52.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FATS, OILS AND GREASE. Organic polar compounds derived from animal and/or
plant sources that contain multiple carbon chain triglyceride molecules.
   FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT. Any commercial, industrial or institutional
facility discharging kitchen or food preparation wastewater including, but not
limited to, the following: restaurants, motels, hotels, cafeterias, hospitals,
schools, nightclubs, delicatessen, meat cutting preparation, bakeries, bagel
shops, grocery stores, gas stations and any other facility that the Public
Works Director determines to be in need of a grease interceptor by virtue of
its operation.
   GREASE INTERCEPTOR. A device used to effect the separation of fats, oils and
grease in wastewater effluent which prevents the discharge of fats, oils and
grease in excess of 300 milligrams per liter (mg/l) concentration, or has been
found by the Public Works Director to prevent the discharge of fats, oils and
grease in quantities sufficient to cause POTW line stoppages or necessitate
increased maintenance of the POTW in order to keep line stoppages from
occurring. An INTERCEPTOR may be of the “outdoor” or underground type normally
of a 1,000-gallon capacity or more, or “under-the-counter” package unit, which
is typically less than 100-gallon capacity. For the purpose of this definition,
the terms GREASE INTERCEPTOR, INTERCEPTOR and GREASE TRAP are used
interchangeably.
   INSPECTOR. The Public Works Director and persons acting under the Public
Works Director’s direction who are investigating compliance with this chapter.
   OPERATOR. The operator of a food service establishment.
   OWNER. An individual, person, firm, company, association, society,
corporation or other entity upon whose property the building or structure
containing the food service establishment is located or will be constructed.
OWNER shall also include the owner of a food service establishment which is
leasing the building, structure or a portion thereof containing the food
service establishment.
   PLUMBING CODE. The current edition of the North Carolina Plumbing Code.
   POTW (PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS). The treatment works as defined by §
212 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the Clean Water
Act, (33 U.S.C. § 1292), which is owned by the town. This definition includes
any devices or systems used in the collection, storage, treatment, recycling
and reclamation of municipal sewage or industrial wastes of a liquid or solid
nature. It also includes sewers, pipes and other conveyances only if they
convey wastewater to the POTW treatment plant. For the purposes of this
chapter, POTW shall also include any sewers that convey wastewater to the POTW
from persons outside the town who are, by contract or agreement with the town,
or in any other way, users of the POTW.
   PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR. The Public Works Director of the town or his or her
authorized representative.
   TOWN. Town of Stoneville, North Carolina, or any duly authorized agent(s) or
official(s) acting on its behalf.
   WASTE. Liquid and water-carried wastes, whether treated or untreated. The
terms “sewage” and “wastewater” shall be deemed to be WASTE by definition.
(Ord. passed 8-3-2010)
§ 52.03  GREASE INTERCEPTORS REQUIRED.
   Food service establishments shall discharge all waste from sinks,
dishwashers, drains and any other fixtures through which fats, oils and grease
may be discharged into a properly maintained and functioning grease
interceptor.
(Ord. passed 8-3-2010)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.04  COMPLIANCE DATE.
   (A)   Operators of existing food service establishments which are not
equipped with a grease interceptor which is in compliance with the requirements
of this chapter shall install a grease interceptor within six months of the
effective date of this chapter.
   (B)   New food service establishments shall be equipped with a grease
interceptor prior to commencement of discharge to the POTW.
   (C)   Any requests for extensions of time for installing a grease
interceptor must be made in writing to the Public Works Director at least 30
days in advance of the compliance date. The written request shall include the
reasons for the operator’s failure or inability to comply with the applicable
compliance date, the amount of additional time needed to complete the remaining
work and the steps to be taken to avoid future delays. The Public Works
Director shall determine whether to grant an extension and the date for
compliance.
(Ord. passed 8-3-2010)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.05  DISCHARGE CRITERIA.
   The following prohibitions shall apply to food service establishments.
   (A)   Where fats, oils and grease are byproducts of food preparation and/or
cleanup, reasonable efforts shall be made to separate waste fats, oils and
grease into a separate container for proper disposal. Except as contained in
byproducts of food preparation and/or clean up waste, fats, oils and grease
shall not be discharged to any drains or grease interceptors. Such waste shall
be placed in a container designed to hold such waste and either used by
industry or disposed of at a suitable location.
   (B)   The influent to interceptors shall not exceed 140°F. The temperature
at the interceptor’s flow control device inspection port shall be considered
equivalent to the temperature of the influent.
   (C)   Toilets, urinals and other similar fixtures shall not discharge
through a grease interceptor.
   (D)   Waste shall enter the grease interceptor only through the inlet flow
control device, then the inlet pipe.
   (E)   Where food-waste grinders are installed, the waste from those units
shall discharge directly into the building drainage system without passing
through a grease interceptor.
(Ord. passed 8-3-2010)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.06  SERVICE/INSPECTION PORTS AND MONITORING PORTS.
   (A)   Except for under the sink grease interceptors, each interceptor shall
be located outside of a building or structure in an area accessible for
service, and so installed and connected that it shall be at all times easily
accessible for inspection and for cleaning and removal of the intercepted
waste. Inlet flow control inspection ports, interceptor inspection ports and
effluent monitoring ports shall be in areas where vehicles may not temporarily
block access for inspection. Interceptors shall be deemed to be inaccessible if
the use of ladders or the removal of bulky equipment or stored materials are
required to inspect inlet flow control devices, inspect or service
interceptors, or sample interceptor effluent. Inspection ports and monitoring
ports shall be located so as to allow inspectors quick and easy access to the
inlet flow control device, each compartment of the interceptor, and the
effluent from the interceptor. An interceptor shall not be installed in any
part of a building where food is handled. The location of all interceptors,
inspection ports and monitoring ports must be approved by the Public Works
Director.
   (B)   An inspection port shall be provided for the flow control device
regulating flow into the interceptor.
   (C)   A one-piece removable metal plate covering the entire interceptor
shall be preferred as an interceptor inspection port although, in the
discretion of the Public Works Director, standard manhole ports may be
installed over each divider in the interceptor, but in either case all parts of
the interceptor shall be easily accessible for cleaning and visual inspection.
   (D)   A monitoring port shall be provided for ease in sampling the effluent
from the interceptor and shall be as close as possible to the connection with
the town’s POTW within the bounds of the facility property. The port shall be
installed and maintained at the operator’s expense. The operator shall properly
place, monitor and maintain the monitoring port so that wastewater samples
taken from the monitoring port are representative of wastewater leaving the
interceptor. It shall be unlawful for a operator to divert sewage around a
monitoring point into the POTW.
(Ord. passed 8-3-2010)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.07  UNDER THE SINK GREASE INTERCEPTORS.
   (A)   General. If an outside grease interceptor is not practical, an under
the sink grease interceptor may be installed subject to the approval of the
Public Works Director. In addition to the general requirements for grease
interceptors as provided in this chapter, under the sink grease interceptors
shall be subject to the following additional requirements.
   (B)   Under the sink requirements.
      (1)   Under the sink interceptors shall be located within 25 feet of the
wastewater source and as close to the wastewater source as is reasonably
possible.
      (2)   The lid shall be secured to the body with a single bolt. No wing
nuts or screws shall be permitted.
      (3)   Baffle systems and all other internal pieces shall be removable to
facilitate cleaning and replacement, but must be in place at all other times.
      (4)   The lid shall cover the deep seal interceptor. The deep seal
interceptor shall be constructed so as to eliminate the possibility of sewer
gas entering the kitchen area.
      (5)   The interceptors shall be constructed with bottom supports so that
the body of the interceptor does not corrode by coming into contact with the
floor.
      (6)   The interceptor shall be coated with a powder coated
electrostatically applied cathodic epoxy coating so as to be resistant to
corrosion.
      (7)   The interceptor shall be equipped with a flow control fitting.
   (C)   Installation requirements.
      (1)   The interceptor may be set on the floor, partially recessed in the
floor with top flush with the floor, or fully recessed below the floor to suit
piping and structural conditions, as acceptable to the Public Works Director.
      (2)   There shall be sufficient clearance for the removal of the
interceptor cover for cleaning.
      (3)   Unless specifically approved by the Public Works Director, runs of
pipe exceeding 25 feet between fixture and interceptor shall not be permitted.
      (4)   The interceptor shall not be installed in a waste line from a
garbage grinder. Any garbage grinder waste shall bypass the interceptor.
      (5)   A suitable flow control fitting shall be installed ahead of the
interceptor in the waste line beyond the fixture and as close as possible to
the underside of the lowest fixture. When wastes of two or more sinks or
fixtures are combined to be used by one interceptor, a single flow control
fitting shall be used.
      (6)   Air intake for flow control either shall terminate under the sink
drain board as high as possible to prevent overflow, or shall terminate in a
return bend at the same height and on the outside of the building.
      (7)   To retain water and prevent siphoning, all interceptors must be a
vented and sized in accordance with the applicable Plumbing Codes.
      (8)   With the approval of the Public Works Director, one interceptor may
be used to serve multiple fixtures if the fixtures are located close together
and the interceptor is sized to meet the combined flow of all the fixtures.
(Ord. passed 8-3-2010)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.08  INTERCEPTOR MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Required cleaning frequency.
      (1)   Unless otherwise specified by the Public Works Director, each
“outdoor” interceptor in active use shall be cleaned at least once every six
months or more frequently as needed to prevent the discharge of fats, oils and
grease in excess of 300 mg/l into the POTW. Under the sink interceptors shall
be cleaned at a minimum once every 15 days or more frequently as needed to
prevent the discharge of fats, oils and grease in excess of 300 mg/l into the
POTW. The Public Works Director may specify cleaning more frequently when
cleaning at these intervals is shown to be inadequate. Additional pumping may
be required during time periods when increased loading is anticipated.
      (2)   If the inspector determines that the interceptor is full, immediate
steps shall be taken by the operator to pump out and clean the interceptor as
soon as is practicable. The Public Works Director shall make an evaluation of
the advisability of allowing discharge to continue, and may, at his or her
discretion, order an immediate cessation of all discharge from the food service
establishment.
   (B)   Notice of cleaning. Every operator shall, within ten days of each
cleaning of an interceptor located on the operator’s premises, notify the
Public Works Director in writing that the interceptor has been cleaned. The
notice of cleaning shall include the date of the cleaning, the identity of the
hauler, the site to which the contents of the interceptor were hauled and such
other information as the Public Works Director may reasonably require. The
operator shall submit with each notice of cleaning an invoice, manifest or
other similar document from the hauler evidencing the cleaning of the
interceptor. The operator shall also submit such other documentation relating
to the cleaning of the interceptor as the Public Works Director may reasonably
require.
   (C)   Cleaning procedures.
      (1)   The operator or an employee of the operator shall supervise the
interceptor cleaning. Such person shall be present during and observe the
entire cleaning operation.
      (2)   An operator shall cause the licensed waste hauler, transporter or
any other person cleaning or servicing an interceptor to completely evacuate
all contents, including floating materials, wastewater and bottom sludges and
solids during servicing. Skimming the surface layer of waste material, partial
cleaning of the interceptor or using any method that does not remove the entire
contents of the collection device is prohibited. The suction of the floating
materials shall be done prior to removal of other contents. After complete
evacuation, the walls, top and bottom of the interceptor shall be thoroughly
scraped and the residue removed.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for an operator to allow the decanting or
discharging of removed waste back into the interceptor from which the waste was
removed or into any other interceptor.
      (4)   When cleaned, the interceptor shall be fully evacuated unless the
interceptor volume is greater than the tank capacity on the vacuum truck in
which case the transporter shall arrange for additional transportation capacity
so that the interceptor is fully evacuated within a 24-hour period following
the transporter’s inability to fully evacuate the interceptor.
   (D)   Disposal of interceptor pumpage. All waste removed from each
interceptor shall be disposed of at a facility permitted and authorized to
receive such waste in accordance with all applicable federal, state and local
regulations. Fats, oils and grease removed from an interceptor shall not be
recycled so as to become a food product or part of a food product for animal or
human consumption. The operator shall be responsible for assuring that the
waste is disposed of in accordance with all federal, state and local disposal
regulations.
   (E)   Vacuum truck cleaning service. It shall be unlawful for an operator to
allow grease interceptor waste to be removed from its premises by a transporter
which does not have all applicable federal, state and local permits or
registrations.
(Ord. passed 8-3-2010)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.09  GREASE INTERCEPTOR TREATMENT PRODUCTS.
   (A)   Use of grease interceptor treatment products, including bacteria
designed to digest fats, oils and grease, is specifically prohibited without
prior written consent of the Public Works Director.
   (B)   The Public Works Director may revoke permission to use such products
where the effluent from the interceptor or basin in which the product is used
fails to meet the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 8-3-2010)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.10  MONITORING, INSPECTION AND ENTRY.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of a food service establishment to
refuse to allow inspectors to enter its premises during reasonable hours to
determine whether the operator is complying with all of the requirements of
this chapter. The operator shall allow the inspectors access to all parts of
the premises for purposes of inspection, sampling, records examination and
copying, and the performance of additional duties reasonably required to
enforce this chapter.
(Ord. passed 8-3-2010)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.11  PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   No person shall discharge fats, oils and grease into the POTW in excess of
300 mg/l.
(Ord. passed 8-3-2010)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.12  SEVERABILITY.
   If any part or parts of this chapter shall be held to be invalid, such
invalidity shall not affect the remaining parts of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 8-3-2010)
§ 52.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   A violation of any provision of this chapter shall subject the
offender to fines up to $500 per day. If the offender fails to pay this penalty
within 15 calendar days after being cited for a violation, the penalty may be
recovered by the town in a civil action in the nature of a debt.
   (B)   This chapter may also be enforced by any appropriate equitable action,
including injunctions or orders of abatement.
   (C)   The town may enforce this chapter by any one of or any combination of
the foregoing remedies.
   (D)   The remedies provided above are not exclusive and do not prohibit the
town from using any other remedy provided by law.
(Ord. passed 8-3-2010)
CHAPTER 53:  BACKFLOW PREVENTION
Section
   
53.01   Objectives
   
53.02   Definitions
   
53.03   Elimination of cross-connections
   
53.04   Installation, testing and maintenance of backflow prevention assemblies
   
53.05   High hazard facilities and methods of correction
   
53.06   Moderate hazard facilities and methods of correction
   
53.07   Lawn irrigation systems
   
53.08   Fire sprinkler systems
   
53.09   Imminent hazards
   
53.10   Right of entry
   
53.11   Responsibility of customer
   
53.12   Unapproved source of supply
   
53.13   Emergency termination of service
 
   
53.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Cross connection control, see
Chapter 54
§ 53.01  OBJECTIVES.
   The objective of this chapter for the town is to protect the potable water
supply of the town. This will be accomplished by requiring the use of
appropriate backflow protection methods. The possibility of contamination will
be minimized by confining within the customer’s private water system those
contaminants or pollutants which could, under adverse conditions, backflow
through uncontrolled cross-connections into the public water system.
(Ord. passed 5-1-2012)
§ 53.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR GAP SEPARATION. The unobstructed vertical distance through the
atmosphere between the lowest opening from any pipe or faucet supplying water
to a tank, plumbing fixture or other device and the flood level rim of the
receptacle. An approved AIR GAP SEPARATION shall be at least double the
diameter of the supply pipe. In no case shall the air gap separation be less
than one inch.
   APPROVED. In reference to backflow prevention assemblies or methods, those
assemblies or methods which have been accepted by the Director as an effective
means or method to prevent backflow.
   BACKFLOW. Any flow of water, liquid, gas or other substances, or any
combination thereof, into the distribution piping of a potable water supply
from any source or sources.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY. An approved assembly or method used to prevent
backflow from occurring in the potable water supply.
   BACK-PRESSURE BACKFLOW. Backflow caused by a pump, elevated tank, boiler or
other means that could create pressure with the system greater than the supply
pressure.
   BACK-SIPHONAGE BACKFLOW. A reversal of the normal direction flow in the
pipeline due to a negative pressure (vacuum) being created in the supply line
with the backflow source subject atmospheric pressure.
   CERTIFIED TESTER. A person who has proven his or her competency to test,
repair, overhaul and prepare reports on backflow prevention assemblies as
evidenced by certification of successful completion of a training program
approved by the Director.
   CONSUMER/CUSTOMER. Any person, firm, corporation or entity using or
receiving water from the town’s water system.
   CONTAINMENT. Prevention of possible contamination from a private water
system by installing an approved backflow prevention assembly.
   CONTAMINATION. The degradation of the quality of water so as to constitute a
hazard or impair the usefulness of water.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical connection between the town’s water supply
system and any other source. This includes piping systems, sewer fixtures,
containers or devices whereby water or other liquids, mixtures or substances
may flow into or enter the town’s water supply system.
   CROSS-CONNECTION INSPECTOR. An employee of the town designated by the
Director to administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   DEGREE OF HAZARD. Derived from an evaluation of the health, system, plumbing
or pollution hazards.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of Public Works.
   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY. An assembly composed of two single,
independently-acting approved check valves, including tightly closing shut-off
valves located at each end of the assembly, and suitable connections for
testing the water-tightness of each check valve.
   DOUBLE CHECK-DETECTOR CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY. An assembly composed of an
approved double check valve assembly with a bypass water meter and a meter-
sized approved double check valve device. The meter shall register accurately
for very low flow rates and shall register all flow rates.
   HIGH HAZARD. An actual or potential threat of contamination to the public
water system or to a private water system to such a degree or intensity that
there could be a danger to health.
   IMMINENT HAZARD. An actual threat of contamination that presents a danger to
the public health with consequences of serious illness or death.
   MODERATE HAZARD. One that presents foreseeable and significant potential for
pollution, nuisance aesthetically objectionable or other undesirable
alterations of the drinking water supply.
   POINT OF DELIVERY. The terminal end of a service connection from the public
potable water system (i.e., where the Director loses sole jurisdiction over the
water); the point where water leaves the public water system and enters a
private water system.
   POTABLE WATER. Water from any source which has been approved for human
consumption by the appropriate agency of the state.
   PRIVATE WATER SYSTEM. A system of pipes or other associated facilities that
is not part of the town’s public water system and is used to move or receive
water, regardless of the source of water in such system.
   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE ASSEMBLY. An assembly containing within its
structure a minimum of two independently acting, approved check valves,
together with an automatically operating pressure differential relief valve
located between the check valves. The first check valve reduces the supply
pressure by a predetermined amount so that during normal flow and at cessation
of normal flow, the pressure between the checks shall be less than the supply
pressures. In case of leakage of either check valve, the differential relief
valve, by discharge to the atmosphere, shall operate to maintain the pressure
between the checks less than the supply pressure; the assembly must include
properly located test cocks and tightly closing shut-off valves at each end of
the assembly.
   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE-DETECTOR ASSEMBLY. An assembly composed of an
approved reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assembly with a bypass
water meter and meter-sized approved reduced pressure principle devices. The
meter shall register accurately for very low flow rates and shall register all
flow rates.
   WATER SUPPLY (APPROVED). Any public potable water supply which has been
investigated and approved by the appropriate agency of the state. The system
must be operating under a valid health permit.
(Ord. passed 5-1-2012)
§ 53.03  ELIMINATION OF CROSS-CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No private water system may be connected in any manner to the public
water system unless the requirements of this chapter and other applicable laws
have been satisfied.
   (B)   Only an approved device can be installed to meet the requirements of
this chapter. The installation of any backflow prevention assembly which is not
approved must be replaced with an approved backflow prevention assembly.
(Ord. passed 5-1-2012)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.04  INSTALLATION, TESTING AND MAINTENANCE OF BACKFLOW PREVENTION
ASSEMBLIES.
   (A)   All backflow prevention assemblies shall be installed in accordance
with the manufacturer’s instructions and those furnished by the town. Only
backflow preventers approved by the town shall be installed.
   (B)   All backflow prevention assemblies required by this chapter must be
installed and maintained on the customer’s premises as part of the customer’s
water system.
   (C)   Ownership, testing and maintenance of the backflow prevention assembly
will be the responsibility of the customer. Each assembly required in this
chapter must be functioning properly at all times.
   (D)   Testing of backflow prevention assemblies shall be conducted by a
certified tester at the customer’s expense. Tests shall be conducted upon
installation and annually thereafter with a record of all testing and repairs
retained by the customer. A copy of the certified record for each test or
repair must be sent to the town by such customer within 30 days after the
completion of each test or repair; such records must be maintained on forms
provided by the town.
   (E)   Each backflow prevention assembly required under this chapter must be
accessible to the town.
   (F)   When it is not possible to interrupt water service, the customer shall
provide for the parallel installation of an approved backflow prevention
assembly. The Director will not accept an unprotected bypass around a backflow
preventer when the assembly is in need of testing, repair or replacement.
   (G)   Any time that repairs to backflow assemblies are deemed necessary,
whether through annual testing or routine inspection by the owner or by the
town, these repairs must be completed within a time specified in accordance
with the degree of hazard. Repairs on a private water system considered to be
an imminent hazard shall be completed within 24 hours, a high hazard shall be
completed within ten days, and all other repairs within 20 days for any other
private water system. Failure to comply can result in termination of a
customer’s water service.
 
Double check valve assembly (2-1/2 inch and larger)                             60
                                                                                days
Double check valve assembly (3/4-inch by 2-inch)                                60
                                                                                days
Other approved backflow prevention assembly                                     30
                                                                                days
Reduced pressure principle assembly (2-1/2 inch and larger)                     60
                                                                                days
Reduced pressure principle assembly (3/4-inch by 2-inch)                        30
                                                                                days
Upon determination that a backflow prevention assembly is required to be
Installed on a customer’s private water system, the customer will be notified 30
in writing of the approved backflow prevention assembly which is required. On   days
existing systems, the customer will have the following time periods within
which to install the specified backflow prevention assembly. Air gap separation
 
   (H)   (1)   The Director may require the installation of the required
backflow prevention assembly immediately or within a shorter time period than
specified above if he or she determines that any condition poses an
unreasonable threat of contamination to the public water supply system.
      (2)   All devices required for new construction shall be installed prior
to occupancy.
      (3)   All new construction plans and specifications shall be made
available to the Director for approval and to determine the degree of hazard.
   (I)   The Director shall be notified by the customer when the nature of the
use of property changes so as to change the hazard classification of the
property if necessary.
(Ord. passed 5-1-2012)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.05  HIGH HAZARD FACILITIES AND METHODS OF CORRECTION.
   (A)   All high hazard facilities must have an approved reduced pressure
principle assembly as a minimum containment device.
   (B)   High hazard facilities include, but are not limited to: any private
water system used or designed pump or which may become pressurized for use with
a booster for any reason to the extent that back pressure may occur; any
private water system which contains water which has been or is being re-
circulated; a building with five or more stories above ground level; brewery;
car wash with recycling system; bottling plant; chemical plant; dentist’s
office; dry cleaning plant; fertilizer plant; film laboratory; fire sprinkler
or standpipe system with chemical additives; hospital, clinic, medical
building; irrigation system with chemical additives; laboratory; commercial
laundry (except self-service laundry); metal processing plant; morgue or
mortuary; nursing home; pharmaceutical plant; power plant; swimming pool;
sewage treatment plant; tire manufacturer, veterinary hospital or clinic;
restaurants; battery manufacturers; exterminators and lawn care companies;
dairies; canneries; dye works; recycling facilities.
   (C)   If a cross-connection inspector does not have sufficient access to
every portion of a private water system to permit the complete evaluation of
the degree of hazard associated with such private water system, an approved
reduced pressure principle assembly must be installed.
(Ord. passed 5-1-2012)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.06  MODERATE HAZARD FACILITIES AND METHODS OF CORRECTION.
   (A)   Moderate hazard facilities include, but are not limited to: fire
sprinkler systems without booster pump facilities or chemical additives;
connections to tanks, lines and vessels that handle non-toxic substances; lawn
sprinkler systems without chemical injection or booster pumps; all industrial
and most commercial facilities not identified as high hazard facilities.
   (B)   All moderate hazard facilities must have a double check valve assembly
as a minimum containment device.
(Ord. passed 5-1-2012)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.07  LAWN IRRIGATION SYSTEMS.
   (A)   All existing lawn irrigation systems must have a double check valve
assembly as a minimum containment device.
   (B)   All proposed lawn irrigation systems will be served through a separate
meter and must have a double check valve assembly as a minimum containment
device.
(Ord. passed 5-1-2012)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.08  FIRE SPRINKLER SYSTEMS.
   (A)   All unmetered fire sprinkler systems without booster facilities or
chemical additives must have a double check-detector check valve assembly as a
minimum containment device.
   (B)   All unmetered fire sprinkler systems with a booster facility or
chemical additives must have a reduced pressure principle-detector assembly as
a minimum containment device.
(Ord. passed 5-1-2012)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.09  IMMINENT HAZARDS.
   If the Director determines that a customer’s private water system
constitutes an imminent hazard, such customer shall install a backflow
prevention assembly as may be specified by the Director within 24 hours after
notice of the Director’s determination. If the customer fails to take
corrective measures in a timely manner, or refuses to install the specified
assembly, water service to the customer’s private water system may be
terminated. If the Director is unable to give notice to such customer or his or
her representative within 24 hours after the determination that an imminent
hazard exists, despite reasonable efforts to provide such notice, the Director
may terminate water service to the private water system until the specified
corrected measures are taken. Upon correction of the existing problem and with
the Director’s approval, water service will be continued.
(Ord. passed 5-1-2012)
§ 53.10  RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   The Director or his or her authorized agent shall have the right to
enter any building, structure or premises during normal working hours to
perform any duty imposed upon him or her by this chapter. Duties may include
sampling and testing water, or inspections and observations of all piping
systems connected to the public water supply. Prior notice will be given unless
an imminent hazard has been reported. Refusal to allow entry for these purposes
may result in termination of the water service.
   (B)   At the request of the Director, the customer shall furnish any
pertinent information regarding the piping and chemical storage on such
property where cross-connections are deemed possible.
(Ord. passed 5-1-2012)
§ 53.11  RESPONSIBILITY OF CUSTOMER.
   (A)   The customer shall be responsible for the elimination of or protection
against all cross-connections on his or her premises.
   (B)   The customer shall maintain any backflow prevention assembly within
his or her premises in good operating condition, the customer shall correct any
malfunction of the backflow prevented which is revealed by periodic testing.
   (C)   The customer shall be responsible for the payment of all fees for
annual testing, re-testing in the case that the assembly fails to operate
correctly and repairs.
   (D)   A customer must immediately notify the town if the customer has reason
to believe that backflow has occurred from the customer’s private water system
to the public water system.
(Ord. passed 5-1-2012)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.12  UNAPPROVED SOURCE OF SUPPLY.
   (A)   No person shall connect or cause to be connected any supply of water
not approved by the state to the public water supply system.
   (B)   Where a connection to a town water line is made, and the property
owner continues to have a well or other source of water, it shall be unlawful
for the plumbing servicing any building upon such property to be so connected
that any water outlet within the building may be served with water from any
source other than the town connection, and it shall also be installed that
unlawful to have plumbing cross-connected or so installed that water from the
town water system or the private water system may in any way become
intermingled.
(Ord. passed 5-1-2012)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.13  EMERGENCY TERMINATION OF SERVICE.
   If it is determined by the Director that a cross connection or an emergency
endangers public health safety or welfare and creates an imminent hazard in
violation of this chapter, or if the customer refuses to allow the Director to
have access during normal working hours to perform any duty imposed upon him or
her by this chapter, the customer’s water service may be immediately
terminated. As soon as practicable thereafter, the town will provide the
customer with a notice of violation. Within ten days of date of the notice of
violation, the customer shall have a hearing before the Director. The hearing
shall conform to all existing due process requirements.
(Ord. passed 5-1-2012)
§ 53.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   A written notice of violation shall be given to any person who is
determined to be in violation of any provision of this chapter.
   (B)   Such notice shall set forth the violation and the time period within
which the violation must be corrected. The violation must be corrected within a
reasonable time, as specified in the notice, not to exceed 30 days from receipt
of the violation notice. If the Director determines that the violation is
occurring on a customer’s private water system and that such violation has
created or contributed to the existence of an imminent hazard, the customer may
be required to correct the violation immediately.
   (C)   Water service may be terminated to a customer if the customer fails to
correct a violation or to pay any civil penalty or expense assessed under this
section. Termination of water service will be without prejudice to the town’s
ability to assert any other remedy available to the town against the customer
or any other person responsible for the violation.
   (D)   The violation of any provision of this chapter shall subject the
violator to a civil penalty.
      (1)   Each subsequent day that a violation listed in divisions (D)(1)(a)
through (D)(1)(d) below continues shall constitute a separate and distinct
offense according to the following schedule:
         (a)   Unprotected cross-connection involving a private water system
which is an imminent hazard: $1,000/day;
         (b)   Unprotected cross-connection involving a private water system
which is a high hazard: $750/day;
         (c)   Unprotected cross-connection involving a private water system
which is a moderate hazard: $500/day; and
         (d)   Unprotected cross-connection for which no other civil penalty is
prescribed: $250/day.
      (2)   Each violation listed in divisions (D)(2)(a) through (D)(2)(e)
below shall be considered a one-time violation subject to the following
schedule:
         (a)   Falsifying records which are required to be submitted by this
chapter: tester may be removed from the approved certified tester list and/or
$500;
         (b)   Submitting incomplete records or failing to submit records which
are required by this chapter: tester may be removed from the approved certified
tester list and/or $250;
         (c)   Failing to test backflow prevention assemblies as required:
$100;
         (d)   Failing to maintain backflow prevention assemblies as required:
$100; and
         (e)   Any other violation of the provisions of this chapter: $100.
   (E)   The Director may increase any civil penalty assessed under this
section by $100 or 50% of the maximum civil penalty associated with the
violation, whichever is greater, for a second violation of the same provision
within a two-year period. Water service may be terminated after a third
violation of the same provision within a two-year period. Any person violating
any provision of this chapter shall pay to the town all expenses incurred by
the town in repairing any damage to the public water system caused in whole or
in part by such violation and any expense incurred by the town in investigating
such violation. All such expenses are deemed to be a part of the civil penalty
assessed with the violation.
(Ord. passed 5-1-2012)
CHAPTER 54:  CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL
Section
   
54.01   Purpose; responsibility
   
54.02   Definitions
   
54.03   Right of entry
   
54.04   Elimination of cross-connections
   
54.05   Installation
   
54.06   Testing and repair
   
54.07   Severe hazard facilities and methods of correction
   
54.08   Moderate hazard
   
54.09   Imminent hazard
   
54.10   Lawn irrigation systems
   
54.11   Fire sprinkler systems
   
54.12   Notices
   
54.13   Violations
 
   
54.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Backflow prevention, see
Chapter 53
§ 54.01  PURPOSE; RESPONSIBILITY.
   The purpose of this cross-connection control chapter is:
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   To protect the public potable water supply of the town from the
possibility of contamination or pollution, due to back siphonage or
backpressure, by isolation within the consumer's private water system such
contaminants or pollutants, which could backflow into the public water system.
      (2)   To define the authority of the town as the water purveyor entitled
to eliminating cross-connections, new or existing, within its public water
system.
      (3)   To provide a continuing inspection program of cross-connections
that may be installed in the future.
      (4)   This chapter will comply with the Federal Safe Drinking Water Act
(P.L. 93-523), the North Carolina State Administrative Code (G.S. Title 15A,
Subch. 8C), and the North Carolina State Building Code (Volume II) as they
pertain to cross-connections within the public water supply.
   (B)   Responsibility, town.  The responsibility of the town is as follows:
      (1)   The town will be primarily responsible for preventing any
contamination or pollution of the public water system. This responsibility
begins at the point of origin of the public water supply, includes all of the
public water distribution system, including the service connection, and ends at
the point of delivery (water meter) to the consumer's potable water system. The
town shall exercise vigilance to ensure that the consumer/customer has taken
the proper steps to protect the public potable water system.
      (2)   When it has been determined that a backflow protection assembly is
required for the prevention of contamination of the public water system, the
town shall notify the owner, in writing, of any such building or premises, to
correct within a time set by this chapter, any plumbing installed or existing
that is in violation of this chapter.
      (3)   After surveying the private water system, the town will select an
approved backflow prevention assembly required for containment control to be
installed at service.
      (4)   Prior to the installation of any backflow prevention assembly, the
owner of the private water system must be notified that the installation of a
backflow prevention assembly may create a closed system, and as a result
thermal expansion may occur. Under such circumstance, the customer must
understand and assume all liability and responsibilities for that phenomenon.
   (C)   Responsibility, customer. The responsibility of the customer is as
follows:
      (1)   The customer has the responsibility of preventing contaminants and
pollutants from entering the customer's private water system or the public
water system operated by the town. The customer, at his or her own expense,
shall install, operate, and maintain all backflow prevention assemblies
specified within this policy.
      (2)   If a tenant customer does not maintain the private water system and
has no authority to bring the system into compliance with the provisions of
this policy, the town may assert any available action against the tenant to
assure the private water system is brought into compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. passed 9-3-2013)
§ 54.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR GAP SEPARATION.  An unobstructed vertical distance through the
atmosphere between the lowest opening from any pipe or faucet supplying water
from any source to a tank, plumbing fixture, or other device and the flood
level rim of the receptacle. An approved air gap separation shall be at least
double the diameter of the supply pipe. In no case shall the air gap separation
be less than one inch. An approved, air gap separation is an effective method
to prevent backflow and shall be considered as a backflow prevention assembly.
   ATMOSPHERIC VACUUM BREAKER.  A device used to prevent back siphonage which
is designed so as not to be subject to static line pressure.
   BACK PRESSURE.  Any elevation of pressure in the downstream piping system
caused by pumps, elevation of piping, or steam and/or air pressure above the
supply pressure at the point of consideration, which would cause a reversal of
the normal direction of flow.
   BACK SIPHONAGE.  A reversal of the normal direction of flow in the pipeline
due to a negative pressure (vacuum) being created in the supply line with the
backflow source subject to atmospheric pressure.
   BACKFLOW.  Any reverse flow of water, gas or any other liquid substance or
combination into the public water system from any source due to an unprotected
cross-connection.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION ADMINISTRATOR.  An employee of the sanitary district or
someone designated by the sanitary district to administer and enforce the
provisions of this chapter.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY - APPROVED.  An assembly that has been
investigated and approved by the town and has been approved to meet the design
and performance standards of the American Society of Sanitary Engineers (ASSE),
the American Water Works Assoc. (AWWA), or the Foundation for Cross Connection
Control and Hydraulic Research of the University of Southern California.
   CERTIFIED TESTER.  Any individual person who has proven his or her
competency to test, repair and overhaul backflow prevention assemblies. This
person must hold a certificate of completion from a certified training program
in the testing and repair of backflow prevention assemblies and cross
connection control.
   CONSUMER/CUSTOMER.  Any person, firm, or corporation using or receiving
water from the town public water system.
   CONTAINMENT.  The prevention of backflow from a private water system by an
approved, properly functioning backflow prevention assembly which is installed,
operated and maintained in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   CONTAMINATION.  Any impairment of the quality of the water to a degree,
which creates an actual hazard to the public health through poisoning or
through the spread of disease.
   CROSS CONNECTION.  Any actual or potential connection or piping arrangement
between a public or a consumer's potable water system and any other source or
system through which it is possible to introduce into any part of the potable
system any used water, industrial fluids, gas or substance which could be
harmful or hazardous to the potable water system.
   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY (DCVA).  An assembly composed of two single,
independently acting, approved check valves, including tightly closing shut-off
valves located at each end of the device and suitable connections for testing
the water tightness of each check valve.
   DOUBLE CHECK-DETECTOR VALVE ASSEMBLY (DCDA).  An assembly composed of an
approved double check valve assembly with a bypass water meter and a meter-
sized approved double check valve device. The meter shall register accurately
for very low flow rates and shall register all flow rates.
   HAZARD-DEGREE.  The evaluation of a hazard within a private water system as
moderate or severe.
   HAZARD-IMMINENT.  An actual threat of contamination to the public water
system that could cause serious illness or death.
   HAZARD-MODERATE.  One that presents foreseeable and significant potential
for pollution, nuisance, aesthetically objectionable or other undesirable
alterations of the drinking water supply.
   HAZARD-SEVERE.  An actual or potential threat of contamination to the public
water system or to a customer's potable water system that could cause serious
illness or death.
   HEALTH HAZARD.
      (1)   The term HEALTH HAZARD shall mean an actual or potential threat of
contamination of a physical, chemical, biological, pathogenic or toxic nature
to the public consumer's potable water system to such a degree or intensity
that there would be a danger to health.
      (2)   Examples of waterborne health hazards include but are not limited
to:
         (a)   Physical - radioisotopes/radionuclides;
         (b)   Chemical - lead, mercury and other heavy metals, organic
compounds, other toxins and hazardous substances;
         (c )   Biological - microorganisms and pathogens like Cryptosporidium,
typhoid, cholera and E. Coli.
   POLLUTION.  An impairment of the quality of the water to a degree which does
not create an actual hazard to the public health, but which does adversely and
unreasonably affect such water for domestic use.
   POTABLE WATER.  Water from any source which has been approved for human
consumption by the appropriate agency of the State of North Carolina and the
town.
   PRESSURE VACUUM BREAKER.  An assembly suitable for continuous pressure, to
be used to provide protection against backslphonage.
   PRIVATE WATER SYSTEM.  Any water system located on the customer's premise,
whether supplied by public potable water or an auxiliary water supply. The
system or systems may be either a potable water system or an industrial piping
system.
   PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM.  The potable water system owned by the town. This
system includes all distribution mains, lines, pipes, connections, storage
tanks, and other facilities conveying potable water to the service connections
of each customer.
   REDUCED PRESSURE ZONE ASSEMBLY.  An approved, properly functioning assembly
containing two, independently acting check valves with a hydraulically
operating, mechanically independent pressure differential relief valve located
between the check valves and at the same time below the first check valve. The
assembly must include properly located test cocks and tightly closing shut-off
valves at each end of the assembly. This assembly is designed to protect
against a severe hazard.
   REDUCED PRESSURE ZONE-DETECTOR VALVE ASSEMBLY (RPDA).  An assembly composed
of an approved reduced pressure zone assembly with a bypass water meter and a
meter-sized approved reduced pressure zone assemble. The meter shall register
accurately for very low flow rates and shall register all flow rates.
   RESIDENTIAL DUAL CHECK (RDC).  A RESIDENTIAL DUAL CHECK VALVE is an
assembly, without test cocks or ports, containing two independently operating
spring loaded, poppet type check valves, in series, which can be easily removed
and replaced. This assembly is suitable for installation in a water meter vault
or pit, below ground.
   SERVICE CONNECTION.  The terminal end of a service connection from the
public potable water system, i.e., where the water purveyor loses jurisdiction
and sanitary control over the water at its point of delivery to the consumer's
water system.
   USED WATER.  Any water supplied by a water purveyor from a public water
system to a consumer's water system after is has passed through the point of
delivery and is no longer under the control of the water purveyor.
   WATER PURVEYOR.  Owner or operator of a public potable water system
providing an approved water supply to the public.
   WATER SUPPLY-AUXILIARY.  Any water supply on or available to the customer's
premises other than the purveyor's approved public potable water supply. The
auxiliary water may include water from another purveyor's public potable water
supply or any natural source such as a well, spring, river, stream, etc., and
used or objectionable.
   WATER SUPPLY-UNAPPROVED.  Any water supply, which has not been approved for
human consumption by the North Carolina Department of Human Resources.
(Ord. passed 9-3-2013)
§ 54.03  RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   Upon presentation of proper credentials and identification any
authorized representative from the town shall have the right to enter any
building, structure or premises during normal business hours, or at any time
during the event of an emergency, to perform any duty imposed upon him or her
by this chapter. Those duties may include sampling and testing of water, or
inspection and observation of all piping systems connected to the public water
supply. Refusal to allow these representatives to enter for these purposes will
result in the town obtaining an administrative order for entry and potential
disconnection of water service.
   (B)   On request, the consumer shall furnish to the water purveyor any
pertinent information-regarding the water supply system on such property where
cross-connection and backflow are deemed possible. (N.C. State Plumbing Code
Appendix D104.2.3).
(Ord. passed 9-3-2013)
§ 54.04  ELIMINATION OF CROSS-CONNECTIONS.
   Unprotected cross-connection is prohibited
   (A)   No water service connection to any private water system shall be
installed or maintained by the town unless the water supply is protected as
required by this ordinance and other applicable laws. Service of water to any
premises shall be discontinued by the town if a backflow assembly, required by
this ordinance, is not installed, tested, and maintained or if a backflow
assembly has been removed, bypassed, or if an unprotected cross connection
exists on the premises. Service, will be restored after all such conditions or
defects are corrected.
   (B)   No customer shall allow an unprotected cross-connection to be made or
to remain involving the customer's private water system.
   (C)   No connection shall be made to an unapproved auxiliary water supply
unless the public water supply is protected against backflow by an approved
backflow assembly, appropriate to the degree of hazard.
   (D)   No customer shall fail to maintain in good operating condition any
backflow prevention assembly, which is part of the customer's private water
system and is required by this chapter.
   (E)   No customer shall fail to submit to the town any record, which is
required by this chapter.
(Ord. passed 9-3-2013)  Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.05  INSTALLATION.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to require that water flowing from the
public water system, must flow through an approved backflow prevention assembly
and that each backflow prevention assembly be properly located, installed,
maintained and tested so that the backflow prevention assembly is effective in
protecting the public water system from any possible contamination or
pollution.
   (B)   The installation or replacement of a backflow prevention assembly for
domestic water use shall only be performed by a licensed plumber or utility
contractor. The installation or repair of a backflow prevention assembly on a
dedicated fire sprinkler service shall be performed by a licensed fire
sprinkler contractor or utility contractor. All backflow prevention assemblies
shall be tested by a certified backflow technician authorized by the town.
Repairs to a backflow prevention assembly on a dedicated fire sprinkler system
may only be performed by a fire sprinkler contractor.
   (C)   All new construction plans and specifications which will directly
affect the town water system, and/or required by the North Carolina Building
Code, the North Carolina Department of Environment and Natural Resources
(NCDENR), and County Planning and Zoning Offices, shall be made available to
the town for review, approval and to determine the degree of hazard.
   (D)   All existing facilities zoned commercial or industrial and have
existing water services with the town and requesting certificate of occupancy
from the County Planning and Zoning offices, shall be inspected for compliance
of backflow and cross-connection control prevention. Any facility not having
backflow protection or changing the degree of hazard shall be brought into
compliance before the town may release the certificate of occupancy.
   (E)   All backflow prevention assemblies must be installed and maintained on
the customer's premises as part of the customer's private water system at or
near the service connection and before the service line is connected to any
other pipes except as authorized by the water purveyor.
   (F)   If it has been determined that a backflow prevention assembly cannot
be installed at the meter service or other outside location, the town may allow
the assembly to be installed just inside the building through a written request
from the customer.
   (G)   Any branch of plumbing installed on a private water system that may be
of a greater hazard than the supply line, (example: chemical induced irrigation
or fire systems, pump systems, etc.) shall be protected with a reduced pressure
zone assembly.
   (H)   All backflow prevention assemblies shall be installed in accordance
with the backflow and cross-connection specifications furnished by the town
and/or the manufacturer's instructions, whichever is most restrictive.
   (I)   All double check valve assemblies, two-inch or larger, must be
installed in a watertight drainable pit wherever below ground installation is
necessary in accordance with the backflow and cross-connection specifications
furnished by the town. If a drain cannot be provided, the assembly must be
installed above ground.
   (J)   Double check valve assemblies may be installed in a vertical position
with prior approval from the town provided the flow of water is in an upward
direction.
   (K)   Reduce pressure principle assemblies must be installed in a horizontal
position and in a location in which no portion of the assembly can become
submerged in any substance under any circumstances (pit installations are
prohibited).
   (L)   Any customer installing a reduced pressure zone (RPZ), reduced
pressure detector assembly (RPDA), pressure vacuum breaker (PVB), double check-
detector assembly (DCDA) or double check valve assembly (DCVA) shall provide
the following information on approved forms to the town within ten days of
installation: service address, owner, date of installation, type of assembly,
manufacturer, model, and serial number.
   (M)   No service shall be completed until the town has been provided
information or has surveyed the private water system to determine the degree of
hazard and make a determination of a backflow prevention assembly to be
installed to protect the public water supply.
   (N)   The town must approve each backflow assembly required by this chapter.
Any unapproved backflow assemblies must be replaced within a time set by the
Administrator, with an approved backflow assembly.
   (O)   If it has been determined that a customer must install a backflow
prevention assembly, the town will provide the customer with a letter of
notification. The following time periods shall be set forth for the
installation of the specified assemblies:
      (1)   Health hazard:   60 days.
      (2)   Non-health hazard:   90 days.
   (P)   If an imminent hazard or unreasonable threat of contamination or
pollution to the public water system is detected, the town may require the
installation of the required backflow assembly immediately or within a shorter
time period than specified in division (O).
(Ord. passed 9-3-2013)
§ 54.06  TESTING AND REPAIR.
   (A)   Testing and repair of backflow prevention assemblies shall be made by
a certified backflow prevention technician approved by the town. Such tests are
to be conducted annually or at a frequency established by the town. A certified
backflow prevention technician shall perform any testing and the test results
shall be submitted to the town on an approved form within 30 business days
after the completion of any testing. If a repair is found necessary on an
assembly it must be re-tested. A complete duplicate copy of any repair shall be
sent to the town within 30 days of completion of the repair. Each customer must
maintain a complete copy of any tests or repairs.
   (B)   Each backflow prevention assembly must function properly at time of
installment. The customer will be required to test each assembly within ten
days following installation at his or her expense. A certified backflow
prevention technician shall conduct the test and the results shall be submitted
to the town on an approved form.
   (C)   Any time that repairs to backflow prevention assemblies are deemed
necessary, whether through annual or required testing, or routine inspection by
the consumer or by the town, these repairs must be completed within a specified
time in accordance with the degree of hazard. In no case shall this time period
exceed:
      (1)   Health hazard facilities:   seven days.
      (2)   Non-health hazard facilities:   21 days.
   (D)   All backflow prevention assemblies with test cocks are required to be
tested annually or at a frequency established by the town.
   (E)   All certified backflow prevention technicians must obtain and employ
backflow prevention assembly test equipment which has been evaluated and/or
approved by the town. All test equipment shall be registered with the town and
shall be checked for accuracy annually (at a minimum), calibrated if necessary,
and certified as to such accuracy/calibration, employing a calibration method
acceptable to the town.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any consumer or certified backflow prevention
assembly tester to submit any record to the town or which is false or
incomplete in any material respect. It shall be unlawful for any consumer or
certified tester to fail to submit to the town any record which is required by
this chapter. Such violations may result in any of the enforcement actions
outlined in §§
54.13 and
54.99 below.
   (G)   All rubber components must be replaced every five years or as often as
needed.
   (H)   If a customer does not wish for water service to be interrupted when a
backflow assembly is tested, repaired, or replaced, a parallel installation
must be made, at the customer's expense, using an approved assembly of the same
degree of hazard. The parallel line may be of the same size or smaller.
   (I)   No service shall be completed until the town has been provided
information or has surveyed the private water system to determine the degree of
hazard and make a determination of a backflow prevention assembly to be
installed to protect the public water supply.
   (J)   Any customer making any modification to the private system's
configuration or use of, which may change the degree of hazard, shall notify
the town before any modification is made. If the town determines that such
modification requires a different backflow prevention assembly, the assembly
must be installed before the modification is made.
(Ord. passed 9-3-2013)
§ 54.07  SEVERE HAZARD FACILITIES AND METHODS OF CORRECTION.
   (A)   All severe hazard facilities must have an approved reduced pressure
principle assembly as a minimum containment device.
   (B)   Severe hazard facilities include, but are not limited to: any private
water system used or designed pump or which may become pressurized for use with
a booster for any reason to the extent that back pressure may occur; any
private water system which contains water which has been or is being re-
circulated; a building with five or more stories above ground level; brewery;
car wash with recycling system; bottling plant; chemical plant; dentist's
office; dry cleaning plant; fertilizer plant; film laboratory; fire sprinkler
or standpipe system with chemical additives; fire department connections
(FDC).hospital, clinic, medical building; irrigation system with chemical
additives; laboratory; commercial laundry (except self-service laundry); metal
processing plant; morgue or mortuary; nursing home; pharmaceutical plant; power
plant; swimming pool; sewage treatment plant; tire manufacturer; veterinary
hospital or clinic; restaurants; battery manufacturers; exterminators and lawn
care companies; dairies; canneries; dye works; recycling facilities.
   (C)   If the town does not have sufficient access to every portion of a
private water system to permit the complete evaluation of the degree of hazard
associated with such private water system, an approved reduced pressure
principle assembly must be installed.
   (D)   All assemblies and installations shall be subject to inspection and
approval by the town.
   (E)   Filling of tanks/tankers or any other container from a town owned fire
hydrant is strictly prohibited unless it has been equipped with the proper
meter and backflow protection, at which point the town will issue a permit for
that tank/tanker or container. Any unauthorized connection to a fire hydrant is
considered an illegal cross-connection to the public water system and will be
subject to fines.
(Ord. passed 9-3-2013)  Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.08  MODERATE HAZARD.
   (A)   All moderate hazard facilities must have a double check valve assembly
as a minimum containment device.
   (B)   Moderate hazard facilities include, but are not limited to connections
to tanks, lines and vessels that handle non-toxic substances; all industrial
and most commercial facilities not identified as high hazard facilities.
   (C)   Only a backflow prevention assembly offering a greater degree of
protection may be installed in place of a specified assembly required by this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 9-3-2013)
§ 54.09  IMMINENT HAZARD.
   If it has been determined a customer's private water system has an imminent
hazard; such customer must install a backflow prevention assembly specified by
the town and this chapter. This assembly must be installed within 24 hours of
notification from the Administrator. If the customer fails to install the
specified assembly within the allowed time limit, water service to the
customer's private water system will be terminated and may be subject to
specified civil penalties. In the event the town or is unable to notify the
customer in 24 hours of determining an imminent hazard exists the town may
terminate water service until the specified assembly is installed. These
actions may be carried out under the Safe Drinking Water Act (Title XIV § 1431)
and the N.C. State Plumbing Code (Appendix D104.2.6).
(Ord. passed 9-3-2013)
§ 54.10  LAWN IRRIGATION SYSTEMS.
   (A)   All proposed lawn irrigation systems will be served through a separate
meter and must have a reduced pressure zone assembly as a minimum containment
device.
   (B)   Only a backflow prevention assembly offering a greater degree of
protection may be installed in place of a specified assembly required by this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 9-3-2013)
§ 54.11  FIRE SPRINKLER SYSTEMS.
   All fire sprinkler systems with Fire Department Connections (FDCs), booster
facilities, or chemical additives must have a reduced pressure zone assembly as
a minimum containment device.
(Ord. passed 9-3-2013)  Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.12  NOTICES.
   (A)   In the event the customer's private water system becomes contaminated
or polluted, the customer shall notify the town immediately.
   (B)   In the event a customer has reason to believe that a backflow incident
has occurred between the customer's private water system and the public water
system the customer must notify the town immediately in order that appropriate
measures may be taken to isolate and remove the contamination of pollution.
(Ord. passed 9-3-2013)
§ 54.13  VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Written notice.  A written notice must be presented to any customer/
person who has been found to be in violation of any part of this chapter.
   (B)   Contents. Such notice must explain the violation and give the time
period within which the violation must be corrected. The time period set to
correct a violation shall not exceed 30 days after receiving notice unless
otherwise specified. If the violation has been determined by the town to be an
imminent hazard the customer shall be required to correct the violation
immediately.
   (C)   Termination.  In the event a customer is found in violation of this
ordinance and fails to correct the violation in a timely manner, or to pay any
civil penalty or expense assessed under this section, water service will be
terminated.
(Ord. passed 9-3-2013)
§ 54.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Civil penalty. The violation of any section of this chapter may be
punished by a civil penalty listed as followed:
      (1)   Unprotected cross connection involving a private water system,
which has an imminent hazard, $1,000 per day not to exceed $10,000.
      (2)   Unprotected cross connection involving a private water system which
is of a moderate or severe hazard, $500 per day not to exceed $10,000.
      (3)   Submitting false records or failure to submit records, which are
required by this chapter, $1,000 per incident.
      (4)   Failure to test or maintain backflow prevention assemblies as
required, $100 per day.
   (B)   Reduction of penalty.
      (1)   The town may reduce or dismiss any civil penalty imposed under this
section if the town has determined that the person charged with the violation
has no past history of violation in a timely manner assessed by the town.
      (2)   No civil penalty shall be reduced if it has been determined the
violation was intentional.
      (3)   Any person violating any part of this ordinance must reimburse the
town for any expenses in repairing damage to the public water system caused by
any violation and any expenses incurred for investigating a violation.
(Ord. passed 9-3-2013)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING RULES
      
73.   GOLF CARTS
      
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
75.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions; rules of construction
   
70.02   [Reserved]
   
70.03   Bicycles, toy vehicles and the like
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01  DEFINITIONS; RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The Public Works Director or any other person designated by
the Mayor to perform the functions assigned by this chapter to the
ADMINISTRATOR. Whenever this title authorizes or requires the ADMINISTRATOR to
install a traffic-control device controlling parking or regulating the movement
of traffic on, to or from a state highway system street and the installation of
such a device is in practice a function of the State Department of
Transportation, the ADMINISTRATOR may discharge his or her responsibility by
requesting the State Department of Transportation to install such device.
   DRIVER. The operator of a vehicle.
   HIGHWAY or STREET. The entire width between property or right-of-way lines
of every way or place of whatever nature, when any part thereof is open to the
use of the public as a matter of right for the purposes of vehicular traffic.
The terms HIGHWAY or STREET or a combination of the two terms shall be used
synonymously.
   INTERSECTION. The area embraced within the prolongation of the lateral curb
lines or, if none, then the lateral edge of roadway lines of two or more
highways which join one another at any angle whether or not one such highway
crosses the other. Where a highway includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart,
then every crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an intersecting
highway shall be regarded as a separate INTERSECTION.
   LOCAL STREET. A street within the town that is not part of the state highway
system.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle that is self-propelled and every vehicle
designed to run upon the highways that is pulled by a self-propelled vehicle.
   OPERATOR. A person in actual physical control of a vehicle that is in motion
or that has the engine running.
   PARKING or STANDING. A vehicle is parked or is permitted to stand when it is
stopped and allowed to remain in a fixed location for any duration of time,
whether attended or unattended. Except where the context clearly indicates
otherwise, the limitations on PARKING and STANDING in this title apply only to
locations within a street right-of-way. In no case do these limitations apply
when a vehicle is stopped to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance
with law or the directions of a police officer or traffic-control device or as
the result of an emergency or because the vehicle is disabled.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the shoulder. In the event a highway includes
two or more separate roadways, the term ROADWAY, as used herein, shall refer to
any such roadway separately, but not to all such ROADWAYS collectively.
   SAFETY ZONE. A traffic island or other space that is officially set aside
within a highway for the exclusive use of pedestrians and that is so plainly
marked or indicated by proper signs as to be plainly visible at all times while
set apart as a SAFETY ZONE.
   STATE HIGHWAY SYSTEM STREET. A street within the town that is part of the
state highway system. Whenever this title regulates parking or the movement of
traffic on, to or from a state highway system street, then to the extent that
concurrence by the State Department of Transportation is necessary (by passage
of a concurring ordinance or otherwise) such regulation shall not become
effective until such concurrence is obtained. Streets listed in this title that
are part of the state highway system are designated by an asterisk (*).
   STREET. See HIGHWAY.
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICE. Any sign, signal, marking or other device placed or
erected pursuant to a lawfully adopted ordinance and designed to regulate,
warn, guide or control traffic.
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL. Any device designed to regulate, guide or control
traffic through the use of alternating or flashing lights or by some other
mechanical means.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices moved by human power or
used exclusively upon fixed rails or tracks; provided that, for the purposes of
this title, bicycles shall be deemed VEHICLES and every rider of a bicycle upon
a highway shall be subject to the provisions of this title applicable to the
driver of a VEHICLE, except those which, by their nature, can have no
application.
(Prior Code, § 6-1)
§ 70.02  RESERVED.
§ 70.03  BICYCLES, TOY VEHICLES AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   No person upon roller skates or riding in or by means of any coaster,
toy vehicle or similar device may go upon any roadway, except while crossing a
street at a crosswalk unless the street has been designated as a play street in
accordance with
Ch. 74, Schd. VIII, of this title.
   (B)   No person upon roller skates or riding a bicycle, coaster, toy vehicle
or similar device may attach himself or herself or such a vehicle or device to
any moving motor vehicle.
   (C)   No person may ride or drive a bicycle upon any sidewalk within any
business area.
   (D)   The driver of a motorcycle or bicycle when upon the street may not
carry any other person upon the handlebars, tank or any other part of a
motorcycle or bicycle not designed for carrying passengers.
(Prior Code, § 6-37)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any violation of the following sections shall constitute a
misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not more than $50 or imprisonment for not
more than 30 days, or both: §§
71.01 and
71.02 and Ch. 74, Schd.
III,
IV,
VII,
VIII and
X of this title.
      (2)   Any violation of the following sections shall constitute
misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not more than $1: §§
72.01,
72.02 and
72.03 and Ch. 75, Schd.
II,
III and
IV of this title.
      (3)   (a)   Any violation of the following sections shall subject the
offender to a civil penalty as indicated:
            1.   Section
72.01 and
Ch. 75, Schd. II:  $10;
            2.   Sections
72.02 and
72.03(B) and
72.04:  $10;
            3.   Section
72.01(A)(2): $25; and
            4.   Section
70.03: $1 for the first offense, $10 for the second offense and $25 for the
third and succeeding offenses.
         (b)   If the offender fails to pay this penalty within ten days after
being cited for a violation and notified of the penalty, the town may seek to
collect it in a civil action in the nature of debt.
(Prior Code, § 6-39)
   (B)    Any persons, firms, corporations, associations and partnerships
violating the terms of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed
$50 or imprisonment not to exceed 30 days, or both, for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 6-38A)
(Ord. passed 2-15-1984; Ord. O-2020-03, passed 10-6-2020)
CHAPTER 71:  TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Blocking intersections and crosswalks
   
71.02   Funeral processions
§ 71.01  BLOCKING INTERSECTIONS AND CROSSWALKS.
   No driver may enter an intersection or marked crosswalk unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicle he or she is operating without obstructing the passage
of other vehicles or pedestrians.
(Prior Code, § 6-13)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.02  FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   (A)   A funeral procession shall be identified as such in a manner
determined by the Chief of Police to be adequate to give notice to the other
drivers of the existence of such a procession.
   (B)   Each driver in a funeral procession shall drive as near to the right-
hand edge of the road as practicable and shall follow the vehicle ahead as
closely as possible consistent with obedience to traffic-control signals and
safe driving practices.
   (C)   No person may drive a vehicle between the vehicles constituting a
funeral procession when such vehicles are in motion and are conspicuously
designated as provided in division (A) above.
(Prior Code, § 6-36)  Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 72:  PARKING RULES
Section
   
72.01   Prohibited parking generally
   
72.02   Angle parking
   
72.03   Loading and unloading zones
   
72.04   Medical emergency parking zones
§ 72.01  PROHIBITED PARKING GENERALLY.
   (A)   No person shall park any vehicle or permit it to stand in any of the
following locations:
      (1)   Provided in G.S. § 20-162, in front of a private driveway;
      (2)   As provided in G.S. § 20-162, within 15 feet of either direction of
a fire hydrant (whether or not located in a public right-of-way) or the
entrance to a fire station;
      (3)   As provided in G.S. § 20-162, within 15 feet of the intersection of
curb lines or, if none, then within 15 feet of the intersection of property
lines at an intersection of highways;
      (4)   Within an intersection or on a marked crosswalk;
      (5)   Within 30 feet of any traffic-control signal or device installed at
an intersection, regardless of whether the vehicle is located within or outside
of the public right-of-way;
      (6)   On a sidewalk or on the space between the sidewalk and the curb;
      (7)   In any portion of a roadway intended to carry traffic at the time
such vehicle is parked or left standing;
      (8)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped, standing or parked at
the edge of a curb or street;
      (9)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
such parking or standing would obstruct traffic;
      (10)   Upon any bridge, overpass or other elevated structure or within
any tunnel or other underpass structure;
      (11)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
      (12)   In any alley or private road in such a manner or under such
conditions as to leave available less than ten feet of the width of the roadway
for the free movement of vehicular travel or to block the driveway entrance to
any abutting property; and/or
      (13)   In any parking space clearly marked as reserved for the
handicapped, whether on public or private property, unless the driver of or a
passenger in such vehicle is handicapped.
   (B)   The Administrator may install no-parking signs, yellow curb markings
or other traffic-control devices to indicate where parking and standing is
prohibited as stated in division (A) above, but enforcement of the provisions
of this section is not dependent on the installation of such devices.
(Prior Code, § 6-23)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.02  ANGLE PARKING.
   (A)   Whenever, pursuant to division (B) below, pavement markings have been
installed to indicate that angle parking is permitted, no person may park or
permit a vehicle to stand within an area so marked unless the vehicle is
located entirely within a marked space.
   (B)   Parking at an angle of approximately 45 degrees to the curb shall be
allowed at certain locations, and the Administrator shall mark the pavement at
such areas to indicate that only angle parking is permitted.
(Prior Code, § 6-27)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.03  LOADING AND UNLOADING ZONES.
   (A)   Generally. Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter,
whenever streets or portions of streets are designated as vehicle loading and
unloading zones in accordance with the provisions of this section, parking and
standing are permitted in those locations, but only in accordance with the
provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 6-30)
   (B)   School loading zones.
      (1)   Whenever a school loading zone is designated and clearly marked by
traffic-control devices in accordance with division (B)(2) below, no person may
park any vehicle or permit it to stand in any such zone for any purpose other
than the expeditious loading or unloading of school passengers, and then only
for a period not to exceed ten minutes.
      (2)   The Council finds that a school loading zone is necessary in
certain locations to permit children and other passengers to be loaded and
unloaded from vehicles in safety, and the Administrator shall install
appropriate traffic-control devices to give clear notice that parking or
standing within the location is limited to ten minutes.
(Prior Code, § 6-31)
   (C)   Commercial loading zones.
      (1)   Whenever a commercial loading zone is designated and marked by
traffic-control devices in accordance with division (C)(2) below, no person may
park any vehicle there or permit it to stand in any such zone for any purpose
other than the expeditious loading or pickup of materials and goods, or
unloading and delivery, and then only for a period not to exceed 30 minutes.
      (2)   The Council finds that a commercial loading and unloading zone is
necessary in certain locations to accommodate the needs of adjacent businesses
and enterprises, and that such a zone is consistent with the necessary free
flow of traffic and the public safety, and the Administrator shall install
appropriate traffic-control devices to give clear notice that parking or
standing is limited to 30 minutes.
(Prior Code, § 6-32)
   (D)   Public carrier loading zones.
      (1)   Whenever a bus stop or taxicab stand is designated and marked by
traffic-control devices in accordance with division (D)(2) below, no person may
park any vehicle other than a bus or a taxicab, respectively, in any zone so
designated and marked.
      (2)   The Council finds that a bus stop or taxicab stand is necessary in
a particular location to accommodate the needs of those requiring access to a
public carrier, and that such a zone is consistent with the necessary free flow
of traffic and the public safety, and the Administrator shall install
appropriate traffic-control devices to give clear notice that parking or
standing within certain locations, except for buses and taxicabs, respectively,
is prohibited.
      (3)   The operator of a bus shall not stop such vehicle upon any street
or at any place for the purpose of loading or unloading passengers or their
baggage, except at a bus stop designated in accordance with this section.
(Prior Code, § 6-33)
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.04  MEDICAL EMERGENCY PARKING ZONES.
   The Council finds that a medical emergency parking zone is necessary in
certain locations to accommodate the parking needs of those requiring medical
treatment and that, in order to assure the necessary availability of this zone,
the administration shall install appropriate signs, demarcation and traffic-
control devices to give notice that within such zones that parking is limited
to use during medical emergency only and that other uses will subject the
violators to the towing of the occupying vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 6-34)
CHAPTER 73:  GOLF CARTS
Section
   
73.01   Purpose
   
73.02   Definition
   
73.03   Operation of golf carts allowed; exceptions
   
73.04   License required
   
73.05   Registration
   
73.06   Manner of operation
   
73.07   Disclaimer and liability
 
   
73.99   Penalty
§ 73.01  PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to provide a means of travel that is
not only convenient and safe, but conserves resources and protects the
environment. Golf carts, if properly used, are an effective way to travel for
short distances within the town.
   (B)   However, to ensure the public safety and welfare, the operation of
golf carts must not only comply with normal regulations regarding vehicles, but
should comply with special safety regulations intended to protect the operator
and passengers in a vehicle that is primarily designed for operation on a golf
course or recreational purposes.
   (C)   (1)   This chapter establishes the basic, minimum standards of care to
be used by the operators of golf carts on public roads, streets and highways.
      (2)   Likewise, the public safety requires that golf carts, used as a
means of transportation, must also meet certain minimum safety standards that
can only be assured through a system of registration and inspection.
   (D)   The registration and inspection of golf carts is required in order to
protect the public health, safety and welfare.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 73.02  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GOLF CART. A vehicle designed and manufactured for operation on a golf
course for sporting or recreational purposes and that is not capable of
exceeding 20 mph. The definition is republished here for convenience only and
the definition set out in G.S. § 20-4.01(12), as amended from time to time, is
controlling for all purposes.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 73.03  OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS ALLOWED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Allowed. The operation of golf carts on the public streets, roads and
highways within the town and on property owned or leased by the town in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall be permitted; however, it
shall be unlawful to operate any golf cart that is not properly registered with
the town or to operate any golf cart at any place or in any manner not
authorized herein.
   (B)   Exceptions. The operation of golf carts is not subject to the
provisions of this chapter under the following circumstances:
      (1)   The operation of golf carts at golf courses, private clubs or on
private property, with the consent of the owner;
      (2)   The operation of golf carts within gated or limited access
communities unless the streets of the community are dedicated for public use
and maintained by the town;
      (3)   The use of a golf cart in connection with a parade, a festival or
other special event provided the consent of the sponsor is obtained and
provided such vehicle is only used during such event; or
      (4)   The use of golf carts by the Police Department on official police
business or the use of golf carts by town personnel for official business on
town-owned property and town-leased property, including cemeteries, parks and
greenways.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person who does not have a valid driver’s license, issued under or
granted by the laws of North Carolina or some other state, may operate a golf
cart on any public street, road or highway within the town or on any property
owned or leased by the town.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, a learner’s permit shall not be
considered as a valid driver’s license, nor shall any license that has been
revoked, temporary or otherwise, or suspended for any reason, be considered as
a valid driver’s license, during the period of suspension or revocation.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.05  REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Required. No golf cart may be operated on any public street, road or
highway within the town or on property owned or leased by the town unless the
golf cart has first been registered with the Town Police Department as required
herein. The registration shall be renewed thereafter in accordance with the
provisions of this section. To evidence the registration, the owner shall be
issued an annual permit which shall be displayed in a prominent, visible place
on the rear fender of the golf cart or at such other place as may be approved
by the Police Department. The permit may contain a registration number assigned
for the particular golf cart and may contain an expiration date.
   (B)   Registration fee. A registration fee in the amount of $50, or such
other amount as may be established and published in the schedule of fees and
charges adopted by the Town Council from time to time, as amended, shall be
paid to the town at the time the application for registration is filed with the
Police Department or for any renewal of the application.
   (C)   Application. The application for registration shall be made to the
Police Chief, or to some other person designated by him or her, on forms
provided by the town. The application may, among other things, require the
owner’s name, street address, mailing address, a phone number, the make, model
and identification or serial number of the golf cart, proof of insurance and
such other information as may be reasonably required as well as a release or
disclaimer of liability by the town for accidents involving the registered golf
cart.
   (D)   Procedures. The Police Chief may establish written procedures,
consistent with this chapter, setting out the process and the procedure,
including the form of the application, the check list for items to be inspected
and the type of sticker, plate or tag evidencing the issuance of the
registration permit.
   (E)   Inspection. Prior to issuing the initial registration permit or any
renewal thereof, the golf cart shall either be inspected or in place of
inspection, the Police Department may require photographs submitted of the golf
cart, to determine that:
      (1)   The golf cart is equipped with a rear vision mirror, at least two
red rear reflectors at least three inches in height and width, head lights and
brake lights;
      (2)   The golf cart is equipped with a reflective “slow moving sign” or
“flag” on the rear of the cart;
      (3)   The brakes provided by the manufacturer of the golf cart are in
proper working order;
      (4)   The golf cart has all of the standard safety features provided by
the manufacturer and has not been modified to exceed a speed of 20 mph nor
otherwise modified in any way that creates a hazard; and
      (5)   The golf cart is equipped with all mechanical systems and safety
equipment required by this chapter.
   (F)   Denial and revocation. The initial registration of a golf cart may be
denied or subsequently revoked by the Police Chief if it is determined that:
      (1)   The application contains any material misrepresentation;
      (2)   Financial responsibility requirements of the state (liability
insurance) or otherwise set forth in this chapter have not been met;
      (3)   The golf cart is not in compliance with the requirements set out
above;
      (4)   The golf cart has been altered or customized and no longer meets
the definition of a golf cart;
      (5)   Equipment supplied by the manufacturer, especially safety
equipment, has been removed from the golf cart or the vehicle identification or
serial number removed; or
      (6)   Other good cause shown including repeated violations of this
chapter.
   (G)   Financial responsibility. The owner of a golf cart required to be
registered with the town for use on the public streets and highways of the town
shall maintain in full force and effect and continuously throughout any period
of registration, the financial responsibility in the minimum amounts and in the
manner defined and described in G.S. Ch. 20, Art. 9A, as amended, or any other
law of the state requiring financial responsibility for the registration and/or
operation of a motor vehicle. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the owner of the
golf cart must maintain liability insurance on the golf cart in an amount not
less than $100,000 liability limit per occurrence to cover the risk involved in
using a golf cart on a public streets and roads in the state. The operator must
possess proof of such insurance at the time of the operation of the golf cart.
   (H)   Disqualified vehicles. ATVs, four-wheel utility vehicles and other
similar utility vehicles which are not manufactured for operation on a golf
course and golf carts which have been modified so that it no longer meets the
definition of a golf cart, may not be registered as a golf cart, nor shall such
vehicles be operated on the public roads, streets and highways within the town
unless such vehicles are otherwise registered with and allowed under the motor
vehicle laws of the state.
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed 3-8-2011; Ord. passed 5-3-2011; Ord. passed 9-6-
2011)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.06  MANNER OF OPERATION.
   Golf carts shall not be operated on the public streets, roads and highways
of the town, except in full compliance with the provisions of this section.
   (A)   Hours of operation. Golf carts may be driven on approved public roads,
streets and highways from sunrise until sunset; except that, golf carts
equipped with at least one operating headlight, having at least a 55-watt
halogen, or equal, bulb on the front of the golf cart, and two operating tail
lights on either side of the rear of the golf cart, all of which are visible
for a distance of not less than 250 feet, may be operated from one half hour
before sunrise until one-half hour after sunset. Golf carts may not be operated
when fog, smog, smoke or other conditions reduce visibility so that the golf
cart is not visible for a distance of 250 feet.
   (B)   Streets. Golf carts may not be operated on any of certain streets or
sections of any street, except for the sole purpose of crossing such street
either at a signalized intersection or at a perpendicular crossing at a through
intersection: any street where the posted speed limit is more than 35 mph.
   (C)   Motor vehicle laws. All laws regarding the use of motor vehicles in
the state and all ordinances regarding the use of motor vehicles in the town,
not inconsistent therewith, shall be observed; except that, no golf cart may be
operated at a speed in excess of 20 mph.
   (D)   Right-of-way. The operator of a golf cart shall yield the right-of-way
to overtaking motor vehicles.
   (E)   Town property and sidewalks. Golf carts shall not be operated on any
sidewalk, pedestrian walkway, jogging path, greenway, park or trail, except for
official police business or by town personnel while on town business.
Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, golf carts shall not be
operated on property owned or leased by the town, except with the express
written consent of the Town Manager and/or the Police Chief and upon the terms
and conditions as may be set forth in such written permission.
   (F)   Golf cart capacity. The seating capacity (normally no more than four
passengers) shall not be exceeded, nor shall the operator or any passenger be
permitted to stand while the golf cart is in operation.
   (G)   Commercial purposes. Golf carts may not be used as a taxicab or bus or
for the commercial carrying of passengers or the hauling of freight.
   (H)   Parking. Golf carts may only be parked in the same manner and at the
same places designated for the parking of motor vehicles. The stopping,
standing or parking of golf carts in areas where parking is not allowed or in
any place that impedes the flow of traffic, pedestrian walkways or a passageway
is prohibited.
   (I)   Towing. Golf carts may not be used for the purpose of towing another
cart, trailer or vehicle of any kind including a person on roller skates,
skateboard or bicycle.
   (J)   Cemeteries. Golf carts shall not be operated on any roadway or vehicle
path within the cemeteries within the town, except for official use by town
personnel.
   (K)   Minor passengers on golf carts with rear facing seats. No person under
12 years of age may ride in the rear facing seat of any golf cart regulated by
this chapter unless such person is accompanied in the adjacent rear facing seat
by a person who is age 18 or older.
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed 9-6-2011)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.07  DISCLAIMER AND LIABILITY.
   (A)   Disclaimer. This chapter is adopted to address the interest of public
safety. Golf carts are not designed or manufactured to be used on the public
streets and the town, in no way, advocates or endorses their operation on
public streets or roads. The town by regulating such operation is addressing
obvious safety issues, and adoption of this section is not to be relied upon as
determination that operation on public streets is safe or advisable if done in
accordance with this section. The town shall in no way be liable under any
theory of liability for accidents, injuries or death involving the operation of
a golf cart, and the town assumes no liability for permitting carts to be
operated on the public streets and roads under the special legislation granted
by the State General Assembly.
   (B)   Assumption of risk. Any person who operates or rides upon a golf cart
on a public street or road in the town shall be observant of and attentive to
the safety of themselves and others, including their passengers, other
motorists, bicyclists and pedestrians. Any person who owns, operates or rides
upon a golf cart on a public street, road or highway within the town does so at
his or her own risk and peril and assumes all liability resulting from the
operation of the golf cart.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 73.99  PENALTY.
   Any act constituting a violation of this chapter or failure to comply with
any of its requirements shall subject the offender to a civil penalty of $100
for the first offense, $200 for the second offense and revocation of permit for
a period of two years for the third offense. If the offender fails to pay the
penalty within ten days of receiving notice of the violation, the penalty may
be recovered by the town in a civil action in the nature of the debt, and the
offender shall be responsible for any court costs and attorneys’ fees incurred
by the town. In addition to the foregoing, if any person shall violate this
chapter, he or she shall be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed - -)
CHAPTER 74:  TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Stoplights; flashing lights
   
II.   Stop signs
   
III.   One-way streets
   
IV.   Yield right-of-way signs
   
V.   Prohibited turning and passing
   
VI.   Crosswalks and safety zones
   
VII.   Weight limitations
   
VIII.   Play streets
   
IX.   Truck traffic
   
X.   Speed limits
SCHEDULE I. STOPLIGHTS; FLASHING LIGHTS.
   (A)   Stoplights required at certain intersections and locations.
      (1)   The Administrator shall erect or install mechanical stoplights to
regulate vehicular and pedestrian traffic at the following intersections and
locations:
         (a)   U.S. 220* and N.C. 770*;
         (b)   N.C. 770* and Mebane; and
         (c)   NC 770 and Stone Street.
      (2)   The effect of such stoplights on vehicles and pedestrians shall be
as provided in G.S. §§ 20-158 and 20-172.
(Prior Code, § 6-2)
   (B)   Flashing red or yellow lights required at certain intersections and
locations. The Administrator shall erect or install mechanical red or yellow
blinking or flashing lights as provided below at the indicated intersections
and other locations. The effect of such blinking or flashing red or yellow
lights on vehicles and pedestrians shall be as provided in G.S. §§ 20-158 and
20-172.
(Prior Code, § 6-3)
Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II. STOP SIGNS.
   (A)   Stop signs required at certain intersections.
      (1)   The second-named street in the following list of intersections is
hereby designated as a main traveled or through street, and the Manager shall
erect stop signs on the first named street at the entrance to the main traveled
or through street. The effect of such stop signs on vehicles and pedestrians
shall be as provided in G.S. §§ 20-158 and 20-172.
Stop Street Through Street
Stop Street         Through Street
Brown               E. Matthews
Brown               Thomas
Bryan               W. Main/Hwy 770
Bryan               N. Glenn
Church              E. Main/Hwy 770
Clarke              Church
Claybrook           Smith
Duncan              N. Henry/Hwy 220 Business
Forrest             N. Glenn
Gerry               E. Main/Hwy 770
Golden Eagle        S. Henry/Hwy 220 Business
Glendale            Clark
Glendale            Mebane
N. Glenn            W. Main/Hwy 770
S. Glenn            Hwy 220 Business
S. Glenn            W. Main/Hwy 770
Hampton             W. Main/Hwy 770
Haywood             N. Glenn
Haywood             Leslie
Highland            N. Glenn
Joyce               N. Glenn
Joyce               W. Matthews
Kellam              Highland
King                E. Main/Hwy 770
Larry               S. Glenn
Lee                 Hampton
Lemons              E. Main/Hwy 770
Leslie              Forrest
Leslie              Bryan
W. Matthews         N. Glenn
E. Matthews         N. Henry/Hwy 220 Business
Mebane              Church
Oak                 Lemons
Oak Lawn            E. Main/Hwy 770
Oakdale             W. Main/Hwy 770
Old Leaksvllle Road N. Henry/Hwy 220 Business
Price               Priddy
Priddy              W. Main/Hwy 770
Randolph            S. Glenn
Roberts             N. Glenn
Simpson             E. Main/Hwy 770
Smith               E. Main/Hwy 770
Stone               Mebane
Taylor              Simpson
Thomas              N. Henry/Hwy 220 Business
Watford             Vernon
White Pine          Pine Cone
Woodland            Lee
W.E. Crews          N. Henry/Hwy 220 Business
W.E. Crews          Smith
 
      (2)   The intersections of certain streets are declared to be four-way
stop intersections, and the Manager shall erect stop signs on each street at
the entrance to the intersection. The effect of such a stop sign on vehicles
and pedestrians shall be as provided in G.S. §§ 20-158 and 20-172.
(Prior Code, § 6-4)
      (3)   The intersections of certain streets are declared to be three-way
stop intersections, and the Manager shall erect stop signs on each street at
the entrance to the intersection. The effect of such a stop sign on vehicles
and pedestrians shall be as provided in G.S. §§ 20-158 and 20-172.
   (B)   Stop signs at places other than intersections. The Council finds that
a particular hazard exists at the locations enumerated, and the Manager is
hereby directed to erect a stop sign at the location indicated. The effect of
such a stop sign on vehicles and pedestrians shall be as provided in G.S. §§
20-158 and 20-172.
(Prior Code, § 6-5) (Ord. O-2017-02, passed 3-7-2017)  Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE III. ONE-WAY STREETS.
   (A)   Whenever a street is designated a one-way street and traffic-control
devices are installed in accordance with division (B) below, no person may
drive any vehicle on such street, except in the direction indicated by the
traffic-control devices. (Note: G.S. § 20-165.1 makes it unlawful to drive
contrary to a sign erected by the State Department of Transportation.)
   (B)   The following streets are hereby designated one-way streets as
indicated below, and the Manager shall install appropriate traffic-control
devices at every intersection clearly indicating the direction of lawful
traffic movement: Old Leaksville Road - one-way east.
(Prior Code, § 6-6)  (Ord. O-2017-02, passed 3-7-2017)  Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE IV. YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY SIGNS.
   The second named street in the following list of intersections is hereby
designated as a main traveled or through street, and the Manager shall erect
yield-right-of-way signs on the first named street at the entrance to the main
traveled or through street. The effect of such yield-right-of-way signs on
vehicles and pedestrians shall be as provided in G.S. §§ 20-148 and 20-172.
 
Yield Street Through Street
N. Glenn     N. Glenn (Railroad Crossing)
Hampton      Woodland
Woodland     Hampton
 
(Prior Code, § 6-7)  (Ord. O-2017-02, passed 3-7-2017)  Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE V. PROHIBITED TURNING AND PASSING.
   (A)   Turning regulated.
      (1)   Whenever, pursuant to division (A)(2) below, appropriate traffic-
control devices are installed that clearly indicate that right or left turns,
U-turns or all turns are prohibited or required from a particular lane of
traffic, no person may drive any vehicle contrary to the directions of any
traffic-control device so installed.
      (2)   Restrictions on turning shall henceforth be in effect at indicated
locations and the Administrator shall install appropriate traffic-control
devices that clearly and adequately notify drivers of the turns required or
prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 6-8)
   (B)   Unlawful passing.
      (1)   Whenever, pursuant to division (B)(2) below, appropriate traffic-
control devices have been installed that clearly indicate that no passing is
allowed on a portion of any street, no driver of a vehicle may overtake and
pass another on any portion of any street so restricted. (Note: G.S. § 20-150
(e) makes it unlawful to pass contrary to signs posted by the State Department
of Transportation.)
      (2)   The Administrator may install appropriate traffic-control devices
to indicate that no passing is allowed whenever and wherever he or she
determines that passing would be unsafe on that portion of a street because:
         (a)   The street intersects with another street;
         (b)   The slope or grade of the street is such or the street curves to
such an extent that a driver’s view is obstructed within a distance of 500
feet; and/or
         (c)   Any other conditions exist making passing hazardous.
(Prior Code, § 6-8)
Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE VI. CROSSWALKS AND SAFETY ZONES.
   The Council finds that there is a particular danger to pedestrians crossing
the roadway at the following locations and the Administrator shall establish
and maintain crosswalks and safety zones at these locations by placing marks or
lanes upon the surface of the roadway or by other traffic-control devices. The
effect of such crosswalks upon vehicles and pedestrians shall be as provided in
G.S. §§ 20-173 and 20-174, and other provisions of law. As provided in G.S. §
20-160(b), no driver of a vehicle may drive through or over a safety zone.
Crosswalks
Crosswalks
Glenn* and N.C. 770*
Mebane Street and Stone Street
N.C. 770* and Stone Street
School Street and Stone Street
School Street and Mebane Street
U.S. 220* and Mebane Street
U.S. 220* and N.C. 770*
 
(Prior Code, § 6-10)  Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE VII. WEIGHT LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Whenever, pursuant to division (B) below, the Administrator installs a
traffic-control device clearly stating or indicating that through trucks are
not permitted on a street or any portion thereof, no person may drive any truck
having six wheels or more on any such street or portion thereof unless the
truck’s destination or point of origin is on that street.
   (B)   The following streets or portions thereof are hereby designated “no
through trucks” streets and the Administrator shall install appropriate
traffic-control devices that clearly give notice of such designation:
      (1)   School Street;
      (2)   Stone Street (south from East Main to Mebane);
      (3)   South Glenn Street*;
      (4)   220 Business;
      (5)   Clark;
      (6)   Mebane; and
      (7)   Glendale.
(Prior Code, § 6-11)  Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE VIII. PLAY STREETS.
   (A)   Whenever, pursuant to division (B) below, a street or any part thereof
has been designated a play street and appropriate traffic-control devices have
been installed clearly giving notice of this fact, no person may drive a
vehicle upon such street or part thereof unless he or she resides there or has
business there, and all persons shall exercise great care at all times when
driving upon any play street.
   (B)   Streets or portions thereof are hereby designated play streets, and
the Administrator shall install appropriate traffic-control devices that
clearly give notice of such designation.
(Prior Code, § 6-12)  Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE IX. TRUCK TRAFFIC.
   (A)   The Council finds that the use of trucks on certain streets is unduly
disruptive to the residents living along those streets. The Administrator shall
erect appropriate signs on the streets which shall be designated as restricted
to trucks during certain specified hours.
   (B)   The following streets or portions thereof are restricted from use by
trucks or transport vehicles of larger than 2,000 pounds rated capacity and
during the designated times following:
 
Street Use                                                                      Hours
                                                                                Prohibited
The portion of Stone Street that extends from that street’s intersection with 12:00 a.m.
Mebane Street to Clark Street                                                   to 6:00
                                                                                a.m.
 
(Prior Code, § 6-14)  (Ord. passed 10-7-1986)  Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE X. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   General speed limit. As provided in G.S. § 20-141(b)(1), no person may
drive a vehicle on a street or in a public vehicular area in excess of 35 mph
unless a different speed is established by this schedule.
(Prior Code, § 6-19)
   (B)   Speed limits.
      (1)   Whenever a speed limit has been established and appropriate
traffic-control devices have been installed in accordance with division (B)(2)
below, no person may operate a vehicle on any street in excess of the posted
speed.
      (2)   The following speed limits shall be applicable to the following
streets as indicated, and the Administrator shall install appropriate traffic-
control devices clearly indicating the established speed limit.
 
Street                           Location                           Speed Limit
All streets, except as herein                                      35 mph
otherwise provided
                                 From School Street northward to a
Henry Street (U.S. 220 Business) point approximately 0.15 mile      20 mph
                                 north of Main Street (N.C. 770)
                                 From the western corporate limit,
                                 a point approximately 0.15 mile
Main Street (N.C. 770)           east of SR 1403, eastward to a     45 mph
                                 point approximately 0.07 mile west
                                 of South Glenn Street (SR 1405)
                                 From a point approximately 0.07
                                 mile west of South Glenn Street
Main Street (N.C. 770)           (SR 1405), eastward to a point     25 mph
                                 approximately 0.05 mile east of
                                 Stone Street
N.C. 770*                        From Church Street to Glen Street  20 mph
U.S. 220*                                                          20 mph
 
(Prior Code, § 6-20)
   (C)   Train speed limits.
      (1)   Locomotives or trains shall not operate in excess of 35 mph on any
section of track located within the municipal boundaries.
      (2)   Notice of this speed limit established herein for trains shall be
posted on the approaches of the tracks to the municipal boundaries.
(Ord. passed 5-1-1984; Ord. passed 5-1-1984; Ord. passed 5-1-1984; Ord. passed
1-5-1988)
Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 75:  PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Municipal parking lot
   
II.   Prohibited parking
   
III.   Establishment of parking spaces
   
IV.   Establishment of loading zones
SCHEDULE I. MUNICIPAL PARKING LOT.
   (A)   When reference is made to the MUNICIPAL PARKING LOT, as follows, such
term shall mean that area provided by the town for the use of automobiles and
motor vehicles by licensed drivers which area consists of the paved portions of
those tracts or parcels of land owned by and titled to the town by deeds
recorded in Deed Book 702, at Page 318, Deed Book 711, at Page 227, and Deed
Book 711, at Page 882, all in the county registry.
   (B)   The regulations adopted herein by the enactment of this schedule shall
be in addition to the statutes and laws of the state.
   (C)   There shall be only two routes of ingress and egress into and out from
the municipal parking area, one on Henry Street with a lowered curb and one
exiting onto Smith Street, adjacent to the Town Hall, and any user of this
parking lot which enters or exits into or out from the municipal parking area
shall be in violation of this schedule.
   (D)   It shall constitute a violation of this schedule for any operator of
any motor vehicle to stand, stop or park a motor vehicle on any passage area of
the public right-of-way so as to interrupt, interfere with the passage of
public conveyance or motor vehicular traffic.
   (E)   Parking spaces shall be provided in the municipal parking area for the
use of the general public and these parking spaces shall be marked off and
delineated by the use of white paint. No more than one space shall be occupied
by any one vehicle and each part of the using vehicle shall be within the
boundaries delineated. Parking by the general public shall not be permitted and
is prohibited in other areas and shall be in violation of this schedule.
   (F)   Areas delineated with yellow paint shall be for no-parking zones or
special uses, and such special uses shall include, but shall not be limited to,
clearance for the Fire Station, clearance for the Town Hall,  stationary fire
equipment, police parking, employee parking, firefighters’ parking, parking for
handicapped persons and other special uses. Where signs have been placed,
erected or installed giving notice or where the parking spaces have been
delineated by the use of yellow paint or where any other area has been
delineated by the use of yellow paint, it shall be unlawful and prohibited for
the general public to use these areas for parking, standing or stopping any
motor vehicle and any operator of a motor vehicle who does so shall be in
violation of this schedule.
   (G)   In those parking spaces provided in the municipal parking area for the
use of the general public, no person shall park any motor vehicle for a period
of time of longer than two hours duration of any day. Separate uses during any
one day shall be cumulated so as to be treated as one continuous two-hour
parking period, or after a use has exceeded the first two-hour period, be
treated as additional two-hour parking period. Any member of the general
public, whose parking use exceeds two hours on any day shall be in violation of
this schedule. Each additional two-hour period of use, or fraction thereof
after the first violation, shall constitute a separate violation.
   (H)   Any person violating any provision of this schedule shall be fined in
the amount of $1 for each offense, under the provisions of G.S. § 20-162.1.
(Ord. passed 4-3-1979; Ord. passed 6- -1980; Ord. O-2020-03, passed 10-6-2020)
SCHEDULE II. PROHIBITED PARKING.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners of the town finds it is reasonable and
necessary and in the public interest to establish a no-parking/tow away zone to
extend from the last designated parking space on Henry Street, which parking
space south of the offices of Stoneville Furniture, for a distance of 295 feet
approximately to the terminus of the curb and gutter street improvement on
Henry Street.
   (B)   Parking for not more than one hour: in the three designated parking
spaces in the alleyway immediately north of The Drug Store (Old Leaksville -
Stoneville Road).
(Ord. passed - -1987; Ord. passed 5-4-2004)  Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE III. ESTABLISHMENT OF PARKING SPACES.
   (A)   The Town Council finds that it would be in the public interest and
promote safety to establish eight parking spaces in the areas on Henry Street
on the western street side before the offices and plant of Stoneville
Furniture. These parking spaces shall be 22 feet in length and five contiguous
adjoining parking spaces shall extend north from the northern markings of
established loading zone before the office doors of the Stoneville Furniture
Co. and three contiguous adjoining parking spaces shall extend south from the
southern marking of the loading zone established before the doors of the
offices of the Stoneville Furniture Co.
   (B)   Accordingly, the Town Council does hereby ordain and establish these
parking spaces and direct that these parking spaces be given appropriate
markings.
(Ord. passed - -1987)
SCHEDULE IV. ESTABLISHMENT OF LOADING ZONES.
   The Town Council finds it is reasonable and necessary and in the public
interest to establish a commercial loading zone in the area before Stoneville
Furniture Co. on Henry Street.
(Ord. passed - -1987)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
91.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
      
92.   CEMETERIES
      
93.   ANIMALS
CHAPTER 90:  STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Damaging street surfaces, street signs and other facilities
   
90.02   House and building numbers
   
90.03   Administrator
Obstructions
   
90.15   Obstructions prohibited
   
90.16   Overhanging or protruding trees, shrubs, fences and the like
   
90.17   Drainage related interference with sidewalks
   
90.18   Warnings required for obstruction
   
90.19   Depositing injurious materials on street
   
90.20   Snow and ice removal
Driveways and Excavations
   
90.35   Driveways
   
90.36   Excavations
   
90.37   Town indemnified
Parades
   
90.50   Definitions
   
90.51   Permit required
   
90.52   Application
   
90.53   Requirements for issuing permit
   
90.54   Standards applicable to parades
   
90.55   Notice of rejection
   
90.56   Responsibility of participants and person in charge
   
90.57   Violation
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01  DAMAGING STREET SURFACES, STREET SIGNS AND OTHER FACILITIES.
   (A)   No person may intentionally mutilate, deface, remove, damage or, in
any manner, interfere with any of the street name signs, traffic-control signs
and devices and other signs erected by any public body.
   (B)   No person may drag, run or cause to dragged or run upon any public
street any barrow or other implement, machine or tool likely to injure or cut
the surface of such street.
   (C)   No person may intentionally damage, injure, obstruct or otherwise
interfere with any street, sidewalk, bridge, culvert, ditch or drain owned or
maintained by the town.
(Prior Code, § 7-31)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.02  HOUSE AND BUILDING NUMBERS.
   (A)   (1)   The owner of every house and every principal building shall
display or cause to be displayed on the front thereof, or on the grounds in a
position easily observed from the street, the number assigned to his or her
house or building by the Administrator.
      (2)   No person may display or cause to be displayed on any house or
building any number other than the number assigned by the Administrator.
      (3)   No person may remove, obliterate or destroy any number displayed in
accordance with division (A)(1) above.
(Prior Code, § 7-32)
   (B)   (1)   The minimum size of the house, building or unit number shall not
be less than three inches; however, the building number of an apartment,
townhouse or condominium complex shall be not less than six inches and shall be
placed either in the approximate center of the building or on the street end of
the building so that it can be visible from either the public or private street
or from the parking lot which serves said building.
      (2)   The house or building numbers shall be maintained within three feet
of the front entrance whereby they are visible and readable. However, in the
event a building is located more than 100 feet from the public street on which
it fronts or the lot on which the building is located is landscaped such that
said numbers cannot be seen from the public street, the assigned street address
shall also be posted on the property at or near the property line at a driveway
or walkway to said building.
      (3)   Said house or building number shall be in a contrasting color to
the color scheme of the house or building so that it is clearly visible and
shall be maintained in a clearly visible manner.
      (4)   Following the posting of the assigned number as required, the owner
or occupant shall maintain such house or building number at all times in
compliance with the above mentioned standards.
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03  ADMINISTRATOR.
   As used in this chapter, the term ADMINISTRATOR refers to the Public Works
Director or any other person designated by the Manager to perform the
responsibilities assigned to the Administrator by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-33)
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 90.15  OBSTRUCTIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Except as otherwise authorized by statute or ordinance (including §§
90.35 and
90.36 of this chapter), and except to the extent required by the performance of
some function authorized or mandated by a statute or ordinance, no person may
obstruct or impede travel in the public streets or sidewalks within the town by
placing or leaving any object within the traveled portion of the public right-
of-way.
   (B)   Except as provided in this division (B), division (A) above applies,
but is not limited to, goods, wares or merchandise displayed for sale. Partial
obstruction of a public sidewalk for a sidewalk sale is permissible in
accordance with a permit issued by the Administrator upon a finding that:
      (1)   The sale will not extend for more than three consecutive days;
      (2)   The obstruction will take place only during daylight hours;
      (3)   The permit, together with any other permits issued to the same
applicant or to other applicants for sale at the same location, will not
authorize an obstruction for more than ten days during any 365-day period; and
      (4)   The sidewalk will only be partially obstructed in a manner that
does not seriously inconvenience the public or threaten the public safety.
   (C)   Division (A) above shall not apply to temporary obstructions caused by
persons engaged in construction work on abutting property when proper warning
devices are maintained in accordance with §
90.18 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-1)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.16  OVERHANGING OR PROTRUDING TREES, SHRUBS, FENCES AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   No person may cause or allow (from property under his or her control)
any tree limb, bush, shrub or other growth or any trellis, fence or other
obstruction to overhang a public street at a distance of less than 12 feet
above the traveled portion of such street or a public sidewalk at a distance of
less than seven feet above such sidewalk.
   (B)   No person may cause or allow grass, vines, weeds or other vegetation
to grow from property under his or her control over, onto or across any public
street or sidewalk.
   (C)   Any violation of divisions (A) or (B) above is declared to be a public
nuisance, and if not corrected by the responsible person within three days
after being notified of the violation by the Administrator, the town may
summarily abate such nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 7-2)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.17  DRAINAGE RELATED INTERFERENCE WITH SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   No person may cause or permit gutters, ditches, ducts or drain pipes
to be constructed or placed on property under his or her control in such a
manner that the water from such gutters, ditches, ducts or drain pipes empties
onto or runs across a public sidewalk.
   (B)   (1)   Subject to division (B)(2) below, all owners of property
abutting concrete, brick or other permanently improved public sidewalks shall
grade such property or construct a retaining wall in such a manner as to
prevent the washing of dirt, grass, gravel or other material upon the town
sidewalks.
      (2)   If the town constructs a sidewalk, it shall be responsible
initially for taking the necessary steps to prevent the washing of such
materials upon the sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 7-3)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.18  WARNINGS REQUIRED FOR OBSTRUCTION.
   (A)   All persons engaged in doing work that creates any dangerous condition
or obstruction in the public right-of-way of any street or sidewalk shall take
whatever action is necessary, including the placement of barricades and warning
signs or devices, to warn the traveling public of the condition or obstruction.
   (B)   No person may remove, destroy, injure or tamper with any barricade,
sign, lantern, torch or other device placed in any street or sidewalk to warn
or give notice to the traveling public of any dangerous condition or
obstruction.
(Prior Code, § 7-4)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.19  DEPOSITING INJURIOUS MATERIALS ON STREET.
   (A)   No person may throw or deposit upon any street or public right-of-way
any glass bottle, nails, tacks, wire, paper containers, cans or any other
substance likely to injure any person, animal or vehicle.
   (B)   Any person who deliberately or inadvertently causes or allows any of
the materials specified in division (A) above to be deposited on any public
street or right-of-way shall immediately remove such materials or cause them to
be removed.
(Prior Code, § 7-5)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.20  SNOW AND ICE REMOVAL.
   Every occupant of a store building, in front of which the sidewalk is paved
with stone, brick, asphalt or cement, shall remove snow, ice or other similar
obstruction from such sidewalk at the earliest possible time and as soon as the
weather permits.
(Prior Code, § 7-6)  Penalty, see §
90.99
DRIVEWAYS AND EXCAVATIONS
§ 90.35  DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, no person may open,
construct, alter or relocate any driveway across any public sidewalk or into
any street, or cut any curb for such purpose without have obtained a written
permit from the Administrator.
   (B)   Any person who receives a permit under this section shall be
responsible for repairing any damage to the sidewalk or street (including curb
and gutter) caused by the driveway construction.
   (C)   The Administrator shall review the driveway construction and design
plans and shall issue the permit unless he or she finds the driveway, if
constructed as proposed, will substantially interfere with or pose a danger to:
      (1)   Persons using the street or sidewalk intersected by the driveway;
or
      (2)   Public facilities (including utility poles, traffic signal
standards and the like), or will fail to comply with any of the provisions of
this section.
   (D)   (1)   Residential. No driveway may be constructed closer than three
feet to a fire hydrant or catch basin or closer than 30 feet to the right-of-
way line of a street that intersects with the street the driveway opens onto.
      (2)   Non-residential areas. No driveway may be constructed closer than
15 feet to a fire hydrant or catch basin or closer than 30 feet to the right-
of-way line of a street that intersects with the street the driveway opens
onto.
   (E)   If the driveway crosses a drainage ditch on a lot that abuts a street
without curb or gutter, then piping of sufficient size and strength (as
approved by the Administrator) shall be installed beneath the driveway surface
so the drainage capability of the drainage ditch is not materially impaired.
   (F)   This section shall not apply to driveways that open into state-
maintained streets to the extent that the state has approved the driveway. Nor
shall a person be required to obtain a permit under this section to the extent
that the driveway is being constructed in accordance with plans approved
pursuant to a review process authorized by a zoning or subdivision ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 7-11)  (Ord. passed 9-6-1983)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.36  EXCAVATIONS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, no person may dig in or
excavate any street or sidewalk within the town without having obtained a
written permit from the Administrator.
   (B)   Any person who receives a permit in accordance with this section shall
be responsible for putting the street or sidewalk where any excavation is made
in as good a condition as it was prior to the excavation.
   (C)   Before granting a permit pursuant to this section, the Administrator
shall determine that the applicant has made arrangements to comply with
division (B) above and, if the town is to do the necessary repair work, the
permit shall not be issued until the applicant makes a deposit equal to the
estimated costs of repair.
   (D)   This section shall not apply to any utility to the extent that the
same subject matter is covered in a franchise ordinance applicable to that
utility. Nor shall this section apply to any excavation made in a state-
maintained street to the extent that the state has given its permission for
such an excavation to be made; except that, the person making the excavation
shall still be responsible for notifying the Administrator of the intended
excavation 48 hours before the work begins.
(Prior Code, § 7-12)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.37  TOWN INDEMNIFIED.
   Any person obtaining a permit authorized by §§
90.35 and
90.36 of this chapter agrees, as a condition of the permit, to indemnify the
town for and hold the town harmless from any expense (including, but not
limited to, attorneys’ fees, litigation costs and judgments) incurred as a
result of claims made for damages arising out of operations conducted by the
permit recipient pursuant to the permit.
(Prior Code, § 7-13)
PARADES
§ 90.50  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARADE. Any parade, march, ceremony or procession of any kind, in or upon
any street, sidewalk or other public place owned or under the control of the
town.
   PARADE PERMIT. A written authorization as required by this subchapter.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
(Ord. passed 3-28-1987)
§ 90.51  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   General. No person shall engage in, participate in, aid, form or start
any parade unless a permit shall have been obtained from the Town Manager;
provided that, no person may conduct or otherwise participate in any parade,
except during daylight hours.
   (B)   Exceptions. This section shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions supervised by a licensed mortuary;
      (2)   Any governmental agency acting within the scope of its function; or
      (3)   Picketing on the sidewalk.
(Ord. passed 3-28-1987)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.52  APPLICATION.
   A person seeking issuance of a parade permit shall file an application with
the Town Manager on forms provided by the town.
   (A)   Filing period. An application for a parade permit shall be filed with
the Town Manager not less than 96 hours, excluding weekends, before the time
when it is proposed to conduct the parade; provided, however, that, a permit
may be issued if filed less than 96 hours before the time for commencement of
the parade when the Town Manager finds that there is no conflict in schedule
with some other event and that the time for filing is sufficient to prepare for
the parade pursuant to the standards set forth under §
90.53 of this chapter.
   (B)   Contents. The application for a parade permit shall set forth the
following information:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct such parade;
      (2)   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of or by
an organization, the name, address and telephone number of the headquarters of
the organization, and of the authorized and responsible heads of such
organization;
      (3)   The name, address and telephone number of the person who will be
the parade chairperson and who will be responsible for its conduct;
      (4)   The date when the parade is to be conducted and the hours when such
parade will start and terminate;
      (5)   The proposed route to be traveled, the starting point and the
termination point;
      (6)   The approximate number of persons who, and animals and vehicles
which, will constitute such parade; the type of animals and description of the
vehicles;
      (7)   The location by streets and designation by time of an assembly area
of such parade;
      (8)   If the parade is designed to be held by, and on behalf of, or for
any person other than the applicant, the applicant for such permit shall file
with the Town Manager a communication in writing from the person proposing to
hold the parade, authorizing the applicant to apply for the permit in his or
her behalf;
      (9)   The person or persons to be in charge of the activity and who will
accompany it and carry the permit at all times; and
      (10)   Any additional information which the Town Manager shall find
reasonably necessary to a fair determination as to whether a permit should be
issued.
   (C)   Compliance. Before granting a permit pursuant to this section, the
Administrator shall determine that the applicant has made arrangements to
comply with division (B) above and, if the town is to do the necessary repair
work, the permit shall not be issued until the applicant makes a deposit equal
to the estimated costs of repair.
   (D)   Application. This section shall not apply to any utility to the extent
that the same subject matter is covered in a franchise ordinance applicable to
that utility. Nor shall this section apply to any excavation made in a state-
maintained street to the extent that the state has given its permission for
such an excavation to be made; except that, the person making the excavation
shall still be responsible for notifying the Administrator of the intended
excavation 48 hours before the work begins.
(Ord. passed 3-28-1987)
§ 90.53  REQUIREMENTS FOR ISSUING PERMIT.
   (A)   Persons who otherwise meet the requirements for a parade permit and
who receive a parade permit are entitled to exercise their First Amendment
rights in all areas of the town. After the applicant has made known the general
area in which he, she or it wishes to conduct the parade, the Town Manager
shall establish, after consultation with the Chief of Police, Fire Chief and
Public Works Director, the specific streets and thoroughfares that are to be
used for the parade, the route of the parade and the time limits within which
the parade may be held.
   (B)   The Town Manager shall issue a permit as provided hereunder when, from
a consideration of the application and from such other information as may
otherwise be obtained, he or she finds that:
      (1)   Adequate provision can be made for the safe and orderly movement of
the parade and of other traffic, pedestrian and vehicular, contiguous to its
route;
      (2)   Adequate provision can be made for police and fire protection which
will not require diversion of so great a number of police or fire officers of
the town to police properly the lines of movement and the areas contiguous
thereto as to prevent normal police and fire protection to the town; and
      (3)   The applicant for the parade permit has agreed to abide by the
standards hereinafter set forth below which are necessary measures to promote
the safety and welfare of the community.
(Ord. passed 3-28-1987)
§ 90.54  STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO PARADES.
   (A)   (1)   No firearms or dangerous weapons of any kind, as defined below,
may be possessed either exposed or concealed by any participant in the parade
or any concealed by any participant in the parade or any person affiliated with
and present at the parade or any person upon any street, sidewalk or other
public place within 500 feet of the parade, except as permitted in this
division (A).
      (2)   For the purpose of the section, the section, the term DANGEROUS
WEAPON shall be defined as any device designed or capable of being used to
inflict serious injury upon person or property, including, but not limited to,
firearms, knives of any kind or any type having a blade in excess of three
inches in length, razors and razor blades, metallic knuckles, clubs, blackjacks
and night sticks, dynamite cartridges, bombs, grenades, mines, other powerful
explosives and any reptile or canine species.
      (3)   This restriction shall not apply to the following persons while
acting lawfully and within the scope of their duties and authority:
         (a)   Law enforcement officers;
         (b)   Officers and soldiers of the Armed Forces, militia, National
Guard and color guards of officially-recognized veteran’s organizations; or
         (c)   Students of military science in an accredited high school or
college program.
   (B)   No hand-carried signs or poster transported in such a parade shall be
of greater density than eight ply, 0.030 thickness cardboard. No support for
such sign or poster shall be of a metallic substance, nor thicker than one
inch, unless approved in advance by the Town Manager or his or her designated
representative.
   (C)   The person designated the applicant as the person responsible for the
physical conduct of the parade shall be physically present and accept
responsibility for compliance with any and all terms of the parade permit as
set forth in §
90.56 of this chapter.
   (D)   The applicant shall file with the Town Manager a waiver signed by said
applicant releasing and saving the town and its employees harmless for any
claims, actions and lawsuits, arising out of the conduct of the parade,
excepting injuries or damages proximately caused by the town.
   (E)   Every parade shall follow the route designated and approved by the
Town Manager.
   (F)   No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede or interfere
with any parade assembly or with any person, vehicle or animal participating or
used in a parade.
   (G)   Parade permit holders will reimburse the town 100% above normal cost
to provide law enforcement coverage during the parade march.
   (H)   No person under the age of four will be permitted to march in a
parade, unless authorized by the Town Manager or his or her designee.
   (I)   Those high school and college marching bands and drill teams
accredited by the State Department of Education are permitted to carry such
flags, instruments, batons and the like that are customary in carrying out
their respective functions.
(Ord. passed 3-28-1987)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.55  NOTICE OF REJECTION.
   The Town Manager shall act upon the application for a parade permit within
48 hours, excluding weekends, after the filing thereof. If the Town Manager
disapproves the application, he or she shall notify the applicant, stating the
reason for his or her denial of the permit.
(Ord. passed 3-28-1987)
§ 90.56  RESPONSIBILITY OF PARTICIPANTS AND PERSON IN CHARGE.
   (A)   Participants in a parade are required to abide by this subchapter and
the terms of the parade permit issued hereunder. Willful violation thereof will
constitute a violation of this section and is punishable as provided by law.
   (B)   The person designated in the application as responsible for the
physical conduct of the parade shall be responsible for monitoring the conduct
of the participants in the parade. Upon actual notice of any violation, given
to said responsible person by a law enforcement officer on the scene of said
parade, such person shall make immediate bona fide attempts to correct the
violation. It shall be unlawful for such responsible person to refuse to make
such bona fide attempts to correct the violation.
(Ord. passed 3-28-1987)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.57  VIOLATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision of this section
or any of the conditions of the parade permit. Any person violating any
provision thereof shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as provided by
law.
(Ord. passed 3-28-1987)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is provided shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   A violation of any of the following sections shall constitute a
misdemeanor, punishable as provided in G.S. § 14-4: §§
90.01,
90.02,
90.15 through
90.20 and
90.35 through
90.37 of this chapter.
      (2)   A violation of any of the sections listed in division (A) above
shall also subject the offender to a civil penalty of $25. If a person falls to
pay this penalty within ten days after being cited for a violation, the town
may seek to recover the penalty by filing a civil action in the nature of debt.
      (3)   The town may seek to enforce this chapter through any appropriate
equitable action.
      (4)   Each day that a violation continues after the offender has been
notified of the violation shall constitute a separate offense.
      (5)   The town may seek to enforce this chapter by using any one or any
combination of the foregoing remedies.
(Prior Code, § 7-34)
CHAPTER 91:  FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
   
91.01   Interference with firefighters; false alarms
   
91.02   Riding on Fire Department apparatus
   
91.03   Congregating at fires
   
91.04   Fire Prevention Code
   
91.05   Open burning
   
91.06   Fire Chief
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01  INTERFERENCE WITH FIREFIGHTERS; FALSE ALARMS.
   (A)   As provided in G.S. § 58-82-1, no person may willfully interfere in
any manner with firefighters engaged in the performance of their duties.
   (B)   As provided in G.S. § 14-286, no person may wantonly and willfully
give a false alarm or damage fire alarm, detection or extinguishing equipment.
(Prior Code, § 12-1)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02  RIDING ON FIRE DEPARTMENT APPARATUS.
   No person other than a member of the Fire Department may mount or ride upon
any fire engine, wagon or apparatus before it leaves the station or while on
its way to or from a fire or at any other time, except by permission of the
driver or officer in command.
(Prior Code, § 12-2)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03  CONGREGATING AT FIRES.
   It shall be unlawful for persons to congregate on the streets, sidewalks or
other areas adjacent to a fire so as to interfere with the operations of
members of the Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 12-3)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04  FIRE PREVENTION CODE.
   (A)   Adoption of A.I.A. Fire Prevention Code.
      (1)   The current edition of the Fire Prevention Code recommended by the
American Insurance Association is hereby adopted by reference, subject to the
additions and modifications set forth in this section. The term “municipality”,
as used in the Fire Protection Code, shall mean the “Town of Stoneville” and
the term “Corporation Counsel” shall mean the “Town Attorney”.
      (2)   The A.I.A. Fire Protection Code, herein adopted by reference, shall
not apply to the extent that any of its provisions are superseded or preempted
by the North Carolina State Building Code.
      (3)   A copy of the A.I.A. Fire Protection Code shall be made available
to any person requesting it at the office of the Town Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 12-9)
   (B)   Modifications to A.I.A. Fire Prevention Code.  The district within
which the regulations contained in the following sections of the Fire
Prevention Code shall apply is hereby established as the entire Town of
Stoneville:
      (1)   Section 126.5b: storage of explosives and blasting agents;
      (2)   Section 13.3a: manufacture and storage of fireworks;
      (3)   Section 16.22a: storage of flammable liquids in outside aboveground
tanks;
      (4)   Section 16.61: new bulk plants for flammable or combustible
liquids; and
      (5)   Section 21.6: bulk storage of liquefied petroleum gases.
(Prior Code, § 12-10)
§ 91.05  OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (D) below, no person may burn or cause
to be burned any material outside of a building without a permit issued by the
Fire Chief.
   (B)   The Fire Chief shall issue the permit, authorizing the named applicant
to burn specified materials at a designated location on a specified date, if he
or she finds that the applicant will comply with the requirements of division
(C) below and that no atmospheric conditions or other local circumstances exist
that would make the requested burning hazardous.
   (C)   Burning shall be permitted only on property owned or occupied by the
person doing the burning, or his or her agent, and only in accordance with the
terms of the permit. Burning shall not be allowed within 50 feet of any
structure, except as provided in division (D) below. No outside burning shall
be allowed within the primary fire district. Outdoor fires shall be constantly
attended, and the person in charge shall have a garden hose or other fire
extinguishing equipment readily available for use.
   (D)   Outdoor burning of trash, leaves, grass and the like on property owned
or occupied by the person doing the burning is permissible without a permit if
done within a container approved by the Fire Chief, so long as the container is
located not less than 15 feet from any structure.
   (E)   Nothing in this section shall relieve any person of the requirements
of any other provision of law governing outdoor burning or pollution from
burning.
(Prior Code, § 12-11)  (Ord. passed 4-21-1998)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06  FIRE CHIEF.
   When used in this chapter, the term FIRE CHIEF refers to the Town Fire Chief
or to any other person designated by the Council to perform the duties assigned
to the Fire Chief by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 12-17)  (Ord. passed 4-21-1998)
§ 91.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code.
   (B)   (1)   A violation of §§
91.01,
91.02,
91.03 and
91.05 of this chapter, as well as a violation of any of the provisions of the
A.I.A. Fire Prevention Code adopted by reference in §
91.04(A) shall constitute a misdemeanor, punishable as provided in G.S. § 14-4.
      (2)   A violation of any of the provisions listed in division (B)(1)
above shall also subject the offender to a civil penalty of $25. If a person
fails to pay this penalty within ten days after being cited for violation, the
town may seek to recover the penalty by filing a civil action in the nature of
debt.
      (3)   The town may seek to enforce this chapter through any appropriate
equitable action.
      (4)   Each day that a violation continues after the offender has been
notified of the violation shall constitute a separate offense.
      (5)   The town may seek to enforce this chapter by using any one or any
combination of the foregoing remedies.
(Prior Code, § 12-18)
CHAPTER 92:  CEMETERIES
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Application of provisions
   
92.03   Burial only in cemeteries
   
92.04   Disruptive activity prohibited
   
92.05   Defacing or desecrating grave sites
   
92.06   Desecrating, plowing over or covering up graves; desecrating human
remains
   
92.07   Hours of operation
   
92.08   General rules and regulations
Designation and Sale of Cemetery Lots and Spaces
   
92.20   Cemetery map required
   
92.21   Purchase of burial rights
   
92.22   Speculation in burial rights prohibited
   
92.23   Transfer of burial rights
Grave Markers
   
92.35   Markers
   
92.36   Grave markers exclusively in some sections
Burials
   
92.50   No burial without permit
   
92.51   Records of persons buried required
   
92.52   Minimum depth of graves
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The person designated by the Manager to perform the functions
and exercise the responsibilities assigned by this chapter to the
Administrator.
   LOT. A plot of ground within the town cemetery consisting of two or more
burial spaces, as shown on the official cemetery map.
   MARKER. A plaque installed at ground level at the site of a grave to
indicate the name, date of birth and date of death of the person buried there.
   MAUSOLEUM.  A structure of building substantially exposed above ground
intended to be used for the entombment of the remains of a deceased person.
   MONUMENT.  A memorial stone or other structure erected at a grave site in
remembrance of the dead.
(Prior Code, § 13-1)  (Ord. passed 6-3-2014)
§ 92.02  APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The following sections apply to all cemeteries within the town: §§
92.03,
92.04,
92.05 and
92.06.
   (B)   The remaining sections of this chapter apply only to cemeteries owned
or operated by the town.
(Prior Code, § 13-2)  (Ord. passed 6-3-2014)
§ 92.03  BURIAL ONLY IN CEMETERIES.
   No person may bury or cause to be buried the body of any deceased person
within the town limits in any place other than a church cemetery or cemetery
operated by a governmental entity or a private cemetery licensed or
specifically exempted from licensing according to the State Cemetery Act (G.S.
Ch. 65, Art. 9).
(Prior Code, § 13-3)  (Ord. passed 6-3-2014)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04  DISRUPTIVE ACTIVITY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person may drive any motor vehicle of any kind in any cemetery,
except upon the main roads and avenues provided therein for vehicular traffic.
   (B)   No person may drive any motor vehicle or park any motor vehicle in any
cemetery unless in attendance at burial services or otherwise engaged in
activities consistent with the use of a cemetery as a cemetery.
   (C)   No person may take any dog, horse or other animal into any cemetery or
allow any animal to run at large therein.
   (D)   No person may intentionally disrupt any funeral services or disturb
the quiet and good order of any cemetery by extremely loud or boisterous
conduct. Except in the case of military funerals and veterans or military
commemorative exercises, no person may carry or discharge firearms in any
cemetery.
   (E)   No person may post or attach any bills, posters, placards, pictures or
other form of political or commercial advertising within any cemetery or on the
inside or outside of any wall or fence enclosing any cemetery.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2014)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05  DEFACING OR DESECRATING GRAVE SITES.
   (A)   As provided in G.S. § 14-148, if any person shall willfully commit any
of the following acts set forth in the following subdivisions, he or she shall
be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor unless the damage is over $1,000 in which
case he or she will be guilty of a Class I felony.
      (1)   Throw, place or put any refuse, garbage or trash in or on any
cemetery.
      (2)   Take away, disturb, vandalize, destroy or change the location of
any stone, brick, iron or other material or fence enclosing a cemetery without
authorization of law or consent of the surviving spouse or next of kin of the
deceased.
      (3)   Take away, disturb, vandalize, destroy, or tamper with any
shrubbery, flowers, plants or other articles planted or placed within any
cemetery to designate where human remains are interred or to preserve and
perpetuate the memory and name of any person, without authorization of law or
the consent of the surviving spouse or next of kin.
   (B)   Providing nothing contained in this section shall apply under the
following circumstances:
      (1)   Ordinary maintenance and care of a cemetery by the owner,
caretaker, or other person acting to facilitate cemetery operations by keeping
the cemetery free from accumulated debris or other signs of neglect.
      (2)   Conduct that is punishable under G.S. § 14-149.
      (3)   A professional archaeologist as defined in G.S. § 70-28(4) acting
pursuant to the provisions of G.S. Ch. 70, Art. 3.
(Prior Code, § 13-5)  (Ord. passed 6-3-2014)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06  DESECRATING, PLOWING OVER OR COVERING UP GRAVES; DESECRATING HUMAN
REMAINS.
   As provided in G.S. § 14-149, it is a Class I felony if any person shall,
without authorization of law or the consent of the surviving spouse or next of
kin of the deceased, knowingly and willfully:
   (A)   Open, disturb, destroy, remove, vandalize or desecrate any casket or
other repository of any human remains, by any means including plowing under,
tearing up, covering over or otherwise obliterating or removing any grave or
any portion thereof.
   (B)   Take away, disturb, vandalize, destroy, tamper with, or deface any
tombstone, headstone, monument, grave marker, grave ornamentation, or grave
artifacts erected or placed within any cemetery to designate the place where
human remains are interred or to preserve and perpetuate the memory and the
name of any person. This subdivision shall not apply to the ordinary
maintenance and care of a cemetery.
   (C)   Repealed by Session Laws 2007-122, s. 2, effective December 1, 2007,
and applicable to offenses committed on or after that date.
      (1)   It is a Class H felony, without authorization of law or the consent
of the surviving spouse or next of kin of the deceased, to knowingly and
willfully disturb, destroy, remove, vandalize, or desecrate any human remains
that have been interred in a cemetery.
      (2)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to a professional
archaeologist as defined in G.S. § 70-28(4) acting pursuant to the provisions
of G.S. Ch. 70, Art. 3.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2014)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.07  HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   The town cemetery shall remain open to the public throughout the year
from sunrise until sunset.
   (B)   No person may enter the town cemetery at any time other than the hours
of operation established by division (A) above.
(Prior Code, § 13-7)  (Ord. passed 6-3-2014)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.08  GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No person may plant, prune, or remove any tree, shrub, flower, grass
or other plant of any kind except with the consent of and in accordance with
the directions of the Cemetery Administrator.
   (B)   The Cemetery Administrator or designee may enter any lot and remove or
trim any tree, shrub or any other plant that encroaches upon any other lot or
any walkway, driveway or other part of the cemetery.
   (C)   The Cemetery Administrator or designee may remove from the cemetery
all floral designs and flowers (natural or artificial), weeds or plants of any
kind from the cemetery as soon as they deteriorate or otherwise become
unsightly.
   (D)   No trinkets, toys, shells, pickle jars, tin cans, sand, rocks or
anything, which in the opinion of the Cemetery Administrator is unsightly, will
be allowed on any lot or single grave and all such articles, materials and
things will be removed without notice and the town shall not be responsible for
the loss or destruction of same.
   (E)   No person shall place or caused to be placed on any lot in the
cemetery any stone, planting or obstacle other than markers, monuments,
headstones or footstones allowed in §
92.35.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2014)  Penalty, see §
92.99
DESIGNATION AND SALE OF CEMETERY LOTS AND SPACES
§ 92.20  CEMETERY MAP REQUIRED.
   (A)   There shall be maintained in the Town Clerk's office an official
cemetery map which shall depict, as accurately as possible, the boundaries of
the town cemetery and the location and dimensions of all lots and spaces within
the cemetery.
   (B)   Burial rights in all lots and spaces shall be sold in reference to the
official cemetery map.
(Prior Code, § 13-11)  (Ord. passed 6-3-2014)
§ 92.21  PURCHASE OF BURIAL RIGHTS.
   (A)   The town shall sell burial rights in cemetery lots and spaces in
accordance with a schedule of charges fixed and amended from time to time by
resolution of the Council. This schedule of charges shall be maintained in the
office of the Town Clerk.
   (B)   A certificate of burial right, identifying the purchaser and the
specific lots or spaces to which the certificate applies, shall be issued to
the person who purchases a burial right in accordance with this section. This
certificate entitles the purchaser to use the designated lot or space as a
place of burial, subject to the terms and conditions of this chapter and
subject to the town's authority to operate, regulate, control and abandon
cemeteries.
(Prior Code, § 13-12)  (Ord. passed 6-3-2014)
§ 92.22  SPECULATION IN BURIAL RIGHTS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person may purchase or otherwise acquire any burial right for the
purpose of sale or exchange.
   (B)   No person may sell or exchange any burial right for a profit or gain.
(Prior Code, § 13-13)  (Ord. passed 6-3-2014)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.23  TRANSFER OF BURIAL RIGHTS.
   (A)   The purchaser of burial rights may not transfer the same. However, the
town will refund, without interest, any sum paid for burial rights if requested
to do so in writing by the purchaser of such rights prior to the opening of a
grave in the grave space purchased. No refund may be made until the purchaser
surrenders his or her certificate of burial right.
   (B)   Upon the death of the owner of a burial right, the owner's heirs,
legatees or devisees shall succeed to all rights evidenced by the certificates
or burial right.
(Prior Code, § 13-14)  (Ord. passed 6-3-2014)
GRAVE MARKERS
§ 92.35  MARKERS.
   (A)   All grave site markers shall conform with the following requirements:
      (1)   A grave site may only have one marker.
      (2)   Grave site markers shall be constructed of granite or some equally
durable or more durable natural stone or durable bronze alloy or some more
durable metallic alloy or a combination of natural stone or metallic alloy.
      (3)   Grave site markers shall be no larger than 18 inches in width and
18 inches in length.
      (4)   Grave site markers may only be installed so that the topmost
surface is no more than one-half inch above the surface of the surrounding
areas.
   (B)   Grave site markers shall only be installed in the location assigned to
them by the Cemetery Administrator.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Town Council in its discretion may
allow the placement of other monuments, including head stones, to be installed
within certain sections of the cemetery. In such cases, the Town Council
reserves the right to approve on a case by case basis the dimensional
requirements of such monuments.
(Ord. passed 9-2-1985; Ord. passed 6-3-2014)
§ 92.36  GRAVE MARKERS EXCLUSIVELY IN SOME SECTIONS.
   (A)   In certain municipal cemetery sections, burials may only be marked by
the use of grave markers as described and defined in §
92.35 and no monuments may be erected in these sections; however, the town may
elect to construct mausoleums within these sections.
   (B)   The municipal cemetery sections in which burial may only be marked by
the use of grave markers shall be designated on the official cemetery map
maintained by the Clerk of the town and shall be available for inspection by
any interested party.
   (C)   The certificate of burial right in the sections restricted to grave
site markers only shall contain a notice that the grave site to be used is
restricted to use of a grave site marker as defined herein.
(Ord. passed 9-2-1985; Ord. passed 6-3-2014)
BURIALS
§ 92.50  NO BURIAL WITHOUT PERMIT.
   (A)   No grave may be opened and no burial may take place without a written
permit issued by the Cemetery Administrator.
   (B)   Application for the permit authorized by this section shall be made at
least eight hours prior to the opening of the grave. This application shall be
submitted in writing, and unless the application is made to permit the
interment of the person who owns the burial right for the space requested, it
must be accompanied by a written statement signed by the owner of such space
authorizing the use of such space. The application shall include the
information necessary to create the record required by §
92.51.
   (C)   The permit required by this section shall be issued if the application
contains the information specified in this section and if all fees and charges
authorized by this chapter have been paid.
(Prior Code, § 13-21)  (Ord. passed 6-3-2014)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.51  RECORDS OF PERSONS BURIED REQUIRED.
   The Cemetery Administrator shall keep complete and accurate records of the
name, sex, date of death and date of burial of every person buried in the town
cemetery, as well as the particular space where such person is buried.
(Prior Code, § 13-22)  (Ord. passed 6-3-2014)
§ 92.52  MINIMUM DEPTH OF GRAVES.
   (A)   No grave may be opened to a depth of less than 5 feet to the bottom
thereof.
   (B)   All graves shall be level with the surrounding areas and no mounds
shall be allowed.
(Prior Code, § 13-23)  (Ord. passed 6-3-2014)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   A violation of any of the following provisions shall constitute a
misdemeanor, punishable as provided in G.S. § 14-4: §§
92.03,
92.04,
92.07,
92.08,
92.22,
92.23,
92.50 and
92.52 .
   (B)   Violations of any of the sections listed in division (A) above subject
the offender to a civil penalty of $25. If a person fails to pay this penalty
within ten days after being cited for a violation, the town may seek to recover
the penalty by filing a civil action in the nature of the debt.
   (C)   The town may seek to enforce this chapter through any appropriate
equitable action.
   (D)   Each day that a violation continues after the offender has been
notified of the violation shall constitute a separate offense.
   (E)   The town may seek to enforce this chapter by using any one or any
combination of the foregoing remedies.
(Prior Code, § 13-26)  (Ord. passed 6-3-2014)
CHAPTER 93:  ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Confinement and running at large
   
93.03   Dangerous dogs
   
93.04   Number of dogs limited
   
93.05   Confinement of females in heat and nursing females
   
93.06   Female chickens
Hunting; Willfully Poisoning Wild Animals
   
93.30   Deer hunting by bow or crossbow
   
93.31   Shooting or willfully poisoning wild animals
 
   
93.99   Penalty
Cross reference:
   Firearms and air rifles; discharge, see §
130.02
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The person designated by the Council to perform the
responsibilities assigned by this chapter to the Administrator.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. The person designated by the Administrator to
perform the duties related to any animals found to be subject to the provisions
of this chapter.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. A domesticated or tame animal that is kept principally as a
pet; except that, livestock and wild animals shall not be regarded as DOMESTIC
ANIMALS.
   HOUSEHOLD. A home, place or dwelling structure occupied by an individual or
several individuals as a residential habitation.
   INDOOR PETS. Dogs, cats and/or other species of animals customarily
considered pets, which said animals are usually confined by their owners within
a household dwelling or other completely enclosed and roofed building
structure, and which animals are only occasionally removed from the residential
unit or building structure so that the substantial majority of time the pet is
confined indoors.
   LIVESTOCK. All equine species, including horses, ponies, donkeys and mules;
all bovine species, including cows and cattle; all ruminants, including goats
and sheep; some poultry species, including roosters, ducks and turkeys; and all
other animals and non-plant life, that typically are kept primarily for
productive or useful purposes rather than as pets. For purposes of this
chapter, none of the above listed species or animals may be considered to be
pets.
   OUTDOOR PETS. Dogs, cats and other species of animals customarily considered
pets which said animals are quartered outside of their owner's household
dwelling or other completely enclosed roofed buildings. Female chickens shall
be allowed as outdoor pets subject to the requirements as set forth in §
93.06.
   OWNER. Any person owning, keeping or harboring an animal. An animal shall be
deemed to be harbored if it is fed or sheltered for three consecutive days.
   RESTRAINT. An animal is under restraint if it is on the property or premises
of its owner or if it is under the immediate and effective control of a
responsible person or if it is secured by a leash or lead.
   RUNS AT LARGE. An animal runs at large when it is off the premises of the
owner and is not under the immediate and effective constraint of the owner or
other competent person in charge of the animal.
   WILD ANIMAL. An animal that:
      (1)   Typically is found in a non-domesticated state and that, because of
its size or vicious propensity, or because it is poisonous, or for any other
substantial reason poses a potential danger to persons, other animals or
property; or
      (2)   Is classified as a wild animal by the State Wildlife Resources
Commission (WRC) so that any person wishing to possess the same is required by
state law to obtain a permit from WRC.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2006; Ord. passed 5-2-2010; Ord. O-2020-01, passed 5-5-2020)
§ 93.02  CONFINEMENT AND RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   No person may keep or harbor livestock within the town; provided,
however, that, transportation of livestock through the town on thoroughfares
and streets is permissible.
   (B)   All owners or persons having possession or control of any domestic
animals located within the town must keep these animals on the owners property
or premises or under restraint at all times. Only dogs which are on a leash may
be walked or exercised.
   (C)   Domestic animals which are outdoor pets must be confined and quartered
within a fenced enclosure which enclosure shall contain a minimum of 100 square
feet of space for each animal quartered. The enclosure must also be equipped
with a substantial shelter which will protect the animal from rainfall and
severe weather.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2006)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03  DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions, except as
modified in division (B) below, shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DANGEROUS DOG.
         (a)   A dog that:
            1.   Without provocation has killed or inflicted serious injury on
a person; or
            2.   Is determined by the person or board designated by the county
or municipal authority responsible for animal control to be potentially
dangerous because the dog has engaged in one or more of the behaviors listed
herein.
         (b)   Any dog owned or harbored primarily or in part for the purpose
of dog fighting, or any dog trained for dog fighting.
      OWNER. Any person or legal entity that has a possessory property right in
a dog
      OWNER’S REAL PROPERTY. Any real property owned or leased by the owner of
the dog, but does not include any public right-of-way or a common areas of a
condominium, apartment complex or townhouse development.
      POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG. A dog that the person or board designated by
the county or municipal authority responsible for animal control determines to
have:
         (a)   Inflicted a bite on a person that resulted in broken bones or
disfiguring lacerations or required cosmetic surgery or hospitalizations;
         (b)   Killed or inflicted severe injury upon a domestic animal when
not on the owner’s real property; or
         (c)   Approached a person when not on the owner’s property in a
vicious or terrorizing manner in an apparent attitude of attack.
      SEVERE INJURY. Any physical injury that results in broken bones or
disfiguring lacerations or required cosmetic surgery or hospitalization.
   (B)   The provisions of this section do not apply to:
      (1)   A dog being used by a law enforcement officer to carry out the law
enforcement officer’s official duty;
      (2)   A dog being used in a lawful hunt;
      (3)   A dog where the injury or damage inflicted by the dog was sustained
by a domestic animal while the dog was working as a hunting dog, herding dog or
predator control dog on the property of or under the control of, its owner or
keeper and the damage or injury as to a species or type of domestic animal
appropriate to the work of the dog; or
      (4)   A dog where the injury inflicted by the dog was sustained by a
person who, at the time of injury, was committing a willful trespass or other
tort, was tormenting, abusing or assaulting the dog, has tormented, abused or
assaulted the dog or was committing or attempting to commit a crime.
   (C)   (1)   The Council designates the Animal Control Officer to be
responsible for determining when a dog is a “potentially dangerous dog”. The
Council shall hear any appeal. The person or Council making the determination
that a dog is a “potentially dangerous dog” must notify the owner, giving
reasons for determination, before the dog may be considered potentially
dangerous under this section.
      (2)   The owner may appeal the determination by filing written objections
with the appellate board within three days. The appellate board shall schedule
a hearing within ten days of the filing of the objections. Any appeal from the
final decision of such appellate board shall be taken to the Superior Court by
filing notice of appeal and petition for review within ten days of the final
decision of the appellate board. Appeals from rulings of the appellate board
shall be heard in the Superior Court Division. The appeal shall be heard de
novo before a Superior Court Judge sitting in the county in which the appellate
board whose ruling is being appealed is located.
   (D)   Precautious against attacks by dangerous dogs:
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for an owner to:
         (a)   Leave a dangerous dog unattended on the owner’s real property
unless the dog is confined indoors, in a securely enclosed and locked pen, or
in another structure designed to restrain the dog; and/or
         (b)   Permit a dangerous dog to go beyond the owner’s real property
unless the dog is leashed or muzzled or is otherwise securely restrained and
muzzled.
      (2)   If the owner of a dangerous dog transfers ownership or possession
of the dog to another person (as defined in G.S. § 12-3(6)), the owner shall
provide written notice to:
         (a)   The authority that made the determination under this section;
stating the name and address of the new owner or possessor of the dog; and
         (b)   The person taking ownership or possession of the dog, specifying
the dog’s dangerous behavior and the authority’s determination.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2006)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04  NUMBER OF DOGS LIMITED.
   (A)   No household may own or possess more than three dogs on the premises
of that household at any time; provided, however, that, dogs under six months
of age, and dogs which are indoor pets shall not count against this limit of
three dogs.
   (B)   Any time a household is found to own or possess more than three dogs,
excluding any indoor dogs or dogs under six months of age, this household shall
be notified by the municipal animal control authority that the household is
violating this section limiting the number of dogs. The household may retain
only the three dogs. Dogs in excess of the three shall be removed within five
days of notification from the municipality or the dog owners of the household
shall be subject to being charged with a misdemeanor for violating this section
for possession of more dogs than permitted.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2006)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05  CONFINEMENT OF FEMALES IN HEAT AND NURSING FEMALES.
   (A)   The owner shall confine any female dog in heat within a building, in
such manner that the dog will not be accessible to other dogs, except for
planned breeding, and so as not to attract male dogs.
   (B)   Any female dog nursing or caring for a puppy or puppies under six
months of age shall be physically confined in an enclosed structure.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2006)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06  FEMALE CHICKENS.
   (A)   Permit required. In order to harbor chickens within town limits, an
owner must obtain a permit from the Town Manager. The following requirements
must be met in order to obtain a permit:
      (1)   The owner must pay $25 annually to maintain his or her permit;
      (2)   The Town Manager or Animal Control Officer may choose to inspect a
henhouse, chicken tractor, or enclosed chicken pen of a permittee in response
to a complaint or open and obvious violation of this section. The Town Manager
or Animal Control Officer has the discretion to require a visit to a qualified
veterinarian upon inspection. If the Town Manager or Animal Control Officer
determines that the henhouse, chicken tractor, or enclosed chicken pen is
unsanitary or has an unsatisfactory feces/debris buildup, the owner will have
two weeks to bring his or her structure into compliance. If the owner is unable
to bring his or her structure into compliance, the owner will be in violation
of this section and assigned a penalty pursuant to §
93.99 below; and
      (3)   A permit may be revoked as outlined in §
93.99 below.
   (B)   Limit. It shall be unlawful for any person to keep more than six
female chickens within the corporate limits of the town. If it is discovered
that an owner has more than six female chickens, the owner will be given two
weeks to comply with this section. If the owner does not comply with this
section within two weeks, the owner will be assigned a penalty pursuant to §
93.99 below.
   (C)   No running at large. It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any
female chicken to be at large in the town.
   (D)   Enclosure specifications. Female chickens must be confined within an
enclosed chicken pen, henhouse or a chicken tractor as follows:
      (1)   During daylight hours, female chickens must be kept in an enclosed
chicken pen. Female chickens must be confined and quartered within a henhouse
or a chicken tractor during non-daylight hours;
      (2)   Henhouses and chicken tractors must be fully enclosed and must be
well ventilated;
      (3)   Henhouses and chicken tractors must have a minimum of four square
feet of living space per bird; and
      (4)   Female chickens must be kept at a minimum of ten feet from the
dwelling house of another person in the rear yard.
   (E)   Setback requirements. Any enclosed chicken pen, henhouse, or chicken
tractor must be at least ten feet from any residence. Also, any enclosed
chicken pen, henhouse, or chicken tractor must have at least four square feet
per chicken inside of the dwelling and must have eight to ten square feet per
chicken in any outdoor enclosure.
   (F)   Sanitation. All henhouses, chicken tractors, and enclosed chicken pens
must be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition at all times. Waste shall
not be permitted to accumulate and shall be removed and disposed of in a
sanitary and lawful manner. If the Town Manager or Animal Control Officer
receives a complaint about the appearance or condition of any chicken dwelling,
an owner's permit may be revoked.
   (G)   Noise. No owner shall be allowed to maintain noisy female chickens
that disturb the use and quiet enjoyment of property. If a noise complaint is
received regarding noise of female chickens, it constitutes a public nuisance.
An owner shall abate such nuisance within two days of notification from the
Town Manager or Animal Control Officer. If the nuisance is not abated, an
owner's permit may be revoked.
   (H)   Non-commercial use only. It shall be unlawful to raise female chickens
for commercial purposes within the corporate limits of the town. The use of
chickens for chicken breeding and fertilizer production is specifically
prohibited.
   (I)   Roosters. No person, corporation or entity may cause, suffer or permit
roosters to be kept on any property situated within the corporate limits of the
town. Roosters are considered livestock and are specifically prohibited within
town limits pursuant to §
93.01. If it is discovered that a rooster exists within town limits, the owner
will be given two weeks to remove the rooster and comply with this section. If
the owner docs not comply with this section within two weeks, the owner will be
assigned a penalty pursuant to §
93.99 below.
   (J)   Zoning. Female chickens will only be permitted in the RA, Residential
Agriculture, or RS, Residential Suburban, Districts.
(Ord. O-2020-01, passed 5-5-2020; Ord. O-2021-01, passed 3-2-2021)
HUNTING; WILLFULLY POISONING WILD ANIMALS
§ 93.30  DEER HUNTING BY BOW OR CROSSBOW.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of the city code, deer hunting by bow or
crossbow (collectively, ARCHERY ), as defined by the North Carolina Wildlife
Resources Commission, is permitted on private property during the central North
Carolina deer archery season as established by the North Carolina Wildlife
Resources Commission. A person may engage in deer archery on his or her own
property if he or she has on his or her person a valid North Carolina hunting
license (or qualifies for an exemption from licensing by the North Carolina
Wildlife Resources Commission), or on the property of another in their absence
if he or she has on his or her person both a valid North Carolina hunting
license (or qualifies for an exemption from licensing by the North Carolina
Wildlife Resources Commission) and written permission from the property owner
or the property owner’s authorized agent or manager. Parcels or tracts of land
that are either owned by a person engaged in deer archery or for which that
person has been given written permission to hunt shall be referred to as AREAS
OF CONSENT . Deer archery may only occur within areas of consent when the
following requirements are met.
   (A)   Deer archery must be conducted from a permanent or portable elevated
platform of at least ten feet above the ground;
   (B)   Areas of consent must be greater than five acres in area and may be
comprised of contiguous parcels or tracts;
   (C)   No arrow shall be discharged within 50 yards of any residential
dwelling, school, church, commercial building, governmental property, occupied
structure, street, park, or other recreational area, nor shall any arrow be
discharged within 50 yards of the perimeter of the area of consent;
   (D)   Hunters shall make every reasonable effort to track wounded deer for
the purpose of completing the harvest and recovering the carcass;
   (E)   There is a valid hunting season in effect for which the hunting
license applies at the time the bow or crossbow is discharged;
   (F)   The hunter adheres to all applicable state and local regulations; and
   (G)   The person discharging the bow or crossbow exercises reasonable regard
for the safety and property of other persons.
(Ord. passed 4-1-2014, nunc pro tunc, 3-4-2014)
§ 93.31  SHOOTING OR WILLFULLY POISONING WILD ANIMALS.
   (A)   Except as expressly set forth herein, it shall be unlawful for any
person to shoot any wild game or any squirrel, whether wild or tame, with a gun
or firearm or to willfully poison any wild game or squirrel, and it shall be
unlawful for any person other than an officer authorized by law, or upon a
range legally permitted by the Chief of Police, to discharge or shoot any
firearm, pump gun, air rifle, air pistol, BB gun, crossbow, bow and arrow,
slingshot, or any other weapon of the like kind within the town.
   (B)   This section shall not apply when the weapon is discharged or shot:
      (1)   In defense of person or property;
      (2)   Pursuant to the lawful directions of a law enforcement officer;
      (3)   In a town park for ceremonial or recreational purposes, provided
that such person has first obtained, in writing, permission from the Town
Manager or his or her designee. In no event shall permission for the discharge
of live ammunition;
      (4)   In a cemetery for the purpose of conducting a military or law
enforcement funeral or commemorative exercise provided that such person has
first obtained, in writing, permission from the Town Manager or his or her
designee. In no event shall permission be given for the discharge of live
ammunition; or
      (5)   On state-designated game lands.
(Ord. passed 4-1-2014, nunc pro tunc, 3-4-2014)
§ 93.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code.
   (B)   (1)   Violation of §
93.03 of this chapter is a Class 3 misdemeanor which is punishable by a maximum
fine not to exceed $200 or imprisonment or both.
      (2)   The owner of a dangerous dog, as per §
93.03 of this chapter, that attacks a person and causes physical injuries
requiring medical treatment in excess of $100 shall be guilty of a Class 1
misdemeanor. The owner shall be subject to court imposed fines, imprisonment or
both. The owner of a dangerous dog shall be strictly liable in civil damage for
any injuries or property damage the dog inflicts upon a person, his or her
property or another animal.
   (C)   Ownership or possession of more than one dog in excess of the limit on
numbers contained in §
93.04 of this chapter shall subject the owner or possessor to a separate
penalty for each dog exceeding the limitation set out in §
93.04 of this chapter. Any person who owns or possesses any dog or dogs in
excess of the maximum of three as set out in §
93.04 of this chapter shall constitute a violation of §
93.04 of this chapter and be charged with a Class 3 misdemeanor and shall be
subject to a jail sentence, or a fine of up to $200, or both.
   (D)   (1)   The owner of female chickens not kept in compliance with §
93.06 may have his or her permit revoked and the female chickens may be seized
by law enforcement. A permit may be revoked if the owner is cited three or more
times for failing to obtain the proper permit as outlined in §
93.06(A) or for failing to comply with the requirements outlined in § 93.06
generally. There is no appellate process for a citation or a revocation of a
permit pursuant to this section.
      (2)   An owner in violation of §
93.06 may be assessed the following fees if found in violation of this section,
if at the expiration of a two-week notice period, the owner remains in
violation of §
93.06:
         (a)   If the owner is in violation of §
93.06(B) and maintains more than six female chickens within town limits, the
owner will be fined $10 per hen per day until the owner is in compliance with §
93.06.
         (b)   If the owner is in violation of §
93.06(I) and maintains a rooster within town limits, the owner will be fined
$10 per rooster daily until the owner is in compliance with §
93.06.
   (E)   (1)   If the Town Manager or Animal Control Officer determines that an
animal is in violation of
Chapter 93 and orders that it be seized or if an owner surrenders an animal
pursuant to violations of this chapter, the owner may be charged the applicable
standard Rockingham County rate for animal collection plus a $20 administrative
fee per officer.
      (2)   If an owner is in violation of
Chapter 93, the owner will be given notice and two weeks to comply with this
chapter. If after a two week notice period the owner is not in compliance, the
owner will be cited $50 for a first office, $100 for a second, and $150 for a
third or subsequent offenses. Fees itemized in this section may be incurred in
addition to the other fees noted in this section.
   (F)   Any animal pickup resulting from a violation under this chapter will
result in an animal pickup fee at the applicable standard Rockingham County
rate for animal collection plus a $20 administrative fee per officer.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2006; Ord. O-2020-01, passed 5-5-2020; Ord. O-2021-01, passed
3-2-2021)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   TAXES AND LICENSES
      
111.   GAME ROOMS
      
112.   INSULATION CONTRACTORS
      
113.   PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, AND SOLICITORS
      
114.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
CHAPTER 110:  TAXES AND LICENSES
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Construction
Levy of Tax
   
110.15   License and payment of tax required
   
110.16   Exemptions
   
110.17   Schedule of license taxes
Licenses
   
110.30   Period of license
   
110.31   Application
   
110.32   Separate businesses; multiple businesses
   
110.33   Reasons for refusal or revocation of a license
   
110.34   Unqualified applicants; right to a conference
   
110.35   Tax Collector to issue license; payment of tax a prerequisite
   
110.36   Form and contents of license
   
110.37   Assignments
   
110.38   Changes in the business conducted by licensee during tax year
   
110.39   Tax Collector to furnish duplicates
   
110.40   Providing notice to an applicant or licensee
   
110.41   Special provisions for beer and wine licenses
Enforcement and Collections
   
110.55   Duty to determine whether tax due
   
110.56   Duty to post license
   
110.57   Notice of deficiency
   
110.58   Collection of deficiency
 
   
110.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. Includes any trade, occupation, profession or other activity
engaged in by any person or caused to be engaged in by him or her with the
object of gain, profit, benefit or advantage, either direct or indirect; except
that, the term BUSINESS does not include occasional and isolate sales or
transactions by a person who does not hold himself or herself out as engaged in
BUSINESS.
   CONDUCTS A BUSINESS.
      (1)   When a person engages in one act of any business.
      (2)   If a person is listed in the yellow pages of the telephone
directory issued by the telephone system serving the town, that shall be prima
facie evidence that the person is CONDUCTING A BUSINESS.
   WITHIN THE TOWN. When a person maintains a business location within the town
or when, either personally or through agents, he or she:
      (1)   Solicits business within the town; or
      (2)   Picks up or delivers goods or services within the town.
(Prior Code, § 8-1)
§ 110.02  CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   (1)   This chapter is enacted primarily for revenue purposes and,
therefore, it should be construed to require payment of the maximum tax
permitted by its terms.
      (2)   A secondary purpose of this chapter is to prevent the operation of
covered businesses until the person applying for the license has complied with
certain town ordinances.
   (B)   Issuance of a license pursuant to this chapter does not excuse the
licensee from compliance with any other applicable ordinance or statute.
   (C)   This chapter does not prevent the town from increasing or decreasing
the amount of any license tax or from regulating any business taxed.
(Prior Code, § 8-2)
LEVY OF TAX
§ 110.15  LICENSE AND PAYMENT OF TAX REQUIRED.
   Subject to §
110.16 of this chapter, no person may conduct any business within the town
without have paid the tax required by this chapter or without a valid privilege
license issued pursuant to this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-3)
§ 110.16  EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   If an individual conducts a business as a partner in a partnership or
as an officer or employee of a corporation or as an employee or member of any
other business entity, that individual is not required to obtain a privilege
license or pay a privilege license tax. However, the partnership, corporation
or other business entity must obtain the license and pay the tax unless
exempted by this section.
   (B)   Owners of real property who lease that property need not obtain a
privilege license or pay a privilege license tax solely for acting as lessor of
that property.
   (C)   A person who operates a business for a religious, educational, civic,
patriotic, charitable or fraternal purpose is exempt from obtaining a privilege
license or paying a privilege license tax.
   (D)   Persons who solicit business or pick up or deliver goods or services
within the town are not required to obtain a privilege license or pay a
privilege license tax if business is solicited primarily from or goods or
services are delivered primarily to businesses that themselves pay a privilege
license tax to the town.
   (E)   The following businesses are exempt from obtaining a privilege license
or paying a privilege license tax as provided by the indicated section of the
General Statutes. A more complete and detailed description of the exempt
businesses is contained in the cited sections of the General Statutes.
General Statute Business
General Statute Business
                Amusements - manufacturing, selling, leasing or distributing
105-36          moving picture films or checking attendance at moving picture
                shows
                Attorneys, physicians, land surveyors, engineers, architects,
105-41          photographers, real estate brokers, accountants, morticians
                (and similar professionals)
105-42          Private protective services
                Dealers in cash registers, adding machines, typewriters,
105-51          refrigerators, washing machines and similar office equipment
                and home appliances
105-57          Persons engaged in the business of reporting the financial
                standing of persons, firms and corporations
105-65          Persons operating, maintaining or placing on location music
                machines
105-65.1        Operators or distributors of merchandise dispensing machines
105-83          Installment paper dealers
105-99          Wholesale distributors of motor fuels
105-102.1       Certain cooperative associations
105-102.3       Banks
(Repealed)
105-113.5(a)    Soft drink manufacturers and bottlers
105-115         Railroads
105-116         Utility companies (electrical power, gas, water and sewer)
105-119         Telegraph companies
105-120         Telephone companies
105-120.1       Bus companies
105-228.10      Insurance companies and associations
105-228.25      Building and loan associations
 
(Prior Code, § 8-4)
§ 110.17  SCHEDULE OF LICENSE TAXES.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, all persons who conduct
a business within the town shall pay a privilege license tax of $25.
   (B)   The businesses described in division (D) below may not be taxed in any
amount that exceeds the statutorily established maximum. Such businesses shall
pay a privilege license tax equal to the amount of the maximum fixed by
statute, subject to division (C) below. If a person conducts a business that
falls within more than one of the categories described in division (D) below,
he or she shall pay a privilege license tax equal to the total of the maximum
amounts authorized for all the categories that his or her business falls under,
subject to division (C) below.
   (C)   If a person who conducts a business that falls within one or more of
the categories described in division (D) below also conducts business at the
same location that does not fall within any of the categories described in
division (D) below, and the amount of privilege license tax such person is
required to pay (in accordance with division (B) above) for that portion of his
or her business which falls within the described categories is less than $25,
then such person shall pay a privilege license tax which, when added to the tax
such person is required to pay in accordance with division (B) above, will
equal $25.
   (D)   The businesses listed in G.S. Ch. 105, shall be subject to the maximum
for permitted therein. Whenever a tax depends upon the population of the town,
the population shall be determined according to the most recent decennial
census, as provided by state statute, and it is the intent of this chapter
that, if the population changes in a subsequent census, the tax rates shall
shift accordingly. The most commonly found of the businesses listed in Schedule
B are described more fully below and the amount of tax shown. For a more
complete description of the remaining businesses and for a determination of the
amount of tax on such businesses, see the appropriate section of the general
statutes.
General Statute Business
General  Business
Statute
         Drive-in theaters - Any person, firm or corporation operating a drive-in
         theater located within the corporate limited. Per year:
            Less than 1,500 population                $12.50
105-36.1    1,500 but less than 3,000                 $31.25
            3,000 but less than 5,000                 $62.50
            5,000 but less than 10,000                $87.50
            10,000 but less than 15,000               $137.50
         Motion picture shows, theaters and opera houses - Every person, firm or
         corporation engaged in the business of operating a motion picture show,
         theater or opera house where public exhibitions or performances are given
         for compensation. Per year:
105-37      Less than 1,500 population                $12.50
            1,500 but less than 3,000                 $31.25
            3,000 but less than 5,000                 $62.50
            5,000 but less than 10,000                $87.50
            10,000 but less than 15,000               $137.50
105.37.1 Amusements - Forms of amusements not otherwise taxed
105-38   Amusements - Circuses, menageries, wild west, dog and pony shows
105-39   Amusements - Carnival companies
105-41.1 Bondsmen
105-44   Coal and coke dealers
105-45   Collecting agencies
         Undertakers and coffin retailers - Every person, firm or corporation engaged
         in the business of burying the dead or in the retail sale of coffins. Per
         year:
            Less than 500 population                  $10
105-46      500 but less than 5,000                   $25
            5,000 but less than 10,000                $40
            10,000 but less than 15,000               $50
         This tax is not applicable to a cabinet maker who is not an undertaker, but
         who makes coffins to order
105-48.1 Itinerant photographers
         Bicycle dealers - Any person, firm or corporation engaged in the business of
         buying or selling bicycles, bicycle supplies or accessories. Per year:
            Less than 10,000 population               $10
105-49      10,000 but less than 20,000               $20
         If a dealer pays the tax imposed under the section governing motorcycle
         dealers, no additional tax may be levied for handling bicycles or bicycle
         supplies
         Pawn brokers - Every person, firm or corporation engaged in the business of
         lending or advancing money or other things of value for profit and taking as
105-50   a pledge for such loan specific articles of personal property to be
         forfeited if payment is not made within a definite time
            Less than 10,000 population               $200
            10,000 but less than 15,000               $250
         Itinerant merchants and salespersons - Every itinerant salesperson or
         merchant selling goods, wares or merchandise, either on the streets or in a
         building, not being a regular merchant of a municipality; and every operator
         of a flea market at which any itinerant merchants and salesperson expose for
         sale any goods, wares or merchandise. Per year: $100
         No itinerant salesperson or merchant shall be required to procure or pay for
         a separate license under this section to offer merchandise for sale only at
         a flea market already licensed
         Any salesperson or merchant offering for sale goods, wares or merchandise,
         other than fruits and farm products, shall be deemed an itinerant within the
         meaning of this section if he or she conducts business within a municipality
105-53   for less than 6 consecutive months. When any salesperson or merchant does
         not pay the tax herein levied due to a stated intention to become a regular
         merchant, the Municipal Tax Collector may require him or her to post a cash
         deposit in the sum of $100, which bond shall be forfeited for the payment of
         the tax herein levied in the event such person discontinues the business
         within 6 months for any reason other than death, disability, insolvency or
         destruction of stock by fire or other catastrophe
         This tax shall not apply to persons who sell books, periodicals, printed
         music, ice, wood for fuel, fish, beef, mutton, pork, bread, cakes, pies,
         dairy products, poultry, eggs, livestock or articles produced by the
         individual offering them for sale, but shall apply to medicines, drugs or
         articles assembled
         Contractors and construction companies - Every person, firm or corporation
         which for a fixed price, commission, fee or wage offers or bids to construct
105-54   any building, street, sidewalk, bridge, sewer or water system, grading or
         other improvement or structure. Per year: $10
         This tax does not apply to plumbers, electricians or treating contractors
         who are taxed under state law
105-55   Persons installing elevators and automatic sprinkler systems
105-56   Persons repairing and servicing elevators and automatic sprinkler systems
105-59   Lightning rod agents
         Hotels, motels, tourist courts and tourist homes - Every person, firm or
105-61   corporation engaged in the business of operating a hotel, motel, tourist
         court or tourist home. Per year, per room: $1
         There is a minimum tax under this section of $5
         Campgrounds, trailer parks, tent camping areas - Every person, firm or
105-61.1 corporation engaged in the business of operating any campground, trailer
         park or tent camping area. Per year: $12.50
         Restaurants, cafés and cafeterias - Every person, firm or corporation
State    engaged in the business of operating a restaurant, café, cafeteria, hotel
law      with dining service or other place where food is sold. Per year: per person
         provided with chairs, stools or benches; with minimum tax of $2.50 per
         business: $0.50
         Sundries - Every person, firm or corporation engaged in one or combinations
         of the following business activities. Per year: $4
         (1)  Sale of sandwiches in drug stores, service stations or other places not
         licensed and taxed as restaurants under State law
State    (2)  Operating; maintaining or placing on location cigarette, soft drink,
law      food or other merchandise dispensers or weighing machines
         (3)  Operating soda fountains or soft drink stands
         (4)  Retailing or jobbing cigarettes, cigars, chewing tobacco or snuff
         This tax shall not apply to the sale of milk, milk drinks, dairy products or
         newspapers or to dispensers dispensing merchandise for $0.05 or less
         Billiard and pool tables - Every firm, person or corporation renting,
         maintaining or owning a building wherein there is a table or tables at which
         billiards or pool is played, whether operated by slot or otherwise. Per
         year, per table:
            Tables measuring not more than
               2 feet x 4 feet                     $5
105-64         2-1/2 feet x 5 feet                 $10
               3 feet x 6 feet                     $15
               4 feet x 8 feet                     $20
               4-1/2 feet x 9 feet                 $25
            Tables measuring more than
               4-1/2 feet x 9                      $30
         This tax does not apply to fraternal organizations having a national charter
         or to the American Legion, YMCA or YWCA
         Bowling alleys - Every person, firm or corporation engaged in the business
105-64.1 of operating a bowling alley. Per year, per alley: $10
         This tax does not apply to fraternal organizations having a national
         charter, the American Legion, YMCA or YWCA
         Music machines - Every person, firm or corporation operating any machine
105-65   which plays records or produces music. Per year, per machine: $5
         This tax does not apply to fraternal organizations having a national
         charter, the American Legion, YMCA or YWCA
         Security dealers - Every person, firm or corporation engaged in the business
105-67   of dealing in securities; buying, selling or brokering stocks or bonds; or
         maintaining a stock or bond house. Per year: $50
         Cotton buyers and sellers on commission - Every person, firm or corporation
105-68   engaged in the business of buying or selling on commission cotton, grain,
         provisions or other commodities, either for actual, spot or instant
         delivery, not otherwise taxed herein. Per year: $50
105-69   Manufacturers, producers, bottlers and distributors of soft drinks
         Gasoline, benzine, grease and lubricating oil dealers - Every person, firm
         or corporation selling illuminating or lubricating oil or greases, or
         benzine, naphtha, gasoline or other similar products. Per year:
105-72      Less than 10,000 population               $25
            10,000 population and over                $50
         This section does not apply to businesses taxed as automobile service
         stations (state law)
         Dry cleaners, pressing clubs and hat blockers - Every person, firm or
         corporation operating a dry cleaning plant, pressing club or hat blocking
         establishment, and solicitors for plants which are located outside the
         corporate limits. Per year, per business:
            Under 10,000 population                   $25
105-74      10,000 and over                           $50
         Every person, firm or corporation soliciting cleaning work or pressing work
         to be done by a dry cleaning plant which has not paid the license tax
         provided for in the above paragraph. Per year, per vehicle: $200
         Cities and towns may not collect a license tax under this section unless the
         state license tax, if due, has first been paid
         Barber shops - Every person, firm or corporation engaged in the business of
105-75   conducting a barber shop. Per year, per chair: $2.50
         Beauty shops - For each barber, manicurist, cosmetologist, beautician or
         beauty shop operator. Per year: $2.50
         Tobacco warehouses - Every person, firm or corporation engaged 1n the
105-77   business of operating a warehouse for sale of leaf tobacco upon commission.
         Per year, per warehouse: $50
         Pistol, knife and weapon dealers - Every person, firm or corporation engaged
         in the business of selling pistols, knives or blank cartridge pistols. Per
         year:
105-80      Pistols                                   $50
            Bowie knives, daggers or articles of like $200
         kind
            Blank cartridge pistols                   $50
            Sellers of metallic cartridges only       $5
         Musical instruments and equipment - Every person, firm or organizations
         engaged in the business of selling or offering for sale pianos, organs,
105-82   records or record players, radios or radio accessories, television sets or
         accessories, and repair parts thereto. Per year: $5
         Agents selling these commodities when the dealer is located outside of the
         municipality: Per year: $5
         Laundries and linen supply agencies
         Out-of-town laundries - Every person, firm or corporation engaged in the
         business of laundry work or supplying or renting clean linens, towels and
         wearing apparel, if the work is performed outside the municipality, or if
         linen, towels or wearing apparel are supplied by a business outside the
         municipality. Per year: $12.50
105-85   Soliciting laundry work - Every person, firm or corporation engaged in the
         business of soliciting laundry work to be done by a laundry or plant which
         has not paid the license tax set forth in the above paragraph. For each
         vehicle used in carrying the laundry work, per year: $200
         Laundries located in town - Every person, firm or corporation engaged in the
         business of laundry work, or supplying or renting clean linen, towels or
         wearing apparel who is not subject to either of the above paragraphs. Per
         year $50
105-86   Outdoor advertising
105-87   Motor advertisers
         Loan agencies - Every person, firm or corporation engaged in the regular
         business of making loans or lending money, accepting liens on or contracts
         or assignments of salaries, wages or other security or evidence of debt for
105-88   repayment in installment payments or otherwise, and maintaining in
         connection with same any office or established place for the conduct of
         business, and advertising or soliciting such business in any manner.
         This section does not apply to banks, building and loan associations, credit
         unions, installment paper dealers, real estate lenders or pawnbrokers
         Automobile, wholesale supply dealers and service stations
         Automobile service stations - Every person, firm or corporation engaged in
         the business of servicing, storing, painting or repairing automobiles or
         selling or delivering tires, tools, batteries, motor fuels, lubricants or
         other automotive accessories. Per year:
            Less than 2,500 population                $2.50
            2,500 but less than 5,000                 $3.75
            5,000 but less than 10,000                $5
            10,000 but less than 20,000               $7.50
         Automobile equipment dealers, wholesale - Every person, firm or corporation
         engaged in the business of buying, selling, distributing or delivering
         automotive accessories, parts, tires, tools, batteries or other automotive
         equipment or supplies at wholesale. Per year:
            Less than 2,500 population                $12.50
            2,500 but less than 5,000                 $15
            5,000 but less than 10,000                $25
State       10,000 but less than 20,000               $37.50
law      This tax does not apply to businesses taxed as automobile service stations
         under the preceding paragraph
         Motor vehicle dealers - Every person, firm or corporation engaged in the
         business of buying, selling, distributing, servicing or storing motor
         vehicles, trailers, semi-trailers, tires, tools and other automotive
         supplies or accessories. Per year:
            Less than 1,000 population                $20
            1,000 but less than 2,500                 $20
            2,500 but less than 5,000                 $20
            5,000 but less than 10,000                $27.50
            10,000 but less than 20,000               $37
         Persons, firms or corporations dealing in used motor vehicles exclusively
         are liable for the tax set out above. If, however, the business is of a
         temporary, seasonal or transient nature, the tax for each location. Per
         year: $300
         Licensed motor vehicle dealers may operate multiple places of business under
         1 license. No additional tax may be collected from any salesperson or
         employee of an employer who has paid the tax under this section
         Motorcycle dealers - Every person, firm or corporation engaged in the
         business of buying, selling or distributing motorcycles or motorcycle
State    supplies. Per year $10
law      Motorcycle dealers taxed under this section are not liable for any
         additional tax as bicycle dealers if they also handle bicycles and bicycle
         supplies
105-90
and 105- Employment agents and emigrant agents
90.1
         Plumbers, heating contractors and electricians - Every person, firm or
         corporation engaged in the business of a plumber, of a steam or gas fitter
         or of installing heating systems or electrical equipment. Per year:
            Less than 2,000 population                $7.50
            2,000 to 5,000 population                 $12.50
State       5,000 to 10,000 population                $15
law         10,000 to 20,000 population               $17.50
         When an individual required to be licensed under this section employs only
         one additional person, the tax shall be one-half of the above amount.
         Businesses licensed under this section shall not be taxed as a contractor,
         or as an elevator or automatic sprinkler salesperson or repairperson. (See
         headings of contractors and elevators and automatic sprinkler systems.)
105-92   Dealers in trading stamps
105-96   Marble yards
         Ice cream dealers and manufacturers - Every person engaged in manufacturing
         ice cream or storing ice cream for distribution
         On each factory or place where ice cream is manufactured or stored for
         distribution if the machines or equipment used are of the continuous freezer
         type, per year: $0.37-1/2 per gallon capacity, based on rated capacity per
         hour according to manufacturer’s rating; provided, in no case shall the tax
         be less than $2.50 per year for any freezer used
         When the equipment used is not of the continuous freezer type, the rate of
         tax shall be, per year:  $1.25 per gallon capacity for the freezer used;
         provided, however, that, in  no case shall the tax be less than $2.50 per
         year for any freezer used
105-97   Where no standard freezer equipment with manufacturer’s capacity rating is
         used, a tax of $12.50 per year shall apply
         Trucks or other vehicles from another state y selling or delivering ice
         cream on which the tax has not been paid as outlined above. Per truck, per
         year: $25
         Retail dealers selling ice cream purchased from a manufacturer or
         distributor who has not paid a license tax as imposed by this section. Per
         year: $2.50
         Manufacturers using counter freezer equipment and selling at retail only.
         Per year: $2.50
         Farmers who manufacture and sell only the products of their own cows are
         exempt from this tax
         Branch and chain stores - Every person, firm or corporation engaged in the
         business of operating, under the same general management, supervision or
         ownership, two or more stores where goods, wares or merchandise is sold is
         deemed to be a branch or chain store operator, except for the particular
         store which is designated as the principal office in the chain. Per store,
         per year: $50
105-98   This tax does not apply to:
         (1) Retail and wholesale dealers in motor vehicles and automotive equipment;
         (2) Retail store of non-profit organizations engaged exclusively in the sale
         of merchandise processed by handicapped persons employed by a non-profit
         organization; and
         (3) Manufacturers, retail or wholesale sellers of fertilizers, farm
         chemicals, soil preparants or seeds
105-99   Persons selling patent rights and formulas
         Junk dealers - Every person, firm or corporation engaged in the business of
         buying or selling what is commonly known as junk, including scrap metals,
         waste paper or waste material of any nature. Per year:
            Less than 2,500 population                $12.50
            2,500 but less than 5,000                 $15
            5,000 but less than 10,000                $25
            10,000 but less than 20,000               $37.50
         Every person, firm or corporation engaged in such business not maintaining
105-102  an established place of business, but buying or selling junk and other waste
         materials is liable for this license tax
         This tax does not apply to persons dealing solely in waste paper, or to
         scrap processors. See listing under the heading of scrap processors. The tax
         does apply, however, to:
         (1) Persons engaged in the collection of scrap who maintain no regular place
         of business, but sell only to licensed, dealers or manufacturers in this
         state; and
         (2) Salvage committees operating community scrap yards under government
         sponsorship; provided, no personal profit accrues.
         Scrap processors - Every person, firm or corporation engaged in the business
         of buying scrap iron and metals, for the specific purpose of processing into
         raw materials for remelting purposes only, and whose principal product is
105-     ferrous and non-ferrous scrap for shipment to steel mills, foundries,
102.2    smelters and refineries. Per year:
            Less than 2,500 population                $12.50
            2,500 but less than 5,000                 $15
            5,000 but less than 10,000                $25
            10,000 but less than 20,000               $37.60
         Wine and beer - Wholesale dealers
105-        Beer, per year                            $37.50
113.73      Wine, per year                            $37.50
            Both wine and beer under same license     $62.50
105-     Wine and beer - Beer (retail)
113.79      “On Premises”, per year               $15
            “Off Premises”, per year              $10
105-118  Express companies
105-119  Telegraph companies
 
(Prior Code, § 8-5)
LICENSES
§ 110.30  PERIOD OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided in §
110.17 of this chapter, a license issued pursuant to this chapter is valid for
that 12-month period, beginning July 1 and ending June 30. The tax is due July
1 of each year. However, if a person begins business after July 1 in any year,
the tax for that year is due before the business is begun.
   (B)   If, pursuant to §
110.17 of this chapter, a license is issued for a period of one day, one week
or some comparable period of less than a full license year, the licensee may
not continue the business beyond the period for which the license is issued.
The tax on such a business is due not later than the day prior to commencement
of the business.
   (C)   If, for any reason, a licensee discontinues his or her business during
a license year, he or she is not entitled to a refund.
(Prior Code, § 8-8)
§ 110.31  APPLICATION.
   (A)   With respect to annual licenses, a person shall apply to the Tax
Collector for the license at least 30 days before the tax is due. With respect
to licenses issued for one day, one week or some similar period less than one
year, application shall be made at least ten days before the tax is due. These
time limitations may be waived by the Tax Collector for good cause shown.
   (B)   The application, which shall be submitted on forms provided by the Tax
Collector, shall contain:
      (1)   The name of the applicant and whether he, she or it is an
individual, partnership, corporation or some other entity;
      (2)   The nature of the business, including the duration the business
intends to operate;
      (3)   Where the business is conducted;
      (4)   An address to which may be mailed notices and statements required
by this chapter;
      (5)   Whether the business is one regulated by a state occupational
licensing board subject to G.S. Ch. 93B and, if so, the serial numbers of the
state licenses held by all those who are part of the applicant’s business; and
      (6)   Any other information the Tax Collector determines to be necessary
to issue the privilege license in accordance with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-9)
§ 110.32  SEPARATE BUSINESSES; MULTIPLE BUSINESSES.
   (A)   A separate license is required and a separate tax must be paid for
each separate place of business operated by the same person.
   (B)   If two or more separate taxable businesses are operated at the same
location by the same owner, the Tax Collector may issue one privilege license
upon the payment of the total amount of taxes due for all the businesses.
(Prior Code, § 8-10)
§ 110.33  REASONS FOR REFUSAL OR REVOCATION OF A LICENSE.
   The Tax Collector shall refuse to issue a license or shall revoke a license
for any of the following reasons:
   (A)   The applicant misrepresents a fact relevant to the amount of tax due
or his or her qualifications for a license;
   (B)   The applicant refuses to provide information necessary to compute the
amount of tax due;
   (C)   The applicant has not obtained a certificate of occupancy when
required to do so by local ordinance; and/or
   (D)   The administrator charged with the enforcement of the following codes
or ordinances has certified to the Tax Collector that the applicant has been
found to be in violation of the law enforced by the administrator and has
either failed to appeal that determination within the time provided or has
exhausted all administrative and judicial appeals: North Carolina State
Building Code, Zoning Ordinance and Subdivision Ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 8-11)
§ 110.34  UNQUALIFIED APPLICANTS; RIGHT TO A CONFERENCE.
   (A)   After receipt of the completed application, if the Tax Collector
believes that a reason exists for refusing a license under §
110.33 of this chapter, he or she shall refuse to accept payment of the tax and
shall not issue the license. At the applicant’s request, the Tax Collector
shall, pursuant to §
110.40 of this chapter, give him or her a written statement of the reason for
refusing the license. The applicant may, within ten days after the day he or
she receives this statement, request a conference to discuss the refusal. In
his or her request, he or she shall specify why his or her application for a
license should not be refused. The Tax Collector shall arrange the conference
within a reasonable time, not to exceed 30 days.
   (B)   If the Tax Collector refuses to issue a license, the applicant may
reapply for a license at any time thereafter. If the reason for which the
application was refused no longer exists and, if no other reason exists for
refusing to issue a license, the Tax Collector shall issue the license pursuant
to §
110.35 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-12)
§ 110.35  TAX COLLECTOR TO ISSUE LICENSE; PAYMENT OF TAX A PREREQUISITE.
   After receipt of the completed application, if the Tax Collector believes
that no reason exists for refusal of a license under §
110.33 of this chapter, he or she shall determine the amount of tax due and
notify the applicant of that amount. The Tax Collector shall not issue a
license until the tax is paid.
(Prior Code, § 8-13)
§ 110.36  FORM AND CONTENTS OF LICENSE.
   (A)   A license shall show the name of the person licensed, the place where
the business is conducted (if it is to be conducted at one place), the nature
of business licensed, the period for which the license is issued and the amount
of tax paid.
   (B)   In addition, if a machine is licensed, the license shall show the
serial number of the machine.
   (C)   The Tax Collector shall keep a copy of each license issued.
(Prior Code, § 8-14)
§ 110.37  ASSIGNMENTS.
   (A)   A license may be assigned if:
      (1)   A business licensed under this chapter and carried on at a fixed
place is sold as a unit to any person; and
      (2)   The purchaser is to carry on the same business at the same place.
   (B)   Otherwise, each license issued under this chapter is a personal
privilege and is not assignable.
(Prior Code, § 8-15)
§ 110.38  CHANGES IN THE BUSINESS CONDUCTED BY LICENSEE DURING TAX YEAR.
   (A)   (1)   A licensee or his or her assignee shall report a change in the
information contained in the license application to the Tax Collector within
ten days after the change occurs.
      (2)   If information shown on the license itself is affected thereby, the
licensee or his or her assignee shall surrender the license to the Tax
Collector when reporting the change.
   (B)   If there are no reasons for revoking the license under §
110.33 of this chapter and the change results in the imposition of a separate
or additional tax, the Tax Collector shall reissue a license reflecting the
change upon payment of the separate or additional tax.
   (C)   If there are no reasons for revoking the license under §
110.33 of this chapter and the change does not result in an imposition of a
separate or additional tax, the Tax Collector shall reissue a license
reflecting the change upon payment of a fee of $5.
   (D)   If there is reason for revoking the license under §
110.33 of this chapter, the Tax Collector shall refuse to reissue a license and
shall instead begin proceedings to revoke the license pursuant to §
110.37 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-16)
§ 110.39  TAX COLLECTOR TO FURNISH DUPLICATES.
   Upon satisfactory proof that a license has been lost or destroyed, the Tax
Collector shall furnish a duplicate for a fee equal to 50% of the amount of the
original tax.
(Prior Code, § 8-17)
§ 110.40  PROVIDING NOTICE TO AN APPLICANT OR LICENSEE.
   Whenever this chapter requires the Tax Collector to give a written statement
or notice to an applicant or a licensee, he or she may do so in any one of
three ways:
   (A)   By personally delivering the statement or notice to the applicant or
licensee;
   (B)   By mailing the statement or notice by registered or certified mail,
return receipt requested, to the address specified for that purpose in the
license application; or
   (C)   By causing the statement or notice to be served on the applicant or
licensee in accordance with the procedures for service or process under Rule 4,
North Carolina Rules of Civil Procedure.
(Prior Code, § 8-18)
§ 110.41  SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR BEER AND WINE LICENSES.
   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, applications for privilege
licenses authorizing the retail or wholesale sale of malt beverages or
fortified or unfortified wines shall be made to the Council (rather than the
Tax Collector) in accordance with the procedures set forth in G.S. §§ 105-
113.80, 105-113.82 and 105-113.85.
(Prior Code, § 8-19)
ENFORCEMENT AND COLLECTIONS
§ 110.55  DUTY TO DETERMINE WHETHER TAX DUE.
   (A)   Each person has the duty to determine whether the business he or she
conducts is taxed under this chapter and, if so, whether that tax has been paid
for the current tax year.
   (B)   If the Tax Collector has reason to believe that a person is conducting
a business in the town in violation of this chapter, he or she shall conduct an
investigation to determine the person’s tax liability.
(Prior Code, § 8-26)
§ 110.56  DUTY TO POST LICENSE.
   A licensee shall post his or her license or licenses conspicuously in the
place of business licensed. If he or she has no regular place of business, the
license must be kept where it may be inspected at all times by the proper town
officials. If a machine is licensed, the license shall be affixed to the
machine.
(Prior Code, § 8-27)
§ 110.57  NOTICE OF DEFICIENCY.
   It the Tax Collector determines that a person has not paid the full amount
of tax due under this chapter, either for the current license year or for a
prior license year, he or she shall give the person written notice of the
deficiency, pursuant hereto. The notice of deficiency shall specify the total
amount of tax due; the section of this chapter upon which the tax is based; the
amount of tax paid; any interest due; the balance owed; the manner and time
period in which the person may respond to the notice of deficiency; and the
consequences to the person if he or she fails to respond as specified.
(Prior Code, § 8-28)
§ 110.58  COLLECTION OF DEFICIENCY.
   (A)   The Tax Collector may use any of the following methods to collect a
deficiency:
      (1)   Criminal prosecution in accordance with §
110.99(A) of this chapter;
      (2)   Civil penalties in accordance with §
110.99(B) of this chapter;
      (3)   Equitable relief in accordance with §
110.99(C) of this chapter;
      (4)   The remedies of levy and sale and attachment and garnishment in
accordance with G.S. § 160A-207; and
      (5)   The remedies of levy and sale of real and personal property of the
taxpayer within the city in accordance with the provisions of G.S. § 105-109.
   (B)   Any person who commences or continues to conduct a business taxed
under this chapter without payment of the tax is liable for the additional tax
of 5% each 30 days imposed by G.S. § 105-109.
(Prior Code, § 8-30)
§ 110.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   A violation of §
110.15 of this chapter constitutes a misdemeanor punishable as provided in G.S.
§ 14-4. Payment of a fine imposed in criminal proceedings pursuant to this
section does not relieve a person of his or her liability for taxes imposed
under this chapter.
   (B)   A violation of §§
110.15 or
110.56 of this chapter shall subject the offender to a civil penalty of $10. If
the offender does not pay the penalty within ten days after he or she has been
cited for a violation, the town may attempt to recover the penalty by filing a
civil action in the nature of debt. Payment of this civil penalty does not
relieve a person of his or her liability for taxes imposed under this chapter.
   (C)   The town may seek appropriate equitable relief from a court of
competent jurisdiction to prevent or redress violations of this chapter.
   (D)   Each day that a violation of §§
110.15 or
110.56 of this chapter exists after the person has been notified of the
violation shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
   (E)   This chapter may be enforced by any one, all or a combination of the
remedies authorized and prescribed by this section.
(Prior Code, § 8-31)
CHAPTER 111:  GAME ROOMS
Section
   
111.01   Definition
   
111.02   License required; application
   
111.03   Restrictions on issuance
   
111.04   Form and content; posting
   
111.05   Revocation
   
111.06   Licensee responsible for acts of employees
   
111.07   Operation rules
   
111.08   Fees for operation of a sweepstakes establishment
§ 111.01  DEFINITION.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the term GAME ROOM shall mean any place of
business that operates two or more mechanical games or pay devices or tables on
which games are played for which charge is made either directly or indirectly.
By way of illustration and not limitation, GAME ROOM shall include poolrooms,
bowling alleys, billiard halls, amusement centers and the like.
(Prior Code, § 8-71)
§ 111.02  LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATION.
   Every operator of a game room shall pay the required privilege license tax
to the Tax Collector or the Town Clerk. In addition, every person desiring to
operate a game room shall apply for and obtain a license from the Town Council.
Application for such license shall be made upon forms provided by the Town
Clerk. It shall be unlawful to operate a game room within the town without a
license as required by this section.
(Prior Code, § 8-72)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.03  RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE.
   The Town Council shall not issue a license to operate a game room to any
applicant who:
   (A)   Has been convicted of unlawfully selling intoxicating liquors or
narcotic drugs;
   (B)   Has been convicted of a felony; and/or
   (C)   Has been convicted of a charge involving gambling in any jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 8-73)
§ 111.04  FORM AND CONTENT; POSTING.
   Every license issued pursuant to this chapter shall specify the premises for
which it is issued, the name of the owner or operator and the date on which the
license begins. Such license shall be posted in a prominent place on the
premises at all times.
(Prior Code, § 8-74)
§ 111.05  REVOCATION.
   After giving the operator of a game room adequate notice and an opportunity
to be heard, the Town Council may revoke the license of any game room operator
who:
   (A)   Violates the provisions of §§
111.06 or
111.07 of this chapter; and/or
   (B)   Does not remain in compliance with the restrictions in §
111.03 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-75)
§ 111.06  LICENSEE RESPONSIBLE FOR ACTS OF EMPLOYEES.
   The acts and conduct of the agents and employees of a licensee under this
chapter in the conduct of the business shall be deemed to be the acts and
conduct of the licensee.
(Prior Code, § 8-76)
§ 111.07  OPERATION RULES.
   The following rules shall be observed by all operators of game rooms within
the town.
   (A)   All game rooms shall be closed from 11:00 p.m. until 7:00 a.m. Monday
through Thursday and shall close at 12:00 midnight on Fridays and Saturdays.
   (B)   No play on any game shall be allowed during the time when game rooms
are required by this chapter to remain closed.
   (C)   Game rooms shall be open on Sundays only from 1:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m.
   (D)   All game rooms shall be operated only on the ground floor of a
building and plate glass windows shall be in those parts of the building facing
any street so that a clear view inside may be had from the street.
   (E)   No screens, curtains, blinds, partitions or other obstructions shall
be placed between the entrance to the room where games are played and the rear
wall of such room. There must be a clear view of the interior from the street.
   (F)   No loud noises shall be allowed to emanate beyond the licensed
premises.
   (G)   There must be an adult, 18 years of age or older, managing the
business on the premises during the hours of operation at all times.
(Prior Code, § 8-77)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.08  FEES FOR OPERATION OF A SWEEPSTAKES ESTABLISHMENT.
   Notwithstanding any other provisions of the city code, the fees to operate a
sweepstakes establishment shall be as follows:
   (A)   Annual business license fee: $2,500.
   (B)   Annual per-machine fee: $500.
(Ord. passed 4-1-2014, nunc pro tunc, 2-4-2014)
CHAPTER 112:  INSULATION CONTRACTORS
Section
   
112.01   Administrator
   
112.02   License required
   
112.03   License application, issuance, duration, revocation
   
112.04   Appeals
   
112.05   Bond required
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01  ADMINISTRATOR.
   As used in this chapter, the term ADMINISTRATOR means the Town Building
Inspector or any other person designated by the Mayor to perform the functions
assigned by this chapter to the Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 8-40)
§ 112.02  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Subject to division (B) below, no person may, for a consideration,
install, alter or restore within the town any insulation or other materials or
energy utilization equipment design or intended to meet the State Building Code
requirements without a license issued pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   Division (A) above shall not apply to:
      (1)   General contractors licensed under G.S. Ch. 87;
      (2)   Persons working under the supervision of a registered architect or
professional engineer; or
      (3)   An owner working upon his or her own building.
(Prior Code, § 8-41)
§ 112.03  LICENSE APPLICATION, ISSUANCE, DURATION, REVOCATION.
   (A)   Application for license under this chapter shall be made to the
Administrator on a form provided by the Administrator and shall contain at
least the following information:
      (1)   The name and principal business address of the applicant;
      (2)   The name, address, date of birth and Social Security number of:
         (a)   The applicant, if an individual;
         (b)   Each partner, if the applicant is a partnership; and/or
         (c)   Each corporate officer, if the applicant is a corporation.
       (3)   A complete record of the convictions of a felony or a crime
involving dishonesty, fraud or deceit by the applicant or any employee, partner
or officer of the applicant, whether in the state or any other jurisdiction;
and
      (4)   A complete record of the circumstances under which a license of the
applicant (or any employee, partner or officer thereof) to do the type of work
authorized by the license issued pursuant to this chapter has been suspended or
revoked within the past three years.
   (B)   The application shall be accompanied by a fee of $10.
   (C)   The Administrator shall issue the license within 15 days after
receiving the completed application, unless he or she finds that the applicant
or any employee, partner or officer thereof:
      (1)   Has been convicted within the last three years of a felony or a
crime involving dishonesty, fraud or deceit, whether in the state or any other
jurisdiction;
      (2)   Within the last three years has been refused a license to do the
work authorized by the licensing provisions of this chapter, or has had such a
license suspended or revoked by any local, state or federal agency and such
agency has not subsequently granted or restored the license;
      (3)   Has knowingly made a false statement in the application; and/or
      (4)   Has failed to post the bond or other security required by §
112.05 of this chapter.
   (D)   Licenses issued pursuant to this chapter shall be valid for an annual
period running from July 1 until the following June 30. Renewal of such
licenses shall be pursuant to the same procedures and requirements set forth
for initial issuance.
   (E)   A license may be revoked by the Administrator after notifying the
licensee and giving him or her an opportunity to be heard, upon a showing that
any of the grounds for denying a license (as set forth in division (C) above)
then exist.
(Prior Code, § 8-42)
§ 112.04  APPEALS.
   If the Administrator refuses to issue a license or revokes a license, the
applicant or licensee may appeal this decision to the Board of Adjustment. The
burden of justifying the refusal or revocation shall be on the Administrator.
The decision of the Administrator may be reversed by a majority vote of those
present at the hearing (assuming a quorum is present).
(Prior Code, § 8-43)
§ 112.05  BOND REQUIRED.
   Before a license may be issued to an applicant, the applicant shall post
with the town a license bond or other sufficient security in the amount of
$1,000 in a form approved by the Town Attorney, conditioned upon the
applicant’s complying during the term of his or her license with the provisions
of this chapter and with the terms of any building permit issued to install
insulation or other materials or energy utilization equipment designed or
intended to meet the State Building Code.
(Prior Code, § 8-44)
§ 112.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   A violation of §
112.02 of this chapter shall constitute a misdemeanor, punishable as provided
in G.S. § 14-4.
   (B)   A violation of §
112.02 of this chapter shall also subject the offender to a civil penalty of
$25. If the offender fails to pay this penalty within ten days after being
cited for a violation, the penalty may be recovered by the town in a civil
action in the nature of debt.
   (C)   Each day that a violation continues after notification that such
violation exists shall constitute a separate offense for purposes of the
penalties and remedies specified in this section.
   (D)   This chapter may be enforced by any appropriate equitable action.
   (E)   This chapter may be enforced by any one, all or any combination of the
remedies authorized by this section.
(Prior Code, § 8-45)
CHAPTER 113:  PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   License requirement
   
113.03   Application procedure
   
113.04   Standards for issuance
   
113.05   Revocation procedure
   
113.06   Standards for revocation
   
113.07   Appeal procedure
   
113.08   Exhibition of identification
   
113.09   City policy on soliciting
   
113.10   Notice regulating soliciting
   
113.11   Duty of solicitors to ascertain notice
   
113.12   Prohibited solicitation
§ 113.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS.  The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler, or solicitor as defined in this section.
   GOODS.  Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes, but is not
restricted to, wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT.  Any person, whether as owner, agent, or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the city and who, in
the furtherance of such business, uses any building, structure, vehicle, or any
place within the city.
   PEDDLER.  Any person, not an itinerant merchant, who:
      (1)   Travels from place to place by any means carrying goods for sale,
or making sales, or making deliveries; or
      (2)   Without traveling from place to place, sells or offers goods for
sale from any public place within the city.
   SOLICITOR.  Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future.  A person who is a solicitor is not
a peddler.
§ 113.02  LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler, or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in such activity within the city.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be as set from
time to time by the City Council.
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (D)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire 90 days after the
date of issuance thereof.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.03  APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file an
application with the Clerk.  This application shall be signed by the applicant
if an individual, or by all partners if a partnership, or by the president if a
corporation.  The applicant may be requested to provide information concerning
the following items:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   (a)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant's business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the city;
         (b)   The local address of such individual;
         (c)   The permanent address of such individual;
         (d)   The capacity in which such individual will act;
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on, and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
applicant's business;
      (5)   (a)   The nature, character, and quality of the goods or services
to be offered for sale or delivered;
         (b)   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold by
sample as well as from stock;
         (c)   If goods, where and by whom such goods are manufactured or
grown, and where such goods are at the time of application;
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant, or the individual identified in
division (A)(2)(a) above, or the person identified in division (A)(3) has been
convicted of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each offense
and the penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items, in addition to that
requested under division (A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant;
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach to
their application, if required by the city, credentials from the person, if
any, for which the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant
to act as such representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
application, in addition to any attachments required under division (C), a
statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than ten days prior to the
date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable disease.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.04  STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant's
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless such investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant's business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals, or general welfare. 
In particular, tangible evidence that the applicant:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude; or
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application; or
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors, and the like; or
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts; or
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts.
will constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application.
§ 113.05  REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the Clerk
after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
113.06.  Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing.  Such notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his or her last known
address, at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
§ 113.06  STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
or
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license; or
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter; or
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals, or general welfare
of the public.
§ 113.07  APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
113.04 or
113.06 shall have the right to appeal to the City Council.  The appeal shall be
taken by filing with the City Council, within 14 days after notice of the
decision has been mailed to such person's last known address, a written
statement setting forth the grounds for appeal.  The City Council shall set the
time and place for a hearing, and notice for such hearing shall be given to
such person in the same manner as provided in §
113.05.
   (B)   The order of the City Council after the hearing shall be final.
§ 113.08  EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein.  In the event more
than one place within the city shall be used to conduct the business licensed,
separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The Clerk shall issue a license to each peddler or solicitor licensed
under this chapter.  The license shall contain the words “Licensed Peddler” or
“Licensed Solicitor,” the expiration date of the license, and the number of the
license.  The license shall be kept with the licensee during such time as he or
she is engaged in the business licensed.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.09  CITY POLICY ON SOLICITING.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the city that the occupants of the
residences in the city shall make the determination of whether solicitors shall
be, or shall not be, invited to their respective residences.
§ 113.10  NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING.
   (A)   Notice of the refusal of invitation to solicitors, to any residence,
shall be given on a weatherproof card, approximately three inches by four
inches in size, exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the residence,
indicating the determination by the occupant, containing the applicable words,
as follows:
   “NO SOLICITORS INVITED”
   (B)   The letters shall be at least one-third inch in height. For the
purpose of uniformity, the cards shall be provided by the Chief of Police to
persons requesting, at the cost thereof.
   (C)   The card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of the
information contained thereon.
§ 113.11  DUTY OF SOLICITORS TO ASCERTAIN NOTICE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every solicitor upon going onto any premises
in the city upon which a residence is located to first examine the notice
provided for in §
113.10 if any is attached, and be governed by the statement contained on the
notice. If the notice states “NO SOLICITORS INVITED,” then the solicitor,
whether registered or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the
premises.
   (B)   Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether
invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when
requested to do so by the occupant.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.12  PROHIBITED SOLICITATION.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door, or
create any sound in any manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant of such residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with the
occupant thereof and engage in soliciting in defiance of the notice exhibited
at the residence in accordance with the provisions of §
113.10 above.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 114: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
114.01   Sunday sales
§ 114.01  SUNDAY SALES.
   Pursuant to authority granted by S.L. 2017-87 any establishment located in
the corporate limits of the town and holding an ABC permit issued pursuant to
G.S. § 18B-1001 is permitted to sell beverages allowed by its permit beginning
at 10:00 a.m. on Sundays.
(Ord. O-2017-05, passed 8-1-2017)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130:  GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Noise
   
130.02   Firearms and air rifles; discharge
   
130.03   Public enterprise operation without franchise
   
130.04   Beer and wine consumption on public property
   
130.05   Begging
 
   
130.99   Penalty
Cross reference:
   Deer hunting by bow or crossbow, see §
93.30
   Shooting or willfully poisoning wild animals, see §
93.31
§ 130.01  NOISE.
   (A)   Unnecessary noises prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person,
firm or corporation to create or assist in creating, permit, continue or permit
the continuance of any unreasonable loud, disturbing and unnecessary noise in
the town. Noise of such character, intensity and duration as to be detrimental
to the life or health of any individual is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 5A-1)
   (B)   Noises expressly prohibited. The following acts, among others, are
declared to be loud, disturbing and unnecessary noises in violation of this
section, but said enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive, namely:
      (1)   The sounding of any horn or signal device on any automobile,
motorcycle, bus or other vehicle while not in motion, except as a danger signal
if another vehicle is approaching apparently out of control, or if in motion
only as a danger signal after or as brakes are being applied and deceleration
of the vehicle is intended; the creation by means of any such signal device of
any unreasonably loud or harsh sound; and the sounding of such device for an
unnecessary and unreasonable period of time;
      (2)   The use of any gong or siren upon any vehicle, other than a police,
fire or other emergency vehicle;
      (3)   The use or operation of any piano, manual or automatic, phonograph,
radio, loud speaker or any other instrument, or sound amplifying devices so
loudly as to disturb persons in the vicinity thereof, or in such a manner as
renders the same a public nuisance; provided, however, that, upon application
to the Mayor, permits may be granted to responsible organizations to produce
programs in music, speeches or general entertainment;
      (4)   The keeping of any animal or bird which, by causing frequent or
loud continued noise, shall disturb the comfort and repose of any person in the
vicinity;
      (5)   The use of any automobile, motorcycle or other vehicle so out of
repair, so loaded or in such manner as to create loud unnecessary grating,
grinding, rattle or other noise;
      (6)   The blowing of any steam whistle attached to any stationary boiler,
except to give notice of the time to begin or stop work or as a warning of
danger;
      (7)   The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any steam engine,
stationary internal combustion engine or motor vehicle, except through a
muffler or other device which will effectively prevent loud or explosive noises
therefrom;
      (8)   The use of any mechanical device operated by compressed air unless
the noise created thereby is effectively muffled and reduced;
      (9)   The creation of any excessive noise on any street adjacent to any
school, institution of learning or court while the same is in session, or
within 150 feet to any hospital, which unreasonably interferes with the working
of such institution; provided, conspicuous signs are displayed in such streets
indicating that the same is a school, court or hospital street;
      (10)   The creation of any excessive noise on Sundays on any street
adjacent to any church; provided, conspicuous signs are displayed in such
streets adjacent to churches indicating that the same is a church street;
      (11)   The creation of loud and excessive noise in connection with
loading or unloading any vehicle, of the opening and destruction of bales,
boxes, crates and containers;
      (12)   The sounding of any bell or gong, attached to any building or
premises which, disturbs the quiet or repose of persons in the vicinity
thereof;
      (13)   The shouting and crying of peddlers, barkers, hawkers and vendors
which disturbs the quiet and peace of the neighborhood;
      (14)   The use of any drum, loud speaker or other instrument or device
for the purpose of attracting attention by creation of noise to any
performance, show or sale or display of merchandise;
      (15)   The use of any mechanical loud speakers or amplifiers on trucks or
other moving vehicles for advertising purposes or other purposes, except where
specific license is received from the Council;
      (16)   The conducting, operating or maintaining of any garage or filling
station in any residential district so as to cause loud or offensive noises to
be emitted therefrom between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.; and
      (17)   The firing or discharging of squibs, crackers, gunpowder or other
combustible substance in the streets or elsewhere for the purpose of making
noise or disturbance, except by permit from the Council.
(Prior Code, § 5A-2)
(Ord. passed 5-7-1991)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02  FIREARMS AND AIR RIFLES; DISCHARGE.
   (A)   Subject to division (B) below, no person may discharge any firearm
within the town.
   (B)   Division (A) above shall not apply to private citizens acting in
justifiable self defense or pursuant to the lawful directions of a police
officer, nor to police officers acting in a lawful performance of their duties.
   (C)   No person may discharge or shoot within the town any air rifle,  air
pistol,  B-B gun, pellet gun, pump gun or similar weapon within 100 yards of
any building or house or gathering of people.
(Prior Code, § 5A-3)  (Ord. passed 5-7-1991)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03  PUBLIC ENTERPRISE OPERATION WITHOUT FRANCHISE.
   Except as otherwise provided by law, no person may operate within the town
any public enterprise, as defined in G.S. § 160A-311, without first obtaining a
franchise from the town, nor may any person continue to operate such public
enterprise after the expiration of such franchise.
(Prior Code, § 5A-4)  (Ord. passed 5-7-1991)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04  BEER AND WINE CONSUMPTION ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic beverages on
property owned or occupied by the town except as provided below:
   (A)   By permit of the Town Manager for a special event under the following
circumstances:
      (1)   The applicant shall be the organizer of the event and shall also be
a small business or non-profit organization;
      (2)   The location of the event must be on municipal property or public
rights-of-way;
      (3)   The date, location and times of operation of the event shall be
clearly defined in the application, and the area shall be cordoned off or
otherwise adequately marked for the participants, and alcohol shall not be
served or consumed before 10:00 a.m. or after 11:00 p.m., and the event shall
not exceed beyond the approved time;
      (4)   The organizers of the event shall show proof of insurance that will
cover any and all incidents involving the event and the consumption of alcohol;
      (5)   All other state and local licenses must be obtained prior to the
issuance of the permit by the Town Manager;
      (6)   The organizers must hire a sufficient number of off-duty police
officer(s), determined by the Chief of Police, to provide security at the event
and the officer(s) must be present for the duration of the event; and
      (7)   The permit may be revoked as a result of a violation of the
conditions of the permit or violation of state law or local ordinance.
   (B)   By permit of the Town Manager for a restaurant that sells alcohol
pursuant to a license by the Alcoholic Beverage Control Commission as provided
below:
      (1)   The applicant shall be the owner of the restaurant or store;
      (2)   A restaurant that sells alcohol will be able to serve alcohol to
customers seated at tables on sidewalks immediately outside of their respective
businesses or adjacent to their businesses, provided the area is cordoned off
and separated from the general public;
      (3)   The duration of the permit shall not exceed one year and the
applicant shall pay all fees associated with the permit as established by the
Town Council through a separate ordinance or through the annual Schedule of
Fees passed with the annual budget ordinance;
      (4)   The owner of the restaurant or store shall show proof of insurance
that will cover any and all incidents involving the sale and consumption of
alcohol;
      (5)   The Town of Stoneville will be named as an additional insured and
the amount of insurance coverage will be at the level recommended by the North
Carolina League of Municipalities;
      (6)   All other state and local licenses must be obtained prior to the
issuance of the permit by the Town Manager; and
      (7)   The permit may be revoked as a result of a violation of the
conditions of the permit or violation of state law or local ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 5A-6)  (Ord. passed 5-7-1991; Ord. passed 3-3-2015)  Penalty,
see §
130.99
§ 130.05  BEGGING.
   (A)   Permitted. It shall be lawful to beg or solicit alms, except in a
manner set forth in division (B) below.
   (B)   Prohibited conduct while begging or soliciting alms. It shall be
unlawful for any person to ask, beg or solicit alms or contributions of money,
food or clothes, or exhibit oneself for the purpose of begging or soliciting
alms or such contributions, by:
      (1)   Aggressively accosting another; or
      (2)   Forcing oneself upon the company of another.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AGGRESSIVELY ACCOSTING. As approaching or speaking to someone in such
manner as would cause a reasonable person to fear imminent bodily harm or the
commission of a criminal act upon his or her person, or upon property in his or
her immediate possession.
      ASK, BEG or SOLICIT. Without limitation, the spoken, written or printed
word, or such other acts as are conducted in furtherance of the purpose of
obtaining alms or contributions of money, food or clothing.
      FORCING ONESELF UPON THE COMPANY OF ANOTHER.
         (a)   Continuing to request, beg or solicit alms or contributions of
money, food or clothing in close proximity to the person addressed after the
person to whom the request is directed has made a negative response;
         (b)   Blocking the passage of the person addressed; or
         (c)   Otherwise engaging in conduct which could reasonably be
construed as intended to compel or force a person to accede to demands.
(Ord. passed 5-14-1997)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   A violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall
constitute a misdemeanor, punishable as provided in G.S. § 14-4.
      (2)   A violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall also
subject the offender to a civil penalty of $10. If a person fails to pay this
penalty within ten days after being cited for a violation, the town may seek to
recover the penalty by filing a civil action in the nature of debt.
      (3)   The town may seek to enforce this chapter through any appropriate
equitable action.
      (4)   Each day that a violation continues after the offender has been
notified of the violation shall constitute a separate offense.
      (5)   The town may seek to enforce this chapter by using any one or a
combination of the foregoing remedies.
(Prior Code, § 5A-7)
   (B)   The violation of §
130.05 of this chapter shall be punishable as provided in division (A) above.
(Ord. passed 5-7-1991; Ord. passed 5-14-1997)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   ZONING
      
152.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 150:  BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
Dwellings Unfit for Human Habitation; Condemnation Procedures
   
150.01   Enforcement
   
150.02   Powers and duties of Building Inspector
   
150.03   What constitutes unsafe conditions; notice
   
150.04   Defects in building to be corrected; preliminary procedure
   
150.05   Removal of notice prohibited
   
150.06   Action in event of failure to take corrective action
   
150.07   Order to take corrective action; appeal; finality if not appealed;
failure to comply
   
150.08   Authority
Minimum Housing Standards
   
150.20   Purpose
   
150.21   Jurisdiction
   
150.22   Priority of enforcement
   
150.23   Definitions
   
150.24   Minimum standards of fitness for dwellings, dwelling units, and
manufactured homes
   
150.25   Minimum standards for structural condition
   
150.26   Minimum standards for basic plumbing, heating and electrical equipment
and facilities
   
150.27   Minimum standards for ventilation
   
150.28   Minimum standards for sanitation
   
150.29   Minimum standards applicable to rooming houses
   
150.30   Access to premises for inspections
   
150.31   Powers and duties of Housing Inspector
   
150.32   Procedure for enforcement
   
150.33   Methods of service of complaints and orders
   
150.34   Appeals to the Housing Appeals Board
   
150.35   Violations
   
150.36   Alternate remedies
   
150.37   Conflict with other provisions
 
   
150.99   Penalty
DWELLINGS UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION; CONDEMNATION PROCEDURES
§ 150.01  ENFORCEMENT.
    The Building Inspector shall be responsible for the enforcement of any
ordinances or codes adopted by the Town Council relating to the repair, closing
and demolition of dwellings unfit for human habitation, pursuant to G.S. Ch.
160D, Art. 11.
(Prior Code, § 16-1) ‘ (Ord. passed 2-3-1987; Res. R-2021-03, passed 6-24-2021)
§ 150.02  POWERS AND DUTIES OF BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)    Any building or structure or part thereof, partially destroyed or
otherwise, which is found by the Building Inspector to be in such a dilapidated
state of disrepair or other substandard condition as to be dangerous to life,
health, or other property or to constitute a fire or safety hazard or a public
nuisance shall be declared by the Building Inspector to be unsafe.
   (B)   Such unsafe condition may be caused by defective construction,
overloaded structural parts, decay, susceptibility to fire or any other
hazardous conditions or circumstances.
   (C)   Any abandoned building or structure, which shall be a vacant building
or structure which, in the opinion of the Building Inspector, creates a health
or safety hazard as a result of the attraction of insects or rodents,
conditions creating a fire hazard, dangerous conditions constituting a threat
to children or frequent use by vagrants, shall be declared by the Building
Inspector to be unsafe.
   (D)   The Building Inspector shall have authority and it shall be his or her
duty to declare all such buildings or structures unsafe and to take appropriate
action to have such conditions corrected or removed.
   (E)   Such declaration by the Building Inspector shall constitute an order
of condemnation for the purposes of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 16-2)  (Ord. passed 2-3-1987; Res. R-2021-03, passed 6-24-2021)
§ 150.03  WHAT CONSTITUTES UNSAFE CONDITIONS; NOTICE.
    Every building which shall appear to the Building Inspector to be
especially dangerous to life because of its liability to fire or because of bad
conditions of walls, overloaded floors, defective construction, decay, unsafe
wiring or heating system, inadequate means of egress or other causes shall be
held to be unsafe, and the Inspector shall affix a notice of the dangerous
character of the structure to a conspicuous place on the exterior wall of such
building.
(Prior Code, § 16-3)  (Ord. passed 2-3-1987; Res. R-2021-03, passed 6-24-2021)
§ 150.04  DEFECTS IN BUILDING TO BE CORRECTED; PRELIMINARY PROCEDURE.
   (A)    Whenever the Building Inspector finds any defects, which are
prohibited by this subchapter, to exist in a building or structure or finds
that such building or structure has not been constructed in accordance with the
applicable state and local laws or that a building or structure, because of its
condition, is dangerous to life, health or other property or contains fire or
safety hazards, or is a public nuisance, it shall be his or her duty to notify
the owner of the building or structure of its defects, hazardous conditions or
failure to comply with law. The owner of the building or structure shall
immediately remedy such defects, hazardous conditions, or violations of law.
   (B)   Whenever the Building Inspector shall find conditions existing which
require action by him or her under the provisions of this subchapter and G.S.
Ch. 160D, Art. 11, Part 5, the preliminary procedure for notices and hearings
shall be as follows:
      (1)   The Building Inspector shall notify the owner by certified or
registered mail or by personal service, which notification shall be in writing
and which shall contain:
         (a)   A brief statement of the hazardous conditions or defects
existing in the building or structure or why the building or structure fails to
comply with the law;
         (b)   A request that the owner voluntarily take action to correct the
hazardous conditions, defects, or non-compliance with the law within a
reasonable time; and
         (c)   A statement advising the owner that if prompt action is not
taken to correct such conditions, defects or non-compliance, the owner shall be
required to correct such conditions as by law provided.
      (2)   If the name or whereabouts of the owner cannot, after due
diligence, be discovered, the notice shall be considered properly and
adequately served if a copy thereof is posted on the outside of the building or
structure in question and a copy of the notice is published in a newspaper
having general circulation in the town at least once; and
      (3)   If the owner fails to take corrective action within a reasonable
time after service of said notice, the Building Inspector shall proceed to
obtain an order for corrective action as is provided in §
150.06 of this chapter.
   (C)   The Building Inspector shall affix a notice of the dangerous character
of the structure to a conspicuous place on the exterior wall of such building
or structure.
(Prior Code, § 16-4)  (Ord. passed 2-3-1987; Res. R-2021-03, passed 6-24-2021)
§ 150.05  REMOVAL OF NOTICE PROHIBITED.
    If any person shall remove any notice which has been affixed to any
building or structure by the Building Inspector and which notice states the
dangerous character of the building or structure, he or she shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 16-5)  (Ord. passed 2-3-1987; Res. R-2021-03, passed 6-24-2021)
  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.06  ACTION IN EVENT OF FAILURE TO TAKE CORRECTIVE ACTION.
   (A)    If the owner of a building or structure which has been condemned as
unsafe pursuant to § 150.04 shall fail promptly to take corrective action, the
Building Inspector shall give such owner written notice by certified or
registered mail to the last known address of the owner or by personal service
as follows:
      (1)   Such building or structure is in a condition that appears to
constitute a fire or safety hazard or to be dangerous to life, health or other
property;
      (2)   A hearing will be held before the Building Inspector at a
designated place and time, which time shall be not less than ten days after the
date of such notice, at which hearing the owner shall be entitled to be heard
in person or by counsel and to present arguments and evidence pertaining to the
matter; and/or
      (3)   Following the hearing, the Building Inspector may issue such order
to repair, close, vacate or demolish the building or structure as appears
appropriate.
   (B)   If the name or whereabouts of the owner cannot, after due diligence,
be discovered, the notice shall be considered properly and adequately served if
a copy thereof is posted on the outside of the building or structure in
question at least ten days prior to the hearing and a notice of the hearing is
published in a newspaper having general circulation in the municipality at
least once and at least one week prior to the hearing.
(Prior Code, § 16-6)  (Ord. passed 2-3-1987; Res. R-2021-03, passed 6-24-2021)
§ 150.07  ORDER TO TAKE CORRECTIVE ACTION; APPEAL; FINALITY IF NOT APPEALED;
FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   (A)   Generally. If, upon a hearing held pursuant to the notice prescribed
in §
150.06, the Inspector shall find the building or structure is in condition that
constitutes a fire or safety hazard or renders it dangerous to life, health or
other property, he or she shall make an order in writing, directed to the owner
of such building or structure, requiring the owner to remedy the defective
conditions by repairing, closing, vacating or demolishing the building or
structure or taking other necessary steps within such period, not less than 60
days, as the Inspector may prescribe; provided that, where the Inspector finds
that there is imminent danger to life or other property, he or she may order
that corrective action be taken in such lesser period as may be feasible.
(Prior Code, § 16-7)
   (B)   Appeal; finality if not appealed. Any owner who has received an order
under division (A) above may appeal from the order to the Town Council by
giving notice of appeal in writing to the Inspector and to the Town Clerk
within ten days following issuance of the order. In the absence of an appeal,
the order of the Inspector shall be final. The Town Council shall hear an
appeal within a reasonable time and may modify and affirm or revoke the order.
(Prior Code, § 16-8)
   (C)   Failure to comply. If the owner of a building or structure fails to
comply with an order issued pursuant to division (B) above from which no appeal
has been taken or fails to comply with an order of the Town Council following
an appeal, he or she shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished in
the discretion of the court.
(Prior Code, § 16-9)
(Ord. passed 2-3-1987; Res. R-2021-03, passed 6-24-2021)    Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.08  AUTHORITY.
    This subchapter is adopted pursuant to G.S. § 160A-194.
(Prior Code, § 16-11)  (Ord. passed 2-3-1987; Res. R-2021-03, passed 6-24-2021)
MINIMUM HOUSING STANDARDS
§ 150.20  PURPOSE.
   Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-441, the Stoneville Town Council finds and declares
that there exists in the Town of Stoneville dwellings which are unfit for human
habitation. These conditions exist because of reasons which include, but are
not limited to, dilapidation, defects increasing the hazards of fire, accidents
and other calamities, lack of ventilation or light, lack of safely maintained
sanitary facilities, accumulations of garbage or rubbish, and other conditions
rendering such dwellings unsafe, unsanitary, dangerous, and detrimental to the
health, safety, and welfare of the residents of the Town of Stoneville. In
accordance with G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 19, Part 6 (G.S. § 160A-441 et seq.)
(Minimum Housing Standards), it is the purpose of this subchapter to establish
minimum standards of fitness for the initial and continued occupancy of all
buildings used for human habitation, and to provide for the repair or
demolition of all structures designed or utilized for such purpose but found to
be substandard or unfit under the terms of this subchapter, and to impose
requirements upon owners and occupants for maintaining these minimum standards.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2021)
§ 150.21  JURISDICTION.
   These regulations shall govern all dwellings, as defined by this subchapter,
within the jurisdiction of the Town of Stoneville. Through interlocal
agreements with municipalities, the county may enforce these regulations within
municipal jurisdictions, provided that any such municipal governing body or the
county, upon one-year written notice, may withdraw its approval of the minimum
housing standards and those regulations shall have no further effect within the
municipality. The one-year time limit may be waived upon agreement of both
parties.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2021)
§ 150.22  PRIORITY OF ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   This subchapter provides a broad range of enforcement remedies for
multiple types of housing standards. The most severe penalties include the
demolition of noncompliant structures by the Town of Stoneville. Because of the
wide scope of conditions covered by this subchapter, the Town of Stoneville
intends to devote its enforcement resources to the following activities in
descending order of priority:
      (1)   Noncompliant structures unfit for human habitation, posing an
imminent threat to the health and safety of occupants;
      (2)   Abandoned structures, unsuitable for repair and in need of
demolition and removal; and
      (3)   Deteriorated structures which could reasonably be repaired to
comply with this subchapter.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the above policy for priorities of enforcement, the
Town of Stoneville reserves its right to pursue all enforcement remedies
available to it for any violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2021)
§ 150.23  DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this subchapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   DEMOLISH/DEMOLITION. The destruction and removal of the entire building,
leaving the property free and clear of any debris, and without holes or pockets
which may retain water.
   DETERIORATED. Dwelling that may be unfit for human habitation and can be
repaired, altered, or improved to comply with all of the minimum standards
established by this subchapter at a cost not in excess of 50% of its value, as
determined by the findings of the Housing Inspector.
   DILAPIDATED. A dwelling that is unfit for human habitation and cannot be
improved, repaired, or altered to comply with all of the minimum standards
established by this subchapter except at a cost in excess of 50% of its value,
as determined by the findings of the Housing Inspector.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, manufactured home or mobile home, or part
thereof, which is wholly or partly used or intended to be used for living,
sleeping, or human habitation, and includes any structures and appurtenances
belonging thereto or usually enjoyed therewith. The term DWELLING shall include
within its meaning the terms "dwelling unit," "rooming house" and "rooming
unit," or any part thereof.
   GOVERNING BODY. The Stoneville Town Council.
   HOUSING INSPECTOR. The County Chief Building Inspector or his designees who
are certified to do building inspections.
   OCCUPANT. Any person living, sleeping, cooking or eating in, or having
actual possession of a dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming unit.
   OPERATOR/LANDLORD. Any person who has charge, care, or control of a
building, or part thereof, in which dwelling units or rooming units are let.
   OWNER. The holder of the title in fee simple and any mortgagee of record.
   PARTIES IN INTEREST. All persons who have interests of record in a dwelling,
dwelling unit or rooming unit and persons who are in possession thereof,
including, but not limited, to the mortgagee.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, or other legal entity.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. The Stoneville Town Council or its designee, or any
officer who is in charge of any department or branch of the government of the
county or the state relating to health, fire, building regulations, or other
activities concerning dwellings in the county.
   ROOMING HOUSE. Any dwelling, or that part of any dwelling containing one or
more rooming units, in which space is let by the owner or operator to persons
who are not husband, wife, son, daughter, mother, father, sister, or brother of
the owner or operator.
   UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION. A dwelling in which any of the following
conditions exist:
      (1)   Lack of connection to a potable water supply and/or to a public
sewer or other approved sewage disposal system;
      (2)   Damage from fire, wind or other causes in such amount as to render
the dwelling unsafe;
      (3)   Interior walls or studs which list, lean or buckle to such an
extent as to render the dwelling unsafe;
      (4)   Floors or roofs which are overloaded or have insufficient strength
to be reasonably safe for the purpose used;
      (5)   Lack of proper electrical, heating, or plumbing facilities which
constitute an imminent health or safety hazard; and/or
      (6)   Lack of proper ventilation or sanitation to such an extent as to
render the dwelling unsafe due to health or safety hazards.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2021)
§ 150.24  MINIMUM STANDARDS OF FITNESS FOR DWELLINGS, DWELLING UNITS, AND
MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   Standards for dwellings, dwelling units, rooming units, and manufactured
homes shall be as follows:
   (A)   Every dwelling, dwelling unit, and rooming unit used or intended to be
used as a human habitation shall comply with the applicable state building
codes and with all standards of fitness for human habitation and the
requirements as set forth in this subchapter.
   (B)   No person shall occupy, let to another for occupancy, or use as a
human habitation any dwelling, dwelling unit, or rooming unit which does not
comply with the minimum standards of fitness of human habitation as set forth
in this subchapter.
   (C)   Every manufactured home used as a human habitation shall comply with
all applicable codes at the time of manufacture, with all regulations
promulgated by the State Building Code Council, and with the standards as set
forth in this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2021)
§ 150.25  MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR STRUCTURAL CONDITION.
   The following standards shall constitute the minimum standards for
structural condition of a dwelling or dwelling unit:
   (A)   Walls, partitions or supporting members, sills, joists, rafters, or
other structural members shall not list, lean, buckle, and shall not be rotten,
deteriorated, or damaged, and shall not have holes or cracks which might admit
rodents.
   (B)   Floors or roofs shall have adequate supporting members and strength to
be in a condition which would be structurally sound and safe for the purpose
used.
   (C)   Foundations, foundation walls, piers or other foundation supports
shall be in a condition which would be structurally sound and safe for the
purpose used. The foundation shall be on firm, reasonably dry ground, and there
shall be no water standing or running under the building.
   (D)   Steps, stairs, landings, porches, decks, balconies, or other parts or
appurtenances shall be maintained in such condition that they will not fail or
collapse.
   (E)   Adequate facilities for egress in case of fire or panic shall be
provided.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2021)
§ 150.26  MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR BASIC PLUMBING, HEATING AND ELECTRICAL
EQUIPMENT AND FACILITIES.
   Standards for basic plumbing, heating and electrical equipment and
facilities shall be as follows:
   (A)   Plumbing system.
      (1)   Each dwelling unit shall be connected to a potable water supply,
and to a public sewer or other approved sewage disposal system. All said
connections shall be constructed in an approved manner in accordance with
existing regulations. An occupied dwelling to which the water supply has been
turned off for nonpayment or which is not otherwise having potable water
supplied to the tap is not considered to be connected to a potable water
supply.
      (2)   Each dwelling unit shall contain not less than a kitchen sink,
lavatory, tub or shower, toilet, and adequate supply of both cold water and hot
water.
      (3)   All existing plumbing fixtures, water lines and sewer lines shall
meet the standards of the state building codes, at the time installed, and
shall be maintained in a state of good repair and in good working order,
adequately protected from freezing.
      (4)   All existing required plumbing fixtures shall be located within the
dwelling unit and be accessible to the occupants of same. The toilet and tub or
shower shall be located in a room affording privacy to the user.
   (B)   Heating system.
      (1)   Central heating systems. Every central heating system shall have
and maintain sufficient capacity to heat all habitable rooms, bathrooms and
toilet compartments in every dwelling unit to which it is connected with a
minimum temperature of 68 degrees Fahrenheit measured at a point three feet
above the floor during ordinary winter conditions.
      (2)   Other heating facilities. Where a central or electric heating
system is not provided, each dwelling unit shall have adequate heating
appliances installed and maintained in good and safe working condition and
capable of safely and adequately heating all habitable rooms, bathrooms and
toilet compartments so as to furnish a minimum temperature of 68 degrees
Fahrenheit measured at a point three feet above the floor during ordinary
minimum winter conditions. In addition, each dwelling unit so equipped shall be
provided with sufficient chimney, flues, gas vents and/or fireplaces in
accordance with the provisions of the state building codes. Portable or
unvented room heaters are not permitted as a primary source of heating. No
unvented fossil fuel burning appliances shall be allowed in sleeping areas.
   (C)   Electrical systems.
      (1)   Every dwelling and dwelling unit shall be wired for electric lights
and convenience receptacles. Every habitable room shall contain at least two
floor- or wall-type electric convenience receptacles in each room located on
separate walls, and also one electric light switched at each outside entrance,
connected in such manner as determined by the National Electrical Code. There
shall be installed in every bathroom, toilet room, laundry room and furnace
room at least one supplied ceiling or wall-type electric light fixture, with a
switch. Electrical outlets in dwellings which have been ordered by the Housing
Inspector to be repaired shall conform to the minimum standards set forth in
this subchapter.
      (2)   Every public hall and stairway in every multiple dwelling unit
shall always be adequately lighted by switched electric lights when natural
daylight is not sufficient.
      (3)   All fixtures, receptacles, equipment and wiring shall be maintained
in a state of good repair, safe, capable of being used, and installed in
accordance with the National Electrical Code.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2021)
§ 150.27  MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR VENTILATION.
   (A)   Habitable rooms. Every habitable room shall have at least one window
or skylight which can easily be opened, or such other device, such as air
conditioning, as will adequately ventilate the room, unless otherwise approved
by the Housing Inspector. Window frames and glass shall be reasonably
weathertight, with no cracked or broken glass.
   (B)   Smoke detectors. Smoke detectors shall be required on each floor level
and outside of each sleeping area in the immediate vicinity of the bedrooms.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2021)
§ 150.28  MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR SANITATION.
   (A)   Resistance to weather damage and rodent infestation. Every foundation
wall, exterior wall and exterior roof shall be substantially weathertight and
rodentproof and kept in sound and good repair. Every floor, interior wall and
ceiling shall be substantially rodentproof, kept in sound condition and good
repair. Every window, exterior door, basement, cellar door, and hatchway shall
be substantially weathertight, watertight, rodentproof and kept in sound
working condition and good repair. All exterior doors shall have an apparatus
for opening and closing the door on both sides, a locking mechanism, which can
be opened from both sides of the door and kept in sound repair.
   (B)   Infestation. Owners and renters shall, by generally accepted methods
of extermination, be responsible for maintaining the premises free of any
insects, rodents or other pests within the premises.
   (C)   Garbage and rubbish storage and disposal.
      (1)   Property owners or tenants of single-dwelling units shall be
responsible for providing an approved container for outdoor storage of rubbish;
and for providing an approved garbage disposal facility, as required by county
solid waste regulations.
      (2)   It is the property owner's responsibility to provide for the
removal and disposal of rubbish and garbage in an approved manner, except for
those dwellings being leased to a second party, and then the primary
responsibility shall be placed on the occupant. Whenever the removal of rubbish
and garbage is not carried out by the lessee, then the responsibility shall be
the owner's.
      (3)   In cases of multiple-dwelling units the responsibility of rubbish
and garbage removal will be that of the owner.
      (4)   Property owners and/or occupants shall not allow the accumulation
of rubbish, trash, or junk causing or threatening to cause a fire hazard, the
accumulation of stagnant water, or the inhabitation of rats, mice, snakes, or
vermin of any kind which may be dangerous or prejudicial to the public health.
   (D)   Drainage. Every yard shall be properly graded in order to obtain
thorough drainage away from the dwelling unit and to prevent the accumulation
of stagnant water.
   (E)   Egress. Every dwelling unit shall be provided with adequate and
unobstructed means of egress (exit) as required by the State Building Code.
   (F)   Noxious weeds and tall grass. Yards and areas surrounding a dwelling
shall be kept free of species of weeds or plant growth which are noxious or
detrimental to health or provide breeding places for insect or rodent
infestation.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2021)
§ 150.29  MINIMUM STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO ROOMING HOUSES.
   All minimum standards and requirements of this subchapter shall be
applicable to rooming houses, and to every person who operates a rooming house,
who occupies or lets to another for occupancy any rooming unit in any rooming
house, and to bed and breakfast establishments, except as provided in the
following divisions:
   (A)   Toilet, hand lavatory and bath facilities. At least one toilet,
lavatory basin and bathtub or shower, properly connected to an approved water
and sewer system and in good working condition shall be supplied for each four
rooms within a rooming house wherever these facilities are shared. All such
facilities shall be located within the residence building served and shall be
directly accessible from a common hall or passageway and shall not be more than
one story removed from any of the persons sharing such facilities. Every
lavatory basin and bathtub or shower shall be supplied with hot and cold water
at all times. Such required facilities shall not be located in a cellar or
uninhabitable basement.
   (B)   Minimum floor areas. Every room occupied for sleeping purposes by one
occupant shall have the minimum floor space as required by the state
residential building codes.
   (C)   Sanitary conditions. The operator of every rooming house shall be
responsible for the sanitary maintenance of all walls, floors, and ceilings,
and for the sanitary maintenance of every other part of the rooming house. The
operator shall be further responsible for the sanitary maintenance of the
entire premises where the entire structure or building within which the rooming
house is contained is leased or occupied by the operator.
   (D)   Sanitary facilities. Every toilet, flush urinal, lavatory basin and
bathtub or shower required by division (A) above shall be located within the
rooming house and within a room which afford privacy, shall be separate from
the habitable rooms, shall be accessible from a common hall, and shall be
accessible without going outside the rooming house or through any other room
therein.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2021)
§ 150.30  ACCESS TO PREMISES FOR INSPECTIONS.
   For the purposes of making inspections, the Housing Inspector is hereby
authorized to enter, examine and survey at all reasonable times all dwellings,
dwelling units, rooming units and premises. The owner or occupant of every
dwelling, dwelling units, or rooming units or the person in charge thereof,
shall give the Inspector free access to such dwelling, dwelling unit, or
rooming unit and its premises at all reasonable times for the purposes of such
inspection, examination and survey. Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling
unit shall give the owner thereof, or his agent or employee, access to any part
of such dwelling or dwelling unit, and its premises, at all reasonable times
for the purpose of making such repairs or alterations as are necessary to
effect compliance with the provisions of this subchapter or with any lawful
order issued pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter. If the occupant or
owner refuses the Inspector admittance, then the Inspector may obtain an
administrative inspection warrant.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2021)
§ 150.31  POWERS AND DUTIES OF HOUSING INSPECTOR.
   The Housing Inspector shall enforce the provisions of this subchapter and
exercise the duties and powers herein prescribed. Duties and powers of the
Housing Inspector are:
   (A)   To investigate housing conditions; inspect dwellings and dwelling
units located in the county; determine which dwellings and dwelling units are
unfit for human habitation or otherwise in violation of this subchapter and
carry out the objectives of this subchapter;
   (B)   To take such action, together with other appropriate departments and
agencies, public or private, as necessary to effect rehabilitation of housing
which is deteriorated, or to effect demolition of dilapidated housing and carry
out the general spirit and purpose of this regulation;
   (C)   To keep a record of the results of inspections made under this
subchapter, including a list of all those dwellings inspected and not in
compliance with the Housing Inspector's report;
   (D)   To administer oaths and affirmations and to examine witnesses and
receive evidence;
   (E)   To enter upon premises for the purpose of making examinations and
inspections; provided, such entries shall be made in accordance with this
subchapter and state law, and shall be made in such a manner as to cause the
least possible inconvenience to the persons in possession; and
   (F)   To swear criminal warrants, issue civil citations and to take such
actions as may be necessary to carry out the enforcement procedures of this
subchapter.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2021)
§ 150.32  PROCEDURE FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Petition, investigation and service of complaint. Whenever a petition
is filed with the Housing Inspector by a public authority or by at least five
residents of the county charging that any dwelling is unfit for human
habitation, or whenever it appears to the Housing Inspector (on his own motion)
that any dwelling is unfit for human habitation, the Housing Inspector shall,
if his preliminary investigation discloses a basis for such charges, issue and
cause to be served upon the owner of and parties in interest in such dwellings
a complaint stating the charges in that respect, and:
      (1)   Containing a notice that a hearing will be held before the Housing
Inspector (or his or her designated agent) at a place within the county in
which the property is located;
      (2)   Set not less than ten days nor more than 30 days after the serving
of the complaint;
      (3)   That the owner and parties in interest shall be given the right to
file an answer to the complaint and to appear in person, or otherwise, and give
testimony at the place and time fixed in the complaint; and
      (4)   That the rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law or equity
shall not be controlling in hearings before the Housing Inspector.
   (B)   Dwellings unfit for human habitation. If, after notice and hearing,
the Housing Inspector determines that the dwelling under consideration is unfit
for human habitation, he shall state in writing his findings of fact in support
of that determination and shall issue and cause to be served upon the owner
thereof an order:
      (1)   Deteriorated/suitable for repair. If the repair, alteration or
improvement of the dwelling can be made at a cost less than 50% of the value as
estimated by the Housing Inspector, the owner is required, within the time
specified, to repair, alter or improve the dwelling in order to render it fit
for human habitation. The order may require that the property be vacated and
closed if continued occupancy during the time allowed for repair will present a
significant threat of bodily harm, taking into account the nature of the
necessary repairs, alterations, or improvements, the current state of the
property, and any additional risks due to the presence and capacity of minors
under the age of 18 years or occupants with physical or mental disabilities.
The order shall state that the failure to make timely repairs as directed in
the order shall make the dwelling subject to the issuance of further orders
under this subchapter for failure to make repairs.
      (2)   Dilapidated/unsuitable for repair. If the repair, alteration or
improvement of the dwelling cannot be made at 50% or less of its value as
estimated by the Housing Inspector, requiring the owner, within the time
specified in the order, to remove or demolish such dwelling.
   (C)   If owner fails to repair.
      (1)   If the owner fails to comply with an order to repair, alter or
improve or to vacate and close the dwelling, the Housing Inspector may cause
the dwelling to be repaired, altered or improved or to be vacated and closed;
and the Housing Inspector may cause to be posted on the main entrance of any
dwelling so closed, a placard with the following words: "This building is unfit
for human habitation; the use or occupation of this building for human
habitation is prohibited and unlawful." Occupation of a building so posted
shall constitute a Class 1 misdemeanor.
      (2)   If the Housing Inspector has issued an order, ordering a dwelling
to be repaired, but said dwelling has been vacated and closed, and remains
unrepaired for a period of one year, then the Housing Inspector may ask the
governing body to enact an ordinance pursuant to division (D) below.
   (D)   If owner fails to demolish. If the owner fails to comply with an order
to remove or demolish the dwelling, the Housing Inspector may cause such
dwelling to be removed or demolished. The duties of the Housing Inspector set
forth in this subchapter shall not be exercised until the Board of County
Commissioners shall have by ordinance ordered the Housing Inspector to proceed
to effectuate the purpose of this subchapter with respect to the particular
property which the Housing Inspector shall have found to be unfit for human
habitation and which property shall be described in the ordinance. No such
ordinance shall be adopted to require demolition of a dwelling until the owner
has first been given a reasonable opportunity to bring it into conformity with
the housing code. For purposes of this section, a period of 90 days following
the date of the Housing Inspector's order shall constitute a reasonable
opportunity. This ordinance shall be recorded in the office of the register of
deeds in the county where the property is located and shall be indexed in the
name of the property owner in the grantor index.
   (E)   Liens. The amount of the cost of repairs, alterations or improvements,
or vacating and closing, or removal or demolition by the Housing Inspector
shall be a lien against the real property upon which the cost was incurred,
which lien shall be filed, have the same priority, and be collected in the same
manner as the lien for special assessment. If the dwelling is removed or
demolished by the Housing Inspector, he shall make commercially reasonable
efforts to sell the materials of value of the dwelling, and any personal
property, fixtures or appurtenances found in or attached to the dwelling, and
shall credit the proceeds of the sale against the cost of the removal or
demolition and any balance remaining shall be deposited in the Superior Court
by the Housing Inspector, shall be secured in a manner directed by the Court,
and shall be disbursed by the Court to the persons found to be entitled thereto
by final order or decree of the Court. Nothing in this section shall be
construed to impair or limit in any way the power of the county to define and
declare nuisances and to cause their removal or abatement by summary
proceedings, or otherwise.
   (F)   Refusal to vacate. If any occupant fails to comply with an order to
vacate a dwelling, the Housing Inspector may file a civil action in the name of
the county to remove such occupant. The action to vacate the dwelling shall be
summary ejectment and shall be commenced by filing a complaint naming as
parties-defendant any person occupying such dwelling. The Clerk of Superior
Court shall issue a summons requiring the defendant to appear before a
magistrate at a certain time, date and place not to exceed ten days from the
issuance of the summons to answer the complaint. The summons and complaint
shall be served as provided in G.S. § 42-29. The summons shall be returned
according to its tenor, and, if on its return, it appears to have been duly
served, and if, at the hearing, the Housing Inspector produces a certified copy
of an ordinance adopted by the County Commission pursuant to division (D)
authorizing the officer to proceed to vacate the occupied dwelling, the
Magistrate shall enter judgment ordering that the premises be vacated and that
all persons be removed. The judgment ordering that the dwelling be vacated
shall be enforced in the same manner as the judgment for summary ejectment
entered under G.S. § 42-30. An appeal from any judgment entered hereunder by
the Magistrate may be taken as provided in G.S. § 7A-228, and the execution of
such judgment may be stayed as provided in G.S. § 7A-227. An action to remove
an occupant of a dwelling who is a tenant of the owner may not be in the nature
of a summary ejectment proceeding pursuant to this subsection unless such
occupant was served with notice at least 30 days before the filing of the
summary ejectment proceeding that the County Commission ordered the Housing
Inspector to proceed to exercise his duties under the preceding subsections of
this section to vacate and close or remove and demolish the dwelling.
   (G)   Notice to certain housing organizations. Whenever a determination is
made that a dwelling must be vacated and closed, or removed or demolished,
under the provisions of this section, notice of the order shall be given by
first-class mail to any organization involved in providing or restoring
dwellings for affordable housing that has filed a written request for such
notices. A minimum period of 45 days from the mailing of such notice shall be
given before removal or demolition by action of the Housing Inspector, to allow
the opportunity for any organization to negotiate with the owner to make
repairs, lease, or purchase the property for the purpose of providing
affordable housing. The Housing Inspector or Clerk shall certify the mailing of
the notices, and the certification shall be conclusive in the absence of fraud.
Only an organization that has filed a written request for such notices may
raise the issue of failure to mail such notices, and the sole remedy shall be
an order requiring the Housing Inspector to wait 45 days before causing removal
or demolition.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2021)
§ 150.33  METHODS OF SERVICE OF COMPLAINTS AND ORDERS.
   Complaints or orders issued by the Housing Inspector shall be served upon
persons either personally or by registered or certified mail. When service is
made by registered or certified mail, a copy of the complaint or order may also
be sent by regular mail. Service shall be deemed sufficient if the registered
or certified mail is unclaimed or refused, but the regular mail is not returned
by the post office within ten days after mailing. If regular mail is used, a
notice of the pending proceedings shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the
premises affected. If the identities of any owners or the whereabouts of
persons are unknown and cannot be ascertained by the Housing Inspector in the
exercise of reasonable diligence, or if the owners are known but have refused
to accept service by certified mail, the Housing Inspector shall make an
affidavit to that effect; and then the serving of the complaint or order upon
the owners or other persons may be made by publication in a newspaper having
general circulation in the county at least once no later than the time at which
personal service would be required under this subchapter. Where service is made
by publication, a notice of the pending proceedings shall be posted in a
conspicuous place on the premises affected by the complaint or order.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2021)
§ 150.34  APPEALS TO THE HOUSING APPEALS BOARD.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Housing Appeals Board to which appeals may
be taken from any decision or order of the Housing Inspector relative to the
interpretation or enforcement of the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   The Housing Appeals Board shall consist of five members to serve for
three-year staggered terms. It shall have the power to elect its own officers,
to fix the times and places for its meetings, to adopt necessary rules of
procedure, and to adopt other rules and regulations for the proper discharge of
its duties. It shall keep an accurate record of all its proceedings.
   (C)   The Stoneville Town Council shall appoint the five regular members of
the Housing Appeals Board for the terms specified in division (B) above. The
Stoneville Town Council shall also appoint two alternate members to serve on
the Housing Appeals Board in the absence of any regular member. Alternate
members shall be appointed to serve three-year staggered terms. Each alternate
member, while serving in the absence of any regular member, shall have and
exercise all the powers and duties of any regular member absent from the
meeting.
   (D)   Any appeal from the decision or order of the Housing Inspector shall
be taken within ten days from the rendering of the decision or service of the
order, by filing with the Housing Inspector and the Housing Appeals Board (by
service on the Planning Director) a notice of appeal which shall specify the
grounds upon which the appeal is based. Upon the filing of any notice of
appeal, the Housing Inspector shall forthwith transmit to the Housing Appeals
Board all the papers constituting the record from which the appealed decision
was made. When the appeal is from a decision of the Housing Inspector refusing
to allow the person aggrieved thereby to do any act, his decision shall remain
in force until modified or reversed. When an appeal is from a decision of the
Housing Inspector requiring the person aggrieved to do any act, the appeal
shall have the effect of suspending the requirement until the hearing by the
Housing Appeals Board, unless the Housing Inspector certifies to the Board,
after the notice of appeal is filed with him, that by reason of the facts
stated in the certification, (a copy of which shall be furnished to the person
who is appealing), a suspension of his requirement would cause imminent peril
to life or property, in which case the requirement shall not be suspended.
   (E)   The Housing Appeals Board shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing
of all appeals, shall give due notice to all parties, and shall render its
decision within a reasonable time. Any party may appear in person, by agent, or
attorney. The Board may reverse or affirm, wholly, partly, or may modify the
decision or order appealed from, and may make such decision and order as in its
opinion ought to be made in the matter, and to this end shall have all the
powers of the Housing Inspector. The Board shall have power also in passing
upon appeals, in the case where there are practical difficulties or unnecessary
hardships in a way of carrying out the strict letter of the subchapter, to
adapt the application of the subchapter to the necessities of the case to the
end that the spirit of the subchapter shall be observed, public safety and
welfare secured, and substantial justice done.
   (F)   Every decision of the Housing Appeals Board shall be subject to review
by proceedings in the nature of certiorari instituted within 15 days of the
decision of the Board, but not otherwise.
   (G)   All appeals are subject to the remedies and procedures described in
G.S. § 160A-446.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2021)
§ 150.35  VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The violation of any provision of this subchapter shall constitute a
misdemeanor, as provided by G.S. § 14-4.
   (B)   In cases where the Housing Inspector determines that violations of the
subchapter exist, but those violations do not rise to the level of making the
dwelling unfit for human habitation, the Inspector shall not be required to
give notice and hold a hearing in the same manner as for unfit dwellings.
Violations which do not result in a finding of a dwelling unfit for human
habitation remain subject to penalties and enforcement. The Inspector may issue
warnings and notices of violations and may swear out criminal charges for
violation of the subchapter.
   (C)   In addition to the remedies otherwise provided by this subchapter,
this subchapter may be enforced by an appropriate equitable remedy issued by a
court of competent jurisdiction, including injunction and order of abatement.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2021)
§ 150.36  ALTERNATE REMEDIES.
   (A)   Neither this subchapter nor any of its provisions shall be construed
to impair or limit in any way the power of the county to define and declare
nuisances, and the enforcement of any remedy provided herein shall not prevent
the enforcement of any other remedy provided herein or in other articles or
laws.
   (B)   Remedies may include all remedies authorized by G.S. § 160A-446,
including institution of an action with the Court to prevent the unlawful
erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration or use of a dwelling, to
correct or abate the violation, to prevent the occupancy of the dwelling, or to
prevent any illegal act, conduct or use in or about the premises of the
dwelling.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2021)
§ 150.37  CONFLICT WITH OTHER PROVISIONS.
   In the event that any provision, standard, or requirement of this subchapter
is found to be in conflict with any provision of any other ordinance or code of
the Town of Stoneville, the provision which established the higher standard or
more stringent requirement for the promotion and protection of the health and
safety of the residents of the county shall prevail.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2021)
§ 150.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code.
   (B)   Whenever any violation is denominated a misdemeanor under the
provisions of §§
150.01 through
150.08 of this chapter, the town, either in addition to or in lieu of other
remedies, may initiate any appropriate action or proceedings to prevent,
restrain, correct or abate the violation or to prevent the occupancy of the
building or structure involved.
(Prior Code, § 16-10)  (Ord. passed 2-3-1987)
CHAPTER 151:  ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Purpose
   
151.002   Authority
   
151.003   Jurisdiction
   
151.004   Definitions
   
151.005   Application
   
151.006   New uses or construction
   
151.007   Conforming uses
   
151.008   Non-conforming uses
   
151.009   Open space requirements
   
151.010   Accessory buildings in rear yards
   
151.011   Reduction of lot and yard area prohibited
   
151.012   Projections into public right-of-way
   
151.013   Height of buildings
   
151.014   Intersection obstructions
   
151.015   Unified business projects
   
151.016   Interpretation of district boundaries
   
151.017   Interpretation of district regulations
   
151.018   Conflict with other laws
   
151.019   Remedies
   
151.020   Separability clause
   
151.021   Official zoning map
   
151.022   Agriculture and silviculture
   
151.023   Stream buffers
   
151.024   Clustering
Administration and Enforcement
   
151.035   Administration and enforcement
   
151.036   Permits
   
151.037   Administrative development approvals and determinations
   
151.038   Duties of Zoning Administrator and Board of Adjustment as to matters
of appeal
   
151.039   Watershed recordkeeping
   
151.040   Vested rights
   
151.041   Permit choice
Amendments
   
151.050   Amendment procedures
   
151.051   [Reserved]
   
151.052   [Reserved]
   
151.053   Amendments to watershed regulations
Board of Adjustment
   
151.065   Creation of Board of Adjustment
   
151.066   Conduct of evidentiary hearings
   
151.067   Disposition of appeals
   
151.068   Appeals from decisions of Zoning Administrator
   
151.070   Powers of the Board
   
151.071   Watershed variances
   
151.072   Re-hearings
   
151.073   Review by certiorari
District Regulations
   
151.085   Generally
   
151.086   RA, Residential Agriculture District
   
151.087   RS, Residential Suburban District
   
151.088   B-1, Business, Office and Institutional District
   
151.089   HB, Highway Business District
   
151.090   I-1, Planned Industrial District
   
151.091   Development regulations
Off-Street Parking and Loading
   
151.105   Off-street parking requirements
   
151.106   Off-street loading (Business and Industrial District)
Sign Regulations
   
151.120   Classification and definition of signs
   
151.121   General regulations
   
151.122   Signs permitted in all districts (no permit required)
   
151.123   Signs permitted in the B-1 Districts (permit from Zoning
Administrator required)
   
151.124   Signs permitted in the HB and I-1 Districts
Special Uses
   
151.135   Intent and purpose; procedures
   
151.136   Special uses (unified business development, unified housing
development, outdoor storage yards)
Wireless Communication Facilities, Radio, TV, Microwave or other
Telecommunication Tower
   
151.150   General
   
151.151   Definitions
   
151.152   Applicability
   
151.153   General guidelines and requirements
   
151.154   Specific development guidelines
   
151.155   Abandoned antennas and towers, removal
   
151.156   Preferred locations for wireless communications facilities; permitted
administrative review
Manufactured Homes
   
151.160   Class AA manufactured home category
   
151.161   Description for Class A manufactured home
   
151.162   Criteria for Class B and Class C manufactured homes
 
   
151.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Wireless Communication Facility Site Recommendations
   
Appendix B: Class AA Manufactured Home Appearance Criteria Requirements
Acknowledgment Form
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.001  PURPOSE.
    The zoning regulations and districts as herein set forth are being adopted
in accordance with the Stoneville Land Development Plan and are designed to
promote good health and the general welfare, to prevent the overcrowding of
land and to facilitate the adequate provision of transportation, water,
sewerage, schools, parks, and other public requirements. Such regulations are
being made with reasonable consideration, among other things, to the character
of the districts and their peculiar suitability for particular uses, and with a
view to conserving the value of buildings and encouraging the most appropriate
use of land throughout the community.
(Ord. passed 7-1-1980; Res. R-2021-03, passed 6-24-2021)
§ 151.002  AUTHORITY.
    The provisions of this chapter are adopted under authority granted by the
General Assembly of the state, G.S. Ch. 160D, Art. 18, Planning and
Regulations, and G.S. § 143-214.5, Water Supply and Watershed Protection, and
other pertinent statutes and amendments thereto.
(Ord. passed 7-1-1980; Ord. passed 9-7-1993; Res. R-2021-03, passed 6-24-2021)
§ 151.003  JURISDICTION.
    The regulations set forth in this chapter shall be applicable within the
town and its extraterritorial area as indicated on the official zoning map.
(Ord. passed 7-1-1980; Res. R-2021-03, passed 6-24-2021)
§ 151.004  DEFINITIONS.
    For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING. A subordinate building, the use of which is purely
incidental to that of the main building, on the same parcel.
   ABUTTING PROPERTY. This term shall mean properties that are contiguous or
abutting with the assumption that railroads, roads, and other rights-of-way do
not exist.
   ADMINISTRATIVE DECISION. Decisions made in the implementation,
administration, or enforcement of development regulations that involve the
determination of facts and the application of objective standards set forth in
GS Ch. l60D or local government development regulations. These are sometimes
referred to as ministerial decisions or administrative determinations.
   ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING. A proceeding to gather facts needed to make an
administrative decision.
   AGRICULTURAL USE. The use of waters for stock watering, irrigation, and
other farm purposes.
   ALLEY. A public or private thoroughfare which affords only a secondary means
of access to abutting property, and not intended for general traffic
circulation.
   ANIMAL UNITS. A unit of measurement developed by the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency that is used to compare different types of animal operations.
One hundred animal units equates to 70 dairy cows, 100 beef cattle, 250 hogs,
50 horses, 1,000 sheep, 5,500 turkeys, 3,000 chickens with liquid manure
systems, 10,000 chickens with continuous overflow waterers, or 500 ducks.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs). A structural or nonstructural management-
based practice used singularly or in combination to reduce nonpoint source
inputs to receiving waters in order to achieve water quality protection goals.
   BILLBOARD. Any sign or advertisement used as an outdoor display for the
purpose of making anything known, the origin or point of sale of which is
remote from such display. (See definition of SIGN below).
   BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT. A Board composed of residents of the town empowered to
hear appeals from decisions of the Zoning Administrator and grant minor
variances from provisions of this chapter.
   BUILDING. Any structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering any
use or occupancy.
   BUILDING, HEIGHT OF. The vertical distance from the mean elevation of the
finished grade along the front of the building to the highest point of a flat
roof, or to the deck line of a mansard roof, or to the mean height level
between eaves and ridge for gable, hip and gambrel roofs.
   BUILDING INSPECTOR. The officer or other designated authority charged with
the administration and enforcement of the Building Code, or his or her duly
authorized representative or agent.
   BUILDING LINE. A line which establishes the minimum allowable horizontal
distance between the lot line and the nearest portion of any structure on the
lot.
   BUILT-UPON AREA (IMPERVIOUS AREA). Built-upon areas shall include that
portion of a development project that is covered by impervious or partially
impervious cover including buildings, pavement, gravel roads, recreation
facilities (e.g., tennis courts), and the like. (Note: wooden slatted decks and
the water area of a swimming pool are considered pervious.)
   BUFFER (WATERSHED). An area of natural or planted vegetation through which
stormwater runoff flows in a diffuse manner so that the runoff does not become
channelized, and which provides for infiltration of the runoff and filtering of
pollutants. The buffer is measured landward from the normal pool elevation of
impounded structures and from the bank of each side of streams or rivers.
   CELLAR. A story having more than 40% of its height below the average level
of the abutting ground. A CELLAR shall not be counted as a story for the
purposes of height measurement.
   CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT. The grouping of buildings in order to conserve land
resources and provide for innovation in the design of the project. This term
includes non-residential development as well as single-family residential
subdivisions and multi-family developments that do not involve the subdivision
of land.
   CONDITIONAL ZONING. A legislative zoning map amendment with site-specific
conditions incorporated into the zoning map amendment.
   CRITICAL AREA. The area adjacent to a water supply intake or reservoir where
risk associated with pollution is greater than from the remaining portions of
the watershed. The CRITICAL AREA is defined as extending either one-half mile
from the normal pool elevation of the reservoir in which the intake is located
or to the ridge line of the watershed (whichever comes first); or one-half mile
upstream from the intake located directly in the stream or river (run-of-the-
river), or the ridge line of the watershed (whichever comes first). Local
governments may extend the critical area as needed. Major landmarks such as
highways or property lines may be used to delineate the outer boundary of the
critical area if these landmarks are immediately adjacent to the appropriate
outer boundary of one-half mile.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any land disturbing activity which adds to or changes the
amount of impervious or partially impervious cover on a land area or which
otherwise decreases the infiltration of precipitation into the soil.
   DISCHARGING LANDFILL. A facility with liners, monitoring equipment and other
measures to detect and/or prevent leachate from entering the environment and in
which the leachate is treated on site and discharged to a receiving stream.
   DWELLING. A building that contains one or two dwelling units used, intended,
or designed to be used, rented, leased, let, or hired out to be occupied for
living purposes.
   DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY. A building or portion thereof used or designed as a
residence for three or more families living independently of each other.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A detached building designed for occupancy
exclusively for one family.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building arranged or designed to be occupied by two
families living independently of each other.
   DWELLING UNIT. A single unit providing complete, independent living
facilities for one or more persons, including permanent provisions for living,
sleeping, eating, cooking, and sanitation.
   EVIDENTIARY HEARING. A hearing to gather competent, material, and
substantial evidence in order to make findings for a quasi-judicial decision
required by a development ordinance or regulation adopted under G.S. Ch. 160D.
(G.S. § 106G-120(16)).
   EXISTING DEVELOPMENT. Those projects that are built or those projects that
at a minimum have established a vested right under North Carolina zoning law as
of the effective date of this chapter based on at least one of the following
criteria:
      (1)   Substantial expenditures of resource (time, labor, money) based on
a good faith reliance upon having received a valid local government approval to
proceed with the project;
      (2)   Possession of an outstanding valid building permit as authorized by
the G.S. §§ 160D-102, 160D-108, and 160D-108.1; or
      (3)   Substantial expenditures of resources (time, labor, and money), and
having an approved site specific or phased development plan in compliance with
G.S. §§ 160D-102, 160D-108, and 160D-108.1.
   FAMILY. One or more persons occupying a premise and living as a single
housekeeping unit, as distinguished from a group occupying a boarding house or
hotel.
   GOVERNING BOARD. The Town Council.
   GROUP-QUARTERS STRUCTURE. A building which houses a number of individuals or
families who live semi-independently of each other. Examples of this type of
use include fraternities, sororities, halfway houses, nursing or group care
homes and dormitories.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIAL. Any substance listed as such in: SARA § 302, Extremely
Hazardous Substances, CERCLA Hazardous Substances, or § 311 of CWA (oil and
hazardous substances).
   HOME OCCUPATION. An occupation for gain or support conducted only by members
of a family residing on the premises and in connection with which no more than
one other person, not a resident of the premises, is employed. Such occupation
shall be carried on solely within the main dwelling and shall not occupy more
than 25% of the floor area of the dwelling. Off-street parking shall be
provided as set forth in §§
151.105 and
151.106 of this chapter.
   HOTEL and MOTEL. A building, or other structure which is used, kept
maintained, advertised as or held out to the public to be a place where
sleeping accommodations are supplied for pay to transient or permanent guests
or tenants, in which ten or more rooms are furnished for the accommodation of
such guests.
   INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT. Any non-residential development that requires an
NPDES permit for an industrial discharge and/or requires the use or storage of
any hazardous material for the purpose of manufacturing, assembling, finishing,
cleaning, or developing any product or commodity.
   JUNKYARD. The use of more than 600 square feet of any lot for the storage of
junk, including scrap metals, or other scrap materials or the dismantling or
abandonment of automobiles or other vehicles or machinery.
   LAND DEVELOPMENT PLAN. A long-range, comprehensive plan for the desirable
use of land in the town which has been adopted by the Town Council, pursuant to
G.S. § 160D-501. The purpose of the plan is to serve as a guide in the zoning
of land, in the subdividing and use of undeveloped land, and in the acquisition
of rights-of-way or sites for public purposes such as parks, public buildings,
and streets.
   LANDFILL. A facility for the disposal of solid waste on land in a sanitary
manner in accordance with G.S. Ch. 130A, Art. 9. For the purpose of this
chapter this term does not include composting facilities.
   LANDOWNER or OWNER. The holder of the title in fee simple. Absent evidence
to the contrary, the town may rely on the county tax records to determine who
is a landowner. The landowner may authorize a person holding a valid option,
lease, or contract to purchase to act as his or her agent or representative for
the purpose of making applications for development approvals.
   LEGISLATIVE DECISION. The adoption, amendment, or repeal of a regulation
under G.S. Ch. 160D or an applicable local act. The term also includes
decisions to approve, amend, or rescind a development agreement consistent with
the provisions of G.S. Ch. 160D, Art. 10.
   LEGISLATIVE HEARING. A hearing to solicit public comment on a proposed
legislative decision.
   LOT. A parcel of land, not divided by streets, occupied or to be occupied by
a building and its accessory buildings, or by a unified business or housing
development and its accessory buildings, together with such open spaces as are
required under the provisions of law, and having its principal frontage on a
street or on such other means of access as may be deemed in accordance with the
provisions of law to be adequate as a condition of the issuance of a building
permit for a building or buildings on such land.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot at the junction of and abutting upon two or more streets.
   LOT, DEPTH OF. The average horizontal distance between the front and rear
lot lines.
   LOT, FRONT OF. The front of a lot shall be considered to be that side of the
lot which fronts on a street. In the case of a corner lot the narrowest side
fronting on the street shall be considered to be the front of the lot. In case
the corner lot has equal frontage on two or more streets, the lot shall be
considered to front on that street on which the greatest number of lots front,
or if unplatted, on that street on which the greatest number of buildings have
been erected.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot.
   LOT, WIDTH OF. The average horizontal distance between the side lot lines.
   MAJOR WATERSHED VARIANCE. A variance that would completely eliminate a
management requirement or reduce a management requirement with a numerical
standard by more than 10%.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
in the traveling mode is eight body feet or more in width, or 40 body feet or
more in length, or, when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet; and which
is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling, with or
without permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities,
including the plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical systems
contained in it. MANUFACTURED HOME includes any structure that meets all of the
requirements of this definition except the size requirements and with respect
to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a certification required by the
U.S. Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and complies with the standards
established under the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety
Standards Act of 1976.
(G.S. § 143-145(7))
   MINOR WATERSHED VARIANCE. Any variance of the watershed regulations not
considered a major one as defined above.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. Any premises used or intended to be used to station mobile
homes, containing ten mobile homes or more and consisting of at least two acres
anchored in place or supported by a foundation or other stationary supports,
together with automobile parking space, utility structures, and other required
facilities incidental thereon. This definition shall not include mobile homes
sales lots upon which unoccupied mobile homes are parked for purposes of
inspection or sale.
   MODULAR HOMES. A detached single-family residential building unit
constructed in two or more modules and designed to be transported on flatbeds
to the living site where it will be permanently attached to a foundation.
   NON-CONFORMING USE. A building or land occupied by a use at the time this
chapter is adopted that does not conform with the use regulations of the
district in which it is situated.
   NON-RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT. All development other than residential
development, agriculture, and silviculture.
   PLANNING BOARD. A Board appointed from residents of the town which reviews
plans, recommends zoning changes, and performs other duties given to it by the
Town Council.
   PROTECTED AREA. The area adjoining and upstream of the critical area in a
WS-IV Watershed. The boundaries are defined as ten miles upstream and draining
to the intake located directly in the river.
   QUASI-JUDICIAL DECISION. A decision made after an evidentiary hearing to
gather competent, material, and substantial evidence in order to make findings
of facts regarding a specific application of a development regulation. A quasi-
judicial decision requires the exercise of discretion when applying the
standards of the regulation. Quasi-judicial decisions include but are not
limited to variances, special use permits, certificates of appropriateness, and
appeals of administrative determinations as provided in G.S. § 160D-102(28).
   RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT. Buildings for residence such as attached and
detached single-family dwellings, apartment complexes, condominiums,
townhouses, cottages, and the like, and their associated outbuildings such as
garages, storage buildings, gazebos, and the like, and customary home
occupations.
   ROOMING HOUSE (GUEST HOME). Any dwelling occupied by the owner or operator
in which fewer than ten guest rooms are let to individuals for compensation.
   SIGN. An advertising or announcement device used to attract attention or to
disseminate information. Sign restrictions in this chapter shall not apply to
the following: traffic control devices; legal notices, non-commercial use of
flags and insignia; mailbox numbers and names; house numbers and names; and
noncommercial names of premises or occupants thereof, which have areas of one
square foot or less.
   SITE PLAN. A scaled drawing and supporting text showing the relationship
between lot lines and the existing or proposed uses, buildings, or structures
on the lot. The site-plan may include site-specific details such as building
areas, building height and floor area, setbacks from lot lines and street
rights-of-way, intensities, densities, utility lines and locations, parking,
access points, roads, and stormwater control facilities that are depicted to
show compliance with all legally required development regulations that are
applicable to the project and the site plan review.
   SLEEPING UNIT. A room or space in which people sleep, which can also include
permanent provisions for living, eating, and either sanitation or kitchen
facilities but not both. Such rooms and spaces that are also part of a dwelling
unit are not sleeping units.
   STRUCTURE. That which is built or constructed.
   SUBDIVISION. The divisions of a tract or parcel of land into two or more
lots, building sites, or other divisions when any one or more of those
divisions is created for the purpose of sale or development (whether immediate
or future) and shall include all divisions of land involving the dedication of
a new street or a change in existing streets as specified in G.S. § 160D-802.
   TOXIC SUBSTANCE. Any substance or combination of substances (including
disease causing agents), which after discharge and upon exposure, ingestion,
inhalation, or assimilation into any organism, either directly from the
environment or indirectly by ingestion through food chains, has the potential
to cause death, disease, behavioral abnormalities, cancer, genetic mutations,
physiological, malfunctions (including malfunctions or suppression in
reproduction or growth) or physical deformities in such organisms or their
offspring or other adverse health effects.
   TRAVEL TRAILER. A towed or self-propelled vehicle designed to be moved
frequently and to be a temporary residence for the occupant.
   USE, PRINCIPAL PERMITTED. A use which is permitted outright in a district
for which a building permit may be issued by the Zoning Administrator.
   USE, SPECIAL. A use which is permitted in a district only if a permit
therefore is expressly authorized by the Board of Adjustment.
   VARIANCE. A modification of the dimensional requirements of this chapter by
the Board of Adjustment when strict enforcement of this chapter would cause
undue hardship owing to circumstances unique to the individual property on
which the VARIANCE is granted.
   VESTED RIGHT. A right pursuant to G.S. §§ 160D-102, 160D-108, and 160D-
108.1, to undertake and complete the development and use of property under the
terms and conditions of an approved site-specific development plan.
   WATER DEPENDENT STRUCTURE. Any structure for which the use requires access
to or proximity to or location within surface waters to fulfill its basic
purposes, such as boat ramps, boat houses, docks, and bulkheads. Ancillary
facilities such as restaurants, outlets for boat supplies, parking lots and
commercial boats' storage areas are not water dependent structures.
   WATERSHEDS. The entire land area contributing surface drainage to a specific
point (e.g., the water supply intake.)
   YARD, FRONT. An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a main building,
extending the full width of the lot and situated between the front line of the
lot and the front line of the building.
   YARD, REAR. An open space on the same lot with a main building, extending
the full width of the lot and situated between the rear line of the lot and the
rear line of the building.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard extending across the side of a lot, bounded by the rear
yard line, the side property line, the front yard line and the side-line of a
structure nearest the side property line on the same side of the lot. Width of
required SIDE YARDS shall be measured along a line perpendicular to the side
lot line.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. A person appointed by the Town Council to administer
town ordinances, issue permits and do ordinance interpretation subject to
appeal to the Board of Adjustment.
   ZONING PERMIT. A permit issued by the Zoning Administrator which must be
obtained prior to establishment of a use within any zoning district.
(Ord. passed 7-1-1980; Ord. passed 9-7-1993; Ord. passed 4-6-1999; Res. R-2021-
03, passed 6-24-2021)
§ 151.005  APPLICATION.
   (A)   The regulations set forth in this chapter shall apply to all land,
every building, and every use of land and/or buildings, except bona fide farms.
   (B)   For the purposes of watershed applications:
      (1)   Existing development, as defined in §
151.004, is not subject to the requirements of the watershed regulations.
Expansions to structures classified as existing development must meet the
requirements of the watershed regulations; however, the built-upon area of the
existing development is not required to be included in the density
calculations.
      (2)   A pre-existing lot owned by an individual prior to the effective
date of the watershed regulations, regardless of whether or not a vested right
has been established, may be developed for single-family residential purposes
without being subject to the restrictions of the watershed regulations.
(Ord. passed 7-1-1980; Ord. passed 9-7-1993; Res. R-2021-03, passed 6-24-2021)
§ 151.006  NEW USES OR CONSTRUCTION.
    After the effective date of this chapter, all new construction and the
moving, altering and enlarging of existing structures shall conform to the use,
area and bulk regulations for the district in which it is, or is to be,
located.
(Ord. passed 7-1-1980; Res. R-2021-03, passed 6-24-2021)
§ 151.007  CONFORMING USES.
    After the effective date of this chapter, existing structures, or the use
of land or structures which conform to the regulations for the district, may be
continued; provided that, any structural alteration or change in use shall
conform with the regulations herein specified for the district in which it is
located.
(Ord. passed 7-1-1980; Res. R-2021-03, passed 6-24-2021)
§ 151.008  NON-CONFORMING USES.
   (A)    After the effective date of this chapter and the effective dates of
any modifications or amendments hereto, the existing structures or the existing
uses of land or structures maintaining on the adoption dates of this chapter or
pertinent amendments which would be prohibited under the regulations for the
district in which it is located, shall be considered as non-conforming uses.
   (B)   Non-conforming structures or uses may be continued; provided, they
conform to the following provisions:
      (1)   Continuing the non-conforming use of land.
         (a)   Extensions of use. Non-conforming uses of land shall not
hereafter be enlarged or extended in any way.
         (b)   Change of use. Any non-conforming use of land may be changed to
a conforming use, or with the approval of the Board of Adjustment to use more
in character with the uses permitted in the district.
         (c)   Cessation of use. All non-conforming uses of land or uses
involving only minor structures such as golf driving ranges, auto sales yards,
signs or billboard, junk yards or any uses similar to those enumerated, shall
be discontinued within three years from the date of adoption of this chapter.
      (2)   Continuing the use of non-conforming buildings.
         (a)   General. Non-conforming buildings and non-conforming uses of
buildings shall not hereafter be enlarged.
         (b)   Change of use. If no structural alteration or enlargements are
made, any non-conforming building or use of buildings may be changed (with the
approval of the Board of Adjustment) to any use more in character with uses
permitted in the district. In permitting such change, the Board may require
appropriate conditions and safeguards in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
         (c)   Cessation of use. With respect to non-residential non-conforming
uses of buildings, if active operations are discontinued for a continuous
period of six months, such building or buildings shall thereafter be occupied
and used only for a conforming use. Non-conforming residential uses may be
continued without regard to any period of non-use or non-occupancy; provided
that the building has not been occupied or used for any nonresidential purpose
since the effective date of this chapter.
         (d)   Repair and alteration. Normal maintenance and repair in a
building occupied by a non-conforming use is permitted, provided it does not
expand the non-conforming use.
         (e)   Damage or destruction. If a building occupied by a non-
conforming use is destroyed to such an extent that repair would exceed 50% of
its replacement cost at time of destruction, such building may not be restored
for any non-conforming use.
      (3)   Continuing the non-conforming use of mobile homes. Mobile homes
located on individual lots made non-conforming by amendments to §
151.136 of this chapter may continue to occupy the present location as a
permitted non-conforming use. If any such mobile home shall be removed from its
present location, thereafter it shall be unlawful for that mobile home or any
other replacement to be placed on that tract or lot or real property, except
unless a special use permit is obtained from the Town Board of Adjustment. An
owner or owners of a lot or tract upon which is located a non-conforming mobile
home may make application to the Board of Adjustment for a special use permit
in which application the owners signify that they intend to remove the existing
non-conforming mobile home from the lot and desire to replace it with another
mobile home. Upon receiving this application, the Board of Adjustment may issue
a 60-day temporary occupancy permit to an owner who is replacing a mobile home;
provided, the replacing owner agrees to comply with all requirements contained
within this section before the expiration of 60 full days from issuance of the
60-day temporary occupancy permit. If the owner has complied within the 60-day
period, then the Board of Adjustment shall issue a special use permit. In the
event that the 60-day temporary occupancy permit expires without compliance,
the owner shall then be in violation of these requirements and subject to the
penalties and remedies contained in this chapter. Before a special use permit
is issued, the applying owner shall comply with the requirements of the zoning
ordinances for residential uses and with all of these additional requirements:
         (a)   Only one mobile home or one double-wide may be used as a
replacement for a mobile home to be moved;
         (b)   No replacement mobile home shall be situated or placed within 25
feet of any other existing permanent building or other mobile home;
         (c)   The replacement mobile home and the lot upon which it is
situated must comply with the dimensional and setback requirements of the
zoning ordinances;
         (d)   The replacement mobile home must be leveled and blocked up or
set up so that wheels or axles do not touch the ground and the replacement
mobile home shall be completely underpinned or skirted from the ground to the
base floor on all sides of the mobile home;
         (e)   The replacement mobile home shall be provided with a paved or
surfaced driveway, which driveway shall extend from a highway, street, or
roadway to the near proximity of the replacement mobile home; and
         (f)   In the event that an owner of a replacement mobile home erects a
porch or stoop, the porch or stoop shall be constructed of treated lumber,
concrete or brick and shall be underpinned if made of treated lumber.
(Ord. passed 7-1-1980; Ord. passed 6-25-1987; Res. R-2021-03, passed 6-24-2021)
§ 151.009  OPEN SPACE REQUIREMENTS.
    No part of a yard, court or other open space provided around any building
or structure for the purpose of complying with the provisions of this chapter
shall be included as a part of a yard or other open space of another building
or structure required under this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-1-1980; Res. R-2021-03, passed 6-24-2021)   Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.010  ACCESSORY BUILDINGS IN REAR YARDS.
    Accessory buildings may occupy up to 20% of the required rear yard.
(Ord. passed 7-1-1980; Res. R-2021-03, passed 6-24-2021)
§ 151.011  REDUCTION OF LOT AND YARD AREA PROHIBITED.
   (A)    No yard or lot existing at the time of passage of this chapter shall
be reduced in size or area below the minimum requirements set forth herein.
   (B)   Yards and lots created after the effective date of this chapter shall
meet at least the minimum requirements established by this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-1-1980; Res. R-2021-03, passed 6-24-2021)   Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.012  PROJECTIONS INTO PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.
    No signs or other structures shall project beyond the curb line of any
street or other public way.
(Ord. passed 7-1-1980; Res. R-2021-03, passed 6-24-2021)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.013  HEIGHT OF BUILDINGS.
   In order to preserve for all land users an adequate amount or light and air,
and to lessen the possibilities of a conflagration beyond the capacities of
local firefighting units, no structures in the RA (Residential Agriculture), RS
(Residential Suburban), B1 (Business, Office and Institutional) and HB (Highway
Business) districts shall be built to exceed 35 feet in height. No structures
in the I-1 (Planned Industrial) district shall be built to exceed 60 feet in
height. Church spires, flagpoles, antennas, chimneys and similar accessories to
buildings are exempt from this height limitation.
(Ord. passed 7-1-1980; Ord. ZT2018-02, passed 1-2-2018; Res. R-2021-03, passed
6-24-2021)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.014  INTERSECTION OBSTRUCTIONS.
    In order to provide an unobstructed view to persons using the streets and
roads of the town, corner lots shall be clear of all obstructions above two and
one-half feet and below ten feet in height, except tree trunks and poles for a
distance of 20 feet in each direction from the intersecting point of the edges
of pavement of the streets or roads.
(Ord. passed 7-1-1980; Res. R-2021-03, passed 6-24-2021)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.015  UNIFIED BUSINESS PROJECTS.
    Unified projects, as provided for under §§
151.135 and
151.136, which consist of a group of two or more buildings situated on a parcel
of land shall be exempt from the lot and yard requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-1-1980; Res. R-2021-03, passed 6-24-2021)
§ 151.016  INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
    When uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries or districts as
shown on the official zoning map, the following rules shall apply.
   (A)   Delineation. District boundary lines indicated as approximately
following property lines, lot lines, streets, alleys, railroads, easements,
other rights-of-way and creeks, streams, or other water channels, shall be
construed to follow such lines.
   (B)   Official zoning map. In the absence of specified distances on the map,
dimensions or distances shall be determined by scaling the distance on the
official zoning map.
   (C)   Board of Adjustment. When the street or property layout existing on
the ground is at variance with that shown on the official zoning map, the Board
shall interpret the district boundaries of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-1-1980; Res. R-2021-03, passed 6-24-2021)
§ 151.017  INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   (A)    Uses not designated as permitted uses shall be prohibited.
   (B)   Additional uses in character with the district may be added to this
chapter by amendment.
(Ord. passed 7-1-1980; Res. R-2021-03, passed 6-24-2021)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.018  CONFLICT WITH OTHER LAWS.
    Wherever the regulations made under authority of this chapter require a
greater width or size of yards or courts or require a lower height of building
or less number of stories, or require a greater percentage of lots to be left
unoccupied, or impose other higher standards than that required in any other
local ordinance or regulation, the provisions of the regulations made under
authority of this chapter shall govern. Wherever the provisions of any other
statute or local ordinance or regulation require a greater width or size of
yard or courts or require a lower height of building, or a lesser number of
stories, or require a greater percentage of lot to be left unoccupied or impose
other higher standards than are required by the regulations made under
authority of this chapter, the provisions of such statute or local ordinance or
regulation shall govern.
(Ord. passed 7-1-1980; Res. R-2021-03, passed 6-24-2021)
§ 151.019  REMEDIES.
    In case any building or structure is erected, constructed, reconstructed,
altered, repaired, converted or maintained, or any building, structure or land
is used in violation of this chapter, the Zoning Administrator or any
appropriate authority of the town, or any adjacent, nearby or neighboring
property owner who would be affected by such violation, may institute
injunction, mandamus or other appropriate legal action to prevent the occupancy
or use of such building, structure or land.
(Ord. passed 7-1-1980; Res. R-2021-03, passed 6-24-2021)
§ 151.020  SEPARABILITY CLAUSE.
    Should any section or provision of this chapter be declared by the courts
to be unconstitutional or invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity
of this chapter as a whole, or any part thereof other than the part so declared
to be unconstitutional or invalid.
(Ord. passed 7-1-1980; Res. R-2021-03, passed 6-24-2021)
§ 151.021  OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
   (A)    The boundaries of each zoning district are shown on a map entitled
"Town of Stoneville Official Zoning Map" which is hereby made a portion of this
chapter.
   (B)   The official zoning map shall bear the adoption date of this chapter.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Zoning Administrator to maintain current
and prior zoning maps in paper or digital formal in the Town Hall for public
inspection. Any state or federal maps incorporated by reference into the zoning
map shall also be maintained.
(Ord. passed 7-1-1980; Res. R-2021-03, passed 6-24-2021)
§ 151.022 AGRICULTURE AND SILVICULTURE.
    (A)   Agriculture and silviculture may be allowed in the town planning area
without a zoning permit. However, any agriculture use shall be subject to the
provisions of the Food Security Act of 1985 and the Food, Agricultural,
Conservation and Trade Act of 1990. Any silviculture activity shall incorporate
the best management practices (BMPs) required to implement the provisions of
the Forest Practices Guidelines Related to Water Quality (15 NCAC 11.6101 -
.0209).
   (B)   (1)   Bona fide farming operations exempt from zoning regulations
within the Stoneville Extraterritorial Jurisdiction (ETJ). Pursuant to G.S. §
160D-903, zoning regulations may not affect property used for bona fide farm
purposes; provided, however, that this section does not limit zoning regulation
with respect to the use of farm property for nonfarm purposes. Except as
provided in G.S. § 106-743.4 for farms that are subject to a conservation
agreement under G.S. § 106-743.2, bona fide farm purposes include the
production and activities relating or incidental to the production of crops,
grains, fruits, vegetables, ornamental and flowering plants, dairy, livestock,
poultry, and all other forms of agriculture, as defined in G.S. § 106-581.1.
Activities incident to the farm include existing or new residences constructed
to the applicable residential building code situated on the farm occupied by
the property owner, lessee, or operator of the farm and other buildings or
structures sheltering or supporting the farm use and operation. For purposes of
this section, "when performed on the farm" in G.S. § 106-581.1(6) includes the
farm within the jurisdiction of the ETJ and any other farm owned or leased to
or from others by the bona fide farm operator, no matter where located. For
purposes of this section, the production of a nonfarm product that the
Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services recognizes as a "Goodness Grows
in North Carolina" product that is produced on a farm subject to a conservation
agreement under G.S. § 106-743.2 is a bona fide farm purpose. For purposes of
determining whether a property is being used for bona fide farm purposes, any
of the following is sufficient evidence that the property is being used for
bona fide farm purposes:
         (a)   A farm sales tax exemption certificate issued by the Department
of Revenue;
         (b)   A copy of the property tax listing showing that the property is
eligible for participation in the present-use value program pursuant to G.S. §
105-277.3;
         (c)   A copy of the farm owner's or operator's Schedule F from the
owner's or operator's most recent federal income tax return; or
         (d)   A forest management plan.
      (2)   A structure that is used for agritourism is a bona fide farm
purpose if the structure is located on a property that:
         (a)   Is owned by a person who holds a qualifying farm sales tax
exemption certificate from the Department of Revenue pursuant to G.S. § 105-
164.13E(a); or
         (b)   Is enrolled in the present-use value program pursuant to G.S. §
105-277.3. Failure to maintain the requirements of this subsection for a period
of three years after the date the structure was originally classified as a bona
fide farm purpose pursuant to this section subjects the structure to applicable
zoning and development regulation ordinances adopted the town pursuant to G.S.
§ 160D-702 in effect on the date the property no longer meets the requirements
of this section. For purposes of this section, "agritourism" means any activity
carried out on a farm or ranch that allows the general public, for
recreational, entertainment, or educational purposes, to view or enjoy rural
activities, including farming, ranching, historic, cultural, harvest-your-own
activities, hunting, fishing, equestrian activities, or natural activities and
attractions. A structure used for agritourism includes any structure used for
public or private events, including, but not limited to, weddings, receptions,
meetings, demonstrations of farm activities, meals, and other events that are
taking place on the farm because of its farm or rural setting.
(Ord. passed 9-7-1993; Res. R-2021-03, passed 6-24-2021)
§ 151.023  STREAM BUFFERS.
   (A)   Stream buffers. A minimum 30-foot vegetative buffer for development
activities is required along all perennial waters indicated on the most recent
versions of U.S.G.S. 1:24.000 (7.5-minute) scale topographic maps or as
determined by local government studies. Desirable artificial stream bank or
shoreline stabilization is permitted.
   (B)   Development in buffers. No new development is allowed in the buffer
except public projects such as road crossings and greenways where no practical
alternative exists. These activities should minimize built-upon surface area,
direct runoff away from the surface waters and maximize the utilization of
stormwater best management practices.
(Ord. passed 9-7-1993; Res. R-2021-03, passed 6-24-2021)
§ 151.024  CLUSTERING.
    Clustering of development is allowed in all drinking supply watershed areas
under the following conditions:
   (A)   Minimum lot sizes are not applicable to single-family cluster
development projects; however, the total number of lots shall not exceed the
number of lots allowed for single-family detached developments in any zoning
district. Built-upon area or stormwater control requirements of the project
shall not exceed that allowed for the critical area or balance watershed,
whichever applies.
   (B)   All built-upon area shall be designed and located to minimize
stormwater runoff impact to the receiving waters and minimize concentrated
stormwater flow.
   (C)   The remainder of the tract shall remain in a vegetated or natural
state. Where the development has an incorporated property owner's association,
title of the open space areas shall be conveyed to the association for
management. Where a property association is not incorporated, a maintenance
agreement shall be filed with the property deeds.
(Ord. passed 9-7-1993; Res. R-2021-03, passed 6-24-2021)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 151.035  ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Zoning Administrator. The Zoning Administrator shall be appointed by
the Town Council. It shall be the duty of the Zoning Administrator to
administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter, to pursue all available
remedies for enforcement, and to settle all violations that involve the payment
of money to the town.
      (1)   Delegation. The Zoning Administrator may designate other
individuals to assist with carrying out the administration of this chapter
under his or her authority.
      (2)   Records. The Zoning Administrator shall ensure that appropriate
records are maintained of all permit applications, site plans and permits
issued. These may be made available for inspection for interested parties.
      (3)   Inspection and enforcement. The Zoning Administrator shall conduct
or authorize inspections of premises and take other lawful action to ensure
compliance with the provisions of this chapter. If the Zoning Administrator
shall find that any of the provisions of this chapter are being violated, he or
she shall notify, in writing, the person responsible for such violation,
indicating the nature of the violation and ordering the action necessary to
correct it. He or she shall order the discontinuance of illegal use of land,
buildings, or structures; the removal of illegal buildings or structures or of
additions, alterations, or structural changes thereto; the discontinuance of
any illegal work being done; and shall take any other action authorized by this
chapter to ensure compliance with, or to prevent violation of, its provisions.
      (4)   Appeals. Appeals from a decision of the Zoning Administrator shall
be made to the Board of Adjustment.
      (5)   Conflicts of interest. No staff member shall make a final decision
on an administrative decision required by G.S. Ch. 160D if the outcome of that
decision would have a direct, substantial, and readily identifiable financial
impact on the staff member or if the applicant or other person subject to that
decision is a person with whom the staff member has a close familial, business,
or other associational relationship.
   (B)   Planning Board. The Planning Board shall be appointed by the Town
Council and shall consist of five regular members who shall be citizens and
residents of the Town of Stoneville or the extra-territorial jurisdiction of
the Town of Stoneville. There shall be a means of proportional representation
based on a population for residents of the extraterritorial area to be
regulated. The population estimates for this calculation shall be updated no
less frequently than after each decennial census. There shall be at least one
appointed member that is a resident of the extraterritorial planning and
development regulation area. The Mayor may serve as an alternate member in the
absence of a regular member. It shall be the duty of the Planning Board to
review and make recommendations to the Town Council on all matters relating to
the land use planning and zoning, including all comprehensive land use plans,
within the jurisdiction of the Town of Stoneville, whenever such matters
require the attention of the Town Council.
      (1)   Length of terms. Terms of appointment shall be for three years and
there shall be no limits of appointment. Any appointee may be removed at any
time with cause by a majority vote of the Town Council.
      (2)   Conduct of meetings. All meetings of the Planning Board shall be
open to the public. The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings showing the
vote of each member upon each issue and the absence or failure of any member to
vote. Minutes shall be maintained by the Town Clerk and shall be available for
public review.
      (3)   Notice. The Board shall comply with North Carolina Public Meetings
Law prior to the public meeting.
      (4)   Oath of office. Pursuant to G.S. § 160D-309 all members appointed
to the Planning Board shall, before entering their duties, qualify by taking an
oath of office as required by G.S. § 160A-61.
      (5)   Minutes. Pursuant to G.S. § 160D-308, the Planning Board shall keep
minutes of its proceedings.
      (6)   Conflicts of interest. Members of the Planning Board shall not vote
on any advisory or legislative decision regarding a development regulation
adopted pursuant to G.S. Ch. 160D where the outcome of the matter being
considered is reasonably likely to have a direct, substantial, and readily
identifiable financial impact on the member. A Board member shall not vote on
any zoning amendment if the landowner of the property subject to a rezoning
petition or the applicant for a text amendment is a person with whom the member
has a close familial, business, or other associational relationship.
(Ord. passed 7-1-1980; Res. R-2021-03, passed 6-24-2021)
§ 151.036  PERMITS.
   (A)   Zoning permit for new, altered, or non-conforming uses.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to use or occupy or to permit the use or
occupancy of any building or premises, or both, or any part thereof which may
be hereafter created, erected, changed, converted, (or wholly or partly altered
or enlarged as to its use or structure) until a zoning permit shall have been
issued therefor by the Zoning Administrator stating that the proposed use of
the building or land conforms to the requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   No permit for the erection, alteration, moving or repair of any
building shall be issued until an application has been made for a zoning permit
in connection therewith. Such zoning permit shall be issued in conformity with
the provisions of this chapter upon the satisfactory completion of the work.
      (3)   A temporary zoning permit may be issued by the Zoning Administrator
for a period not exceeding six months during alterations or construction for
partial occupancy of a building pending its completion, or for bazaars,
carnivals, and revivals; provided that, such temporary permit shall require
such conditions and safeguards as will protect the safety of the occupants and
the public. The use of a mobile home as a temporary office or shelter also
requires a temporary zoning permit. Mobile homes used in this fashion are not
subject to the setback and skirting requirements which apply when the mobile
home is used as a permanent residence (see §
151.086). No permit for temporary mobile home use shall exceed six months.
      (4)   The Zoning Administrator shall maintain a record of all zoning
permits and copies shall be furnished upon request to any responsible and
interested person.
      (5)   In case of the failure to obtain the required zoning permit, civil
procedures may be followed as set out in §
151.019.
      (6)   The failure to obtain the necessary zoning permit shall be a
violation of this chapter and shall be punishable under §
151.999.
   (B)   Construction and use to be as stated on building and zoning permits.
Building permits and zoning permits issued on the basis of plans and
applications approved by the Building Inspector (Zoning Administrator)
authorize only the use, arrangement and construction set forth in such approved
plans and applications. Any use, arrangement, or construction at variance with
that authorized shall be deemed a violation of this chapter and shall be
punishable as provided by §
151.999.
(Ord. passed 7-1-1980; Res. R-2021-03, passed 6-24-2021)
§ 151.037  ADMINISTRATIVE DEVELOPMENT APPROVALS AND DETERMINATIONS.
   It shall be the responsibility of the Zoning Administrator to make
determinations under development regulations.
   (A)   Determinations and notice of determination. Determinations shall be
given in writing to the owner of the property that is the subject of the
determination and to the party who sought the determination, if different from
the owner. The written notice shall be delivered by personal delivery,
electronic mail, or by first-class mail. The notice shall be delivered to the
last address listed for the owner of the affected property on the county tax
abstract and to the address provided in the application or request for a
determination if the party seeking the determination is different from the
owner.
   (B)   Duration of development approval. A development approval issued
expires one year after the date of issuance if the work authorized by the
development approval has not been substantially commenced.
   (C)   Changes. After a development approval has been issued, no deviations
from the terms of the application or the development approval shall be made
until written approval of proposed changes or deviations has been obtained.
   (D)   Inspections. Administrative staff may inspect work undertaken pursuant
to a development approval to assure that the work is being done in accordance
with applicable state and local laws and of the terms of the approval. In
exercising this power, staff are authorized to enter any premises within the
jurisdiction of the local government at all reasonable hours for the purposes
of inspection or other enforcement action, upon presentation of proper
credentials; provided, however, that the appropriate consent has been given for
inspection of areas not open to the public or that an appropriate inspection
warrant has been secured.
   (E)   Revocation of development approvals. In addition to initiation of
enforcement actions under G.S. § 160D-404, development approvals may be revoked
by the local government issuing the development approval by notifying the
holder in writing stating the reason for the revocation. The local government
shall follow the same development review and approval process required for
issuance of the development approval, including any required notice or hearing,
in the review and approval of any revocation of that approval. Development
approvals shall be revoked for any substantial departure from the approved
application, plans, or specifications; for refusal or failure to comply with
the requirements of any applicable local development regulation or any state
law delegated to the local government for enforcement purposes in lieu of the
state; or for false statements or misrepresentations made in securing the
approval. Any development approval mistakenly issued in violation of an
applicable state or local law may also be revoked. The revocation of a
development approval by a staff member may be appealed pursuant to G.S. § 160D-
405.
   (F)   Appeals. If an appeal is filed regarding an administrative development
approval or determination pursuant to this chapter, the provisions in §
151.069 regarding stays apply.
   (G)   Fees for appeals. A fee of $25 shall be paid to the town to cover
administrative costs for each appeal to the Board and the payment of such fee
shall be a prerequisite to the filing of such appeal with the Board.
(Res. R-2021-03, passed 6-24-2021)
§ 151.038  DUTIES OF ZONING ADMINISTRATOR AND BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT AS TO MATTERS
OF APPEAL.
   It is the intention of this chapter that all questions arising in connection
with the enforcement of this chapter shall be presented first to the Zoning
Administrator and that such questions shall come before the Board of Adjustment
only on appeal from the Zoning Administrator; and that, from the decision of
the Board, recourse shall be to the courts as provided by law. It is further
the intention of this chapter that the duties of the Town Council shall be only
the duty of considering and passing upon any proposed amendment or repeal of
the chapter as provided by law.
(Ord. passed 7-1-1980; Res. R-2021-03, passed 6-24-2021)
§ 151.039  WATERSHED RECORDKEEPING.
    Because the town and its extraterritorial planning jurisdiction is located
entirely in either the protected areas of the Mayo or Dan  Rivers WS-IV
Watersheds, the Zoning Administrator shall have the following additional
duties:
   (A)   Keep files of all amendments to the local water supply-watershed
regulations and shall provide copies of amendments upon adoption to the
Supervisor of the Classification and Standards Group, Water Quality Section,
Division of Environmental Management, N.C. Department of Environment Health,
and Natural Resources.
   (B)   Maintain a record of variances (including a description of each
project and the reasons for granting the variance) to the watershed regulations
and submit a copy to the Supervisor of the Classification and Standards Group,
Water Quality Section, Division of Environmental Management by January 1 of
each year.
   (C)   Notify all political jurisdictions within the watersheds of all
proposed variances before any action by the Board of Adjustment or N.C.
Environmental Management Commission (EMC).
(Ord. passed 9-7-1993; Res. R-2021-03, passed 6-24-2021)
§ 151.040  VESTED RIGHTS.
   (A)   Zoning "vested rights" as established under G.S. §§ 160D-102, 160D-
108, and 160D-108.1, ensure that a properly issued development approval will
protect the applicant against zoning changes that will affect the allowable
type and intensity of use.
   (B)   (1)   A person claiming a statutory or common law vested right may
submit information to substantiate that claim to the Zoning Administrator. The
Zoning Administrator shall determine if a vested right exists. The Zoning
Administrator's determination may be appealed to the Board of Adjustment. On
appeal the existence of a vested right shall be reviewed de novo. In lieu of
seeking such a determination, a person claiming a vested right may take an
original civil action appeal to the Rockingham County Superior Court.
      (2)   Process to claim vested right. A person claiming a statutory or
common law vested right may submit information to substantiate that claim to
the Zoning Administrator. The Zoning Administrator shall determine if a vested
right exists. The Zoning Administrator's determination may be appealed to the
Board of Adjustment. On appeal the existence of a vested right shall be
reviewed de novo. In lieu of seeking such a determination, a person claiming a
vested right may take an original civil action appeal to the Alamance County
Superior Court.
   (C)   Duration and types of statutory vested rights.
      (1)   Six months: building permits. Pursuant to G.S. § 160D-1111, a
building permit expires six months after issuance unless work under the permit
has commenced. If after commencement the work is discontinued for a period of
12 months, the permit shall immediately expire. No work authorized by any
building permit that has expired shall thereafter be performed until a new
permit has been secured.
      (2)   One year: other development approvals. Pursuant to G.S. § 160D-403
(c), unless otherwise specified by statute or local ordinance, all other
development approvals expire one year after issuance unless work has
substantially commenced. Expiration of a development approval shall not affect
the duration of a vested right established under this section or vested rights
established under common law.
      (3)   Two years: site-specific vesting development plans. A site-specific
development plan shall be vested for two years after it is approved. Amendments
shall not extend the vesting period unless specified at the time of approval.
      (4)   Seven years: multi-phase developments. A multi-phase development
approved containing 25 acres or more and subject to a master development plan
with committed elements including a requirement to offer land for public use as
a condition of its master development plan approval.
      (5)   Exceptions. A vested right, once established as provided for by
this section, precludes any zoning action by the town that would change, alter,
impair, prevent, diminish, or otherwise delay the development or use of the
property as set forth in an approved vested right, except those explicitly
outlined in G.S. § 160D-108(f).
(Res. R-2021-03, passed 6-24-2021)
§ 151.041  PERMIT CHOICE.
   If an application for development approval has been made and subsequent to
the date of that application, a development regulation changes or is proposed,
the development permit applicant may choose the version of the regulation
existing at the time of the application. The applicant may choose the existing
regulation without waiting for final action on the proposed regulation change.
(Res. R-2021-03, passed 6-24-2021)
AMENDMENTS
§ 151.050  AMENDMENT PROCEDURES.
   The Town Council may, on their own motion or upon petition, initiate the
process to amend, change, modify or repeal this chapter including the zoning
maps subject to the procedures and rules established by law and in this
chapter.
   (A)   Initiation of request. Any property owner or his/her agent, or citizen
or his/her agent may initiate the process to amend this chapter including the
zoning maps by submitting an application and a site-plan at least 30 days prior
to the regularly scheduled meeting. In addition, a statement of reasonableness
of the proposed request shall be prepared for each application for a rezoning.
Pursuant to G.S. § 160D-601, no amendment to zoning regulations or a zoning map
that down-zones property shall be initiated nor is it enforceable without the
written consent of all property owners whose property is the subject of the
down-zoning amendment, unless the down-zoning amendment is initiated by the
local government. For purposes of this section, "down-zoning" means a zoning
ordinance that affects an area of land in one of the following ways:
      (1)   By decreasing the development density of the land to be less dense
than was allowed under its previous usage; or
      (2)   By reducing the permitted uses of the land that are specified in a
zoning ordinance or land development regulation to fewer uses than were allowed
under its previous usage.
   (B)   Fee. There shall be a fee payable to the Town of Stoneville for each
application for rezoning. The amount of said fee shall be fixed by the Town
Council and shall be sufficient to defray all administrative costs incurred in
processing the application, notifying adjacent property owners, obtaining
technical assistance, and publishing the notice of public hearing.
   (C)   Planning Board consideration. Amendments shall be referred to the
Planning Board for its consideration.
      (1)   The Planning Board shall submit its recommendation to the Town
Council, within 30 days of first consideration. If a recommendation is not made
in that time period, the Town Council may proceed to act on the application.
The Council is not bound by the recommendations, if any, of the Planning Board.
      (2)   Planning Board members shall not vote on recommendations regarding
any zoning map or text amendment where the outcome of the matter being
considered is reasonably likely to have a direct, substantial, and readily
identifiable financial impact on the member. A Planning Board member shall not
vote on any zoning amendment if the landowner of the property subject to a
rezoning petition or the applicant for a text amendment is a person with whom
the member has a close familial, business, or other associational relationship.
      (3)   The Planning Board shall be prohibited from allowing any testimony
or evidence concerning the specific manner an applicant/property owner intends
to use or develop the property, except in the case of a request for a
conditional zoning district. If the applicant believes that development of his
property in a specific manner will lessen adverse effects upon surrounding
properties or otherwise make the rezoning more in accordance with principles
underlying the Stoneville Community Plan, he shall apply for rezoning to the
appropriate conditional zoning district specifying the nature of his proposed
development. Pursuant to G.S. § 160D-703(b), property may be placed in a
conditional district only in response to a petition by all owners of the
property to be included. Specific conditions may be proposed by the petitioner
or the local government or its agencies, but only those conditions approved by
the local government and consented to by the petitioner in writing may be
incorporated into the zoning regulations.
      (4)   The Planning Board shall advise and comment on whether the proposed
amendment is consistent with the Stoneville Comprehensive Plan. The Planning
Board shall provide a written recommendation to the Council that addresses plan
consistency and other matters as deemed appropriate by the Planning Board, but
a recommendation from the Planning Board that a proposed amendment is
inconsistent with the comprehensive plan shall not preclude consideration or
approval of the proposed amendment by the Council.
   (D)   Public notice. No amendments may be adopted to this chapter until a
public hearing has been held on such an ordinance by the Town Council.
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator shall publish a notice of the public
hearing on any amendments to this chapter once a week for two successive weeks
in a newspaper having general circulation in the area. The notice shall be
published for the first time not less than ten days nor more than 25 days
before the date fixed for the hearing. In computing such period, the day of
publication is not to be included but the day of hearing shall be included.
      (2)   In addition to the public notice, above, where the proposed
amendment involves a change in the designation of any parcel of land, the
Zoning Administrator shall, by first class mail, give notice of the public
hearing to the owner(s) of parcel(s) involved in the proposed amendment, if the
owner(s) are different from the applicant(s), as well as the owners, as shown
on the tax rolls of Rockingham County, of all land abutting the parcel(s)
involved in the proposed amendment, including properties separated from the
subject property by street, railroad, or other transportation corridor. This
notice must be deposited in the mail at least ten days but not more than 25
days prior to the date of the hearing. Certification shall be included in the
report prepared by the Zoning Administrator that such notice has been made.
      (3)   When a zoning map amendment is proposed, the town shall prominently
post a notice of the public hearing on the site proposed for rezoning or on an
adjacent public street right-of-way. When multiple parcels are included within
a proposed zoning map amendment, a posting on each individual parcel is not
required, but the town shall post sufficient notices to provide reasonable
notice to interested persons. Pursuant to G.S. § 160D-602(c), this notice shall
be posted not less than ten days nor more than 25 days before the date fixed
for the hearing. In computing such period, the day the notice is posted is not
to be included but the day of hearing shall be included.
   (E)   Town Council consideration of proposed amendments.
      (1)   Council members shall not vote on recommendations regarding any
zoning map or text amendment where the outcome of the matter being considered
is reasonably likely to have a direct, substantial, and readily identifiable
financial impact on the member. A Town Council member shall not vote on any
zoning amendment if the landowner of the property subject to a rezoning
petition or the applicant for a text amendment is a person with whom the member
has a close familial, business, or other associational relationship.
      (2)   The Town Council shall be prohibited from allowing any testimony or
evidence concerning the specific manner an applicant/property owner intends to
use or develop the property, except in the case of a request for a conditional
zoning district. If the applicant believes that development of his property in
a specific manner will lessen adverse effects upon surrounding properties or
otherwise make the rezoning more in accordance with principles underlying the
Stoneville Community Plan, he shall apply for rezoning to the appropriate
conditional zoning district specifying the nature of his proposed development.
Pursuant to G.S. § 160D-703(b), property may be placed in a conditional
district only in response to a petition by all owners of the property to be
included. Specific conditions may be proposed by the petitioner or the local
government or its agencies, but only those conditions approved by the local
government and consented to by the petitioner in writing may be incorporated
into the zoning regulations.
      (3)   At the conclusion of the public hearing on a proposed amendment,
the Town Council may proceed to vote on the proposed amendment, refer it for
further study or take any other action consistent with its usual rules of
procedure.
      (4)   Determination of consistency and statement of reasonableness. As
required by G.S. § 160D-605, prior to adopting or rejecting any zoning
amendment, the Town Council shall adopt one of the following statements which
shall not be subject to judicial review:
         (a)   A statement approving the zoning amendment and describing its
consistency with the Stoneville Comprehensive Plan and explaining why the
action taken is reasonable and in the public interest.
         (b)   A statement rejecting the zoning amendment and describing its
inconsistency with an adopted comprehensive plan and explaining why the action
taken is reasonable and in the public interest.
If the amendment is adopted and the action is deemed inconsistent with the
adopted plan, the zoning amendment shall have the effect of also amending the
future land use map in the approved plan and no additional request or
application for a plan amendment shall be required. A plan amendment and a
zoning amendment shall be considered concurrently.
   (F)   Resubmittal of a zoning change request. No such proposed change in
this chapter or zoning map if denied by action of the Town Council may be
resubmitted within a period of one year from the date of such denial by the
Council, unless the Council unanimously find that changing conditions in the
area or new information concerning the property requested for rezoning warrants
a resubmission for change in this chapter or zoning map.
   (G)   Withdrawal of an application. An applicant may withdraw an application
at any time prior to the hearing by written notice to the Zoning Administrator.
(Res. R-2021-03, passed 6-24-2021)
§ 151.051  RESERVED.
§ 151.052  RESERVED.
§ 151.053  AMENDMENTS TO WATERSHED REGULATIONS.
    Under no circumstances shall the town amend, supplement, or change the
watershed regulations that would cause the regulations to violate the watershed
protection rules as adopted by the N.C. Environmental Management Commission.
All amendments shall be filed with the N.C. Department of Environment, Health,
and Natural Resources, Division of Environmental Management, Division of
Environmental Health, and the N.C. Department of Commerce, Division of
Community Assistance.
(Ord. passed 9-7-1993; Res. R-2021-03, passed 6-24-2021)
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
§ 151.065  CREATION OF BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   General. There shall be and is hereby created a Board of Adjustment
consisting of six members. All members shall be residents of the town and its
extraterritorial area and shall be appointed by the Town Council. Three members
shall be residents of the town and three members shall be residents of the
extraterritorial area. The Board shall follow quasi-judicial procedures
pursuant to G.S. § 160D-406 in all matters brought before the Board, such as
appeals of administrative decisions and variance requests.
   (B)   Length of terms.
      (1)   After adoption of this chapter, new appointments to said Board of
Adjustment shall be made as follows: two members to serve for one year; two
members to serve for two years; and two members to serve for three years.
Thereafter, as the terms expire, all new appointments shall be for three-year
terms. Nothing herein contained shall be so interpreted as to forbid any member
from being appointed to succeed himself or herself.
      (2)   Vacancies occurring for any reason other than expiration of term
shall be filled as soon as is reasonably possible after such vacancy occurs by
the Town Council and such appointment shall be only for the period of the
unexpired term.
   (C)   Officers, rules, and regulations. The Board of Adjustment shall elect
officers and adopt rules and regulations for its own government as it deems
necessary to carry out the provisions of this subchapter.
   (D)   Conflict of interest. A Board of Adjustment member, when exercising
any quasi-judicial function, shall not participate in or vote on any quasi-
judicial matter in a manner that would violate affected persons' constitutional
rights to an impartial decision maker. Impermissible violations of due process
include, but are not limited to, a member having a fixed opinion prior to
hearing the matter that is not susceptible to change, undisclosed ex parte
communications, a close familial, business, or other associational relationship
with an affected person, or a financial interest in the outcome of the matter.
"Close familial relationship" means a spouse, parent, child, brother, sister,
grandparent, or grandchild, and includes the step, half, and in-law
relationships.
(G.S. § 160D-109)
(Ord. passed 7-1-1980; Res. R-2021-03, passed 6-24-2021)
§ 151.066  CONDUCT OF EVIDENTIARY HEARINGS.
   All evidentiary hearings of the Board shall be open to the public. The Board
shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon
each question and the absence or failure of any member to vote.
(Ord. passed 7-1-1980; Res. R-2021-03, passed 6-24-2021)
§ 151.067  DISPOSITION OF APPEALS.
    The final disposition of each appeal shall be by recorded resolution
indicating the reasons of the Board therefor based on findings of fact and
conclusions of law, all of which shall be a public record.
(Ord. passed 7-1-1980; Res. R-2021-03, passed 6-24-2021)
§ 151.068  APPEALS FROM DECISIONS OF ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   Any person who has standing under G.S. § 160D-1402(c) or the local
government may appeal an administrative decision to the Board. An appeal is
taken by filing a notice of appeal with the local government clerk or such
other local government official as designated by ordinance. The notice of
appeal shall state the grounds for the appeal.
      (2)   An appeal must be taken within 30 days after the date the decision
or order is made. An appeal is taken by filing a written notice of appeal with
the Zoning Administrator and the Board of Adjustment which specifies the
grounds for the appeal. A notice of appeal shall be considered filed when
delivered to the Zoning Administrator.
      (3)   Materials. The Zoning Administrator shall transmit to the Board of
Adjustment all applications, reports, and written materials relevant to the
matter being considered. The administrative materials may be distributed to the
members of the Board prior to the hearing if at the same time they are
distributed to the Board a copy is also provided to the applicant and to the
landowner if that person is not the applicant. The administrative materials
shall become a part of the hearing record. The administrative materials may be
provided in written or electronic form. Objections to inclusion or exclusion of
administrative materials may be made before or during the hearing. Rulings on
unresolved objections shall be made by the Board at the hearing.
   (B)   Hearing of the appeal. After receipt of notice of an appeal, a time
for an evidentiary hearing on the same shall be scheduled at either a regular
or special meeting, which shall be within 36 days from the filing of such
notice of appeal.
   (C)   Notice. Notice of evidentiary hearings conducted pursuant to this
chapter shall be mailed to the person or entity whose appeal, application, or
request is the subject of the hearing; to the owner of the property that is the
subject of the hearing if the owner did not initiate the hearing; to the owners
of all parcels of land abutting the parcel of land that is the subject of the
hearing; and to any other persons entitled to receive notice as provided by the
local development regulation. In the absence of evidence to the contrary, the
local government may rely on the county tax listing to determine owners of
property entitled to mailed notice. The notice must be deposited in the mail at
least ten days, but not more than 25 days, prior to the date of the hearing.
Within that same time period, the local government shall also prominently post
a notice of the hearing on the site that is the subject of the hearing or on an
adjacent street or highway right-of-way. The Board may continue an evidentiary
hearing that has been convened without further advertisement. If an evidentiary
hearing is set for a given date and a quorum of the Board is not then present,
the hearing shall be continued until the next regular Board meeting without
further advertisement.
   (D)   Fees for appeals. A fee of $25 shall be paid to the town to cover
administrative costs for each appeal to the Board and the payment of such fee
shall be a prerequisite to the filing of such appeal with the Board.
   (E)   Presentation of evidence. The applicant, the local government, and any
person who would have standing to appeal the decision under G.S. § 160D-1402(c)
shall have the right to participate as a party at the evidentiary hearing.
Other witnesses may present competent, material, and substantial evidence that
is not repetitive as allowed by the Board. Objections regarding jurisdictional
and evidentiary issues, including, but not limited to, the timeliness of an
appeal or the standing of a party, may be made to the Board. The Board Chair
shall rule on any objections, and the Chair's rulings may be appealed to the
full Board. These rulings are also subject to judicial review pursuant to G.S.
§ 160D-1402. Objections based on jurisdictional issues may be raised for the
first time on judicial review.
   (F)   Appearance of official. The official who made the decision or the
person currently occupying that position, if the decision maker is no longer
employed by the town, shall be present at the evidentiary hearing as a witness.
   (G)   Oaths. The Chair of the Board or any member acting as Chair and the
Clerk to the Board are authorized to administer oaths to witnesses in any
matter coming before the Board. Any person who, while under oath during a
proceeding before the Board determining a quasi-judicial matter, willfully
swears falsely is guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor.
   (H)   Subpoenas. The Board making a quasi-judicial decision under this
chapter through the Chair or, in the Chair's absence, anyone acting as Chair
may subpoena witnesses and compel the production of evidence. To request
issuance of a subpoena, the applicant, the local government, and any person
with standing under G.S. § 160D-1402(c) may make a written request to the Chair
explaining why it is necessary for certain witnesses or evidence to be
compelled. The Chair shall issue requested subpoenas he or she determines to be
relevant, reasonable in nature and scope, and not oppressive. The Chair shall
rule on any motion to quash or modify a subpoena. Decisions regarding subpoenas
made by the Chair may be immediately appealed to the full Board. If a person
fails or refuses to obey a subpoena issued pursuant to this division, the Board
or the party seeking the subpoena may apply to the General Court of Justice for
an order requiring that its subpoena be obeyed, and the court shall have
jurisdiction to issue these orders after notice to all proper parties.
   (I)   Voting. The concurring vote of four-fifths of the Board shall be
necessary to grant a variance. A majority of the members shall be required to
decide any other quasi-judicial matter or to determine an appeal made in the
nature of certiorari. For the purposes of this division, vacant positions on
the Board and members who are disqualified from voting on a quasi-judicial
matter under G.S. § 160D-109(d) shall not be considered members of the Board
for calculation of the requisite majority if there are no qualified alternates
available to take the place of such members.
   (J)   Decisions. The Board shall determine contested facts and make its
decision within a reasonable time. When hearing an appeal, the Board may
reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the decision appealed from
and shall make any order, requirement, decision, or determination that ought to
be made. The Board shall have all the powers of the official who made the
decision. Every quasi-judicial decision shall be based upon competent,
material, and substantial evidence in the record. Each quasi-judicial decision
shall be reduced to writing, reflect the Board's determination of contested
facts and their application to the applicable standards, and be approved by the
Board and signed by the Chair or other duly authorized member of the Board. A
quasi-judicial decision is effective upon filing the written decision with the
Clerk to the Board or such other office or official as the development
regulation specifies. The decision of the Board shall be delivered within a
reasonable time by personal delivery, electronic mail, or first-class mail to
the applicant, landowner, and any person who has submitted a written request
for a copy prior to the date the decision becomes effective. The person
required to provide notice shall certify to the local government that proper
notice has been made, and the certificate shall be deemed conclusive in the
absence of fraud.
   (K)   Judicial review. Every quasi-judicial decision shall be subject to
review by the Superior Court by proceedings in the nature of certiorari
pursuant to G.S. § 160D-1402. Appeals shall be filed within the times specified
in G.S. § 160D-1405(d).
(Ord. passed 7-1-1980; Res. R-2021-03, passed 6-24-2021)
§ 151.069  APPEAL STAYS ALL PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)    An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed
from, unless the Zoning Administrator certifies to the Board, after the notice
of appeal shall have been filed with him or her by reason of facts stated in
the certificate, that a stay would, in his or her opinion, cause imminent peril
to life or property.
   (B)   In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by a
restraining order which may be granted by the Board or by a court of record on
application, on notice to the Zoning Administrator and on due cause shown.
(Ord. passed 7-1-1980; Res. R-2021-03, passed 6-24-2021)
§ 151.070  POWERS OF THE BOARD.
    The Board shall have the following powers:
   (A)   To hear appeals. To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged that
there is error in any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by
the Zoning Administrator. The concurring vote of four-fifths of all the members
of the Board shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision, or
determination of the Zoning Administrator, to decide in favor of the applicant
any matter which is required to pass upon under this chapter or to affect any
variation in the said ordinance; and
   (B)   To authorize variances.
      (1)   To authorize, upon appeal in specific cases, such variance from the
terms of this chapter as will not be contrary to the public interest where,
owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of this
chapter will result in undue hardship and so that the spirit of this chapter
shall be observed, and substantial justice done.
      (2)   The Board of Adjustment shall only consider the application and
competent, material, and substantial evidence presented at the evidentiary
hearing and may grant or deny the variance requested. In considering all
proposed variances to this chapter, the Board shall, before making any finding
in a specific case, first determine that the proposed variance will not allow
the establishment of a use not otherwise permitted in a district by this
chapter; extend in area or expand a non-conforming use of land; change the
district boundaries shown on the zoning map; impair any adequate supply of
light and air to adjacent property; materially increase the public danger of
fire; materially diminish or impair established property values within the
surrounding area; or in any other respect impair the public health, safety,
morals and general welfare.
      (3)   In granting a variance, the Board may attach thereto such time and
conditions regarding the location, character and other features of the proposed
building, structure or use as it may deem advisable in furtherance of the
purposes of this chapter.
      (4)   Before a variance is granted, it shall be shown that special
circumstances attach to the property which do not generally apply to other
property in the neighborhood. A variance may be granted only when the practical
difficulty or undue hardship complained of is due to the particular
characteristics of the property and not to the general conditions of the
neighborhood which may reflect an undue stringency of the ordinance itself. A
hardship peculiar to the applicant, as distinguished from others affected by
the general rule, must be shown. The fact that property may be utilized more
profitably will not be considered adequate to justify the Board in granting a
variance.
      (5)   Findings of fact. When unnecessary hardships would result from
carrying out the strict letter of a zoning regulation, the Board of Adjustment
shall vary any of the provisions of the zoning regulation upon a showing of all
the following:
         (a)   Unnecessary hardship would result from the strict application of
the regulation. It is not necessary to demonstrate that, in the absence of the
variance, no reasonable use can be made of the property;
         (b)   The hardship results from conditions that are peculiar to the
property, such as location, size, or topography. Hardships resulting from
personal circumstances, as well as hardships resulting from conditions that are
common to the neighborhood or the general public, may not be the basis for
granting a variance. A variance may be granted when necessary and appropriate
to make a reasonable accommodation under the Federal Fair Housing Act for a
person with a disability;
         (c)   The hardship did not result from actions taken by the applicant
or the property owner. The act of purchasing property with knowledge that
circumstances exist that may justify the granting of a variance is not a self-
created hardship; and
         (d)   The requested variance is consistent with the spirit, purpose,
and intent of the regulation, such that public safety is secure and substantial
justice is achieved.
(Ord. passed 7-1-1980; Res. R-2021-03, passed 6-24-2021)
§ 151.071 WATERSHED VARIANCES.
   (A)   Minor variance. The Board of Adjustment shall handle minor variances
as specified in  §
151.070(B), above.
   (B)   Major variance.
      (1)   If a major variance is requested, the Board of Adjustment, after
making a favorable decision in granting the request, shall prepare a
preliminary record of the hearing. The preliminary record of the hearing shall
include:
         (a)   The variance application;
         (b)   The hearing notices;
         (c)   The evidence presented;
         (d)   Motions, offers of proof, objections to evidence, and rulings on
them;
         (e)   Proposed findings and exceptions; and
         (f)   The proposed decision, including all conditions proposed to be
added to the permit.
      (2)   The preliminary record shall be sent to the N.C. Environmental
Management Commission for its review as follows. The Commission shall review
the preliminary record and determine whether or not:
         (a)   The request qualifies as a major variance;
         (b)   The property owner can secure no reasonable return from, nor
make any practical use of the property unless the proposed variance is granted;
and
         (c)   The variance, if granted, will not result in a serious threat to
the water supply. Based on their findings the Commission shall approve the
variance as proposed or approve the proposed variance with conditions and
stipulations or disapprove it. The Commission shall prepare a decision and send
it to the Board of Adjustment. Based on the recommendation of the Commission,
the Board of Adjustment shall prepare a final decision.
   (C)   Comment period. The town shall notify and allow a reasonable comment
period for all local governments having jurisdiction in the watershed where the
variance is considered.
(Ord. passed 9-7-1993; Res. R-2021-03, passed 6-24-2021)
§ 151.072  RE-HEARINGS.
    The Board shall refuse to hear an appeal or application previously denied
if it finds there have been no substantial changes in conditions or
circumstances bearing on the appeal or application.
(Ord. passed 7-1-1980; Res. R-2021-03, passed 6-24-2021)
§ 151.073  REVIEW BY CERTIORARI.
    Any person or persons, jointly or severally, aggrieved by any decision of
the Board or any taxpayer, or any officer, department, board, or bureau of the
town may present to a court of competent jurisdiction a petition, duly
verified, setting forth that such decision is illegal, in whole or in part,
specifying the grounds of illegality; whereupon such decision of said Board
shall be subject to review by certiorari as provided by law. Any appeal to the
Superior Court shall be taken within 30 days after the decision of the Board is
filed in the office of the Town Clerk and a written copy thereof is delivered
to the appellant by personal service or registered mail, whichever is later.
(Ord. passed 7-1-1980; Res. R-2021-03, passed 6-24-2021)
DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 151.085  GENERALLY.
    (A)   The town is hereby divided into the following general use districts:
 
B-l Business, Office and Institutional
HB  Highway Business
I-1 Industrial
RA  Residential Agriculture
RS  Residential Suburban
 
   (B)   Conditional districts.
      (1)   It is noted that a conditional district (bearing the designation
CD) corresponds to each of the other districts authorized in this chapter. It
is recognized by the Town of Stoneville that certain types of zoning districts
would be inappropriate at particular locations in the absence of clearly
defined conditions. Such districts may include, general use districts and
conditional zoning districts, in which site plans and individualized
development conditions are imposed.
      (2)   Property may be placed in a conditional district only in response
to a petition by the owners of all the property to be included. Specific
conditions applicable to these districts may be proposed by the petitioner or
the town or its agencies, but only those conditions mutually approved by the
town and the petitioner may be incorporated into the zoning regulations or
permit requirements. Conditions and site-specific standards imposed in a
conditional district shall be limited to those that address the conformance of
the development and use of the site to town ordinances and an officially
adopted Comprehensive Plan and those that address the impacts reasonably
expected to be generated by the development or use of the site.
      (3)   The procedure for granting conditional zoning districts shall be
the same legislative process required of the Town Council as authorized by G.S.
Ch. 160D, Art. 18.
(Ord. passed 7-1-1980; Res. R-2021-03, passed 6-24-2021)
§ 151.086  RA, RESIDENTIAL AGRICULTURE DISTRICT.
    The purpose of this district is to provide a place for agriculture and very
low-density residential uses where public water and sewer service is not
available.
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Residential uses, town limits: single-family residences within the
town limits. From and after the effective date of certain amendments to §
151.136, individual mobile homes on individual lots are not permitted in any of
the zoning districts within the corporate limits of the town;
      (2)   Residential uses, extraterritorial limits of the town:
         (a)   Single-family residences, two-family residences, and mobile
homes on individual lots. Mobile homes shall be subject to the same setback and
yard requirements as single-family residences. Mobile homes shall also be
firmly anchored to the ground in an approved manner and shall be skirted or
equipped with a continuous closed foundation;
         (b)   Manufactured homes shall meet Class AA or Class A standards,
effective May 1, 1999. Class B manufactured homes are permitted in manufactured
home parks and not on single-family residential lots, except that any Class B
home located and properly permitted (zoning and building) in the town's zoning
jurisdiction before the effective date of this division may be moved to an
individual lot in the RA zoning districts in the ETJ, provided the towing
apparatus is removed and has either:
            1.   A continuous, permanent masonry foundation or masonry curtain
wall constructed in accordance with the standards of the N.C. Uniform
Residential Building Code for One- and Two-Family Dwellings, unpierced except
for required ventilation with access installed under the perimeter, and no
visible exposed concrete block; or
            2.   A replica hand-laid brick or hand-cut stone that provides the
authenticity of real brick or stone, with panels made from an injection molded
thermoplastic resin formulated with special additives to enhance long-term
performance; a weight of approximately four and one-half pounds each for brick
or stone panels and 20 pounds per square; panels contain UV inhibitors to
protect against damaging sun effects and are highly resistant to harsh weather
conditions; the thickness of panels is approximately one-quarter inch in brick
area to one-eighth inch in mortar area; and will not support combustion.
      (3)   Customary home occupations;
      (4)   Community uses: churches and affiliated use (i.e., religious
education centers); and
      (5)   Farm uses: bona fide farms and their customary appurtenances,
including female chickens in accordance with §
93.06.
   (B)   Supplemental requirements. These uses shall be permitted subject to
the additional regulations imposed:
      (1)   Accessory buildings: accessory buildings shall not be used for
residential purposes, and such buildings shall be permitted only in a rear yard
not less than ten feet from any property line; except that, in the case of
corner lots, such buildings shall be set back at least 18 feet from any side
street right-of-way line;
      (2)   Unenclosed porches and carports: unenclosed porches and carports
one story in height may project not more than ten feet into the front yard, nor
more than six feet into a required rear yard; and
      (3)   Fences: fences in excess of eight feet shall not be erected on or
around any property within this residential zone, except in the front yard
where no fence shall exceed four feet.
   (C)   Special uses, procedure.
      (1)   A special use permit may be issued by the Zoning Administrator
after authorization by the Board of Adjustment. Such permit shall be issued
only after due notice and hearing; and provided that the Board determines (see
§
151.070):
         (a)   It is necessary for the public health or general interest and
welfare;
         (b)   It is appropriately located with respect to transportation
facilities, water supply, fire and police protection, waste disposal and
similar facilities;
         (c)   Neighborhood character and surrounding property values are
reasonably safeguarded; and
         (d)   Use therefore will not cause undue traffic congestion or create
a traffic hazard.
      (2)   Special uses include mobile home parks, rest homes, temporary saw
mills, travel trailer parks, hospitals, schools, public utilities, railroads,
utility substations, pumping stations, fire stations, police stations,
cemeteries, libraries, grounds and facilities for recreational purposes,
community center buildings, country clubs, lakes, parks, playgrounds, golf
courses (except miniature courses and driving ranges operated for commercial
purposes), circuses, carnivals and fairs.
   (D)   Dimensional requirements.
      (1)   The following requirements are in references to watershed
regulations:
 
Lot area     Minimum required lot area for each 21,780 square feet
             dwelling unit
             The total ground area covered by a single-family residential
             unit and all accessory buildings shall not exceed 40% of the
             total lot area. However, when an erosion and sedimentation
             control plan is required, all residential and non-residential
Lot coverage development shall not exceed 24% built-upon area, on a project-
             by-project basis. For projects without a curb and gutter street
             system, development shall not exceed 36% built-upon area on a
             project-by-project basis. For the purpose of calculating built-
             upon area, total project area shall include acreage in the
             tract on which the project is to be developed.
 
      (2)   The following requirements apply to this chapter:
 
Corner side yard Minimum required width of any  18 feet
                 corner side yard
Front yard       Minimum required mean depth of 30 feet
                 front yard
                                                6,000 sq. ft; minimum required
                                                additional area for each
                                                additional dwelling in the
                                                principal structure: 3,000 sq.
                                                ft. However, when an erosion
                 Minimum required lot area for  and sedimentation control plan
Lot area         the first dwelling unit        is required, all single-family
                                                residential lots shall not be
                                                less than 21,780 sq. ft. per
                                                dwelling units or 14,520 sq.
                                                ft. for projects without a curb
                                                and gutter system, except in an
                                                approved cluster development.
                 The total, ground area covered by the building and all
                 accessory buildings (including any roofed area) shall not
                 exceed 40% of the total lot area. However, when an erosion and
                 sedimentation control plan is required, all residential and
                 non-residential development shall not exceed 24% built-upon
Lot coverage     area on a project-by-project basis. For projects without a
                 curb and gutter street system, development shall not exceed
                 36% built-upon area on a project-by-project basis. For the
                 purpose of calculating built-upon area, total project area
                 shall include acreage in the tract on which the project is to
                 be developed.
Lot width        Minimum required mean lot      100 feet
                 width for each dwelling unit
Rear yard        Minimum required mean depth of 25 feet
                 rear yard
Side yards       Minimum required width of any  15 feet
                 side yard
 
   (E)   Off-street parking. As specified in §§
151.105 and
151.106.
(Ord. passed 7-1-1980; Ord. passed 9-7-1993; Ord. passed 4-6-1999; Ord. O-2020-
01, passed 5-5-2020; Res. R-2021-03, passed 6-24-2021)
§ 151.087  RS, RESIDENTIAL SUBURBAN DISTRICT.
    The purpose of this district is to provide a place for low density
residential uses where public water and sewer service may be available.
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Any use permitted in the RA District;
      (2)   Rooming houses; and
      (3)   Multi-family dwellings of four units or less.
   (B)   Special use permit required.
      (1)   Any special use permitted in the RA District; and
      (2)   Multi-family dwellings of over four units. A plan of any proposed
multi-family development of over four units in the principal structure, shall
be submitted to the Planning Board for review and approval. The plan shall show
all curb cuts, driveways, off-street parking areas, walkways, and open areas to
be set aside for special uses; the location, height and materials for any
proposed wall, fences and screen planting, the types of paving or other
surfacing to be used in the various areas; and such other site information as
may be necessary to describe completely the proposed development.
   (C)   Special uses. Any special use (with the same requirements and
restrictions) permitted in the RA District.
   (D)   Dimensional requirements.
Corner side yard Minimum required width of any corner side    18 feet
                 yard per structure
Front yard       Minimum required mean depth of front yard    25 feet
                 per structure
                 Minimum required area for the first dwelling 6,000 square feet
                 unit
Lot area         Minimum required additional area for each
                 additional dwelling unit in the principal    3,000 square feet
                 structure
                 The total ground area covered by the building (and all
Lot coverage     accessory buildings, including any roofed area) shall not
                 exceed 40% of the total lot area
Lot width        Minimum required mean lot width              60 feet
Rear yard        Minimum required mean depth of rear yard     20 feet
Side yards       Minimum required width of side yard per      10 feet
                 structure
 
   (E)   Off-street parking. As specified in §§
151.105 and 151.106.
(Ord. passed 7-1-1980; Res. R-2021-03, passed 6-24-2021)
§ 151.088  B-1, BUSINESS, OFFICE AND INSTITUTIONAL DISTRICT.
    The regulations for this district are designed to promote high-quality
business and office use in downtown Stoneville. However, the storage of toxic
and hazardous materials is prohibited unless a spill containment plan is
implemented.
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Retail trade: all types of small retail establishments whose
operations are conducted indoors, such as clothing, jewelry, music, sporting
goods, groceries and drugs;
      (2)   Finance: all types of finance, insurance and real estate offices;
      (3)   Services: all types of small service establishments whose
operations are conducted indoors, such as barber and beauty care, restaurants
and bars, shoe repair, laundry and dry cleaning, and medical and dental
offices; and
      (4)   Institutions: all types of institutions such as churches and non-
profit social clubs.
   (B)   Permitted use subject to use standards. Mixed uses. A "mixed use"
refers to the occupancy of a building by residential and nonresidential uses.
Mixed use is permitted provided that any residential units must be located on
the second floor of a mixed-use building, and the nonresidential use of such
building must occupy the first floor and otherwise be one of the permitted uses
set forth in division (A) above. Residential unit(s) may not exceed the total
square footage of the nonresidential use. Adequate driveway access and parking
shall be provided for each dwelling unit in accordance with §
151.105.
   (C)   Dimensional requirements.
      (1)   No building shall be less than five feet from the right-of-way line
of the street. No other yards are required; except that, where the rear of a
lot abuts a residential district, there shall be a 15-foot rear yard and where
a lot abuts the side of a lot zoned residential there shall be a side yard not
less than ten feet in width. In all other cases where a side yard, not
required, is provided it shall be at least eight feet in width.
      (2)   However, when an erosion and sedimentation control plan is
required, all development shall not exceed 24% built-upon area on a project-by-
project basis. For projects without a curb and gutter street system,
development shall not exceed 36% built-upon area on a project-by-project basis.
For the purpose of calculating built-upon area, total project area shall
include acreage in the tract on which the project is to be developed.
   (D)   Off-street parking and loading. As specified in §§
151.105 and
151.106.
(Ord. passed 7-1-1980; Ord. passed 9-7-1993; Ord. ZT-2018-03, passed 12-4-2018;
Res. R-2021-03, passed 6-24-2021)
§ 151.089  HB, HIGHWAY BUSINESS DISTRICT.
    The purpose of this district is to provide a place in which the principal
use of land is for the retailing of durable goods, the provision of commercial
services to industrial areas and the provision of services to travelers.
However, the storage of toxic and hazardous materials is prohibited unless a
spill containment plan is implemented.
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   All uses permitted in the B-l District; and
      (2)   Larger retail and service uses in which some activities are
conducted outdoors, including auto service stations, automobile, mobile home
and boat sales and repair, motels, building materials sales and cabinet making,
greenhouses and nurseries, warehouses, and rental storage.
   (B)   Special uses permit required.
      (1)   Unified business developments; and
      (2)   Outdoor storage yards.
   (C)   Dimensional requirements.
      (1)   The minimum required front yard setback shall be 30 feet. The
minimum side yard required shall be ten feet. The minimum rear yard required
shall be 25 feet.
      (2)   However, when an erosion and sedimentation control plan is
required, all development shall not exceed 24% built-upon area on a project-by-
project basis. For projects without a curb and gutter street system,
development shall not exceed 36% built-upon area on a project-by-project basis.
For the purpose of calculating built-upon area, total project area shall
include acreage in the tract on which the project is to be developed.
   (D)   Off-street parking and loading. As specified in §§
151.105 and
151.106.
(Ord. passed 7-1-1980; Ord. passed 9-7-1993; Res. R-2021-03, passed 6-24-2021)
§ 151.090  I-1, PLANNED INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
    The I-1 District is established as a place for manufacturing which will
enhance the economic viability of the town while protecting the attractiveness
of surrounding uses. However, the storage of toxic and hazardous materials is
prohibited unless a spill containment plan is implemented.
   (A)   Permitted uses. The manufacturing, compounding, assembly or treatment
of articles or merchandise. Operations shall not create excessive noise, odors,
emissions, vibrations or fumes which substantially interfere with adjacent
usages. Storage of materials and products before and after manufacturing shall
be conducted within an enclosed building or within a screened and fenced area.
   (B)   Dimensional requirements.
      (1)   The following are dimensional requirements:
 
Front yard   Minimum required mean depth of front yard shall be 40 feet
Lot area     Minimum required lot area shall be 1 acre
             The total ground area covered by the principal building and all
Lot coverage accessory coverage buildings shall not exceed 1/3 of the total lot
             area
Lot width    Minimum required lot width shall be 150 feet
Rear yard    Minimum required rear yard shall be 30 feet
Side yards   Minimum required side yard shall be 20 feet
 
      (2)   However, when an erosion and sedimentation control plan is
required, all development shall not exceed 24% built-upon area on a project-by-
project basis. For projects without a curb and gutter street system,
development shall not exceed 36% built-upon area on a project-by project-basis.
For the purpose of calculating built-upon area, total project area shall
include acreage in the tract on which the project is to be developed.
   (C)   Off-street parking. Off-street parking shall be provided as required
in §§
151.105 and
151.106.
   (D)   Special provisions. After consideration of proposed plans for use in
an I-1 District and their probable effect on surrounding land use, the Board of
Adjustment may require that some or all of the required yards be used for
screening and buffering purposes. All yards shall be landscaped, planted, and
maintained so as to present an attractive year-round appearance which will
protect abutting property.
   (E)   Permit procedure. All applications for use or expansion of use within
a Planned Industrial District shall be submitted to the Town Board of
Adjustment. The application shall state the proposed use, demonstrate that such
use is consistent and compatible with adjacent uses, and include a site plan
showing building area, parking and traffic circulation arrangements and
proposed landscaping and screening. After review, the Board may grant or deny
the request consistent with the plans and details set forth in the application
for such use.
(Ord. passed 7-1-1980; Ord. passed 9-7-1993; Res. R-2021-03, passed 6-24-2021)
§ 151.091  DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS.
   Allocation of 10/70 impervious surface area by the Town Council. In addition
to the development allowed according to §§
151.085,
151.086,
151.087,
151.088,
151.089 and
151.090 of this code, new development and expansions to existing development
may occupy up to 10% of the protected watershed area with up to 70% built-upon
area on a project-by-project basis.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, allocation of 10/70 impervious
surface area shall mean that up to 10% of the acreage designated as protected
watershed may be developed with up to 70% impervious surface (built upon area).
   (B)   Such allocation may be approved by the Town Council as a Special
Intensity Allocation (SIA) of up to 70% of the built upon area of a project.
   (C)   Applications for SIA shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator
and shall include a site plan in conformance with the development requirements
of this chapter. All applications and site plans must include the following
information:
      (1)   Project timetable;
      (2)   Anticipated addition to the property tax base;
      (3)   Anticipated number of jobs to be created or retained; and
      (4)   Additional information as requested by the Zoning Administrator,
Planning Board, and Town Council in order to determine if the application meets
the criteria for approval.
   (D)   All sites shall be designed in accordance with the State of North
Carolina Water Supply Protection Rules. All projects must to the maximum extent
practicable minimize built-upon surface area, direct stormwater runoff away
from surface waters, provide a minimum 100 feet vegetative buffer along all
perennial waters and incorporate best management practices to minimize water
quality impacts. For the purposes of calculating built-upon area, total project
area shall include total acreage in the tract on which the project is to be
developed. The town may impose site plan conditions in order to meet these
requirements.
   (E)   The town's approval of a SIA shall be on a project-by-project basis
and shall be based on the following specifications:
      (1)   Economic benefit to the community by creating and/retaining jobs;
      (2)   Increase in the property tax base;
      (3)   Compatibility with the town land use plan and character of the area
and surrounding land uses;
      (4)   Project does not pose a threat to the environment, especially water
quality and that appropriate measures will be taken to minimize any potential
negative environmental impacts; and
      (5)   Any other factors the Town Council deem necessary in making a
decision.
   (F)   The Planning Board of the town shall review all applications for SIA
and shall submit a written recommendation to the Town Council before a final
decision is rendered.
(Ord. ZT2018-01, passed 1-2-2018; Res. R-2021-03, passed 6-24-2021)
OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING
§ 151.105  OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   General. There shall be provided at the time of the erection of any
building, or at the time any principal building is enlarged or increased in
capacity by adding dwelling units, guest rooms, seats, or floor area, or before
conversion from one type of use or occupancy to another, permanent off-street
parking space in the amount specified by this section. Such parking space may
be provided in a parking garage or properly graded open space. A parking space
shall consist of an area at least eight feet wide and at least 20 feet deep. In
the B-l, HB and I-1 Districts, the required parking areas shall be paved with
an all-weather surface.
   (B)   Certification of minimum parking requirements. Each application for a
zoning permit submitted to the Zoning Administrator as provided for in this
chapter shall include information as to the location and dimensions of off-
street parking and loading space and the means of ingress and egress to such
space. This information shall be in sufficient detail to enable the Zoning
Administrator to determine whether or not the requirements of this subchapter
are met.
   (C)   Combination of required parking space. The required parking space for
any number of separate uses may be combined in one lot, but the required space
assigned to one use may not be assigned to another use; except that, one-half
of the parking space required for churches, theaters, or assembly halls whose
peak attendance will be at night or on Sundays may be assigned to a use which
will be closed at night and on Sundays.
   (D)   Remote parking space. If the off-street parking space required by this
chapter cannot be reasonably provided on the same lot on which the principal
use is located, such space may be provided on any land within 400 feet of the
main entrance to such principal use; provided, such land is in the same
ownership as the principal use.
   (E)   Minimum parking requirements.
      (1)   Residential and related uses.
         (a)   For any residential use consisting of one or more dwelling
units, there shall be provided two parking spaces on the same lot for each
dwelling unit.
         (b)   For rooming or boarding houses, there shall be provided one
parking space for each room to be rented, plus one parking space for the owner
or manager if living on the premises.
         (c)   For a doctor's or dentist's office in his or her residence,
there shall be provided three parking spaces in addition to residence
requirements.
         (d)   For a professional office (other than doctor or dentist) or for
customary home occupation in operator's residence, there shall be provided one
parking space in addition to residence requirements.
      (2)   Public and semi-public uses.
         (a)   For hospitals, there shall be provided one parking space for
each two beds intended for patient use, exclusive of bassinets.
         (b)   For clinics, there shall be provided three parking spaces for
each doctor, plus one parking space for each employee.
         (c)   For nursing homes, there shall be provided one parking space for
each five beds intended for patient use.
         (d)   For churches, there shall be provided one parking space for each
eight seats in the sanctuary.
         (e)   For elementary schools and junior high schools, there shall be
provided one parking space for each classroom and administrative office.
         (f)   For senior high schools, there shall be provided one parking
space for each 20 students for which the building was designed plus one parking
space for each classroom and administrative office.
         (g)   For stadiums, there shall be provided one parking space for each
eight spectator seats.
         (h)   For auditorium or theaters, there shall be provided one parking
space for each four seats in the largest assembly room.
         (i)   For public or private clubs, there shall be provided one parking
space for each 200 square feet of gross floor space.
         (j)   For public utility buildings, there shall be provided one
parking space for each employee.
      (3)   Business uses.
         (a)   For tourist homes, motels or motor courts, there shall be
provided one parking space for each room to be rented, plus one additional
parking space for each three employees.
         (b)   For hotels, there shall be provided one parking space for each
four rooms to be rented, plus an additional parking space for each three
employees, plus such additional parking spaces as may be required for
commercial or business uses located in the same building.
         (c)   For general or professional offices, there shall be provided one
parking space for each 200 square feet of gross floor space,
         (d)   For banks, there shall be provided one parking space for each
200 square feet of gross floor space, plus one for each two employees.
         (e)   For service stations, there shall be provided five parking
spaces for each grease
rack.
         (f)   For theaters, there shall be provided one parking space for each
four seats in the auditorium.
         (g)   For funeral homes, there shall be provided one parking space for
each four seats in the chapel or parlor.
         (h)   For restaurants and bars, there shall be provided one parking
space for each four seats and one space for each employee on the largest shift.
         (i)   For retail uses not otherwise indicated, there shall be provided
one parking space for each 200 square feet of gross floor area.
      (4)   Industrial and wholesale.
         (a)   For wholesale uses, there shall be provided one parking space
for each employee on the largest shift.
         (b)   For industrial uses, there shall be provided one parking space
for each employee on the largest shift.
         (c)   The number of parking spaces to be required in special
situations in which none of the above conditions are applicable shall be as
determined by the Board of Adjustment.
(Ord. passed 7-1-1980; Res. R-2021-03, passed 6-24-2021)
§ 151.106  OFF-STREET LOADING (BUSINESS AND INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT).
   (A)   General.The number of off-street loading berths required by this
section shall be considered as the absolute minimum and the developer shall
evaluate his or her own needs to determine if they are greater than the minimum
specified by this section. For the purposes of this section, an off-street
loading berth shall have minimum plan dimensions of 12 feet by 25 feet with 14
feet overhead clearance with adequate means for ingress and egress. A loading
space requirement may be modified or waived by the Board of Adjustment on
application in the case of a bank, theater, assembly hall or other building of
similar limited loading space requirements.
   (B)   Number of required off-street loading berths.
      (1)   For structures containing not more than 25,000 square feet of gross
floor area, one berth shall be required.
      (2)   For structures containing 25,000 or more square feet of gross floor
area, the number of berths specified in the table below shall be provided.
 
Square Feet of Gross Floor Area Required Number of Berths
25,000-40,000                   2
40,000-100,000                  3
100,000-160,000                 4
160,000-240,000                 5
240,000-320,000                 6
320,000-400,000                 7
 
(Ord. passed 7-1-1980; Res. R-2021-03, passed 6-24-2021)
SIGN REGULATIONS
§ 151.120  CLASSIFICATION AND DEFINITION OF SIGNS.
   (A)   Classification.
      BILLBOARD. An advertising sign used as an outdoor display for the purpose
of directing attention to a business, commodity, service, or entertainment
conducted, sold, manufactured, or offered at a location other than the location
of said sign.
      PRINCIPAL USE. A sign used to identify or advertise a residence,
business, service, or entertainment located at the same location as the sign.
   (B)   Definition according to structural type.
      GROUND SIGN. A sign resting upon or attached directly to the ground by
means of one or more upright pillars, braces or posts placed upon or in the
ground and not attached to any part of a building. This definition includes
mobile ground signs.
      MARQUEE SIGN. A sign affixed to the top of any hood or canopy over the
entrance to a store, building or place of public assembly.
      PROJECTING SIGN. A sign projecting out from, and attached to, the
exterior wall of a building and forming an angle of 30 degrees or more with
said wall.
      ROOF SIGN. A sign erected, constructed, or maintained upon the roof of
any building.
      SUSPENDED SIGN. A sign which is suspended from the underside of a
horizontal plane surface, such as a canopy or marquee, and is supported by such
plane.
      WALL SIGN. A sign affixed to the surface of, and whose plane is parallel
to the plane of, the exterior wall of a building, or which forms an angle of
less than 30 degrees with said wall.
(Ord. passed 7-1-1980; Res. R-2021-03, passed 6-24-2021)
§ 151.121  GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)    The regulations contained in this section shall apply to all
districts.
   (B)   No sign of any type shall be erected, printed, repainted, posted,
reposted, placed, replaced, or hung in any district, except in compliance with
these regulations.
   (C)   All signs shall be subject to the height restrictions pertaining to
the district in which said signs are located.
   (D)   Illuminated signs and other sources of illumination shall be subject
to the provisions of G.S. §§ 136-32.1 and 136-32.2.
   (E)   No illuminated sign shall be so designed or placed that direct or
reflected light or glare constitutes a hazard or annoyance to motorists,
pedestrians, or occupants of abutting property.
   (F)   No sign shall be permitted which duplicates or simulates, whether by
design, shape, color or otherwise, any traffic regulatory sign or other sign
placed by a governmental agency in the interest of public health safety or
welfare.
   (G)   No permanent advertising signs of any nature, except signs erected for
orderly traffic control, signs marking sites of historical interest and signs
for other public purposes shall be permitted within any public right-of-way.
   (H)   Signs identifying business establishments no longer in existence,
products no longer being sold, and services no longer being rendered shall be
removed from the premises within 180 days from the date of termination of such
activities.
   (I)   For the purposes of this chapter, the square feet area of any sign
shall be measured to include the entire sign, including lattice work, frame,
border molding, fencing, display area or wall work incidental to its
decoration. Where a sign consists of letters, figures or other devices
individually mounted on a wall or other surface, the sign area shall be the
same as the smallest circle or rectangle that can be inscribed around such
devices.
   (J)   No sign shall be erected, repaired, or repainted by any person until a
permit for same has been issued by the Zoning Administrator and an initial
permit fee of $10 paid. However, no permit shall be required for the type of
signs listed in §
151.122.
(Ord. passed 7-1-1980; Res. R-2021-03, passed 6-24-2021)
§ 151.122  SIGNS PERMITTED IN ALL DISTRICTS (NO PERMIT REQUIRED).
   (A)    Signs erected by a governmental agency to regulate, control or direct
vehicular or pedestrian traffic, including signs indicating bus stops, taxi
stands and similar transportation facilities. Such signs may be illuminated,
flashing or moving as required for the public safety;
   (B)   Signs required by law;
   (C)   Signs which warn of hazards to life and limb, such as high voltage
electrical equipment, explosives and the like. Such signs may be illuminated;
   (D)   "No Trespassing" and other incidental signs, not exceeding four square
feet in area and not illuminated;
   (E)   Signs erected by a governmental agency which convey information
regarding a public service or the location of a public facility. Such signs may
be illuminated;
   (F)   Temporary real estate signs advertising a specific property for sale,
lease, rent or development, located on said property; provided that, such signs
shall not exceed 16 square feet in area, and not be illuminated. Such signs
shall not be placed nearer to the front property line than five feet;
   (G)   Permanent subdivision identification signs, not exceeding 32 square
feet in area, indirectly illuminated or not illuminated;
   (H)   Church, institutional, and public building bulletin boards and
identification signs, not exceeding 25 square feet in area. One per each street
front, plus one per each building on premises. Non-flashing illumination is
permitted;
   (I)   Signs identifying the name or location of a church, even though such
signs may be remote from the location of the church; provided that, such signs
shall not exceed six square feet in area and provided that no such sign shall
be illuminated or contain moving parts;
   (J)   Temporary advertising signs, such as used prior to election and to
advertise yard sales. Such signs shall be removed within 90 days of their
erection;
   (K)   Signs advertising agricultural products produced on the premises not
exceeding 16 square feet in area and not illuminated; and
   (L)   Signs identifying home occupations or offices located in the residence
of the practitioner. One per lot not exceeding six square feet in area.
(Ord. passed 7-1-1980; Res. R-2021-03, passed 6-24-2021)
§ 151.123  SIGNS PERMITTED IN THE B-1 DISTRICTS (PERMIT FROM ZONING
ADMINISTRATOR REQUIRED).
   (A)   In addition to the above listed signs, the following signs are
permitted and regulations apply to the B-l District. It is the intent of the
town to maintain the high quality of this district by regulating their
appearance. Signs in these areas shall be constructed to conform with the
character of the district in which they are located.
   (B)   The height of any ground sign shall not exceed 12 feet.
   (C)   Signs may be illuminated but shall contain no moving parts.
   (D)   Principal use signs are permitted as follows:
      (1)   Not more than one ground sign shall be permitted per principal use.
No ground sign shall exceed 50 square feet in area. No ground sign shall be
located less than ten feet from any public right-of-way.
      (2)   Marquee signs, projecting signs and suspended signs shall not
exceed 12 square feet in area per side. No part of such sign shall be less than
eight feet above the ground or other surface which it overhangs and shall
extend nearer than two feet to the curb line of any street.
      (3)   No wall sign shall be larger than 15% of the exterior building wall
upon which it is mounted, provided that no exterior building wall shall display
more than 30 square feet of sign area. No part of such sign shall extend more
than 18 inches from the wall.
(Ord. passed 7-1-1980; Ord. passed 11-29-1985; Res. R-2021-03, passed 6-24-
2021)   Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.124  SIGNS PERMITTED IN THE HB AND I-1 DISTRICTS.
    In addition to the above listed signs, the following signs are permitted
and regulations apply to the HB and I-1 Districts.
   (A)   Roof signs. No roof sign shall exceed 100 square feet in area. Not
more than one roof sign shall be permitted per use.
   (B)   Ground signs and wall signs. Same regulations as in B-l above, except
that the maximum permissible area is 50 square feet.
   (C)   Billboards. Billboards are permitted at a ratio of one sign per 300
feet of lot frontage in HB and I-1 areas.
(Ord. passed 7-1-1980; Res. R-2021-03, passed 6-24-2021)   Penalty, see §
151.999
SPECIAL USES
§ 151.135  INTENT AND PURPOSE; PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The development and execution of this chapter is based upon the
division of the town's jurisdiction, including the extra-territorial
jurisdiction (ETJ), into districts where the use of land and buildings and the
bulk and location of buildings and structures in relation to the land are
substantially uniform. It is recognized, however, that there are certain uses
which, because of their unique characteristics, cannot be properly classified
in any particular district or districts, without consideration, in each case,
of the impact of those uses upon neighboring land and of the public need for
that use in that particular location. In these cases, a special use permit must
be obtained. Special use permits may be granted by the Stoneville Board of
Adjustment as permitted by G.S. § 160D-705. The Board shall follow quasi-
judicial procedures pursuant to G.S. § 160D-406.
   (B)   Procedures. All applications for special use permits shall include a
development site plan as specified in Art. V, § 9, Site Plan Requirements. The
Board of Adjustment may require additional information in order to evaluate the
impact of the proposed development. The Board of Adjustment may waive a
particular requirement if in its opinion the inclusion is not essential to a
proper decision of the project. The Board of Adjustment may impose reasonable
conditions in addition to those listed in this section or in other parts of
this chapter. Applications for special use permits may be made by the
landowner, a lessee or person holding an option or contract to purchase or
lease land, or an authorized agent of the landowner. An easement holder may
also apply for development approval for such development as is authorized by
the easement.
      (1)   Public notice.
         (a)   The Zoning Administrator shall set and post a date and time for
a public hearing before the Board of Adjustment to gather competent, material,
and substantial evidence to establish the facts of the case. The notice of such
hearing shall be posted in the Town Hall, at least ten days before the date set
for the evidentiary hearing, but not more than 25 days before the evidentiary
hearing. The Zoning Administrator shall also cause to be mailed, at least ten
days before the hearing, a first-class letter to all abutting property owners,
the names of whom he has made a good faith effort to obtain, notifying them of
the special use permit request. For the purpose of this section, properties are
"abutting" even if separated by a street, railroad, or other transportation
corridor. The person mailing such notice shall certify that such notices have
been mailed.
         (b)   In addition, the property for which the special use is proposed
shall be posted not more than 25 and not less than ten days before the
evidentiary hearing. The Board may continue an evidentiary hearing that has
been convened without further advertisement. If an evidentiary hearing is set
for a given date and a quorum of the Board is not then present, the hearing
shall be continued until the next regular Board meeting without further
advertisement.
      (2)   Administrative materials. The Zoning Administrator shall transmit
to the Board all applications, reports, and written materials relevant to the
matter being considered. The administrative materials may be distributed to the
members of the Board prior to the hearing if at the same time they are
distributed to the Board a copy is also provided to the applicant and to the
landowner if that person is not the applicant. The administrative materials
shall become a part of the hearing record. The administrative materials may be
provided in written or electronic form. Objections to inclusion or exclusion of
administrative materials may be made before or during the hearing. Rulings on
unresolved objections shall be made by the Board at the hearing.
      (3)   Presentation of evidence. The applicant, the town, and any person
who would have standing shall have the right to fully participate including
presenting competent, material, and substantial evidence relevant to the case
at the evidentiary hearing, cross-examining witnesses, objecting to evidence,
and making legal arguments. Other witnesses may present competent, material,
and substantial evidence that is not repetitive as allowed by the Board.
Opinion testimony from a lay witness shall not be considered evidence for
technical matters such as property values and traffic impacts.
      (4)   Action by the Board.
         (a)   The Board of Adjustment shall consider the application and
competent, material, and substantial evidence presented at the evidentiary
hearing and may grant or deny the special use permit requested. No vote greater
than a majority vote shall be required for the Board of Adjustment to issue
such permits. For the purpose of this section, vacant positions on the Board
and members who are disqualified from voting on a quasi-judicial matter shall
not be considered "members of the Board" for calculation of the requisite
majority. When deciding special use permits, the Board of Adjustment shall
follow quasi-judicial procedures. The Mayor, Zoning Administrator or Clerk to
the Board shall be authorized to administer the required oath prior to
receiving testimony.
         (b)   The special use permit, if granted, shall include approval of
plans as may be required. In granting the permit, the Board of Adjustment shall
find:
            1.   That the use will not materially endanger the public health or
safety if located where proposed and developed in according to the plan as
submitted and approved;
            2.   That the use meets all required conditions and specifications;
            3.   That the use will not substantially injure the value of
abutting property, or that the use is a public necessity; and
            4.   That the location and character of the use if developed
according to the plan as submitted and approved will be in harmony with the
area in which it is to be located and in general conformity with Stoneville
Comprehensive Development Plan.
         (c)   The Board of Adjustment may issue special use permits in the
classes of cases or situations and in accordance with the principles,
conditions, safeguards, and procedures specified therein and may impose
reasonable and appropriate conditions and safeguards upon these permits with
the landowner's written consent to the conditions. All such additional
conditions shall be entered in the minutes of the meeting at which the special
use permit is granted, on the special use permit itself and shall be binding on
the original applicants for the special use permit, their heirs, successors,
and assigns.
If the Board denies the special use permit, it shall enter the reason for its
action in the minutes of the meeting at which the action is taken.
         (d)   In addition to the conditions specifically imposed in this
section, and such further conditions as the Board of Adjustment may deem
reasonable and appropriate, special uses shall comply with Article V, Design
Regulations, for the zoning district in which they are located unless
provisions for the special use provide to the contrary.
   (C)   Revocation of a special use permit. In the event of failure to comply
with the plans approved by the Board of Adjustment, or with any other
conditions imposed upon the special use permit, the Zoning Administrator shall
issue a stop work order in accordance with G.S. § 160D-404(b). In accordance
with G.S. § 160D-403(f), a special use permit may be revoked by notifying the
holder in writing stating the reason for the revocation. Staff shall follow the
same development review and approval process required for issuance of the
development approval, including any required notice or hearing, in the review
and approval of any revocation of that approval. No building permits for
further construction or certificates of occupancy under this special use permit
shall be issued, and all completed structures shall be regarded as non-
conforming uses subject to the provisions of this chapter; provided, however,
that the Town Council shall not be prevented from thereafter rezoning said
property for its most appropriate use.
   (D)   Modifying a special use permit. Modifications of the original plans
required to be submitted and approved, as part of the application for a special
use permit, may be authorized by the Board of Adjustment.
   (E)   Appeals. Appeals may be taken from the action of the Board of
Adjustment in granting or denying a special use permit through the Rockingham
County Superior Court.
(Ord. passed 7-1-1980; Res. R-2021-03, passed 6-24-2021)
§ 151.136  SPECIAL USES (UNIFIED BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT, UNIFIED HOUSING
DEVELOPMENT, OUTDOOR STORAGE YARDS).
    The following section contains guidelines for some of the more common
special uses which may be encountered in the town. They are not intended,
however, to limit the authority of the Board of Adjustment in any way.
   (A)   Unified business development (shopping center).
      (1)   Unified business developments, consisting of one or more principal
structures or buildings and accessory structures or buildings to be constructed
on a lot or plot not subdivided into the customary streets and lots and which
will not be so subdivided, may be permitted subject to the following
regulations:
         (a)   No unified business development shall contain less than three
acres and there shall be a minimum lot width of 250 feet;
         (b)   Such developments shall abut a major highway or a collector
street and shall have direct access thereto;
         (c)   Such developments shall have a minimum front yard of 50 feet,
which shall be used only for driveways, landscaping, and screening;
         (d)   Points of ingress and egress shall consist of a driveway or
roadway at least 20 feet in width and shall be located a sufficient distance
from highway intersections to minimize traffic hazards, inconvenience, and
congestion;
         (e)   The number, width and location of curb cuts shall be such as to
minimize traffic hazards, inconvenience, and congestion;
         (f)   Parking areas shall have a paved surface and all parking areas
and traffic lanes shall be clearly marked;
         (g)   Storm and sanitary sewerage shall be provided as approved by the
Board and the County Health Department; and
         (h)   If the property adjoins a residential district, the following
requirements shall be met:
            1.   A greenbelt planting strip, not less than 15 feet in width
shall be planted, prior to opening of the business, along the street side of
the property. Such a greenbelt shall be planted at random with evergreens and
other trees which eventually will grow to a height not less than 12 feet and
which will include a minimum of 11 plants per 100 linear feet of greenbelt.
Topographic or other natural features offering screening shall be acceptable in
lieu of foliage. The greenbelt, at the front of the property, shall be located
so as to provide reasonable continuity in alignment with greenbelts of adjacent
property; and
            2.   A durable wall, fence or hedge or other natural planting of
comparable capacity shall be provided along the side or rear lines where the
property adjoins a lot in a residential district. Such fence, wall or hedge
shall be at least five feet in height, but not greater than seven feet in
height, measured from the ground along the common lot line of the abutting lot
in the residential district. Hedges or comparable natural plantings shall be
planted at an initial height of at least three feet and shall be of such
variety that an average height of six feet could be expected by normal growth
within no later than two years from the time of planting.
      (2)   Plans shall be submitted, showing:
         (a)   Topography of the site, at contour intervals no greater than
five feet;
         (b)   Location and approximate size of all existing and proposed
buildings and structures within the site and existing buildings and structures
within 500 feet adjacent thereto;
         (c)   Proposed points of ingress and egress together with the proposed
pattern of internal circulation;
         (d)   Proposed parking areas; and
         (e)   Proposed provision for storm and sanitary sewerage, including
both natural and human-made features, and the proposed treatment of ground
cover, slopes, banks and ditches.
      (3)   Uses shall be limited to those permitted by right in the district
in which the development will be located.
      (4)   Off-street parking and loading shall be provided in accordance with
§§
151.105 and
151.106.
      (5)   Signs on premises shall be regulated as follows:
         (a)   Type of sign permitted: identification;
         (b)   Permitted number of signs: one ground sign per entrance. No
regulation of signs attached to and flat against the principal building or
structure;
         (c)   Maximum area of ground sign: 25 square feet;
         (d)   Permitted illumination: motionless indirect or non-flashing
illumination; and
         (e)   Permitted location: within the bounds of the property.
   (B)   Outdoor storage yards. Lumber yards, coal yards, wood yards, sand and
gravel yards, junked automobile yards and storage of building materials such as
pipe, bricks, concrete products, and similar outdoor storage may be permitted
subject to the following requirements:
      (1)   Suitable landscaping, screening, and fencing shall be required for
the protection of neighboring properties, and view from the public right-of-
way; and
      (2)   If the property adjoins a residential district, the following
requirements shall be met. A durable wall, fence or hedge or other natural
planting of comparable capacity shall be provided along the side or rear lines
where the property adjoins a lot in a residential district. Such fence, wall or
hedge shall be at least five feet in height measured from the ground along the
common lot line of the abutting lot in the residential district. Hedges or
comparable natural plantings shall be planted at an initial height of at least
three feet and shall be of such variety that an average height of six feet
could be expected by normal growth within no later than two years from the time
of planting.
   (C)   Mobile home parks.
      (1)   Individual mobile homes prohibited. From and after the effective
date of this section, no mobile homes shall be permitted to be located within
the town, except within the boundaries of mobile home parks, which mobile home
parks are in conformity with the regulations contained herein.
      (2)   Permit required. The Board of Adjustment of the town shall issue a
construction permit and an occupancy permit only upon full compliance with the
regulations contained herein.
      (3)   Preliminary plat.
         (a)   A record owner of a tract or lot of real property within the
town who proposes to establish and construct a mobile home park shall submit a
preliminary plat on a scale of not less than 200 feet to an inch to the Board
of Adjustment of the town. The preliminary plat shall show the location of
drives and walks, mobile home plots, the location and size of service buildings
and areas, location and size of recreation areas, screening landscaping plans,
sanitary sewage collection lines and street lighting and facility lighting.
         (b)   No improvements can be undertaken on the mobile home park site
until a final plat is submitted to and approved by the Board of Adjustment of
the town.
      (4)   Final plat.
         (a)   Applications to the Board of Adjustment for a permit to
construct, alter or enlarge a mobile home court shall be accompanied by the
following documents:
            1.   A plat for the mobile home court, prepared by a registered
engineer or registered surveyor, drawn to a scale of not less than 200 feet to
the inch for more than 50 feet to the inch; and
            2.   Two copies of this plan indicating the applicant's proposals
for general layout of the mobile home court and his or her proposals for water
and sewage facilities, bearing a notation of approval by the County Board of
Health with the date of such approval and the signature of an authorized
representative of the Board of Health.
         (b)   If a mobile home court is to be developed in sections, the plans
submitted to the Board of Adjustment shall clearly include the area planned for
ultimate development and the extent of the area to which the immediate
application for a permit applies. No permit shall be issued for the initial
establishment of any section of a mobile home court to occupy an area of less
than two acres and ten mobile home spaces. The construction permit shall show
clearly that portion of the mobile home court to which the permits apply.
      (5)   Construction permit.
         (a)   The Board of Adjustment shall not issue a construction permit
for any mobile home court which fails to comply with all of the foregoing and
following regulations, or for which the required County Board of Health
operating permit has not been issued or has been revoked or suspended.
         (b)   Any mobile home, service building or recreation area placed in
any mobile homes district shall be placed in accordance with the approved
development plan.
      (6)   Occupancy permit. After construction is completed, the Board of
Adjustment shall issue an occupancy permit if construction is in accordance
with the plans submitted and all of the regulations contained herein are
complied with.
      (7)   Revocation of occupancy permit.
         (a)   The continued violation, after five days' notice, of the rules
governing mobile home parks and the rules therein regulating operating
requirements shall be cause to revoke any occupancy permit previously issued.
Revocation of an occupancy permit shall be by action of the Building Inspector
of the town. Before any revocation of an occupancy permit, the Building
Inspector of the town shall afford the alleged violators notice of hearing and
an opportunity to be heard. After a decision concerning revocation of an
occupancy permit has been made by the Building Inspector of the town, written
notice shall be given to the alleged violators of the decision and the grounds
thereof.
         (b)   Within ten days, the alleged violators may give written appeal
of the revocation of the occupancy permit to the Board of Adjustment of the
town. The Board of Adjustment of the town shall render its decision within 30
additional days from receipt of the written appeal and shall either sustain the
revocation or shall reinstate the permit. After the revocation becomes final,
mobile homeowners with mobile homes situated in the mobile home park subject to
the revocation shall be given 30 days' notice in order to remove their mobile
homes from the mobile home park.
      (8)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Mobile homes;
         (b)   Mobile home service buildings and area providing laundry,
sanitation and managerial facilities;
         (c)   Recreation buildings and areas serving only the mobile homes
district in which they are located; and
         (d)   Customary accessory buildings and facilities.
      (9)   Dimensional requirements.
         (a)   Minimum area required for a mobile home court: two acres, no
court shall contain fewer than ten mobile homes spaces; and
         (b)   Each mobile home shall be on a plot at least 5,000 square feet
in area, have an average width of at least 50 feet, and an average length of at
least 100 feet.
      (10)   Setbacks. Individual mobile homes must be set back a minimum of 15
feet from all side and rear lines and 50 feet from all public rights-of-way.
The end-to-end clearance and the lateral clearance between mobile homes,
including enclosed extensions thereof, shall be not less than 20 feet; and no
mobile home shall be located nearer than 20 feet to any common building on the
premises, such as an office, utility, or laundry building.
      (11)   Required buffer. A planting of evergreen trees or shrubs designed
to be at least five feet in height and at least four feet in depth at the base
and spaced so as to provide uninterrupted screening at maturity, shall be
maintained along all front, side and rear boundaries of the mobile home court,
except where a barrier such as a screening fence or a wall exists or is
constructed and provides at least equivalent screening from abutting
properties.
      (12)   Recreation space. Because of the relatively small plots for
individual mobile homes and the close proximity of mobile homes to each other,
recreation space equal to 100 square feet for each mobile home space shall be
provided within the mobile home court, as a common recreation area.
      (13)   Operating requirements.
         (a)   Each mobile home within the confines of a mobile home park shall
be firmly anchored to the ground and shall also be completely skirted or
equipped with a continuous closed foundation.
         (b)   Each mobile home park shall operate in accordance with the rules
and regulations governing the sanitation and operation of mobile homes in the
county.
         (c)   All sanitary sewerage collections lines of mobile home parks
shall be connected to the municipal or private sewage disposal system.
         (d)   All mobile homes within the confines of a mobile home park shall
be connected to water service from the municipal water system.
         (e)   All interior drives and walkways and service and utility
structures shall be lighted for night vision.
         (f)   Service and utility structures and recreation areas shall be
maintained in a clean and orderly fashion.
         (g)   The collection of trash and garbage shall be provided for so as
to maintain a clean and orderly appearance at all times.
      (14)   Driveways and walkways.
         (a)   Every mobile home space shall abut a driveway within the mobile
home court. Driveways shall be graded to a width of at least 20 feet, shall
have an all-weather surface free from mud or dust, and shall be maintained in
good condition. All driveways which are a dead-end shall be provided with a
turn-around having a minimum radius of 40 feet.
         (b)   Walkways shall be provided to connect each mobile home space
with any utility room or other common facilities serving the mobile homes. Such
walkways shall be not less than three feet in width and shall be graded and
finished with an all-weather surface free from mud or dust.
      (15)   Parking. Each mobile home space shall be provided with at least
one off-street parking space located on or adjacent to the mobile home space.
One additional off-street parking space shall be provided for each three mobile
home spaces in the park. Driveways within a mobile home court shall not qualify
to satisfy the foregoing requirements subject to the following: driveways 26
feet wide may have parking spaces on one side and driveways 36 feet wide may
have parking spaces on both sides.
      (16)   Inspections. All buildings and other structures in a mobile home
court, including the mobile homes, shall be subject to building inspections for
the purpose of enforcing applicable regulations governing similar structures
elsewhere; in applying and enforcing such regulations, mobile homes shall be
defined as prefabricated structures.
      (17)   Signs on premises. Shall be regulated as follows:
 
Maximum area of ground sign 12 square feet
Permitted illumination      Indirect lighting, non-flashing and motionless
Permitted location          Within the bounds of the property
Permitted number of signs   1 ground sign per entrance
Type of signs permitted     Identification
 
(Ord. passed 7-1-1980; Res. R-2021-03, passed 6-24-2021)
WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITIES, RADIO, TV, MICROWAVE OR OTHER
TELECOMMUNICATION TOWER
§ 151.150  GENERAL.
    The Federal Telecommunications Act of 1996 (FTA) preserves local zoning
authority to reasonably regulate Wireless Communications Facilities (WCFs), and
WCFs are supportive of the public health, safety, and welfare in that they
provide useful portable communication services for personal convenience,
business and emergency purposes, the Town Council ordains the following
provisions to govern the issuance of special use permits.
(Ord. passed 2-15-2006; Res. R-2021-03, passed 6-24-2021)
§ 151.151  DEFINITIONS.
    For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALTERNATIVE TOWER STRUCTURE. Man-made trees, clock towers, bell steeples,
light poles, and similar alternative-design mounting structures that camouflage
or conceal the presence of antennas or towers.
   ANTENNA. Any exterior apparatus designed for telephonic, radio, or
television communication through the sending and/or receiving of
electromagnetic waves.
   FAA. The Federal Aviation Administration.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission.
   FTA. The Federal Telecommunications Act of 1996.
   FALL ZONE. The radius around the base of the tower equal to the height of
the tower.
   GOVERNING AUTHORITY. The approving authority for the tower, the Town
Council.
   HEIGHT. When referring to a tower or other structure, the distance measured
from ground level to the highest point on the tower or other structure, even if
said highest point is an antenna.
   PREEXISTING TOWERS AND ANTENNAS. Shall have the meaning set forth in §
151.152(D) below.
   TOWER. Any structure that is designed and constructed primarily for the
purpose of supporting one or more antennas, including self-supporting lattice
towers, guy towers, or monopole towers. The term includes radio and television
transmission towers, microwave towers, common-carrier towers, cellular
telephone towers, alternative tower structures, and the like.
   WCF. Wireless Communications Facilities.
(Ord. passed 2-15-2006; Res. R-2021-03, passed 6-24-2021)
§ 151.152  APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   District height limitations. The requirements set forth in this
subchapter shall govern the location of towers that exceed, and antennas that
are installed at a height in excess of, the height limitations specified for
each zoning district. The height limitations applicable to buildings and
structures shall not apply to towers and antennas.
   (B)   Public property. Antennas or towers located on property owned, leased,
or otherwise controlled by the town shall be exempt from the requirements of
this subchapter, provided a license or lease authorizing such antenna or tower
has been approved by the Town Council after a public hearing and abutting
property owners notification. For the purpose of this section, properties are
"abutting" even if separated by a street, railroad, or other transportation
corridor. The person mailing such notice shall certify that such notices have
been mailed.
   (C)   Amateur radio, receive only antennas. This subchapter shall not govern
any tower, or the installation of any antenna, that complies with the height
requirement for the district in which it is located and is owned and operated
by a federally licensed amateur radio station operator or is used exclusively
for receive-only antennas.
   (D)   Preexisting towers and antennas. Any tower or antenna for which a
permit has been properly issued prior to the effective date of this subchapter
shall not be required to meet the requirements of this subchapter, other than
the requirements of §
151.153(C) and (F). Any such towers or antennas shall be referred to in this
subchapter as "pre-existing towers" or "preexisting antennas."
(Ord. passed 2-15-2006; Res. R-2021-03, passed 6-24-2021)
§ 151.153  GENERAL GUIDELINES AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Purpose; goals.
      (1)   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish guidelines for the
siting of towers and antennas.
      (2)   The goals of this subchapter are to: (i) encourage the location of
towers in nonresidential areas and minimize the total number of towers
throughout the community; (ii) encourage strongly the joint use of new and
existing tower sites; (iii) encourage users of towers and antennas to locate
them, to the extent possible, in areas where the adverse impact on the
community is minimal; (iv) encourage users of towers and antennas to configure
them in a way that minimizes the adverse visual impact of the towers and
antennas; and (v) enhance the ability of the providers of telecommunications
services to provide such services to the community quickly, effectively, and
efficiently.
   (B)   Principal or accessory use. Antennas and towers may be considered
either principal or accessory uses. A different existing use or an existing
structure on the same lot shall not preclude the installation of an antenna or
tower on such lot. For purposes of determining whether the installation of a
tower or antenna complies with district development regulation, including but
not limited to set-back requirements, lot-coverage requirements, and other such
requirements, the dimensions of the entire lot shall control, even though the
antennas or towers may be located on leased parcels within such lots. Towers
that are constructed and antennas that are installed in accordance with the
provisions of this subchapter shall not be deemed to constitute the expansion
of a nonconforming use or structure.
   (C)   Inventory of existing sites. Each applicant, for an administrative
approval or a special use permit, shall provide to the Zoning Administrator an
inventory of its existing towers that are either within the jurisdiction of the
governing authority or within one-quarter mile of the border thereof, including
specific information about the location, height, and design of each tower.
Applicants are encouraged to submit an inventory of potential future tower
sites within the jurisdiction of the town. The Zoning Administrator may share
such information with other applicants applying for administrative approvals or
special use permits under this subchapter or other organizations seeking to
locate antennas within Rockingham County, provided, however, that the Zoning
Administrator is not, by sharing such information, in any way representing or
warranting that such sites are available or suitable.
   (D)   Aesthetics; lighting. The guidelines set forth in this division shall
govern the location of all towers and the installation of all antennas governed
by this subchapter; provided, however, that the governing authority may waive
these requirements if it determines that the goals of this subchapter are
better served thereby.
      (1)   Towers shall either maintain a galvanized steel finish or, subject
to any applicable standards of the FAA, be painted a neutral color, so as to
reduce visual obtrusiveness.
      (2)   At a tower site, the design of the buildings and related structures
shall, to the extent possible, use materials, colors, textures, screening, and
landscaping that will blend the tower facilities to the natural setting and
built environment.
      (3)   If an antenna is installed on a structure other than a tower, the
antenna and supporting electrical and mechanical equipment must be of a neutral
color that is identical to, or closely compatible with, the color of the
supporting structure so as to make the antenna and related equipment as
visually unobtrusive as possible.
      (4)   Towers shall not be artificially lighted, unless required by the
FAA or other applicable authority. If lighting is required, the governing
authority may review the available lighting alternatives and approve the design
that would cause the least disturbance to the surrounding views.
   (E)   Federal requirements. All towers must meet or exceed current standards
and regulations of the FAA, the FCC, and any other agency of the federal
government with the authority to regulate towers and antennas. If such
standards and regulations are changed, then the owners of the towers and
antennas governed by this subchapter shall bring such towers and antennas into
compliance with such revised standards and regulations within six months of the
effective date of such standards and regulations, unless a more stringent
compliance schedule is mandated by the controlling federal agency. Changes to
the height or lighting requirements would require additional review by the Town
Council. Failure to bring towers and antennas into compliance with such revised
standards and regulations shall constitute grounds for the removal of the tower
or antenna at the owner's expense.
   (F)   Building codes; safety standards. To ensure the structural integrity
of towers, the owner of a tower shall ensure that it is maintained in
compliance with standards contained in applicable local building codes and the
applicable standards for towers that are published by the Electronic Industries
Association, as amended from time to time. If upon inspection, the governing
authority concludes that a tower fails to comply with such codes and standards
and constitutes a danger to persons or property, then upon notice being
provided to the owner of the tower, the governing authority shall not issue a
certificate of occupancy and power will not be permitted until such non-
compliances are corrected.
   (G)   Coverage-need. Need of coverage shall be demonstrated by the wireless
provider.
(Ord. passed 2-15-2006; Res. R-2021-03, passed 6-24-2021)
§ 151.154 SPECIFIC DEVELOPMENT GUIDELINES.
   (A)   Information required. Each applicant requesting a special use permit
under this subchapter shall submit a sealed site plan and a scaled elevation
view and other supporting drawings, calculations, and other documentation,
signed and sealed by appropriate licensed professional engineers, showing the
following information:
      (1)   Location and dimensions of all improvements on leased or purchased
area;
      (2)   Information concerning topography;
      (3)   Property lines of site;
      (4)   Radio frequency coverage;
      (5)   Tower height requirements;
      (6)   Setbacks;
      (7)   Proposed points of ingress and egress;
      (8)   Parking;
      (9)   Fencing;
      (10)   Landscaping and buffers;
      (11)   Adjacent uses within 500 feet of the tower fall zone;
      (12)   Proposed number of telecommunication carriers;
      (13)   Any other information deemed by the governing authority to be
necessary to assess compliance with this subchapter; and
      (14)   Lease agreement signed by property owners (if applicable).
   (B)   Factors considered in granting special use permits. The governing
authority shall consider the following factors in determining whether to issue
a special use permit, although the governing authority may waive or reduce the
burden on the applicant of one or more of these criteria, if the governing
authority concludes that the goals of this subchapter are better served
thereby:
      (1)   Height of the proposed tower;
      (2)   Proximity of the tower to residential structures and residential
district boundaries;
      (3)   Nature of uses on adjacent and nearby properties;
      (4)   Surrounding topography;
      (5)   Surrounding tree coverage and foliage;
      (6)   Design of the tower, with particular reference to design
characteristics that have the effect of reducing or eliminating visual
obtrusiveness;
      (7)   Proposed ingress and egress;
      (8)   Availability of suitable existing towers and other structures as
discussed in division (C) below; and/or
      (9)   Co-location of other telecommunications carriers as discussed in
division (D) below.
   (C)   Availability of suitable existing towers or other structures. No new
tower shall be permitted unless the applicant demonstrates to the reasonable
satisfaction of the governing authority that no existing tower or structure can
accommodate the applicant's proposed antenna. Evidence submitted to demonstrate
that no existing tower or structure can accommodate the applicant's proposed
antenna may consist of any of the following:
      (1)   No existing towers or structures are located within the geographic
area required to meet applicant's engineering requirements;
      (2)   Existing towers or structures are not of sufficient height to meet
applicant's engineering requirements;
      (3)   Existing towers or structures do not have sufficient structural
strength to support applicant's proposed antenna and related equipment;
      (4)   The applicant's proposed antenna would cause electromagnetic
interference with the antenna on the existing towers or structures, or the
antenna on the existing towers or structures would cause interference with the
applicant's proposed antenna;
      (5)   The fees, costs or contractual provisions required by the owner in
order to share an existing tower or structure or to adapt an existing tower or
structure for sharing are unreasonable. Costs exceeding new tower development
are presumed to be unreasonable; or
      (6)   The applicant demonstrates that there are other limiting factors
that render existing towers and structures unsuitable.
   (D)   Co-location of other telecommunication carriers.
      (1)   All new towers or structures shall be designed to accommodate
multiple carriers. The minimum number of earners will be height dependent based
on the following ranges:
         (a)   One carrier for towers up to 90 feet in height;
         (b)   Three carriers for towers from 90 to 120 feet in height; and
         (c)   Five or more carriers for towers over 120 feet in height.
      (2)   Applicants shall agree to lease space at commercially reasonable
rates and shall also make towers available for use by Rockingham County and
town emergency service agencies at no charge to the county.
   (E)   Minimum lot or leased area. Minimum lot or leased area, set aside for
the use of a tower facility within the town limits, shall be equal to the
minimum lot size for the district in which it is located. Minimum lot or leased
area set aside for the use of a tower facility in the extraterritorial
jurisdiction (ETJ) shall be no less than the fall zone of the tower and shall
include all required buffers and setbacks as required by this subchapter.
   (F)   Special use districts. Residential Agricultural (RA); Business,
Office, and Institutional (B-l); Highway Business (HB); and Industrial (I-1).
   (G)   Certified supporting information. Any information of an engineering
nature that the applicant submits, whether civil, mechanical, or electrical,
shall be certified by a licensed professional engineer.
   (H)   Setbacks and separation. The following setbacks and separation
requirements shall apply to all towers and antennas for which a special use
permit is required; provided, however, that the governing authority may reduce
the standard setbacks and separation requirements if the goals of this
subchapter would be better served thereby.
      (1)   Tower facilities in the extraterritorial jurisdiction (ETJ). Tower
facilities sited in the ETJ of the town must be set back a distance equal to
the height of the tower from any residential structure and/or property line.
Also, to encourage the construction of monopole structures, monopole towers may
have a 20% reduction in the required setbacks. To encourage location of towers
in existing forested areas with a minimum depth of 100 feet, the tower may have
a 20% reduction in the required setbacks. In no case shall the setback be less
than those required for the underlying zoning district. Said setback reductions
shall only be allowed upon a professional engineering certification which
states that the structure's construction will cause the tower to crumble inward
so that in the event of collapse no damage to structures or adjacent zoning
lots will result.
      (2)   Tower facilities within the town limits. Tower facilities shall
meet the setback requirements for principal structures of the underlying zoning
district in which they are located, provided that the tower facility has
professional engineering certification which states that the structure's
construction will cause the tower to crumble inward so that in the event of
collapse no damage to structures on adjacent zoning lots will result.
      (3)   Attached antennas. Attached antennas shall meet the setback
provisions of the underlying zoning district in which they are located.
However, an attached antenna array may extend up to 30 inches horizontally
beyond the edge of the attachment structure so long as the antenna does not
encroach upon an abutting parcel.
      (4)   Towers, guys, and accessory facilities. Towers, guys, and accessory
facilities must satisfy the minimum zoning district setback requirements.
   (I)   Security fencing. Towers shall be enclosed by security fencing not
less than six feet in height and shall also be equipped with an appropriate
anti-climbing device; provided, however, that the governing authority may waive
such requirements, as it deems appropriate.
   (J)   Landscaping. The following requirements shall be maintained by the
applicant and shall apply to all tower facilities and shall govern the
landscaping surrounding towers for which a special use permit is required;
provided, however, that the governing authority may waive such requirements if
the goals of this chapter would be better served thereby.
      (1)   New tower facilities. Tower facilities shall be landscaped with a
buffer of evergreen plant materials that effectively screens the view of the
tower compound from adjacent residential property. The following specifications
shall be planted with a minimum landscaped area often feet in depth outside the
perimeter of the compound security fence:
         (a)   One row of evergreen trees six feet in height shall be installed
with a maximum spacing of ten feet; and
         (b)   All plants and trees shall be indigenous to this part of North
Carolina and be drought resistant.
      (2)   Land-form preservation. Existing mature tree growth and natural
land-forms on the site shall be preserved to the maximum extent possible. In
some cases, such as towers sited on large, wooded lots, natural growth around
the property perimeter may be a sufficient buffer. Vegetation that causes
interference with antennas or inhibits access to tower facility may be trimmed
or removed.
      (3)   Existing vegetation. Existing vegetation on a tower facility site
may be used in lieu of required landscaping when approved by the Zoning
Administrator.
      (4)   In locations where the visual impact of the tower would be minimal,
the landscaping requirement may be reduced or waived altogether.
(Ord. passed 2-15-2006; Res. R-2021-03, passed 6-24-2021)
§ 151.155  ABANDONED ANTENNAS AND TOWERS, REMOVAL.
    Any antenna or tower that is not operated for a continuous period of 12
months shall be considered abandoned, and the owner of such antenna or tower
shall remove same within 60 days. Applicants shall provide proof of a
performance bond for the cost of removal of towers.
(Ord. passed 2-15-2006; Res. R-2021-03, passed 6-24-2021)
§ 151.156  PREFERRED LOCATIONS FOR WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITIES, PERMITTED
ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW.
    The following uses may be approved by the Zoning Administrator after
conducting an administrative review:
   (A)   Antenna attachments. Antenna attachments onto existing support
structures or onto an attached wireless communication facility shall be
permitted by administrative approval subject to the development criteria of §
151.154 and
Appendix A.
   (B)   All lands identified in
Appendix A, Wireless Communication Facility Site Recommendations. Antenna
attachments or wireless communication facilities with support structures shall
be permitted by administrative approval subject to development criteria of §
151.154 and
Appendix A.
   (C)   Existing nonresidential structure. Installing an antenna on an
existing nonresidential structure other than a tower (such as a building, sign,
light pole, water tower, utility pole, or other free-standing, nonresidential
structure) in any commercial or industrial district that is less than 50 feet
in height so long as such addition does not add more than ten feet to the
height of the existing structure.
   (D)   Existing towers. Installing an antenna on an existing tower of any
height, including a pre-existing tower, and further including the placement of
additional buildings or other supporting equipment used in connection with said
antenna, so long as the addition of said antenna adds no more than 20 feet to
the height of the existing tower.
   (E)   Replacing existing structure. Replacing an existing tower which adds
no more than ten feet to the overall height of the existing structure with only
one replacement allowed.
   (F)   Existing structures. Installing an antenna on an existing structure
other than a tower (such as a building, sign, light pole, water tower, or other
free standing, nonresidential structure) that is more than 50 feet in height,
so long as such addition does not add more than 20 feet to the height of the
existing structure.
   (G)   Other lands. Wireless communication facilities with support structures
shall only be permitted on all other lands not identified in
Appendix A by means of approval of a special use permit regardless of the
zoning district in which it is located. Prior to applying for a special use
permit, the applicant shall provide adequate information to establish that
lands included in
Appendix A cannot be made suitable for wireless communication facility
locations.
(Ord. passed 2-15-2006; Res. R-2021-03, passed 6-24-2021)
MANUFACTURED HOMES
§ 151.160  NEW CLASS AA MANUFACTURED HOME CATEGORY.
    Class AA: A multi-sectional manufactured home constructed after July 1,1976
that meets or exceeds the construction standards promulgated by the U. S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development that were in effect at the time of
construction and that satisfies the following additional criteria:
   (A)   Is occupied only as a single-family dwelling;
   (B)   Has a minimum width of 16 feet;
   (C)   Has a length not exceeding four times its width, with length measured
along the longest axis and width measured perpendicular to the longest axis at
the narrowest part;
   (D)   Has the towing apparatus, wheels, axles, and transporting lights
removed and not included in length and width measurements;
   (E)   Is set up in accordance with standards established by the N. C.
Department of Insurance. In addition, a continuous, permanent masonry
foundation or masonry curtain wall constructed in accordance with the standards
of the N.C. Uniform Residential Building Code for One- and Two- Family
Dwellings, unpierced except for required ventilation and access, shall be
installed under the perimeter, with no visible exposed concrete block;
   (F)   Has exterior siding, comparable to the exterior siding commonly used
in standard residential construction, consisting of one or more of the
following:
      (1)   Vinyl or aluminum lap siding (whose reflectivity does not exceed
that of flat white paint);
      (2)   Cedar or other wood siding;
      (3)   Wood grain, weather resistant press board siding;
      (4)   Stucco siding; or
      (5)   Brick or stone siding;
   (G)   Has a roof pitch minimum vertical rise of three feet for each 12 feet
of horizontal run;
   (H)   Has a roof finish with a Class C or better roofing material that is
commonly used in standard residential construction;
   (I)   Has an eave projection of no less than six inches, which may include a
gutter;
   (J)   Has stairs, porches, entrance platforms, ramps and other means of
entrance and exit installed or constructed in accordance with the standards set
by the North Carolina State Building Code, anchored securely to the ground.
Wood stairs shall only be used in conjunction with a porch or entrance platform
with a minimum of 24 square feet. The use of wood stairs alone is prohibited at
any entrance; and
   (K)   Has a minimum area of 1,200 square feet.
(Ord. passed 4-6-1999; Res. R-2021-03, passed 6-24-2021)
§ 151.161  DESCRIPTION FOR CLASS A MANUFACTURED HOME.
   Class A: A single section manufactured home constructed after July 1,1976
that meets or exceeds the constructions standards of the U.S. Department of
Housing and Urban Development that were in effect at the time of construction
and that satisfies the following additional criteria:
   (A)   Is occupied only as a single-family dwelling;
   (B)   Has the towing apparatus, wheels, axles, and transporting lights
removed and not included in length and width measurements;
   (C)   Is set up in accordance with standards established by the N.C.
Department of Insurance. The foundation may be either:
      (1)   A continuous, permanent masonry foundation or masonry curtain wall
constructed in accordance with the standards of the N.C. Uniform Residential
Building Code for One-and Two- Family Dwellings, unpierced except for required
ventilation with access installed under the perimeter, and no visible exposed
concrete block; or
      (2)   A replica hand-laid brick or hand-cut stone that provides the
authenticity of real brick or stone, with panels made from an injection molded
thermoplastic resin formulated with special additives to enhance long-term
performance; a weight of approximately four and one-half pounds each for brick
or stone panels and 20 pounds per square; panels contain UV inhibitors to
protect against damaging sun effects and are highly resistant to harsh weather
conditions; and the thickness of panels is approximately one-quarter inch in
brick area to one-eighth inch in mortar area; and will not support combustion;
   (D)   Has exterior siding, comparable to the exterior siding commonly used
in standard residential construction, consisting of one or more of the
following:
      (1)   Vinyl or aluminum lap siding (whose reflectivity does not exceed
that of flat white paint);
      (2)   Cedar or other wood siding;
      (3)   Wood grain, weather resistant press board siding;
      (4)   Stucco siding; or
      (5)   Brick or stone siding.
   (E)   Has a roof pitch minimum vertical rise of three feet for each 12 feet
of horizontal run;
   (F)   Has a roof finish with a Class C or better roofing material that is
commonly used in standard residential construction;
   (G)   Has an eave projection of no less than six inches, which may include a
gutter; and
   (H)   Has stairs, porches, entrance platforms, ramps and other means of
entrance and exit installed or constructed in accordance with the standards set
by the North Carolina State Building Code, anchored securely to the ground.
Wood stairs shall only be used in conjunction with a porch or entrance platform
with a minimum of 24 square feet. The use of wood stairs alone is prohibited at
any entrance.
(Ord. passed 4-6-1999; Res. R-2021-03, passed 6-24-2021)
§ 151.162  CRITERIA FOR CLASS B AND CLASS C MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   (A)   Class B. A manufactured home constructed after July 1, 1976 that meets
or exceeds the construction standards promulgated by the U.S. Department of
Housing and Urban Development that were in effect at the time of construction,
but which does not meet the definition of a Class AA or a Class A manufactured
home.
   (B)   Class C. Any portable manufactured housing unit built before July 1,
1976 that does not meet the definitional criteria of a Class AA, Class A or
Class B manufactured home above.
(Ord. passed 4-6-1999; Res. R-2021-03, passed 6-24-2021)
§ 151.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   Criminal and equitable. The Town Attorney shall prosecute violations
of this chapter under this section.
      (1)   If any person shall violate any provision of this chapter, he or
she shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $50 or
imprisoned for not more than 30 days, as provided by G.S. § 14-4. Each calendar
day during which a violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   Pursuant to the provisions of G.S. § 160A-175 (d), the town may
also seek any appropriate equitable relief that it deems necessary to ensure
the health, safety and welfare of the citizens or the natural resources of the
town, including but not limited to civil damages resulting from violation of
this section of the chapter.
   (B)   Civil.
      (1)   First notice of violation. The Zoning Administrator shall notify
the owner or occupant of the violation. The owner or occupant shall immediately
remedy the violation.
      (2)   Written notice of violation.
         (a)   If the owner or occupant fails to take prompt corrective action,
the Zoning Administrator shall give written notice of violation. The notice of
violation shall be delivered to the holder of the development approval and to
the landowner of the property involved, if the landowner is not the holder of
the development approval, by personal delivery, electronic delivery, or first-
class mail and may be provided by similar means to the occupant of the property
or the person undertaking the work or activity pursuant to G.S. § 160D-404(a).
The notice shall state:
            1.   That the land, building, structure, sign or use is in
violation of this chapter;
            2.   The nature of the violation, and citation of sections of this
chapter violated; and
            3.   The measures necessary to remedy the violation.
         (b)   The person providing the notice of violation shall certify to
the local government that the notice was provided, and the certificate shall be
deemed conclusive in the absence of fraud.
      (3)   Appeal to Town Council. Any owner or occupant who has received a
notice of violation may appeal in writing the decision of the Zoning
Administrator to the Town Council within ten days following the date of written
notice. The Town Council shall hear an appeal within a reasonable time, and it
may affirm, modify, or revoke the written notice of violation. In the absence
of an appeal, the decision of the Enforcement Officer shall be final.
      (4)   Failure to comply with notice. If the owner or occupant of a
property fails to comply with a notice of violation from which no appeal has
been taken within ten days of receipt of notice, or a final decision by the
Town Council, the town may subject the owner or occupant to civil penalties and
remedies.
      (5)   Citation. If after receiving a written notice of violation, the
owner or other violator fails to take corrective action, a civil penalty may be
imposed in the form of a citation. The citation shall be served in the same
manner as a written notice. The citation shall state the nature of the
violation, the penalty to be imposed and shall direct that the violator pay the
civil penalty within 15 days of the date of the citation.
      (6)   Continuing violation. For each day after the fifteenth day
following the citation that the violation is not corrected, the violator will
be guilty of an additional and separate offense and subject to additional civil
penalty.
      (7)   Penalties. Violators shall be subject to a civil penalty in the
amount of $25 for the first violation (day one), $50 for the second violation
(day two), $100 for the third violation (day three), and $200 for the fourth
day and successive violations.
      (8)   Demand for payment. The Zoning Administrator shall make written
demand for payment upon the owner or the person in violation and shall set
forth a description of the violation for which the civil penalty has been
imposed.
      (9)   Nonpayment. If payment is not received or equitable settlement
reached within 30 days after demand for payment is made, the town shall pursue
one of the following actions:
         (a)   Referral to the Town Attorney to institute a civil action for
recovery of the civil penalty;
         (b)   Issuance of a criminal summons or warrant by the Zoning
Administrator; or
         (c)   Attachment of a lien against the property in the nature of a tax
assessment to be collected in the manner of property tax payments.
   (C)   Watershed regulation penalty. In addition to the penalties imposed for
violating the zoning chapter, the North Carolina Environmental Management
Commission may assess civil penalties in accordance with G.S. § 143-215.6(a).
Each day that the violation continues shall constitute a separate violation.
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed 7-1-1980; Ord. passed 9-7-1993; Res. R-2021-03,
passed 6-24-2021)
APPENDIX A: WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITY SITE RECOMMENDATIONS
 
Map Reference Site PIN Number Site            Location         Recommendation
Number                        Description
1             7939-00-18-1494 Stoneville      North Henry      Attached antenna
                              Water Tower     Street/Bus US220 array
2             Vicinity        Unifi Water     NC 770 and       Attached antenna
              7939-00-80-5843 Tower           Priddy Lake Road array
                              Stoneville
3             Vicinity        Furniture/      South Henry      Attached antenna
              7939-00-37-4416 Baxter-Kelly    Street           array
                              Water Tower
                                                               190 ft. self-
4             Vicinity        Stoneville      Hemlock Road &   supporting
              7939-00-87-5337 Memorial Park   Price Street     lattice type
                                                               tower
                              Old Stone                        190 ft. self-
5             7938-00-05-8404 Junior High     Stone School     supporting
                              School Property Road             lattice type
                                                               tower
 
(Ord. passed 2-15-2006; Res. R-2021-03, passed 6-24-2021)
APPENDIX B: CLASS AA MANUFACTURED HOME APPEARANCE CRITERIA REQUIREMENTS
ACKNOWLEDGMENT FORM
In accordance with Planning and Development Ordinances, § 151.004, Definitions
Adopted April 6, 1999 to include the creation of Class AA Manufactured Homes
(Effective May 1, 1999)
   Class AA: A multi-sectional manufactured home constructed after July 1, 1976
that meets or exceeds the construction standards promulgated by the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development that were in effect at the time of
construction and that satisfies the following additional criteria:
   (a)   Is occupied only as a single-family dwelling;
   (b)   Has a minimum width of 16 feet;
   (c)   Has a length not exceeding four times its width, with length measured
along the longest axis and width measured perpendicular to the longest axis at
the narrowest part;
   (d)   Has the towing apparatus, wheels, axis and transporting lights removed
and not included in length and width measurements;
   (e)   Is set up in accordance with standards established by the N.C.
Department of Insurance. In addition, a continuous, permanent masonry
foundation or masonry curtain wall constructed in accordance with the standards
of the N.C. Uniform Residential Building Code for One- and Two-Family
Dwellings, unpierced except for required ventilation and access, shall be
installed under the perimeter, with no visible exposed concrete block;
   (f)   Has exterior siding, comparable to the exterior siding commonly used
in standard residential construction, consisting of one or more of the
following: 1) vinyl or aluminum lap siding; (whose reflectivity does not exceed
that of flat white paint) 2) cedar or other wood siding; 3) wood grain, weather
resistant press board siding; 4) stucco siding; or 5) brick or stone siding;
   (g)   Has a roof pitch minimum vertical rise of three feet for each 12 feet
of horizontal run;
   (h)   Has a roof finish with a Class C or better roofing material that is
commonly used in standard residential construction;
   (i)   Has an eave projection of no less than six inches, which may include a
gutter;
   (j)   Has stairs, porches, entrance platforms, ramps and other means of
entrance and exits installed or constructed in accordance with the standards
set by the North Carolina State Building Code, anchored securely to the ground.
Wood stairs shall only be used in conjunction with a porch or entrance platform
with a minimum of 24 square feet. The use of wood stairs alone is prohibited at
any entrance; and
   (k)   Has minimum square footage of 1,200.
May 1, 2014
*Note: This Acknowledgment Statement is to be reviewed and signed by the
applicant and attached to the Zoning Permit.
   –Original copy to be filed with original Zoning Permit
   –One (1) copy with Applicant
   –One (1) copy with Building Permit
Statement of Acknowledgment
I acknowledge that I have read and understand the above requirements.
 
                                                                               
                                               
Signature of Applicant/Date                     County Official/Date
(Ord. passed 4-6-1999; Res. R-2021-03, passed 6-24-2021)
CHAPTER 152:  SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
   
152.01   Adopted by reference
§ 152.01 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   This subdivision regulations enacted by the town by a ordinance passed on -
-1999 are adopted herein by reference as if appearing in total.
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
      
II.   AGREEMENTS
TABLE I:  FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Granting a cable television franchise to Alert Cable TV of
-        6-2-1981    North Carolina, Inc.; constructing, installing and
                     maintaining a cable television system
                    
 
TABLE II:  AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Entry and testing agreement between the town and Alltel
-        2-1-2005    Communications, Inc.; attachment of communications towers,
                     antennas and related equipment
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to North Carolina General Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Policies
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTES
G.S. Cites Code Section
G.S. Cites                Code Section
1-593                     10.05
7A-227                    150.32
7A-228                    150.32
11-7.1                    31.001
12-3                      10.05
12-3(6)                   93.03
                          10.99;
                          50.99;
                          90.99;
                          91.99;
14-4                      92.99;
                          110.99;
                          112.99;
                          130.99;
                          150.35;
                          151.999
14-148                    92.05
14-149                    92.05;
                          92.06
14-286                    91.01
14-288.20A                33.99
14-399                    50.16
Title 15A, Subch. 8C      54.01
18B-1001                  114.01
20-4.01(12)               73.02
20-141(b)(1)              Ch. 74, Sch. X
20-148                    Ch. 74, Sch. IV
20-150(e)                 Ch. 74, Sch. V
                          Ch. 74,
20-158                    Sch. I,
                          II
20-160(b)                 Ch. 74, Sch. VI
20-162                    72.01
20-165.1                  Ch. 74, Sch. III
                          Ch. 74,
20-172                    Sch. I,
                          II,
                          IV
20-173                    Ch. 74, Sch. VI
20-174                    Ch. 74, Sch. VI
20-219.11                 50.58
42-29                     150.32
42-30                     150.32
Ch. 44A, Art. 1           50.60
58-82-1                   91.01
Ch. 65, Art. 9            92.03
Ch. 70, Art. 3            92.05;
                          92.06
70-28(4)                  92.05;
                          92.06
Ch. 87                    112.02
Ch. 93B                   110.31
Ch. 105                   110.17
105-36                    110.16
105-36.1                  110.17
105-37                    110.17
105-37.1                  110.17
105-38                    110.17
105-39                    110.17
105-41                    110.16
105-41.1                  110.17
105-42                    110.16
105-44                    110.17
105-45                    110.17
105-46                    110.17
105-48.1                  110.17
105-49                    110.17
105-50                    110.17
105-51                    110.16
105-53                    110.17
105-54                    110.17
105-55                    110.17
105-56                    110.17
105-57                    110.16
105-61                    110.17
105-61.1                  110.17
105-64                    110.17
105-64.1                  110.17
105-65                    110.16;
                          110.17
105-65.1                  110.16
105-67                    110.17
105-68                    110.17
105-69                    110.17
105-72                    110.17
105-74                    110.17
105-75                    110.17
105-77                    110.17
105-80                    110.17
105-82                    110.17
105-83                    110.16
105-85                    110.17
105-86                    110.17
105-87                    110.17
105-88                    110.17
105-90                    110.17
105-90.1                  110.17
105-92                    110.17
105-96                    110.17
105-97                    110.17
105-98                    110.17
105-99                    110.16;
                          110.17
105-102                   110.17
105-102.1                 110.16
105-102.2                 110.17
105-102.3                 110.16
105-109                   110.58
105-113.5(a)              110.16
105-113.73                110.17
105-113.79                110.17
105-113.80                110.41
105-113.82                110.41
105-113.85                110.41
105-115                   110.16
105-116                   110.16
105-118                   110.17
105-119                   110.16;
                          110.17
105-120                   110.16
105-120.1                 110.16
105-164.13E(a)            151.022
105-228.10                110.16
105-228.25                110.16
105-277.3                 151.022
105-319                   31.017
105-349                   Charter, Ch. V, Sec. 4
105-349(a)                31.017
105-349(c)                31.017
105-373                   31.017
106-581.1                 151.022
106-581.1(6)              151.022
106-743.2                 151.022
106-743.4                 151.022
106G-120(16)              151.004
130A, Art. 9              151.004
136-32.1                  151.121
136-141 et seq.           50.63
136-143                   50.63
136-32.2                  151.121
143-145(7)                151.004
143-213(18)               51.41
143-214.5                 151.002
143-215.1                 51.41;
                          51.60
143-215.1(b)              51.60
143-215.1(d)              51.41
143-215.1(g)              51.60
143-215.3(a)(14)          51.41
143-215.3C                51.63
143-215.6(a)              151.999
143-215.6B                51.99
Ch. 143, Art. 33c         30.38
143.318.9—143.318.18    30.16;
                          30.17
153A-275                  51.40
Ch. 159                   30.37
Ch. 159, Art. III         31.016
160-175                   10.99
160A-22                   Charter, Ch. II, Sec. 1
160A-61                   151.035
Ch. 160A, Art. 7, Part 2  Charter, Ch. V, Sec. 1
160A-175                  10.99
160A-175(d)               151.999
160A-194                  150.08
160A-200.1                50.02
160A-207                  110.58
Ch. 160A, Art. 13         31.045
160A-303                  50.51
160A-303.2                50.51
160A-311                  130.03
160A-312                  51.40
                          31.060;
Ch. 160A, Art. 19         150.01;
                          151.002
Ch. 160A, Art. 19, Part 6 150.20
160A-413                  31.060
Ch. 160D                  151.004,
                          151.035
Ch. 160D, Art. 10         151.004
Ch. 160D, Art. 11         150.01
Ch. 160D, Art. 11, Part 5 150.04
Ch. 160D, Art. 18         151.002;
                          151.085
160D-102                  151.004;
                          151.040
160D-102(28)              151.004
160D-108                  151.004;
                          151.040
160D-108(f)               151.040
160D-108.1                151.004;
                          151.040
160D-109                  151.065
160D-109(d)               151.068
160D-308                  151.035
160D-309                  151.035
160D-403(c)               151.040
160D-403(f)               151.035
160D-404                  151.037
160D-404(a)               151.999
160D-404(b)               151.135
160D-405                  151.037
160D-406                  151.065;
                          151.135
160D-501                  151.004
160D-601                  151.050
160D-602(c)               151.050
160D-605                  151.050
160D-702                  151.022
160D-703(b)               151.050
160D-705                  151.135
160D-802                  151.004
160D-903                  151.022
160D-1111                 151.040
160D-1402                 151.068
160D-1402(c)              151.068
160D-1405(d)              151.068
163-292                   Charter, Ch. IV, Sec. 1
164-7                     10.14
Ch. 166A                  33.05
                          
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2014 Code
Prior Code 2014 Code
2-1        30.15
2-2        30.16
2-3        30.17
2-4        30.18
2-6        30.30
2-7        30.31
2-8        30.32
2-9        30.33
2-10       30.34
2-11       30.35
2-12       30.36
2-13       30.37
2-14       30.38
2-15       30.39
2-16       30.40
2-21       30.55
2-22       30.56
2-23       30.57
2-24       30.58
2-25       30.59
2-26       30.60
2-27       30.61
2-31       30.01
2-32       30.02
2-33       30.03
3-1        31.002
3-2        31.003
3-3        31.004
3-4        31.015
3-5        31.016
3-6        31.017
3-10       31.030
3-11       31.031
3-15       31.045
3-16       31.046
3-17       31.047
3-20       31.060
3-26       31.075
3-31       31.001
5A-1       130.01
5A-2       130.01
5A-3       130.02
5A-4       130.03
5A-6       130.04
5A-7       130.99
6-1        70.01
6-2        Ch. 74, Sch. I
6-3        Ch. 74, Sch. I
6-4        Ch. 74, Sch. II
6-5        Ch. 74, Sch. II
6-6        Ch. 74, Sch. III
6-7        Ch. 74, Sch. IV
6-8        Ch. 74, Sch. V
6-9        Ch. 74, Sch. V
6-10       Ch. 74, Sch. VI
6-11       Ch. 74, Sch. VII
6-12       Ch. 74, Sch. VIII
6-13       71.01
6-14       Ch. 74, Sch. IX
6-19       Ch. 74, Sch. X
6-20       Ch. 74, Sch. X
6-23       72.01
6-27       72.02
6-30       72.03
6-31       72.03
6-32       72.03
6-33       72.03
6-34       72.04
6-36       71.02
6-37       70.03
6-38A      70.99
6-39       70.99
7-1        90.15
7-2        90.16
7-3        90.17
7-4        90.18
7-5        90.19
7-6        90.20
7-11       90.35
7-12       90.36
7-13       90.37
7-31       90.01
7-32       90.02
7-33       90.03
7-34       90.99
8-1        110.01
8-2        110.02
8-3        110.15
8-4        110.16
8-5        110.17
8-8        110.30
8-9        110.31
8-10       110.32
8-11       110.33
8-12       110.34
8-13       110.35
8-14       110.36
8-15       110.37
8-16       110.38
8-17       110.39
8-18       110.40
8-19       110.41
8-26       110.55
8-27       110.56
8-28       110.57
8-30       110.58
8-31       110.99
8-40       112.01
8-41       112.02
8-42       112.03
8-43       112.04
8-44       112.05
8-45       112.99
8-71       111.01
8-72       111.02
8-73       111.03
8-74       111.04
8-75       111.05
8-76       111.06
8-77       111.07
9-1        33.01
9-2        33.02
9-3        33.03
9-4        33.04
9-5        33.05
9-6        33.06
9-7        33.99
11-1       50.01
11-2       50.15
11-3       50.16
11-4       50.17
11-5       50.18
11-6       50.19
11-7       50.20
11-8       50.21
11-16      50.35
11-17      50.36
11-18      50.37
11-19      50.38
11-36      50.99
11-37      50.99
11-38      50.99
11-39      50.99
11-40      50.99
11-41      50.99
12-1       91.01
12-2       91.02
12-3       91.03
12-9       91.04
12-10      91.04
12-11      91.05
12-17      91.06
12-18      91.99
13-1       92.01
13-2       92.02
13-3       92.03
13-5       92.05
13-7       92.07
13-11      92.20
13-12      92.21
13-13      92.22
13-14      92.23
13-21      92.50
13-22      92.51
13-23      92.52
13-26      92.99
16-1       150.01
16-2       150.02
16-3       150.03
16-4       150.04
16-5       150.05
16-6       150.06
16-7       150.07
16-8       150.07
16-9       150.07
16-10      150.99
16-11      150.08
           
 
REFERENCES TO POLICIES
 
Policy Date Passed Code Section
                  
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No.  Date Passed Code Section
-         3-12-1991   Charter, Ch. V, § 1
                      150.01—
                      150.08;
                      150.99;
                      151.001—
                      151.024;
                      151.035—
                      151.041;
                      151.050;
                      151.053;
                      151.065—
                      151.073;
                      151.085—
R-2021-03 6-24-2021   151.091;
                      151.105;
                      151.106;
                      151.120—
                      151.124;
                      151.135;
                      151.136;
                      151.150—
                      151.156;
                      151.160—
                      151.162;
                      151.999;
                      Ch. 151, Apps. A and
                      B
                     
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.   Date Passed             Code Section
                                   73.01—
-          - -                     73.07;
                                   73.99
-          - -                     90.02
-          - -                     151.999
-          4-3-1979                Ch. 75, Sch. I
-          6- -1980                Ch. 75, Sch. I
                                   151.001—
                                   151.021;
                                   151.035—
                                   151.038;
                                   151.065—
                                   151.070;
                                   151.072;
                                   151.073;
-          7-1-1980                151.085—
                                   151.090;
                                   151.105;
                                   151.106;
                                   151.120—
                                   151.124;
                                   151.135;
                                   151.136;
                                   151.999
-          6-2-1981                TSO Table I
-          9-6-1983                90.35
-          2-15-1984               70.99
-          5-1-1984                Ch. 74, Sch. X
-          5-1-1984                Ch. 74, Sch. X
-          5-1-1984                Ch. 74, Sch. X
-          9-2-1985                92.35;
                                   92.36
-          11-29-1985              151.123
-          10-7-1986               Ch. 74, Sch. IX
-          - -1987                 Ch. 75, Sch. II
-          - -1987                 Ch. 75, Sch. III
-          - -1987                 Ch. 75, Sch. IV
                                   150.01—
-          2-3-1987                150.08;
                                   150.99
-          3-28-1987               90.50—
                                   90.57
-          6-25-1987               151.008
-          1-5-1988                Ch. 74, Sch. X
-          3-12-1991               Charter, Ch. V, § 1
                                   130.01—
-          5-7-1991                130.04;
                                   130.99
                                   151.002;
                                   151.004;
                                   151.005;
                                   151.022—
                                   151.024;
-          9-7-1993                151.039;
                                   151.053;
                                   151.071;
                                   151.086;
                                   151.088—
                                   151.090;
                                   151.999
-          5-14-1997               130.05;
                                   130.99
-          4-21-1998               91.05;
                                   91.06
-          - -1999                 152.01
                                   151.004;
                                   151.086;
-          4-6-1999                151.160—
                                   151.162;
                                   Ch. 151, App. B
-          5-4-2004                Ch. 75, Sch. II
-          2-1-2005                TSO Table II
-          2-15-2006               151.150—151.156
                                   93.01—
-          8-1-2006                93.05;
                                   93.99;
                                   Ch. 151, App. A
-          5-2-2010                93.01
                                   52.01—
-          8-3-2010                52.12;
                                   52.99
-          3-8-2011                73.05
-          5-3-2011                73.05
-          9-6-2011                73.05;
                                   73.06
                                   50.36—
-          12-6-2011               50.38;
                                   50.99
-          1-3-2012                50.50—
                                   50.64
-          2-7-2012                50.02;
                                   50.99
                                   53.01—
-          5-1-2012                53.13;
                                   53.99
                                   51.01—
                                   51.09;
                                   51.20—
2007-13    11-6-2012               51.26;
                                   51.40—
                                   51.63;
                                   51.99
                                   54.01—
-          9-3-2013                54.13;
                                   54.99
-          4-1-2014, nunc pro tunc 111.08
          2-4-2014                 
-          4-1-2014, nunc pro tunc 93.30;
                                   93.31
          3-4-2014                 
                                   92.01—
                                   92.08;
                                   92.20—
                                   92.23;
-          6-3-2014                92.35;
                                   92.36;
                                   92.50—
                                   92.52;
                                   92.99
-          3-3-2015                130.04
-          4-7-2015                Charter, Ch. III, § 3
-          5-5-2015                Charter, Ch. III, § 4
O-2016-01  3-1-2016                Charter, Ch. V, § 1
O-2017-01  7-1-2017                51.04
                                   Ch. 74, Schs.
O-2017-02  3-7-2017                II,
                                   III,
                                   IV
O-2017-05  8-1-2017                114.01
O-2017-06  10-3-2017               31.085—
                                   31.091
ZT2018-01  1-2-2018                151.091
ZT2018-02  1-2-2018                151.013
O-2017-06  8-14-2018               31.088;
                                   31.089
ZT-2018-03 12-4-2018               151.088
                                   93.01;
O-2020-01  5-5-2020                93.06;
                                   93.99;
                                   151.086
O-2020-03  10-6-2020               70.99;
                                   Ch. 75, Sch. I
O-2021-01  3-2-2021                93.06;
                                   93.99
-          9-1-2021                150.20—
                                   150.36
                                  
 
 
