SURRY COUNTY, NORTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-8 Supplement contains:
Local legislation adopted through Ord. passed 8-12-2024
State legislation current through Legislative Service, 2024 Acts, Pamphlet No.
2
[Legislation Not Yet Codified]
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCES
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR SURRY COUNTY, NORTH
CAROLINA, REVISING, RESTATING, AMENDING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN
EXISTING GENERAL ORDINANCES OF SURRY COUNTY DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN
SUCH CODE OF ORDINANCES
   WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of Surry County are
inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in form and substance
for the complete preservation of public peace, health, safety and general
welfare of the County and for the proper conduct of its affairs; and
   WHEREAS, The Acts of the Legislature of the State of North Carolina empower
and authorize Surry County to revise, amend, restate codify and compile any
existing ordinances and new ordinances and to incorporate such into one
ordinance in book form; and
   WHEREAS, The Surry County Board of Commissioners authorized a general
compilation, revision and codification of many of the ordinances of Surry
County in book form; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Surry County Board of Commissioners to
accept this codification of ordinances in accordance with the law of the State
of North Carolina; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
County and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health, safety
and general welfare of the County that this ordinance take effect on September
19, 2016.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE SURRY COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
THAT:
   1.   That the general ordinances of Surry County as revised, amended,
restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as and shall
constitute the “Code of Ordinances of the County of Surry, North Carolina.”
   2.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such Code of
Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this
ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in part in
such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed or
penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of this
ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances levying
taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory, establishing
franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons, authorizing public
improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing of money,
authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property, granting or
accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use, vacating or
setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall such repeal
affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or pertaining to
subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
   3.   The Code of Ordinances shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approved by the Surry County Board of Commissioners. The Code of
Ordinances is hereby authorized and ordered to be kept on file in the Office of
the Surry County Clerk to the Board.
   4.   Such code shall be in full force and effect as provided in division 5.,
and such code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinances and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein
contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed,
attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.
   5.   The Code of Ordinances shall take effect on September 19, 2016.
   Adopted this the 19th day of September 2016 by the Surry County Board of
Commissioners.
\s\ R.F. (Buck) Golding
R.F. "Buck" Golding
Chairman
   Attest:
    \s\ Conchita Atkins
   Conchita Atkins
   Clerk to the Board
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time; computing time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinances
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend code; effect of new ordinances
   
10.18   Section histories; section headings; statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the County of Surry shall be
designated as the Code of Surry County, North Carolina, and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain,
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS or BOARD. The Board of Commissioners of Surry
County, North Carolina.
      BOND. When a bond is required, an undertaking in writing shall be
sufficient.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This county code, as modified
by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or sections.
      COMPUTATION OF TIME. The time within which an act is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and the last day; and, if the last day is
Saturday, Sunday or a legal holiday, that day shall be excluded.
      COUNTY. The County of Surry, North Carolina.
      GENDER. Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine
and neuter.
      GENERAL STATUTES or G.S. The latest edition of the General Statutes of
North Carolina, as amended.
      GOVERNOR. The Governor of North Carolina.
      JOINT AUTHORITY. All words giving a joint authority to three or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving the authority to a majority of
persons or officers.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      NON-TECHNICAL and TECHNICAL WORDS. Words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but TECHNICAL WORDS
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
      NUMBER. Words used in the singular include the plural, and the plural
includes the singular number.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath and, in those cases, the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of the county unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD. Whenever certain hours are named in this code,
they shall mean standard time or daylight savings time as may be in current use
in the county.
      OWNER. Applied to any property, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the whole
or a part of the property.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as applied to
any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Every species of property, except real property.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property.
      REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of North Carolina.
      STREET. Any public way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard,
parkway, dedicated alley, lane, viaduct, bridge and the approaches thereto
within the county and shall mean the entire width of the right-of-way between
abutting property lines.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      TENANT or OCCUPANT. When applied to a building or land, shall include any
person who occupies the whole or a part of the building or land, whether alone
or with others.
      TENSE. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well
as the past and present.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
Statutory reference:
   Computation of time, see G.S. § 1-593
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of the county shall be by the following
rules, unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or”, if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of an act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine gender; words in the singular
shall include the plural and words in the plural shall include the singular;
the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the county exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, that spelling shall be corrected and the word
or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within the county for the transaction of all county
business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME; COMPUTING TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   (1)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided,
shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last.
      (2)   If the last day be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   (A)   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other
ordinances pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in
full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary
implication.
   (B)   Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall be
construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
      (1)   Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture
incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective
date of this code;
      (2)   Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment
of money for the county or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the county
or any evidence of the county’s indebtedness;
      (3)   Any contract or obligation assumed by the county;
      (4)   Any ordinance fixing the salary of any county officer or employee;
      (5)   Any right or franchise granted by the county;
      (6)   Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating,
relocating, opening, widening, paving and the like, any street or public way in
the county;
      (7)   Any appropriation ordinance;
      (8)   Any ordinance which, by its own terms, is effective for a stated or
limited term;
      (9)   Any ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing taxes
therefor;
      (10)   Any zoning ordinance or zoning map amendment;
      (11)   Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any subdivision plat;
      (12)   Any ordinance describing or altering the boundaries of the county;
      (13)   The administrative ordinances or resolutions of the county not in
conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this code;
      (14)   Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes not included herein;
      (15)   Any ordinance establishing or prescribing street grades in the
county; and/or
      (16)   Any personnel ordinance.
   (C)   Nor shall any ordinance be construed to revive any ordinance or part
thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance which is repealed by
this chapter; and all ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full
force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length herein.
Statutory reference:
   Statutes not repealed by General Statutes, see G.S. § 164-7
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication
shall take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
   (B)   Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from their
passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND CODE; EFFECT OF NEW ORDINANCES.
   (A)   (1)   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend,
repeal or in any way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the
numbering system hereof and printed for inclusion herein.
      (2)   When subsequent ordinances repeal any chapter, section or division,
or any portion thereof, the repealed portions may be excluded from this code by
omission from reprinted pages.
      (3)   The subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted in
the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence that the subsequent
ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new code by the county.
   (B)   Amendments to any of the provisions of the code shall be made by
amending provisions by specific reference to the section number of this code in
language substantially similar to the following: “Section                of the
Code of Ordinances, Surry County, North Carolina, is hereby amended as
follows...”. The new provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (C)   If a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to be added,
language substantially similar to the following shall be used: “The Code of
Ordinances, Surry County, North Carolina, is hereby amended by adding a
section, to be numbered               , which section shall read as
follows:...”. The new section shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (D)   All sections, subchapters, chapters or provisions desired to be
repealed must be specifically repealed by section, subchapters or chapter
number, as the case may be.
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; SECTION HEADINGS; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and, if any, are listed following the text of
the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-
1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text
of the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example: (G.S. §
160A-11) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1985)
      (2)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
         § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            This county shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            Inspection of public records, see G.S. §§ 132-1 et seq.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Whenever in this code or in any ordinance of the county an act is
prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense or a
misdemeanor, or whenever in this code of ordinances the doing of an act is
required or the failure to do an act is declared to be unlawful or an offense
or a misdemeanor, where no specific penalty is provided therefore, the
violation of the provision of this code of ordinances or of any such ordinance
shall be punished by a fine of not more than $500 or by imprisonment for not
more than 30 days for each separate violation. Each day any violation of this
code or any ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense,
unless otherwise specified.
   (B)   Any act constituting a violation of the provisions within this code of
ordinances or a failure to comply with any of its requirements shall also
subject the offender to a civil penalty of $100 for each day the violation
continues. If the offender fails to pay this penalty within ten days after
being cited for a violation, the penalty may be recovered by the county in a
civil action in the nature of debt.
   (C)   In addition to the provisions of division (A) above, any provision of
this code or other ordinance of the county may be enforced by any one or more
of the remedies authorized by G.S. § 153A-123.
Statutory reference:
   Authorizing counties to punish ordinance violations as misdemeanors, see
G.S. § 14-4
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
      
31.   911 SERVICE
CHAPTER 30: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Title
   
30.02   Intent and purpose
   
30.03   Definitions
   
30.04   Organizations and appointments
   
30.05   Coordinator; emergency powers and duties
   
30.06   Emergency management plans
   
30.07   Territorial applicability
   
30.08   No county or private liability
States of Emergencies
   
30.20   Restrictions authorized
   
30.21   Proclamations imposing prohibitions and restrictions
   
30.22   Evacuation
   
30.23   Curfew
   
30.24   Alcoholic beverages; restrictions
   
30.25   Dangerous weapons and substances; restrictions
   
30.26   Access to areas; restrictions
   
30.27   Removal of prohibitions and restrictions
   
30.28   Supersedes previous ordinance
 
   
30.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as “Surry County Emergency Management
Ordinance”.
(Ord. passed 11-3-1986)
§ 30.02 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is the intent and purpose of this chapter to assign duties and to
discharge responsibilities for the use of all of the resources of the County of
Surry to combat disasters, as defined herein.
   (B)   The Surry County Office of Emergency Management will be the
coordinating agency for all activity in connection with emergency management.
It will be the agency through which the Surry County Board of Commissioners may
exercise the authority and discharge the responsibilities vested in them during
disaster emergencies.
   (C)   This chapter will not relieve any Surry County department of any
authority or responsibilities to perform the duties vested in them by the
General Statutes and laws of North Carolina or by local ordinances or
resolutions; nor is it intended to adversely affect the work of any volunteer
agencies organized for relief in disaster.
(Ord. passed 11-3-1986)
§ 30.03 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation of this chapter.
   COORDINATOR. The person serving at the pleasure of the Surry County
Commissioners in the Surry County Emergency Management Office.
   DISASTER. Includes, but is not limited to, actual or threatened enemy
attack, sabotage, extraordinary fire, flood, storm, hazardous material
incidents, epidemic or other impending or actual calamities endangering or
threatening to endanger health, life or property within Surry County.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT. Preparation for and implementation of all emergency
functions, except functions for which the military has responsibility to
prevent, minimize and repair injury and damage resulting from disasters caused
by enemy attack, sabotage or other hostile action. Emergency functions include
law enforcement, rescue, public works, medical and health services,
firefighting services, warning and communications, radiological, chemical and
special weapons services, evacuation, emergency welfare services,
transportation, restoration of public utility services and other related
civilian protection functions.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT FORCES. The employees, equipment and facilities of
Surry County departments, boards, councils, institutions and commissions; and,
in addition, it shall include all volunteer persons or agencies.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT VOLUNTEER. Any person duly registered, identified and
appointed by the Coordinator of the Surry County Emergency Management Agency to
participate in the emergency management activity.
(Ord. passed 11-3-1986)
§ 30.04 ORGANIZATIONS AND APPOINTMENTS.
   (A)   The department head of the Surry County Emergency Management Office
will be known as the “Coordinator”, and such other assistants and employees
deemed necessary for the proper functioning of the Department shall be
appointed under the direction of the County Commissioners.
   (B)   The Coordinator shall designate an Assistant Coordinator to assume the
emergency duties of the Coordinator in the event of his or her absence or
inability to act.
   (C)   The employees and resources of all Surry County departments, boards,
institutions and councils will participate in the emergency management
activities. Duties assigned to county departments shall be the same as or
similar to the normal duties of the Department, where possible.
(Ord. passed 11-3-1986)
§ 30.05 COORDINATOR; EMERGENCY POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   During any period of impending disaster or when Surry County has
been struck by disaster, within the definition of this chapter, the Coordinator
may promulgate such regulations as he or she deems necessary to protect life
and property and preserve critical resources. This promulgation solely by the
Coordinator will be made only when immediacy of necessary action precludes
contact and discussion with the Surry County Commissioners.
      (2)   Such regulations may include, but shall not be limited to the
following:
         (a)   Regulations prohibiting or restricting the movement of vehicles
in order to facilitate the work of the emergency management forces or to
facilitate the mass movement of personnel from critical areas within the
county; or
         (b)   Regulations pertaining to the movement of persons from areas
deemed to be hazardous or vulnerable to disaster.
      (3)   Regulations promulgated in accordance with the authority above will
be given widespread circulation through all avenues of the news media.
   (B)   The Coordinator shall be responsible to the Surry County Board of
Commissioners in all phases of his or her involvement in emergency management
activity. Within the scope of his or her authority, the Coordinator shall be
responsible for the planning, coordination and operation of emergency
management activities in Surry County. The Coordinator shall maintain liaison
with the state and federal authorities and the authorities of nearby political
subdivisions so as to ensure the most effective operation of the emergency
management plans. The Coordinator’s duties shall include, but not be limited
to, the following:
      (1)   Coordinating the recruitment of volunteer personnel and agencies to
augment the personnel and facilities of the County of Surry for emergency
management purposes;
      (2)   Development and coordination of plans for the immediate use, in
times of emergency, of all facilities, equipment, manpower and other resources
of the county for the purpose of minimizing or preventing damage to persons and
property; and protecting and restoring to usefulness governmental services and
public utilities necessary for the public health, safety and welfare;
      (3)   Negotiating and concluding agreements with owners or persons in
control of buildings or other property for the use of such buildings or other
property for emergency management purposes, and for designating suitable
buildings as public shelters;
      (4)   Conducting public practice alerts to ensure the efficient operation
of the emergency management forces and to familiarize residents with emergency
management regulations, procedures and operations;
      (5)   Coordinating the activity of all other public and private agencies
engaged in any emergency management activity; and
      (6)   Coordinating activity when a multi-organization response is
required. This would include, but not be limited to, the following:
         (a)   Mass casualty situations;
         (b)   Any hazardous material incident including surface transport,
fixed facilities and air transport;
         (c)   Evacuation procedures due to any natural or human-made incident;
or
         (d)   Any aircraft incident; this would include, but not be limited
to, small aircraft.
(Ord. passed 11-3-1986)
§ 30.06 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PLANS.
   (A)   Comprehensive emergency management plans shall be adopted and
maintained by resolution of the Surry County Board of Commissioners. In the
preparation of these plans as they pertain to county organizations, it is
intended that the services, equipment and facilities and personnel of all
existing departments and agencies shall be utilized to the fullest extent. The
basic emergency operations plan and disaster operations plan, following
approval by the Board of County Commissioners, shall have the effect of law
whenever a disaster, as defined in this chapter, has been proclaimed.
   (B)   The Coordinator shall prescribe in the emergency plans those positions
within the disaster organization, in addition to his or her own, for which
lines of succession are necessary. In each instance, the responsible person
will designate and keep on file with the Coordinator a current list of three
persons as successors to his or her position. The list will be in the order of
succession and will nearly as possible designate persons best capable of
carrying out all assigned duties and functions.
   (C)   Each service chief and department head assigned responsibility in the
basic plan shall be responsible for carrying out all duties and functions
assigned therein. Duties will include the organization and training of assigned
employees and, where needed, volunteers. Each chief shall formulate the
operational plan for his or her service which, when approved, shall be an annex
to a part of the basic plan.
   (D)   Amendments to the basic plan shall be submitted to the Coordinator. If
approved, the Coordinator will then submit the amendments to the Surry County
Board of Commissioners with his or her recommendation for its approval. Such
amendments shall take effect upon approval.
   (E)   When a required competency or skill for a disaster function is not
available within local government, the Coordinator is authorized to seek
assistance from persons outside the government. The assignment of duties, when
of a supervisory nature, shall also include the granting of authority for the
persons so assigned to carry out such duties prior, during and after the
occurrence of a disaster. Such services from persons outside of government may
be accepted by local government on a volunteer basis, if available. If not
available, the Coordinator is authorized to hire these required services, with
approval of the County Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 11-3-1986)
§ 30.07 TERRITORIAL APPLICABILITY.
   Sections
30.20 through
30.31 of this chapter shall not apply within the corporate limits of any
municipality, or within any area of the county over which the municipality has
jurisdiction to enact general police-power ordinances, unless the municipality,
by resolution, consents to its application or the Mayor of the municipality has
requested its application, in which event it shall apply to such areas as fully
and to the same extent as elsewhere in the county.
(Ord. passed 11-3-1986)
§ 30.08 NO COUNTY OR PRIVATE LIABILITY.
   (A)   This chapter is an action of the government of Surry County in its
functions for the protection of the public peace, health and safety.
   (B)   Neither the County of Surry, nor its agents and representatives, or
any individual, receiver, firm, partnership, corporation, association or
trustee, or any of the agents thereof in good faith carrying out, complying
with or attempting to comply with any order, rule or regulation of this
chapter, shall be liable for any damage sustained to persons or property as the
result of said activity. Any person owning or controlling real estate or other
premises who voluntarily and without compensation grants the County of Surry
the right to inspect, designate and use the whole or any part or parts of such
real estate or premises for the purpose of sheltering persons during an actual,
impending or practice disaster situation shall not be civilly liable for the
death of, or injury to, any persons, on or about such real estate or premises
under such license, privilege or other permission; or for loss of, or damage
to, the property of such person.
(Ord. passed 11-3-1986)
STATES OF EMERGENCIES
§ 30.20 RESTRICTIONS AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   An emergency is an occurrence or imminent threat of widespread or
severe damage, injury, or loss of life or property resulting from any natural,
man-made, accidental, military, paramilitary, terrorism, weather-related,
public health, explosion-related, riot-related, or technical failure or
accident, including, but not limited to, a cyber incident, an explosion, a
transportation accident, a radiological accident, or a chemical or other
hazardous material incident.
   (B)   A state of emergency shall be deemed to exist whenever during times of
public crisis, disaster, rioting, catastrophe, or similar emergency, for any
reason, public safety authorities are unable or are likely to be unable to
maintain public order or afford adequate protection for lives, safety or
property.
   (C)   In the event of an existing or threatened state of emergency
endangering the lives, safety, health and welfare of the people within Surry
County or any part thereof, or threatening damages to or destruction of
property, the Chairman of the Board of Commissioners of Surry County (Chairman)
is hereby authorized and empowered, pursuant to G.S. 166A-19.22, to issue a
Declaration of State of Emergency declaring to all persons the existence of
such a State of Emergency and, in order to more effectively protect the lives
and property of people within the County, to place in effect any or all of the
restrictions hereinafter authorized. The emergency area shall not exceed the
area over which the County has jurisdiction to enact police-powered ordinances.
The State of Emergency shall expire when it is terminated by the Chairman.
   (D)   The Chairman is authorized and empowered to enact ordinances designed
to permit the imposition of prohibitions and restrictions within the emergency
area during the state of emergency declared pursuant to G.S. 166A-19.22.
Prohibitions and restrictions authorized herein, more fully discussed below,
include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Prohibition and restriction of movements of people in public places
including any of the following:   
         (a)   Imposing a curfew.
         (b)   Directing and compelling the voluntary or mandatory evacuation
of all or any part of the population from any stricken or threatened area
within the governing body's jurisdiction.
         (c)   Prescribing routes, modes of transportation and destinations in
connection with evacuations.
         (d)   Controlling ingress and egress of an emergency area and the
movement of persons within that area.
         (e)   Providing for the closure, within the emergency area, of
streets, roads, highways, bridges, public vehicular areas, or other areas
ordinarily used for vehicular travel, except to the movement of emergency
responders and other persons necessary for recovering from the emergency. The
Sheriff is authorized to assist in the implementation of the emergency plan.
      (2)   Prohibit or restrict the operation of offices, businesses, and
other places to or from which people may travel or which they may congregate.
      (3)   Prohibit or restrict possession, transportation, sale, purchase and
consumption of alcoholic beverages.
      (4)   Prohibit or restrict the possession, transportation, sale,
purchase, storage, and use of gasoline, dangerous weapons and substances,
except that this ordinance does not authorize prohibitions or restrictions or
lawfully possessed firearms or ammunition.
      (5)   Restrict other activities or conditions the control of which may be
reasonably necessary to maintain order and protect lives or property during the
state of emergency.
(Ord. passed 11-3-1986; Ord. passed 12-7-2020)
§ 30.21 PROCLAMATIONS IMPOSING PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The Chairman, by written Declaration, may impose the prohibitions and
restrictions specified in §§
30.20 through
30.28, and
30.99 of this chapter in the manner described in those sections. The Chairman
may impose as many of those specified prohibitions and restrictions as he finds
necessary, because of an emergency, to maintain an acceptable level of public
order and services, and to protect lives, safety and property. The Chairman
shall recite his findings in the Declaration.
   (B)   The Declaration shall be in writing. The Chairman shall take
reasonable steps to give notice of the terms of the Declaration to those
affected by it and shall post a copy of it in the County Courthouse. The
Chairman shall send copies of the Declaration to the mass communications media
which serve the affected area. The Chairman shall maintain the written
Declaration and furnish upon request certified copies of it for use as
evidence. The Declaration shall be posted conspicuously on the County website
and a written, signed copy of the Declaration shall be forwarded to North
Carolina's WebEOC, critical incident management system before the Declaration
becomes effective.
(Ord. passed 11-3-1986; Ord. passed 12-7-2020)
§ 30.22 EVACUATION.
   The Chairman is empowered to direct and compel the evacuation of all or part
of the population of the County of Surry; to prescribe routes, modes of
transportation and destination in connection with evacuation; and to control
ingress and egress of a disaster area, the movement of persons within the area
and the occupancy of premises therein. Details of the evacuation may be set
forth or amended in a subsequent Declaration which shall be well publicized.
(Ord. passed 11-3-1986; Ord. passed 12-7-2020)
§ 30.23 CURFEW.
   (A)   The ordinance may impose a curfew prohibiting in certain areas during
certain periods of time the appearance in public of anyone who is not a member
of an exempted class. The ordinance shall specify the geographical area and the
period during each 24-hour day to which the curfew applies. The Chairman may
exempt from some or all of the curfew restrictions classes of people whose
exemption the Chairman finds necessary for the preservation of public health,
safety and welfare. The ordinance shall state the exempted classes and
restrictions from which each is exempted.
   (B)   Unless otherwise specified in the ordinance, the curfew shall apply
during the specified period, each day until the Chairman declares the curfew to
have expired.
(Ord. passed 11-3-1986; Ord. passed 12-7-2020)
§ 30.24 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; RESTRICTIONS.
   The ordinance may prohibit the possession or consumption of any alcoholic
beverage; including beer, wine, and liquor other than on one's own premises,
and may prohibit the transfer, transportation, sale or purchase of any
alcoholic beverage within the emergency area. The prohibition, if imposed, may
apply to transfer of alcoholic beverages by employees of Alcoholic Beverage
Control stores or by anyone else within the emergency area.
(Ord. passed 11-3-1986; Ord. passed 12-7-2020)
§ 30.25 DANGEROUS WEAPONS AND SUBSTANCES; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The ordinance may prohibit the transportation or possession off one's
own premises, or the sale of any dangerous weapon, or substance. This section
does not apply to lawfully possessed firearms or ammunition. The Chairman may
exempt from some or all of the restrictions classes of people whose possession
transfer, transportation of certain dangerous weapons or substances is
necessary to the preservation of the public's health, safety or welfare. The
ordinance shall state the exempted classes and restrictions from which each is
exempted.
   (B)   DANGEROUS WEAPON OR SUBSTANCE means:
      (1)   Any deadly weapon, ammunition, explosive, incendiary device,
radioactive material or device, gasoline or other instrument or substance
designed for use that carries a threat of serious bodily injury or destruction
property;
      (2)   Any other instrument or substance will be so that is capable of
being used to inflict serious bodily harm or injury/destruction to property;
and
      (3)   Any part or ingredient in any substance included above when the
circumstances indicate probability that such a part or ingredient will be so
used.
   (C)   If imposed, the ordinance shall apply throughout the jurisdiction of
the county or such part thereof as is designated in the ordinance.
(Ord. passed 11-3-1986; Ord. passed 12-7-2020)
§ 30.26 ACCESS TO AREAS; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The ordinance may prohibit obtaining access or attempting to obtain
access to any area designated in the manner described in this section, in
violation of any order, clearly posted notice indicating that access is denied
or restricted.
   (B)   Areas to which access is denied shall be designated by the sheriff or
his designee when directed in the ordinance to do so by the Chairman. In acting
under this authority, the sheriff or his designee may restrict or deny access
to any area, street, highway or location within the County if that restriction
or denial of access is reasonably necessary to promote efforts being made to
overcome the emergency or to prevent further aggravation of the emergency.
(Ord. passed 11-3-1986; Ord. passed 12-7-2020)
§ 30.27 REMOVAL OF PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The Chairman shall terminate the Declaration of State of Emergency or
remove prohibitions or restrictions when the emergency no longer requires. Any
ordinance issued under this chapter shall expire at the time directed by the
Chairman.
   (B)   Superseding an amendatory proclamation. The Chairman, in his
discretion, may revoke the restrictions authorized by this chapter in separate
ordinances, and may amend any ordinance by means of a superseding ordinance in
accordance with the procedures outlined herein.
   (C)   In case of the absence or disability of the Chairman, the Vice-
Chairman of the Board of Commissioners, or such other persons as designated by
the Board of Commissioners, shall have and exercise all of the powers herein
given to the Chairman.
(Ord. passed 11-3-1986; Ord. passed 12-7-2020)
§ 30.28 SUPERSEDES PREVIOUS ORDINANCE.
   This subchapter shall supersede the previous ordinance applying to states of
emergency.
(Ord. passed 12-7-2020)
§ 30.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any prohibition or restriction imposed by a
proclamation authorized by this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor,
punishable, upon conviction, by a fine not exceeding $50 or imprisonment not
exceeding 30 days, as provided by G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. passed 11-3-1986; Ord. passed 12-7-2020)
CHAPTER 31: 911 SERVICE
Section
   
31.01   Title
   
31.02   Legislative purpose
   
31.03   Definitions
   
31.04   911 charges
   
31.05   Payment and collection of charges
   
31.06   Administration
   
31.07   Emergency Telephone System Fund; payments from Fund
   
31.08   Telephone records
   
31.09   Limitation of liability
   
31.10   Persons outside county
 
   
31.99   Penalty
§ 31.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Surry County Public Safety Telephone
Ordinance”.
(Ord. passed 9-17-1990)
§ 31.02 LEGISLATIVE PURPOSE.
   The Board of Commissioners of Surry County, North Carolina, declares it to
be in the public interest to provide a toll free number through which
individuals in Surry County can gain rapid, direct access to public safety aid.
The number shall be provided with the objective of reducing response time to
situations requiring law enforcement, fire, medical, rescue or other public
safety service.
(Ord. passed 9-17-1990)
§ 31.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   911 CHARGE. A contribution to Surry County for the 911 service start-up
equipment costs, subscriber notification costs, addressing costs, billing costs
and non-recurring and recurring installation, maintenance, service and network
charges of a service supplier providing 911 service pursuant to this chapter.
   911 SYSTEM or 911 SERVICE. An emergency telephone system that provides the
user of the public telephone system the ability to reach a public safety
answering point by dialing the digits 911. The terms 911 SYSTEM or 911 SERVICE
also includes ENHANCED 911 SERVICE, which means an emergency telephone system
that provides the user of the public telephone system with 911 service and, in
addition, directs 911 calls to appropriate public safety answering points by
selective routing based on the geographical location from which the call
originated and provides the capability for automatic number identification and
automatic location identification features.
   ADDRESSING. The assigning of a numerical address and street name (the street
name may be numerical) to each location within Surry County’s geographical area
necessary to provide public safety services as determined by Surry County. This
address replaces any route and box number currently in place in the 911
database and facilitates quicker response by public safety agencies.
   COUNTY. The County of Surry, North Carolina.
   EXCHANGE ACCESS FACILITY. The access from a particular telephone
subscriber’s premises to the telephone system of a service supplier. EXCHANGE
ACCESS FACILITIES include service supplier provided access lines, PBX trunks
and centrex network access registers, all as defined by tariffs of telephone
companies as approved by the North Carolina Utilities Commission. EXCHANGE
ACCESS FACILITIES do not include service supplier owned and operated telephone
pay station lines, or Wide Area Telecommunications Service (WATS), Foreign
Exchange (FX) or incoming only lines.
   PUBLIC AGENCY. The state and any city, county, municipal corporation,
chartered organization, public district or public authority located in whole or
in part within in state which provides or has authority to provide fire
fighting, law enforcement, ambulance, medical or other emergency services.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AGENCY. A functional division of a public agency which
provides firefighting, law enforcement, medical, suicide prevention, civil
defense, poison control or other emergency services.
   SERVICE SUPPLIER. A person or entity who provides exchange telephone service
to a telephone subscriber.
   TELEPHONE SUBSCRIBER or SUBSCRIBER. A person or entity to whom exchange
telephone service, either residential or commercial, is provided and in return
for which the person or entity is billed on a monthly basis. When the same
person, business or organization has several telephone access lines, each
exchange access facility shall constitute a separate subscription.
(Ord. passed 9-17-1990)
§ 31.04 911 CHARGES.
   (A)   The county does hereby impose a monthly 911 charge upon each exchange
access facility subscribed to by telephone subscribers whose exchange access
lines are in the area served or which would be served by the 911 service. The
911 charge shall be uniform and may not vary according to the type of exchange
access facility used.
   (B)   There is hereby imposed upon each exchange access facility as
described in division (A) above a charge not to exceed $1 per month. The Board
of Commissioners shall, by ordinance or resolution at any meeting of the Board,
set the exact amount of said charge.
   (C)   The exact amount of the charge shall be $1 per month.
   (D)   The imposition and collection of the charges as provided in the
ordinance shall become effective 120 days from date of adoption.
(Ord. passed 9-17-1990)
§ 31.05 PAYMENT AND COLLECTION OF CHARGES.
   (A)   The subscriber of any exchange access facility will be billed for the
monthly 911 charges, if any, imposed with respect to that facility. Each
service supplier shall, on behalf of the county, collect the charges from those
subscribers to whom it provides exchange telephone service in the area served
by the 911 service. As part of its normal monthly billing process, the service
supplier shall collect the charges for each month or part of the month an
exchange access facility is in service, and it may list the charge as a
separate entry on each bill. If a service supplier receives a partial payment
for a monthly bill from a subscriber, the service supplier shall apply the
payment against the amount the subscriber owes the service supplier first.
   (B)   A service supplier has no obligation to take any legal action to
enforce the collection of the 911 charges for which any subscriber is billed.
However, the county may initiate collection action of the 911 charges for which
any subscriber is billed and shall further be entitled to collect all
reasonable costs associated with the collection action including attorneys’
fees.
   (C)   The county subscribing to 911 service shall remain ultimately
responsible to the service supplier for all 911 installation, service,
equipment, operation and maintenance charges owed to the service supplier. Upon
request by the county, the service supplier shall provide the county with a
list of amounts uncollected along with the names and addresses of telephone
subscribers who have not paid the 911 charge.
   (D)   Any taxes due on 911 service provided by the service supplier will be
billed to the county subscribing to that service. However, state and local
taxes do not apply to 911 charges billed to subscribers under this chapter.
(Ord. passed 9-17-1990)
§ 31.06 ADMINISTRATION.
   Each service supplier that collects the 911 charges on behalf of the county
is entitled to a 1% administrative fee as compensation for collecting the
charges. The service supplier shall remit the rest of the charges it collects
during the month to the Finance Officer of the county within ten days after the
last day of the month.
(Ord. passed 9-17-1990)
§ 31.07 EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SYSTEM FUND; PAYMENTS FROM FUND.
   (A)   The Finance Officer of the county to whom 911 charges are remitted
under §
31.06 of this chapter shall deposit the charges in a separate, restricted fund.
The Fund shall be known as the “Emergency Telephone System Fund”. The Finance
Officer may invest money in the Fund in the same manner that other money of the
county may be invested. The Finance Officer shall deposit any income earned
from such an investment in the Emergency Telephone System Fund.
   (B)   (1)   Money from the Emergency Telephone System Fund shall be used
only to pay for:
         (a)   The lease, purchase or maintenance of emergency telephone
equipment, including necessary computer hardware, software and database
provisioning, addressing and non-recurring costs of establishing a 911 system;
and
         (b)   The rates associated with the service supplier’s 911 service and
other service supplier recurring charges.
      (2)   The following expenses are not eligible for payment from the Fund:
the lease or purchase of real estate, cosmetic remodeling of emergency dispatch
centers, hiring, training and compensating dispatchers, and the purchase of
mobile communications vehicles, ambulances, fire engines, other emergency
vehicles.
      (3)   The county may contract with a service supplier for any term
negotiated by the service supplier and the county and may make payments from
the Emergency Telephone System Fund to provide any payments required by the
contract.
(Ord. passed 9-17-1990)
§ 31.08 TELEPHONE RECORDS.
   (A)   Each telephone service supplier shall provide subscriber telephone
numbers, names and service addresses to 911 systems when required by the
county. Although customer numbers, names and service addresses shall be
available to 911 systems, such information shall remain the property of the
disclosing service supplier. The total cost of the system shall include
expenses paid to service suppliers to provide and maintain 911 information.
This information shall be used only in providing emergency response services to
911 calls. The county may not release a telephone number required to be
provided under this section to any person for purposes other than including the
number in the emergency telephone system database or providing the number to
permit a response to police, fire, medical or other emergency situation.
   (B)   To the extent necessary to provide 911 service, private listing
customers of a service supplier in a 911 service area waive the privacy
afforded by non-listed and non-published numbers when 911 service is
established.
   (C)   No service supplier, or agents or employees of a service supplier,
shall be liable to any person provided 911 service established under this
chapter for release for emergency telephone purposes of information specified
in this section that is not already part of the public record, including non-
listed or non-published telephone numbers.
(Ord. passed 9-17-1990)
§ 31.09 LIMITATION OF LIABILITY.
   A service supplier, including any telephone company and its employees,
directors, officers and agents, is not liable for any damages in a civil action
for injuries, death or loss to persons or property incurred by any person as a
result of any act or omission of a service supplier or of any of its employees,
directors, officers or agents, except for willful or wanton misconduct, in
connection with developing, adopting, implementing, maintaining or operating
any 911 system.
(Ord. passed 9-17-1990)
§ 31.10 PERSONS OUTSIDE COUNTY.
   When an individual physically resides in an adjacent county, but receives
local exchange telephone service from a central office in the county, it shall
be the responsibility of the county to notify the appropriate public agency of
a request for public safety service from such individual.
(Ord. passed 9-17-1990)
§ 31.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who intentionally calls the 911 number for other than purposes of
obtaining public safety assistance commits a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 9-17-1990)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
CHAPTER 50: RESERVED
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
[Reserved]
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   LARGE GATHERINGS
      
92.   ABATEMENT OF HEALTH AND SAFETY NUISANCE ORDINANCE
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
Organizational Matters
   
90.001   Title and purpose
   
90.002   Definitions
   
90.003   Animal Control Committee
Animal Control Program
   
90.015   Animal control program
   
90.016   Enforcement
   
90.017   General duties of animal control program
   
90.018   Rabies Control Officer
Lost or Stray Animals
   
90.030   Identification of dogs
   
90.031   Impoundment
   
90.032   Authority to tranquilize or destroy
   
90.033   Notice to owner
   
90.034   Redemption by owner
   
90.035   Destruction or adoption of unredeemed animals
   
90.036   Redemption of unvaccinated dog or cat
   
90.037   Rabid animal not redeemed or adopted
   
90.038   Injured, sick, or diseased animals
Animals Creating a Nuisance
   
90.050   Animal creating a nuisance
   
90.051   Public nuisance definition
   
90.052   Estrous animal
   
90.053   Authority to tranquilize or destroy
   
90.054   Exceptions
Dangerous, Potentially Dangerous, or Vicious Dogs
   
90.065   Purpose
   
90.066   Determination of potentially dangerous dog
   
90.067   Impoundment of dangerous dogs; potentially dangerous dogs, disposition
   
90.068   Registration of potentially dangerous dogs
Aggression-Trained Dogs
   
90.080   Aggression-trained dogs
   
90.081   Law enforcement agency dogs
Animal Welfare
   
90.095   Purpose
   
90.096   Cruelty to animals
   
90.097   Animal welfare
   
90.098   Exemptions
   
90.099   Registration of breeding kennel
   
90.100   Impoundment
Rabies Control
   
90.115   Rabies control
   
90.116   Rabies vaccination tags
   
90.117   Impoundment of dogs not wearing required rabies vaccination tags
Regulation of Ownership, Keeping and Harboring Inherently Dangerous Exotic
Animals
   
90.130   Purpose and authority
   
90.131   Definitions
   
90.132   Prohibition
   
90.133   Exemptions
   
90.134   Enforcement
   
90.135   Impoundment and/or disposition of inherently dangerous exotic animals
General Provisions
   
90.150   Interference with enforcement
   
90.151   Impoundment and destruction state law
 
   
90.998   Enforcement
   
90.999   Penalties
ORGANIZATIONAL MATTERS
§ 90.001 TITLE AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   Title. This chapter shall be known as the Surry County Animal Control
and Animal Welfare Chapter.
   (B)   Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to:
      (1)   Protect the people of Surry County from dangerous, exotic or
uncontrolled animals;
      (2)   Supplement, not supersede, the North Carolina Rabies Control
Statutes; and
      (3)   Insure the humane treatment of animals within the county.
   (C)   This chapter shall not apply to animals otherwise regulated by North
Carolina or Federal law.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2016)
§ 90.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following terms, phrases, words, and
their derivations shall have the meaning defined herein, unless the context
clearly indicates that another meaning is intended. Words used in the present
tense include the future and past tense; words in the plural number include the
singular number; words in the singular number include the plural number; and
words in the masculine gender include the feminine gender.
   ABANDON. To intentionally, knowingly, or negligently leave an animal at a
location for more than 48 consecutive hours without providing for the animal’s
continued care.
   ADEQUATE FOOD. The provision on a daily basis of a quantity of wholesome
foodstuff suitable for the species and age, sufficient to maintain a reasonable
level of nutrition in each animal, as well as maintain the animal in good
health and comfort. Such foodstuff shall be served in a receptacle, dish, or
container that is physically clean and from which agents injurious to health
have been removed or destroyed to a practical minimum.
   ADEQUATE SHELTER. An enclosure which is structurally sound, has a minimum of
three sides, is large enough for the animal to turn around, is maintained in
good repair, and constructed in such a manner that is water and wind resistant.
The enclosure shall not have a metal floor nor be a metal barrel. An ADEQUATE
SHELTER provides some shade from the direct rays of the sun and assures
adequate ventilation and light.
   ADEQUATE WATER. Constant access to a supply of clean, fresh water, provided
in a sanitary manner. In near or below freezing temperatures, the water must be
changed frequently so as to prevent freezing.
   AGGRESSION-TRAINED DOG. A dog that has been trained or conditioned to bite,
attack, or exhibit aggressive behavior toward humans or other domestic animals
for any purpose. This includes but not limited to, the security of business
property and personal security.
   ANIMAL. For the purpose of this chapter, any dog, cat, or ferret, as well as
exotic animals that may be forbidden under §§
90.130 et seq.
   ANIMAL CONTROL DEPARTMENT. The Surry County Animal Control Department.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER (ACO). A County employee designated as a dog warden,
rabies control officer, rabies control official, or other designated county
representative or agent, whose responsibility includes rabies and animal
control.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any premises operated by the County for the purpose of
impounding and caring for all animals found running at large, or otherwise
subject to impounding in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, or any
other county ordinance, directive, or state law.
   AT LARGE. An animal shall be deemed to be AT LARGE when it is off the
property of its owner and not under the restraint of a competent person.
   BREEDING KENNEL. Any person or group of persons engaged in breeding dogs or
cats, in which five or more litters per year are produced.
   CAT. A domestic feline of the genus and species Felis catus.
   COMPLAINT. A formal allegation against a party, in written or verbal format.
      (1)   EMERGENCY COMPLAINT. Any person may in the case of an emergency
make a verbal complaint through the County Communications Center or directly to
the animal control officer or the Director or his designee, as appropriate, of
a violation of §§
90.030 et seq.,
90.050 et seq.,
90.065 et seq.,
90.080 et seq. or
90.095 et seq.. Such verbal complaint shall, as soon as practicable after
response to the emergency, be confirmed by the complainant in writing on the
prescribed form.
      (2)   VERBAL COMPLAINT. Any person may make a verbal report to the county
of a violation of §§
90.015 et seq.,
90.030 et seq., and
90.115 et seq. of this chapter. All such reports shall be made by telephone to
the County Communications Center, or by telephone or in person to the Animal
Control Subchapter. Telephone reports received by the County Communications
Center shall be relayed to the Animal Control Subchapter or appropriate
municipal police for such action as may be authorized or appropriate under this
chapter.
      (3)   WRITTEN COMPLAINT. Any person may make a complaint to the County of
a violation of §§
90.050 et seq.,
90.065 et seq.,
90.080 et seq., or
90.095 et seq. of this chapter. All such complaints shall be written and shall
be on a form prescribed by the County. Such complaints shall be presented as
follows: §§
90.050 et seq.,
90.065 et seq.,
90.080 et seq. or
90.095 et seq. complaints. A written complaint of a violation of §§
90.050 et seq.,
90.065 et seq.,
90.080 et seq. or
90.095 et seq. shall be presented to the Animal Control Subchapter. The Animal
Control Subchapter shall develop a written complaint form and shall maintain
copies of the same at all times, which shall be made available for inspection
upon request to any person. The form shall require such information as shall be
deemed sufficient by the Animal Control Subchapter to permit a sufficient
investigation to determine if a violation of §§
90.050 et seq.,
90.065 et seq.,
90.080 et seq. or
90.095 has occurred, along with any other information deemed appropriate by the
ACO. The form shall further require the signature of the person making the
complaint.
   COUNTY. The County of Surry.
   DOG. A domestic canine of the genus, species, and subspecies: Canis lupus
familiaris.
   FENCED ENCLOSURE. Any enclosed area surrounded by a fence which is
reasonably adequate to secure an animal, so as to prevent it from escaping from
property owned or leased by, or under the constructive possession of, the
animal’s owner. This definition includes properly operating radio controlled
and wireless controlled underground fence installation.
   FERAL CAT. An unowned cat which is not an identified animal and which is not
socialized.
   FERRET. A domestic mammal of the genus, species, and subspecies: Mustela
putorius furo.
   GUARD DOG. A dog on premises specifically for the purpose of protecting said
premises from any intruder, and for attacking a person coming in the vicinity
of the dog.
   IDENTIFIED ANIMAL. An animal with an identification tag, tattoo, or other
marking on which is inscribed the owner’s name, address, and telephone number.
   INVESTIGATION. The ACO, Health Director or his designee, upon complaint of a
violation of §§
90.015 et seq.,
90.030 et seq.,
90.050 et seq.,
90.065 et seq.,
90.080 et seq.,
90.095 et seq.,
90.115 et seq. or
90.150 et seq., shall conduct such investigation, as he shall deem appropriate
in determining whether such violation has occurred and whether impoundment of
an animal is appropriate or required under the provisions of this chapter.
INVESTIGATIONS may include, but are not limited to, the interviewing of
witnesses and taking of written statements, inspection of premises where an
animal is owned or held, reasonable examination of a person or property to
determine if injury or damage has been inflicted by an animal under the
provisions of this chapter, reasonable examination of an animal being
investigated, and such other steps as shall be determined to be necessary or
appropriate in carrying out investigations of violations of this chapter. The
animal control officer and the Director or his designee may, if necessary,
request the assistance of the Surry County Sheriffs Office or municipal police
in impounding any animal as permitted under the provisions of this chapter.
   OWNER. Any person, group of persons, firm, association, partnership,
corporation, or other entity owning, keeping, having charge of, sheltering,
feeding, harboring, or taking care of any animal, or allowing the animal to
remain on or about their property for five days. The owner is responsible for
the care, actions, and behavior of his animals. This definition shall also
apply to the term OWNERSHIP as used in this chapter.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, corporation, organization, trade or
professional association, firm, limited liability company, joint venture,
association, trust, estate, or any other legal entity, and any officer, member,
shareholder, director, employee, agent, or representative thereof.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE ANIMAL. As defined in §
90.051 as any animal that unreasonably annoys humans, endangers the life or
health of domestic animals or persons, or substantially interferes with the
rights of citizens, other than its owner, to enjoyment of life or property.
   RESTRAINT. An animal is under restraint within the meaning of this chapter
if it is:
      (1)   On or within a vehicle being driven or parked and secured in such
manner as to prevent the animal from escaping or causing injury to persons
approaching or passing by the vehicle; provided, that an animal shall not be
deemed to be under restraint if it is in the back of an open-bed pickup,
regardless of whether or not it is secured therein;
      (2)   Within a secure enclosure; or
      (3)   An above ground fence in good repair and/or a properly operating
radio controlled or wireless underground fence installation.
   SECURE ENCLOSURE. A structure designed to securely house and restrain a dog
that has been determined to be a potentially dangerous dog under §
90.067(B) of this chapter. Said structure shall comply with each and every one
of the following requirements:
      (1)   The structure shall be located on property owned or leased by, or
under the constructive possession of, the dog’s owner, shall be a minimum size
of 15 feet by six feet by six feet, and shall be enclosed by a floor, walls,
and roof. The floor shall consist of a concrete pad at least four inches thick.
If more than one dog is to be kept in the enclosure, the floor area shall
provide at least 45 square feet for each dog. The walls and roof of the
structure shall be constructed of chain link fencing of a minimum thickness of
nine gauge, supported by galvanized steel poles at least two and one half
inches in diameter. The vertical support poles shall be sunk in concrete filled
holes at least 18 inches deep and at least eight inches in diameter. The chain
link fencing shall be anchored to the concrete pad with galvanized steel
anchors placed at intervals of no more than 12 inches along the perimeter of
the pad. The entire structure shall be freestanding and shall not be attached
or anchored to any existing fence, building, or structure. The structure shall
have no more than one entrance door, which shall be secured by a child
resistant lock that must remain locked at all times except when the dog’s owner
or an authorized veterinarian enters to feed, water, clean, or treat the dog.
      (2)   A perimeter fence shall be constructed around the entire structure,
no less than three feet from the interior fencing walls of the structure
itself. The perimeter fence shall be at least six feet in height, shall be of
chain link construction with a minimum thickness of nine gauge, shall be
anchored to concrete along the entirety of all four sides in the same manner as
the interior fencing walls (except for a single door as specified below), and
shall be topped by chain link fencing which shall be of a minimum thickness of
nine gauge and which shall cover the entire area between the top of the
perimeter fence and the top of the structure. A single door shall be located in
the perimeter fence, on the opposite side from the entrance door to the
structure. The door to the perimeter fence shall be secured by a child
resistant lock and shall remain locked at all times except when the dog’s owner
or an authorized veterinarian enters to feed, water, clean, or treat the dog.
The door to the perimeter fence shall be locked from the inside before the
entrance door to the structure is opened.
      (3)   Provided there is no conflict with applicable zoning regulations, a
warning sign of at least 120 square inches but no more than 240 square inches
shall be visible from each exposure of the perimeter fence which is visible to
any adjoining property. Each sign shall have a graphic representation of an
appropriate animal such that the dangerousness or viciousness of the animal
housed within the structure is communicated to those who cannot read, including
young children. In the event of a conflict with applicable zoning regulations,
the warning sign shall comply with the requirements of this division (3) as
nearly as shall be practicable under said regulations.
      (4)   The owner of the dog shall be responsible for ensuring that the
structure and perimeter fence are maintained at all times in such condition as
to meet the requirements stated herein.
      (5)   The structure and perimeter fence shall be inspected and approved
by the Surry County Building Inspections Department and an Animal Control
Officer for compliance with this chapter and any applicable state or local
building codes, and the owner shall pay any fees in connection therewith,
before the same may be used to house a dog hereunder.
   SEVERE INJURY. As defined in §
90.067 of this chapter.
   STRAY. As defined in GS 130A-184, an animal that meets both of the following
conditions:
      (1)   Is beyond the limits of confinement or lost;
      (2)   Is not wearing any tags, microchips, tattoos, or other methods of
identification.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2016)
§ 90.003 ANIMAL CONTROL COMMITTEE.
   (A)   There is hereby created the Animal Control Committee, the purpose of
which shall be to:
      (1)   Advise the Surry County Animal Control Section;
      (2)   Carry out the directives of, perform investigations for, and advise
the Surry County Board of Health with respect to rabies control and other
animal related matters as determined by the Board of Health; and
      (3)   Carry out such other functions as may be established under this
chapter.
   (B)   The Animal Control Committee shall be composed of five members for
two-year rotating terms in compliance with by-laws established and approved by
the Surry County Board of Health. The Board shall have the authority and
responsibility conferred by said by-laws. Members shall be appointed by the
Surry County Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2016)
ANIMAL CONTROL PROGRAM
§ 90.015 ANIMAL CONTROL PROGRAM.
   The Animal Control Program of Surry County, hereinafter referred to as the
Animal Control Program, is composed of the Health Director, and such employees
as shall be determined by the Health Director, utilizing the Surry County
Personnel Ordinance for hiring, and the North Carolina Office of Human
Resources for qualifying all applicants and potential employees.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2016)
§ 90.016 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Health Director shall designate employees or agents enforcing this
chapter as Animal Control Officer(s)(ACO). In the performance of said duties,
ACO shall have all the powers, authority and immunity granted under this
chapter and by the general laws of this state to enforce the provisions of this
chapter, and the General Statutes of North Carolina as they relate to the care,
treatment, control, or impoundment of animals.
   (B)   Except as may be otherwise provided by statutes, local laws, or
ordinances, no officer, agent or employee of the county charged with the duty
of enforcing the provisions of this chapter or other applicable laws shall be
personally liable for any damage that may accrue to persons or property as a
result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of such duties unless
he acts with actual malice.
   (C)   The Animal Control Program shall assist Surry County municipalities
experiencing animal control issues, in those areas over which municipal animal
control programs are not applicable, the Animal Control Program shall apply,
and assist each municipality enforce their regulations.
   (D)   Except as otherwise specifically provided in this chapter it shall be
unlawful for any person to resist, obstruct, delay, interfere with, hinder, or
molest Animal Control Officers or veterinarians in the performance of any duty
authorized by this chapter. It shall be unlawful for any person to seek to
release any animal in the custody of the Animal Control Office, or its agents.
An animal is in the custody of the Animal Control Office or its agents when it
is in the back of an Animal Control vehicle, in a live trap, in any type of
confinement device, or otherwise under the physical control of an ACO. Anyone
in violation of this section will be subject to a $100 fine as a first offense,
and a $300 fine for each subsequent civil citation offense.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2016)
§ 90.017 GENERAL DUTIES OF ANIMAL CONTROL PROGRAM.
   The Animal Control Program shall be charged with the responsibility of:
   (A)   Enforcing, in this county, all state and county laws, ordinances and
resolutions relating to the care, custody, and control of animals.
   (B)   Assisting in the enforcement of the laws of the state with regard to
animals and especially with regard to vaccination of animals against rabies and
the confinement or leashing of dangerous animals, dangerous dogs and exotic
animals. Investigate all reported animal bites or other human physical contact
of with suspected rabid animals.
   (C)   Investigate allegations of cruelty, neglect, or abuse of animals.
   (D)   Making such canvasses of the county, as is deemed necessary for the
purpose of ascertaining that all animals are vaccinated against rabies as
required by local ordinance or state statute.
   (E)   Operate the county animal shelter pursuant to policies of the Surry
County Health and Nutrition Center and as defined in NCGS 19A Section 3 and 02
NCAC 52J.
   (F)   Seize and impound where deemed necessary, any animal involved in a
violation of this or any other county ordinance or state law. Animal Control
shall seize any animal, including any animal abandoned by reason of a set out,
eviction or abandonment of real property as defined by G.S. § 14-361.1, at the
time of offense.
   (G)   Be authorized to place live-capture animal traps on private property,
with the consent of the landowner, or on public property, in order to trap and
remove stray, at large, abandoned, or nuisance domestic animals.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2016)
§ 90.018 RABIES CONTROL OFFICER.
   (A)   Any animal control officer may hereby be designated as the Rabies
Control Officer for Surry County and shall have such powers, duties, and
responsibilities as are provided by the provisions of the North Carolina
General Statues; however, such powers, duties, and responsibilities as the
Rabies Control Officer shall not conflict with or supersede the powers, duties,
and responsibilities of the Director of the Surry County Health and Nutrition
Center or rabies inspectors appointed under the provisions of the North
Carolina General Statues.
   (B)   If an ACO is deemed a Certified Rabies Vaccinator by the Health
Director, the vaccinator shall complete the training course required by the
State Division of Public Health; shall vaccinate only at the Surry County
Animal Shelter or approved site; shall vaccinate only for business related to
the animal control program; and shall not vaccinate personal animals or outside
parameters defined by the animal control program.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2016)
LOST OR STRAY ANIMALS
§ 90.030 IDENTIFICATION OF DOGS.
   Every owner of a dog shall provide the same with an identification tag,
tattoo, microchip identification, or other marking on which is inscribed the
dog owner’s name and address.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2016) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.031 IMPOUNDMENT.
   Any domestic animal which appears, in the sole discretion of the ACO, to be
lost, a stray, unwanted, or in imminent danger shall be impounded by the Animal
Control subchapter and confined in the Animal Shelter as governed by the North
Carolina Department of Agriculture. Impoundment of such an animal shall not
relieve the owner thereof from any penalty which may be imposed for a violation
of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2016) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.032 AUTHORITY TO TRANQUILIZE OR DESTROY.
   An ACO may, when attempting to impound an animal under §§
90.030 which cannot otherwise be captured for impoundment, tranquilize said
animal. If attempts to tranquilize the animal are unsuccessful, and all other
reasonable efforts at impoundment have failed, the ACO may destroy said animal.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2016) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.033 NOTICE TO OWNER.
   Immediately upon impounding an identified animal, the Animal Control
subchapter shall make reasonable efforts, as determined by Health and Nutrition
Center policy, to notify the owner and inform such owner of the conditions
under which the animal may be redeemed. Such conditions include, but shall not
be limited to, the charging of those fees as are described in §
90.034 below. If, after 72 business hours, the owner is unknown or cannot be
located, or if the owner has not contacted the Animal Control Subchapter, the
animal shall then become the property of the Animal Shelter as described in §
90.035(A).
(Ord. passed 8-1-2016) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.034 REDEMPTION BY OWNER.
   The owner of an animal impounded under this subchapter may redeem the animal
and regain possession thereof at any time during normal business hours within
72 business hours after notice of impoundment is given, by complying with all
applicable provisions of this chapter and paying such redemption fee and daily
boarding fee as may be established by the County.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2016) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.035 DESTRUCTION OR ADOPTION OF UNREDEEMED ANIMALS.
   (A)   Failure to redeem. If an impounded animal is not redeemed by the owner
in compliance with §
90.032, it may be destroyed in a humane manner, or shall become the property of
the Animal Shelter, and shall be offered for adoption or rescue, according to
North Carolina G.S. 19A-32.1. This includes any responsible adult who:
      (1)   Pays the adoption fee as established by the county;
      (2)   Obtains any necessary rabies vaccination; and
      (3)   In the sole discretion of the ACO is found to be able and willing
to comply with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Spay/neutering. Any animal adopted from the Surry County Animal
Shelter shall be spayed/neutered within a timeframe prescribed by the Animal
Control Officer. Fees for the spaying/neutering of any animal shall be
collected at the shelter prior to spay/neutering by a veterinarian.
   (C)   Rabies quarantine. No impounded animal shall be allowed to be adopted
from the Animal Shelter during a period of emergency rabies quarantine as
invoked by the Surry County Public Health Director.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2016) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.036 REDEMPTION OF UNVACCINATED DOG OR CAT.
   Payment for the required rabies vaccination will be the responsibility of
the person redeeming the animal.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2016) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.037 RABID ANIMAL NOT REDEEMED OR ADOPTED.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of the subchapter, an impounded animal,
which appears to be suffering from rabies, shall not be redeemed or adopted.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2016) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.038 INJURED, SICK, OR DISEASED ANIMALS.
   When the owner of an injured, sick, or diseased animal can be located, it
shall be the owner’s responsibility to provide veterinary care for the animal
or authorize Animal Control to humanely euthanize the animal. If the animal is
severely injured, sick, or diseased, the animal shall be destroyed in a humane
manner under the direction of the ACO.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2016) Penalty, see §
90.999
ANIMALS CREATING A NUISANCE
§ 90.050 ANIMAL CREATING A NUISANCE.
   The owner of an animal shall not permit the animal to be at large if such
animal is creating a public nuisance. If, after adequate investigation of a
complaint, the ACO reasonably determines that an animal is creating or has
created a public nuisance while at large, the ACO shall notify the owner of the
same and shall instruct the owner to keep the animal under restraint at all
times. If the ACO thereafter determines, upon investigation of a subsequent
complaint, that the animal is or has been at large again while creating a
public nuisance, the owner shall receive a written civil citation from the ACO,
and the ACO shall instruct the owner to remedy the nuisance. Should the ACO
determine that the animal is creating or has created a public nuisance
following the third civil citation, the animal at that time shall be impounded
and the owner shall be charged with a violation of this section, and the ACO
may apply for a misdemeanor warrant to issue and be served upon the owner.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2016) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.051 PUBLIC NUISANCE DEFINITION.
   For purposes of this subchapter, the term CREATING A PUBLIC NUISANCE applies
without limitation to the following: animals that habitually or repeatedly
chase, snap at, attack, or harass persons (including but not limited to
pedestrians, joggers, and persons operating vehicles or other modes of
transportation) or their pets or farm animals; animals that, whether or not in
a mode of attack, habitually or repeatedly disturb, interfere with, or annoy
persons or their pets or farm animals; and animals that habitually or
repeatedly enter onto the property of a person who is not the owner of said
animal; animals that tip over garbage cans or damage yards, gardens, flowers,
vegetables, or other personal property. This section shall not apply to a
dangerous dog, potentially dangerous dog, or vicious dog, as defined under §
90.066 below.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2016)
§ 90.052 ESTROUS ANIMAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or having possession, charge,
custody or control over a female dog or female cat to allow that animal to be
at large during its estrous period. If, after investigation of a complaint, the
ACO determines that a female is or has been at large during estrous, the ACO
shall notify the owner of such animal and shall instruct the owner to keep the
animal in such a manner that it will prevent the animal from coming in contact
with a male of its species. If the ACO thereafter determines, upon
investigation of a subsequent complaint, that the animal is or has been at
large again during estrous, the owner shall be charged with a violation of this
section and the ACO may impound the animal and hold and dispose of the same in
accordance with the provisions of §§
90.030 et seq. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if upon any investigation the ACO
determines that a female animal which is or has been at large during estrous is
not an identified animal, the ACO may impound said animal, and may hold and
dispose of the same in accordance with the provisions of said §§
90.030 et seq. This section shall not be construed to prohibit the intentional
breeding of animals on the premises of the owners or keepers of the animals
involved.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2016) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.053 AUTHORITY TO TRANQUILIZE OR DESTROY.
   An Animal Control Officer may, when attempting to impound an animal under
this §§
90.050 et seq. which cannot otherwise be captured for impoundment, tranquilize
said animal or, if attempts to tranquilize and all other reasonable efforts at
impoundment have failed, destroy said animal.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2016) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.054 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to dogs defined under G.S.
§ 67-4.1(b), nor shall the provisions of this subchapter be construed to
prevent an animal owner from engaging in a legal sporting activity on the lands
of another person provided proper permission has been granted by the owner of
the property.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2016) Penalty, see §
90.999
DANGEROUS, POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS, OR VICIOUS DOGS
§ 90.065 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter shall be to supplement the provisions of the
North Carolina General Statutes governing dangerous and vicious dogs, and more
specifically G.S. § 130A-200 and G.S. § 67-1A.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2016)
§ 90.066 DETERMINATION OF POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG.
   Pursuant to G.S. § 67-4.1(c), the Surry County Public Health Director
(hereinafter the “Director”), or his designee, is hereby designated as the
person responsible for determining when a dog is a “dangerous dog” or a
“potentially dangerous dog” under G.S. § 67-1A. The Animal Control Committee is
further designated as the “separate board” as contemplated by G.S. § 67-4.1(c)
which shall hear any appeal from a determination of the Director or his
designee pursuant to G.S. § 67-4.2(c).
(Ord. passed 8-1-2016)
§ 90.067 IMPOUNDMENT OF DANGEROUS DOGS; POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOGS,
DISPOSITION.
   In addition to the remedies provided in G.S. § 67-1A, the Director or his
designee shall impound a DANGEROUS DOG or a POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG as
defined under G.S. § 67-4.1(a)(1), as follows:
   (A)   DANGEROUS DOGS. In the case of a DANGEROUS DOG under G.S. §§ 67-4.1(a)
(l)a.l. or 67-4.1(a)(l)b., then, following investigation of a complaint of the
same under §
90.999  below and a determination by the Director or his designee that the dog
is a dangerous dog under either or both of said sections, such dog shall be
impounded immediately upon delivery to the owner of the written notification as
required under G.S. § 67-4.1(c), which statute shall apply under this division
(A) the same as in cases involving potentially dangerous dogs. Such dog shall
be held at the Animal Shelter pending the resolution of all appeal proceedings
under G.S. § 67-4.1(c). In the event of a final determination that the dog is a
DANGEROUS DOG under either or both of said sections, the dog shall be destroyed
by the Animal Control Department.
   (B)   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOGS. In the case of a POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG
under G.S. § 67-4.1(a)(2), then, following investigation of a complaint, and a
determination by the Director or his designee that the dog is a potentially
dangerous dog, owner shall receive written notification as required under G.S.
§ 67-4.1(c). In the event of an appeal, such dog shall be held at the Animal
Shelter pending the resolution of all appeal proceedings under G.S. § 67-4.1
(c). In the event of a final determination that the dog is neither a dangerous
dog, nor a potentially dangerous dog, such dog shall immediately be released to
its owner upon compliance by the owner with all applicable provisions of this
chapter, and payment of such redemption fee and daily boarding fee as may have
been established by the county. In the event of a final determination that the
dog is a POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG, such dog shall be disposed of as follows:
      (1)   (a)   Inflicting bites on persons resulting in broken bones or
disfiguring lacerations or requiring cosmetic surgery or hospitalization. Where
said final determination is based on one or more of the behaviors described in
G.S. § 67-4.1(a)(2)a., then, if the owner of the dog is known, said owner may
redeem the dog by payment of such redemption fee and daily boarding fee as may
have been established by the county provided, that it shall be an express
condition of any such redemption that the owner at all times thereafter keep
the dog within a SECURE ENCLOSURE as defined in §
90.001. The dog may not be redeemed until the SECURE ENCLOSURE has been
completed, inspected, and approved, as provided in the definition in §
90.001. The Animal Control Department may establish a deadline for completion,
not to be less than 60 days, after which, if said secure enclosure is still not
sufficiently completed to allow for inspection and approval, the dog may be
destroyed by the Animal Control Department. The owner shall at all times be and
remain in compliance with the requirements found in §
90.001, as to any secure enclosure required under this division (1), and upon
failure to comply the owner shall be subject to such civil penalties as are
permitted under §
90.999  below.
         (b)   It shall be a further express condition of redemption under this
division (1) that, within 30 days after redemption, the dog must be spayed or
neutered and fitted with microchip identification, at the owner’s expense.
Prior to release rabies vaccination shall be current. The Animal Control
Department may require written evidence, in the form of receipts or other
records from a licensed veterinarian, confirming that this condition has been
satisfied. If the owner of the dog fails to satisfy this condition within the
time stated, the Director or his designee shall issue a citation to the owner
for such civil penalties as are permitted under §
90.999 below. If, within 30 days after issuance of the citation, the condition
still has not been satisfied and the civil penalty paid, the dog shall be
destroyed by the Animal Control Department.
         (c)   Upon redemption under this division (1), the Animal Control
Department shall serve upon the owner a notice of final determination which
shall state that the dog has been determined to be a potentially dangerous dog
under G.S. § 67-4.1(a)(2)a. and that the dog and its owner are subject to all
of the requirements hereunder.
         (d)   If a dog is destroyed pursuant to any of the provisions of this
division (1), the owner shall be responsible for payment of such daily boarding
fee as may have been established by the county and as shall have accrued
between the time of impoundment and the time of destruction.
      (2)   Killing or inflicting severe injury on domestic animals when not on
the owner's real property, or approaching persons when not on the owner's
property in a vicious or terrorizing manner or apparent attitude of attack. 
         (a)   Where said final determination is based on one or more of the
behaviors described in G.S. §§ 67-4.1(a)(2)b. or 67-4.1(a)(2)c., then, if the
owner of the dog is known, said owner may redeem the dog by payment of such
redemption fee and daily boarding fee as may have been established by the
County; provided, that it shall be an express condition of any such redemption
that the owner at all times thereafter keep the dog in a SECURE ENCLOSURE or
under RESTRAINT as defined in §
90.001 above.
         (b)   It shall be a further express condition of redemption under this
division (b) that, within 30 days after redemption, the dog must be spayed or
neutered and fitted with microchip identification, at the owner's expense. The
Animal Control Department may require written evidence, in the form of receipts
or other records from a licensed veterinarian, confirming that this condition
has been satisfied. If the owner of the dog fails to satisfy this condition
within the time stated, the Director or his designee shall issue a citation to
the owner for such civil penalties as are permitted under §
90.999 below.
         (c)   Upon redemption under this division (2), the Animal Control
Department shall serve upon the owner a notice of final determination which
shall state that the dog has been determined to be a potentially dangerous dog
under G.S. § 67-4.1(a)(2)b. or G.S. § 67-4.1(a)(2)c., as the case may be, and
that the dog and its owner are subject to all of the requirements hereunder.
      (3)   If the owner of the dog is not known, Shelter staff/Director will
make individualized determinations as to whether the animal is unadoptable due
to temperament. If so determined, dog shall be destroyed by the Animal Control
Department after required 72 business hour hold.
      (4)   If, after redemption of a potentially dangerous dog as set forth in
either division (1) or division (2) above, the Director or his designee makes a
determination following investigation of a complaint that the dog has not been
kept within a secure enclosure by the owner at all times, or has not been kept
under restraint at all times, as the case may be, the Director or his designee
shall issue a citation to the owner for such civil penalties, provided that
this division (4) shall apply only in the case of a first or second offense
hereunder, and that in the case of a third offense, division (5) below shall
apply.
      (5)   If, after redemption of a potentially dangerous dog as set forth in
either division (1) or (2) above, the Director or his designee makes a
determination following investigation of a complaint that the dog has not been
kept within a secure enclosure by the owner at all times, or has not been kept
under restraint at all times, as the case may be, and the same constitutes a
third offense as to said provision, the dog shall be impounded immediately.
Such dog shall be held at the Animal Shelter pending the resolution of all
appeal proceedings under G.S. § 67-4.1(c). In the event of a final
determination that the owner did not in fact fail to keep the dog within a
secure enclosure at all times or under restraint at all times, as the case may
be, such dog shall immediately be released to its owner in compliance with and
under the requirements of division (1) or (2) above, whichever is applicable.
In the event of a final determination that the owner did in fact fail to keep
the dog within a secure enclosure at all times or under restraint at all times,
as the case may be, the dog shall be destroyed by the Animal Control
Department.
      (6)   If, after redemption of a dog deemed to be a potentially dangerous
dog as set forth in either division (1) or (2) above, the Director or his
designee makes a determination following investigation of a separate and new
complaint that the dog has engaged in any of the behaviors prohibited under
G.S. § 67-4.1(a)(1) or (2) following said redemption, the dog shall be
impounded immediately upon delivery to the owner of the written notification.
Such dog shall be held at the Animal Shelter pending the resolution of all
appeal proceedings under G.S. § 67-4.1(c), which statute shall apply under this
division (4) the same as set forth elsewhere in this section (b). In the event
of a final determination that the dog did not in fact engage in any of said
behaviors, such dog shall immediately be released to its owner in compliance
with and under the requirements of division (1) or (2) above, whichever is
applicable. In the event of a final determination that the dog did in fact
engage in any of said behaviors, the dog shall be destroyed by the Animal
Control Department.
   (C)   Definition of SEVERE INJURY. For purposes of this §
90.067, the terms SEVERE INJURY and SEVERELY INJURE shall refer to any physical
injury that results in broken bones or disfiguring lacerations or requires
cosmetic surgery or hospitalization as defined in G.S. § 67-4.1(a)(5).
   (D)   Copy of ordinance and proof of receipt. Whenever the Director or his
designee is required by the terms of this §
90.067 to deliver to the owner of a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog the
written notification as set forth under G.S. § 67-4.1(c), the Director or his
designee shall simultaneously deliver to the owner a copy of this chapter and
shall obtain from said owner a signed receipt as to both.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2016) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.068 REGISTRATION OF POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   Registration required. A current registration shall be maintained by
the Animal Control Department as to every dog for which a final determination
has been issued that the same is a potentially dangerous dog under this
article. The owner of said dog is responsible for ensuring that the dog is
registered hereunder. Registrations required under this section shall be made
upon issuance of the final determination and shall include the name and address
of the owner, identifying information concerning the dog, and such other
information as the Animal Control Department may reasonably request. Thereafter
the owner shall register the dog annually with the Animal Control Department
during the month of January unless the dog has died, has been sold, or its
ownership has been transferred to any other person, in which event the
provisions of division (B) below shall apply.
   (B)   Sale, transfer, or death of dog.
      (1)   Sale or transfer of dog to new owner residing within county. The
sale or transfer of any dog for which a registration is required under division
(A) shall be subject to prior approval by the Animal Control Department if the
new owner resides within the county. In the event the owner of such dog intends
to sell or transfer the same, said owner shall first notify the Animal Control
Department. Said notification shall include the information as required under
section (A) above as to the new owner. The Animal Control Department shall have
a period of 30 days from receipt of said notification in which to contact the
same and investigate and determine whether said new owner has the capability to
comply with the requirements of this chapter concerning potentially dangerous
dogs. As a part of said determination, the Animal Control Department shall, no
later than ten days after receipt of notification from the current owner,
deliver a copy of this chapter to the new owner and request from said new owner
a signed written statement, on such form as shall be approved by the Animal
Control Department, certifying that said new owner has received such copy and
will at all times be and remain in compliance with the requirements of the
same. The new owner shall furnish a signed written statement to the Animal
Control Department within the ten days, and shall cooperate with and provide
such further information to the Animal Control Department as may be reasonably
requested in connection with the proposed sale or transfer of the dog. If the
Animal Control Department, upon timely receipt of said written statement and
completion of the investigation required hereunder, determines that the new
owner is able and willing to comply with the requirements of this chapter, the
Animal Control Department shall so notify both the current owner and the new
owner in writing within the above stated ten day period. Thereafter the sale or
transfer of the dog may take place, and the new owner shall thereupon be
responsible for compliance with the provisions of this section and for
compliance with all other requirements of this chapter. If the new owner fails
to timely furnish the signed written statement as required herein, the Animal
Control Department shall not approve the proposed sale or transfer until such
time as the same has been furnished.
      (2)   Sale or transfer of dog to new owner residing outside county. In
the event the owner of a dog for which a registration is required under
division (A) above intends to sell or transfer the same to a person residing
outside the county, the selling or transferring owner shall notify the Animal
Control Department as to the same prior to such sale or transfer. As soon as
practical following receipt of said notification the Animal Control Department
shall notify the Animal Control Department of the county of residence of the
new owner, by registered or certified letter, return receipt requested, as to
the sale or transfer of said dog and as to its designation under this chapter
as a potentially dangerous dog, together with such other information as the
Animal Control Department may deem appropriate.
      (3)   Bringing dog into county. In the event a dog which has been
determined by another county or jurisdiction to be a dangerous dog or
potentially dangerous dog under G.S. § 67-1A, or under similar provisions of
any other applicable statute, ordinance, or law of any other jurisdiction, is
sold or transferred to an owner residing within the county, or is brought into
the county for any reason (other than temporary veterinary care), the owner to
which said dog is being sold or transferred, or the person responsible for
bringing said dog into the county, shall immediately notify the Animal Control
Department as to the same and shall cause said dog to be registered in
accordance with the requirements of this §
90.068. Any dog which is registered or required to be registered with the
Animal Control Department under this division (3) shall be deemed to be a
dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog under this subchapter, as the case
may be, and the owner of said dog shall comply with all of the applicable
requirements hereof within such times as shall be established by the Animal
Control Department, but in no event less than 30 days.
      (4)   Death of dog. In the event a dog for which a registration is
required under division (A) dies, the owner shall immediately notify the Animal
Control Department as to the same and shall, within 24 hours of said dog’s
death, present the dog’s body for scanning as to the microchip identification
required under this §§
90.065 et seq. Said scanning may be performed either by a licensed veterinarian
or by the Animal Control Department. A licensed veterinarian performing a scan
under this division (4) shall report the results of the same to the Animal
Control Department, which shall maintain a written record of all scans
performed hereunder for the purpose of verifying the death of potentially
dangerous dogs registered pursuant to this division (4). Payment of all fees
and expenses for compliance with the foregoing requirements shall be the
responsibility of the dog’s owner.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2016) Penalty, see §
90.999
AGGRESSION-TRAINED DOGS
§ 90.080 AGGRESSION-TRAINED DOGS.
   The Animal Control Department has the authority to determine whether any
person is engaged in the aggression-training of dogs (including, but not
limited to Guard Dogs). If the Department makes such a determination, then said
person shall comply with the following requirements:
   (A)   Registration.
      (1)   Registration required. A current registration shall be maintained
by the Animal Control Department for the aggression-trained dog. The owner of
said aggression-trained dog is responsible for ensuring that the same is
registered hereunder. Registrations required under this division (A) shall be
made prior to using the dog as an aggression-trained dog within the county and
shall include the name and address of the owner, identifying information
concerning the dog, and such other information as the Animal Control Department
may reasonably request. Thereafter the owner shall register the aggression-
trained dog annually with the Animal Control Department during the month of
January unless said dog has died, has been sold, or its ownership has been
transferred to any other person, in which event the provisions of division (2)
below shall apply.
      (2)   Sale or transfer of dog. In the event an aggression-trained dog for
which a registration is required under division (1) is sold or its ownership is
transferred to any other person, the selling or transferring owner shall notify
the Animal Control Department as to the same immediately upon the happening of
such event. Said notification shall include the information as required under
division (1) above as to the new owner. If the new owner resides within the
county, then as soon as practicable following receipt of said notification the
Animal Control Department shall deliver to the new owner a copy of this chapter
and shall obtain a signed receipt therefore. Thereafter the new owner shall be
responsible for compliance with said provisions and with all other applicable
provisions of §
90.051. If the new owner resides outside the County, then as soon as
practicable following receipt of said notification the Animal Control
Department shall notify the animal control department of the county of
residence of the new owner, by registered or certified letter, return receipt
requested, as to the sale or transfer of said dog and as to its designation
under this chapter as an aggression-trained dog, together with such other
information as the Animal Control Department may deem appropriate.
      (3)   Death of dog. In the event an aggression-trained dog for which a
registration is required under division (1) dies, the owner shall immediately
notify the Animal Control Department as to the same.
   (B)   Identification.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful and a violation of this chapter for any owner
of an aggression-trained dog to fail to provide said dog with a current rabies
tag and special aggression-trained dog tag. An aggression-trained dog’s owner
must provide proof of current rabies inoculation.
      (2)   The owner of an aggression-trained dog, at the owner’s expense,
shall cause the same to be provided with microchip identification.
   (C)   Inspection. Said person shall allow the Department to inspect the
premises where aggression-training is performed and to observe the training
methods and the safety of the facility during the operating hours of the
aggression-training facility.
   (D)   Confinement. Said person shall adequately and safely confine all
aggression-trained dogs. The Department has the authority to require all
aggression-trained dogs to be confined within a secure fence at least six feet
high and, at the discretion of the Department, topped by an anti-climb device.
   (E)   Signs. Provided there is no conflict with applicable zoning
regulations, the owner of any aggression-trained dog and the owner of any
premises using an aggression-trained dog must conspicuously post on the
premises in plain view of the public a sign that identifies the name, address,
and telephone number of the aggression-trained dog’s owner and that an
aggression-trained dog is present. The sign must be at least 120 square inches
in size, but shall not be larger than 240 square inches. In the event of a
conflict with applicable zoning regulations, the warning sign shall comply with
the requirements of this division (E) as nearly as shall be practicable under
said regulations.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2016) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.081 LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY DOGS.
   Any dog specifically trained for and used by a law enforcement agency is
exempt from the provisions of this chapter; however, upon retirement,
aforementioned dogs must be registered with Surry County Animal Control.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2016)
ANIMAL WELFARE
§ 90.095 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this section to supplement G.S. Art. 47, and all other
state laws regarding animals for which the Animal Control Division has
enforcement authority pursuant to §
90.017.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2016)
§ 90.096 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to abuse, molest, maim, disfigure,
torture, torment, deprive of necessary sustenance, cruelly beat, mutilate or
kill, wound, injure, poison, abandon or subject to conditions detrimental to
the health or general welfare any animal, or to cause or procure such action.
As used in this section the words “torture,” “torment” and “cruelty” include or
refer to any act, omission or neglect causing or permitting unjustifiable
physical pain, suffering or death is caused or permitted; but such terms shall
not be construed to prohibit lawful taking of animals under the jurisdiction
and regulation of the Wildlife Resources Commission; nor to prohibit the Animal
Control Program or persons duly authorized by the Health Director or
veterinarians from destroying dangerous, unwanted or injured animals in a
humane manner; nor to prohibit the lawful use of pesticides for control of
insects, rodents, or household and farm pests.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2016) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.097 ANIMAL WELFARE.
   (A)   Owners must provide adequate food, shelter, and water as defined in §§
90.001 et seq.
   (B)   Tethering. It shall be unlawful for any person to restrain a dog using
a chain, wire or other type of tethering device in a manner prohibited by this
subchapter.
   (C)   (1)   No person shall tether, fasten, chain, tie, or restrain a dog,
or cause such restraining of a dog, to a cable trolley system, that allows
movement of the restraining device. During periods of tethering that are not
unlawful under this division:
         (a)   The length of the cable along which the tethering device can
move must be at least ten feet;
         (b)   The tethering device must be of such length that the dog is able
to move 15 feet away from the cable perpendicularly; and
         (c)   The tethering device must be attached in such manner as to
prevent strangulation or other injury to the dog and entanglement with objects.
      (2)   During periods of lawful tethering under this subchapter, tethers
must be made of rope, twine, cord, or similar material with a swivel on one end
or must be made of a chain that is at least ten feet in length with swivels on
both ends and which does not exceed 10% of the dog's body weight. All collars
or harnesses used for the purpose of the lawful tethering of a dog must be made
of nylon or leather. No person shall tether a dog with a chain or wire or other
device to, or cause such attachment to, any collar other than a buckle type
collar or body harness. No person shall tether with a chain or a wire or other
device to, or cause such attachment to, a head harness, choke-type collar or
pronged collar to a dog. No person shall tether with a chain, wire or other
device to a dog where the weight of the tethering device and the collar
combined exceeds 10% of the dog’s body weight. No person shall tether with a
chain or wire or other device a dog in such a manner that does not allow the
dog access to adequate food, water or shelter. No person shall tether a sick,
diseased and/or injured dog.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2016) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.098 EXEMPTIONS.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, a person may tether and
restrain a dog under the following circumstances:
   (A)   Usage of the dog in shepherding or herding livestock;
   (B)   Use of the dog in the business of cultivating agricultural products,
where the restraining is reasonably necessary for the safety of the dog;
   (C)   Use of the dog in lawful hunting activities;
   (D)   Use of the dog at a dog training, or performance events, including but
not limited to the field trials and obedience trials where tethering does not
occur for a period exceeding seven consecutive days;
   (E)   Camping or other recreation where tethering is required by the camping
or recreational area where the dog is located;
   (F)   Any activity where a tethered dog is in visual range of its owner or
keeper, and the owner or keeper is located outside with the dog;
   (G)   After taking possession of a dog that appears to be a stray, having
first advised Animal Control authorities of the capture of dog, the dog may be
tethered or restrained in accordance with these provisions for a period not to
exceed seven days in order to determine the identity of the dog or its owner;
   (H)   Walking a dog with a hand-held leash; and/or
   (I)   In accordance with tethering restrictions in effect within any of the
municipalities in Surry County. In the event one or more of the municipalities
in Surry County adopts this Animal Control and Animal Welfare Ordinance, its
terms shall apply within that/those municipalities.
   (J)   Up to one year after this ordinance version goes into effect. There
will be a one year grace period for owners to comply with §
90.097(B).
   (K)   In accordance with registration of an exemption application,
acceptance of exemption application by Surry County Animal Control, and strict
adherence §
90.097(C). Once a Surry County citizen has applied for an exemption to restrain
their animal, if deemed acceptable, will be considered an exemption to the no-
tethering ordinance rule.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2016)
§ 90.099 REGISTRATION OF BREEDING KENNEL.
   A current registration shall be maintained by the Animal Control Department
for each breeding kennel located within the county. The owner or operator of
said breeding kennel is responsible for ensuring that the same is registered
hereunder. Registrations required under this section shall be made no later
than 30 days following the effective date of this chapter and shall thereafter
be renewed in January of each year. All registrations shall include the name,
address, and telephone number of the owners/operators of the same, the address
and physical location of the breeding kennel, and the number of dogs over the
age of six months being kept at the breeding kennel as of January 1 of the year
for which the registration is made.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2016)
§ 90.100 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Impoundment for protection of animal. If the Animal Control Department
determines in
its discretion that an animal’s life is in immediate danger due to a violation
of any of the provisions of this subchapter, the Animal Control Department may
impound the same. Impoundment under this division (A) shall not affect the
application or imposition of such penalties as may be authorized under §§
90.115 et seq. below. An animal impounded hereunder shall be held for 72
business hours and disposed of in accordance with the provisions of §§
90.030 et seq. above, provided that no right of redemption by the owner shall
be allowed if the animal was impounded due to the owner’s violation of any of
the provisions of this subchapter; and provided further, that the owner shall
be liable for the costs of impoundment, boarding, care, and disposition of the
animal, as incurred by the Animal Control Department, which costs may be
recovered by the county in the form of additional civil penalties as set forth
under §
90.999 below.
   (B)   Authority to tranquilize or destroy. An ACO may, when attempting to
impound an animal under this section which cannot otherwise be captured for
impoundment, tranquilize said animal or, if necessary for the protection of
persons or property, destroy said animal.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2016)
RABIES CONTROL
§ 90.115 RABIES CONTROL.
   The owner of every dog and cat over four months of age shall have the animal
vaccinated against rabies and shall comply with all of the terms and provisions
of G.S. Ch. 130A, Art. 6, part 6 pertaining to rabies control.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2016)
§ 90.116 RABIES VACCINATION TAGS.
   It shall be unlawful and a violation of this chapter for the owner of any
dog to cause or permit the same to fail to wear at all times a valid rabies
vaccination tag as required under the provisions of G.S. § 130A-190. Pursuant
to the authority of G.S. § 130A-190(a), this section shall apply only to dogs
and shall not apply to cats or ferrets.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2016)
§ 90.117 IMPOUNDMENT OF DOGS NOT WEARING REQUIRED RABIES VACCINATION TAGS.
   (A)   Duration of impoundment. The duration of impoundment for a dog
impounded by an Animal Control Officer pursuant to G.S. § 130A-192 shall be 72
hours. At the expiration of said time, if the dog has not been reclaimed by its
owner, it shall be disposed of as authorized by G.S. § 130A-192.
   (B)   Impoundment fee. A dog impounded by an Animal Control Officer pursuant
to G.S. § 130A-192 shall not be returned to its owner until the owner shall
have paid to the Animal Control Shelter such impoundment fee as may have been
established by the county.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2016)
REGULATION OF OWNERSHIP, KEEPING AND HARBORING INHERENTLY DANGEROUS EXOTIC
ANIMALS
§ 90.130 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to protect the public against health
and safety risks that inherently dangerous exotic animals pose to the community
and to protect the welfare of the individual animals held in private
possession. By their very nature, certain exotic animals are wild and
potentially dangerous, do not adjust well to a captive environment, and present
a genuine threat to the safety and well-being of the public.
   (B)   It is a further purpose of this subchapter to complement those rules
already in existence in the State of North Carolina with respect to the
regulation of wild animals by the North Carolina Wildlife Resources Commission,
which includes animals such as raccoons, skunks, foxes, bats, and others, that
present a danger to the safety and well-being of the public through their
inherently dangerous nature, through carrying rabies, or otherwise.
Accordingly, the county intends to exempt from this subchapter those animals
which are subject to said rules.
   (C)   For the reasons set forth above, and pursuant to the authority granted
in G.S. §§ 153A-121, 153A-131, and 113-133.1, the county enacts and adopts the
regulations set forth herein.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2016)
§ 90.131 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this subchapter, the following terms, phrases, words, and
their derivations shall have the meaning defined herein, unless the context
clearly indicates that another meaning is intended. Words used in the present
tense include the future and past tense, words in the plural number include the
singular number, words in the singular number include the plural number, and
words in the masculine gender include the feminine gender. These definitions
are in addition to, and not in lieu of, those definitions set forth in §§
90.001 et seq.; provided, that the scope of this chapter shall be as set forth
in §
90.132 below.
   AZA. The American Zoo and Aquarium Association.
   INHERENTLY DANGEROUS EXOTIC ANIMAL. Any mammal, reptile, or arachnid which
is a member of a species that, due to the inherent nature of the species, may
be considered dangerous to humans; provided, however, that expressly excluded
from this definition are animals which are indigenous to Surry County and which
are subject to the requirements for captivity permits under the  rules of the
North Carolina Wildlife Resources Commission as contained in 15A N.C.A.C. 10H
Section .0300 or any successor rules or regulations thereto. INHERENTLY
DANGEROUS EXOTIC ANIMALS specifically include, but are not limited to, any or
all of the following orders and families, whether bred in the wild or in
captivity, and any or all hybrids. The animals listed in parentheses are
intended to act as examples and are not to be construed as an exhaustive list
or limit the generality of each group of animals, unless otherwise specified:
      (1)   CLASS MAMMALIA.
         (a)   Order Artiodactyla (such as hippopotami, giraffes, and camels,
but not cattle, swine, sheep, goats, llamas, or alpacas).
         (b)   Order Carnivora.
            1.   Family Felidae (such as lions, tigers, panthers, leopards,
jaguars, ocelots, and servals, but not domestic cats);
            2.   Family Canidae (such as wolves and jackals, but not domestic
dogs);
            3.   Family Ursidae (all bears);
            4.   Family Mustelidae (such as weasels, martins, and minks, but
not ferrets);
            5.   Family Procyonidae (such as coatis);
            6.   Family Hyaenidae (all hyenas);
            7.   Family Viverridae (such as civets, genets, and mongooses);
         (c)   Order Edentatia (such as anteaters, armadillos, and sloths);
         (d)   Order Marsupialia (such as kangaroos and wallabies);
         (e)   Order Perissodactyla (such as rhinoceroses and tapirs, but not
horses, donkeys, or mules);
         (f)   Order Primates (such as lemurs, monkeys, chimpanzees, baboons,
gorillas, and all other non-human primates);
         (g)   Order Proboscidae (all elephants); and
         (h)   Order Rodentia (but not guinea pigs, rats, mice, gerbils,
hamsters, prairie dogs, or chinchillas).
      (2)   CLASS REPTILIA.
         (a)   Order Squamata.
            1.   Family Varanidae (only water monitors and crocodile monitors);
            2.   Family Iguanaidae (only rock iguanas);
            3.   Family Boidae (only those whose actual length exceeds eight
feet);
            4.   Family Colubridae (only boomslangs and African twig snakes);
            5.   Family Elapidae (such as coral snakes, cobras, mambas, etc.) -
all species;
            6.   Family Nactricidae (only keelback snakes);
            7.   Family Viperidae (such as cottonmouths, etc.) - all species;
            8.   Family Helodermidae (such as gila monsters and Mexican beaded
lizards);
            9.   Family Crotalidae (pit vipers);
            10.   Family Atractaspidae (burrowing asps); and
            11.   Family Hydrophilidae (sea snakes).
         (b)   Order Crocodilia (such as crocodiles, alligators, caimans,
gavials, etc.) -all species.
      (3)   CLASS ARACHNIDA.
         (a)   Order Araneae (only spiders which are venomous and which are not
indigenous to Surry County, but excluding tarantulas);
         (b)   Order Scorpionida (all scorpions).
   OWNER. The term OWNER shall have the same meaning as defined in Animal
Control Ordinance §
90.002. As used with Exotic Animals, OWNER also includes one who allows an
exotic animal to remain in, be lodged, fed, given shelter or refuge within the
Owner's home, store, yard, enclosure, out-building, abandoned vehicle or
building, place of business, or any other premises in which the person resides
or over which the person has control.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2016)
§ 90.132 PROHIBITION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to own, possess, keep, or harbor, bring into the
County, have in one's possession, act as a custodian for, or have custody of an
inherently dangerous exotic animal within the County; provided, that the Owner
of any inherently dangerous exotic animal as defined in this chapter who owned,
possessed, kept or harbored or be fed or be given shelter or refuge within the
person’s home, store, yard, enclosure, outbuilding, abandoned vehicle or
building, place of business, or any other premises on which the person resides
or over which the person has control such inherently dangerous exotic animal on
or before the effective date of this chapter shall remove said animal(s) from
the County within one year following the adoption of this chapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful and a violation of this chapter for any person
who violates division (A) of this §
90.133 to release or abandon an inherently dangerous exotic animal, in such
manner as to cause or permit the animal to be at large in the County, for the
purpose of evading prosecution under said division (A).
(Ord. passed 8-1-2016)
§ 90.133 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   This subchapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Veterinary clinics in possession of such animals for treatment or
rehabilitation purposes;
      (2)   Institutions regulated by the USDA;
      (3)   Institutions accredited by the American Zoo and Aquarium
Association;
      (4)   Animal control authority or law enforcement officers acting under
authority of this Act;
      (5)   Persons temporarily transporting such animals through the County,
providing that such transport shall not be longer than 24 hours, and the animal
is at all times maintained within a confinement sufficient to prevent it from
escaping; and/or
      (6)   Any licensed or accredited research medical institution or
educational institution.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, any such exempt entity or person from
which an inherently dangerous exotic animal escapes or is released for any
reason whatsoever (without regard to fault) shall be liable for the costs of
capturing said animal as provided in §
90.135(A) below.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2016)
§ 90.134 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Animal Control Department and its agents and employees, and any law
enforcement agency having authority within the territorial jurisdiction of this
chapter, shall be empowered to enforce the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2016)
§ 90.135 IMPOUNDMENT AND/OR DISPOSITION OF INHERENTLY DANGEROUS EXOTIC ANIMALS.
   The following provisions shall govern the impoundment and/or disposition of
inherently dangerous exotic animals present in the County in contravention of
this chapter:
   (A)   The Animal Control Department may immediately take up and impound an
inherently dangerous exotic animal if the Animal Control Department determines
in its discretion that it has facilities sufficient to safely house the animal
and that the impoundment can be undertaken without injury to persons or
property. The possessor is liable for the costs of capture, placement, and care
for the inherently dangerous exotic animal from the time the attempt to capture
begins or impoundment occurs (whichever happens first) until the time the
animal has been relocated to an approved facility as set forth hereunder, or
has been returned to the possessor (in the case of an exempt entity or person),
or has been destroyed. Said costs may be recovered by the County in the form of
additional civil penalties as set forth under §
90.999.
   (B)   If an inherently dangerous exotic animal is impounded as set forth
above, the possessor must within 72 hours of impoundment post a security bond
or cash deposit with the Animal Control Department in an amount sufficient to
guarantee payment of all reasonable expenses incurred and expected to be
incurred in capturing, caring for, providing for, and placing the animal,
including but not limited to the estimated cost of feeding, medical care, and
housing for at least 30 days, plus the cost of relocating the animal as set
forth hereunder. The security bond or cash deposit shall not prevent the Animal
Control Department from relocating the animal at any time; provided, that upon
such relocation the Animal Control Department shall recover under the security
bond or cash deposit only those sums actually incurred in connection with the
above listed expenses; provided further, that the Animal Control Department may
in its discretion keep the animal under impoundment for a period of up to 60
days if the possessor has posted a security bond or cash deposit sufficient to
cover such period. In all cases the amount of the security bond or cash deposit
shall be determined by the Animal Control Department and shall be based on the
current rate to feed, provide medical care for, and house the animal, plus the
expected cost of relocating the animal, plus costs already incurred for the
same and for capturing the animal. The form for security bonds as required
herein shall be approved by the Animal Control Department.
   (C)   If an inherently dangerous exotic animal is impounded as set forth
above, the Animal Control Department shall, upon posting of the required
security bond or cash deposit by the possessor, attempt to find proper and safe
housing for the animal outside the County through placement of the animal with
an institution or location accredited by the American Zoo and Aquarium
Association (AZA). If said security bond or cash deposit is not timely posted,
or if the possessor of the animal is unknown or cannot be located, the Animal
Control Department may nonetheless, in its discretion, attempt to find proper
and safe housing for the animal outside the County as stated above; provided,
that if the possessor is subsequently identified or located, said possessor
shall be liable for all costs of placement and care incurred by the Animal
Control Department as set forth in division (A) of this section.
   (D)   (1)   The provisions of divisions (B) and (C) of this section shall
not apply in the case of an impounded inherently dangerous exotic animal if:
         (a)   The impounded animal escaped or was released from an exempt
entity or person as set forth in §
90.133 above; and
         (b)   In the discretion of the Animal Control Department, the animal
can safely be impounded and returned to the exempt entity or person or can
safely be recaptured by said entity or person; and
         (c)   In the discretion of the Animal Control Department, the exempt
entity or person has taken reasonably sufficient steps to assure that the
animal will not escape or be released in the county again; and
         (d)   The animal has not previously escaped or been released in the
County.
      (2)   In such event the Animal Control Department shall allow the exempt
entity or person to recapture the animal or, if the animal is impounded, shall
return the same to the exempt entity or person upon payment in full of all
costs of capture as provided hereinabove.
   (E)   If the Animal Control Department determines in its discretion that an
inherently dangerous exotic animal cannot be taken up and impounded within the
requirements of division (A) above, the Animal Control Department may authorize
and direct the possessor to retain the animal and, within a fixed period of
time not to exceed 60 days, relocate the animal to proper and safe housing
outside the County through placement with an institution or location accredited
by the AZA. The foregoing provisions shall apply only if the Animal Control
Department determines in its discretion that the animal has not caused injury
to persons or property and that the possessor has facilities sufficient to
safely house the animal and prevent it from escaping or causing such injury
during the period when it is being relocated. The decision of the Animal
Control Department to proceed under this division (E) shall in no way affect
the applicability or imposition of civil penalties as to the possessor for
violating the provisions of division (2) above, and during any period of
relocation hereunder the civil penalties so imposed shall continue until the
possessor presents documentation or other satisfactory proof to the Animal
Control Department that the animal has been relocated as required herein.
   (F)   Unless otherwise prohibited by the Federal Endangered Species Act or
other applicable Federal or state law, the Animal Control Department may
immediately destroy an inherently dangerous exotic animal in a humane manner
if:
      (1)   The Animal Control Department determines in its discretion that the
animal cannot be taken up and impounded within the requirements of division (A)
above, and further determines in its discretion not to proceed under the
provisions of division (E) above;
      (2)   In the event of applicability of division (B) above, the possessor
of the animal fails to timely post the security bond or cash deposit as
required therein;
      (3)   In the event of applicability of division (C) above, proper and
safe housing cannot be found for the animal as set forth therein; or
      (4)   The animal has escaped or been released from an exempt entity or
person but does not fall within the provisions of division (D) above.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2016)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.150 INTERFERENCE WITH ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   No person shall interfere with, hinder, or molest the Animal Control
Officer or any agents or employees of the Animal Control Section, or the Surry
County Public Health Director or his designee, in their performance of any
duties under this chapter, nor seek to release any animal in the custody of the
same or of the Animal Shelter unless otherwise specifically authorized by law.
The penalty for a violation of this section shall be as set forth in §
90.999 above.
   (B)   No person may conceal any animal from the Animal Control, for the
purpose of evading the requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   No person may refuse to show proof of a rabies vaccination to any
member of the Animal Control Division upon demand.
   (D)   No person, other than a member of the Animal Control Section, may
remove any animal from a live-capture animal trap placed on private or public
property by the Animal Control section. It shall also be unlawful for any
person to damage, destroy, move or otherwise tamper with a trap placed by the
Animal Control Section on private or public property.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2016)
§ 90.151 IMPOUNDMENT AND DESTRUCTION STATE LAW.
   All provisions of this chapter with respect to the impoundment or
destruction of animals shall be subject to the requirements of State law
concerning the same, including but not limited to all State statutes and
regulations pertaining to rabies control.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2016)
§ 90.998 ENFORCEMENT.
   This chapter may be enforced by an appropriate equitable remedy issuing from
a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2016)
§ 90.999 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Misdemeanor. Notwithstanding any civil penalties which may be assessed
under division (B) below, any person violating any of the provisions of this
chapter may be found guilty of a Class 3 Misdemeanor under G.S. §§ 14-4 and
153A-123. For a continuing violation, each day’s violation shall be deemed to
be a separate offense.
   (B)   Civil penalties. In addition to, and not in lieu of, the criminal
penalties and other remedies provided by this chapter or by State law, a
violation of any of the provisions of §§
90.015 et seq.,
90.030 et seq.,
90.050 et seq.,
90.065 et seq.,
90.080 et seq.,
90.095 et seq., and
90.130 et seq. of this chapter may also subject the offender to the civil
penalties hereinafter set forth. The ACO shall be authorized to issue a
citation to such person, giving notice of the violation. Citations so issued
may be delivered in person or mailed by registered or certified mail, return
receipt requested, to the person charged if such person cannot otherwise be
readily located. The civil penalty or penalties set forth in the citation must
be paid within seven days of the receipt of the citation and shall be paid to
the Animal Control Section. The Animal Control Section shall forward all such
penalties collected to the Finance Office for the County of Surry for
application as by law provided. If the person charged fails to pay the civil
penalty within the time prescribed, a criminal summons shall be issued against
such person charging a misdemeanor violation of this chapter under division (A)
above and upon conviction, such person shall, in addition to the penalties
prescribed for said misdemeanor violation of this chapter, be punished as the
court prescribes for failure to pay the civil penalties imposed hereby. The
civil penalties for a violation of this chapter shall be as follows:
      (1)   For a violation of any provisions of §§
90.030 et seq.,
90.050 et seq.,
90.065 et seq.,
90.080 et seq.,
90.095 et seq., or
90.150 et seq., the civil penalty shall be $100 for a first offense, $250 for a
second offense, and $500 for a third or subsequent offense.
      (2)   For the following specific violations of §§
90.065 et seq., the civil penalty shall be the following:
      SECTION 4.b(l) - Failure to receive prior approval for sale or transfer
of potentially dangerous dog to new owner by current owner, and failure to
submit required signed written statement to Animal Control Department within
ten day period by new owner - $500 fine for seller and buyer (once notified of
dog’s PDD status) and/or misdemeanor charge.
      (3)   For the following specific violations of §§
90.115 et seq., the civil penalty shall be the following:
      SECTION l.d - Tampering with traps - $25; Stealing traps replacement at
current market value and/or misdemeanor larceny.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2016)
CHAPTER 91: LARGE GATHERINGS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Purpose
   
91.02   Definitions
   
91.03   Permits required
   
91.04   Permit application
   
91.05   Provisional permit and bond
   
91.06   Issuance or revocation; forfeiture of bond; cancellation
   
91.07   Right of entry
   
91.08   Appeal
Standards and Requirements
   
91.20   Generally
   
91.21   Activity area
   
91.22   Distance from dwellings
   
91.23   Distance from certain public water supply sources
   
91.24   Camping area
   
91.25   Command posts
   
91.26   Ingress and egress roads, entrances and exits
   
91.27   Parking
   
91.28   Plan for limiting attendance, exclusion of non-ticket holders, crowd
control and security enforcement
   
91.29   Dust control
   
91.30   Fire prevention and control
   
91.31   Plan for emergencies
   
91.32   Water supply
   
91.33   Toilet facilities; sewage disposal
   
91.34   Solid waste collection and disposal
   
91.35   Food dispensing
   
91.36   Insect and rodent control
   
91.37   Post-gathering clean-up
   
91.38   Lighting
   
91.39   Signs
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 PURPOSE.
   The intent and purpose of this chapter is to provide for the protection of
the public health, welfare and safety of those persons in attendance at large
gatherings and of those persons who reside near or are located in proximity to
the sites of large gatherings or are directly affected thereby.
(Ord. passed 5-3-1982)
§ 91.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEVELOPMENT SERVICES DIRECTOR. The Development Services Director of Surry
County or his or her authorized representative.
   HEALTH DIRECTOR. The Surry County Health Director or his or her authorized
representative.
   LARGE GATHERING. The congregation or assembly of more than 1,000, but less
than 5,000, people in an open space or open air for a continuous period of 12
hours or more; it shall include gatherings held for any purpose, but shall not
include assemblies in permanent buildings or permanent structures designed or
intended for use by large numbers of people which meet standards set by local
and state Building Codes.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, corporation or other organization of any kind
which holds, sponsors, organizes, conducts or promotes a large gathering.
(Ord. passed 5-3-1982; Ord. passed 12-7-2020)
§ 91.03 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   No person shall organize, sponsor or conduct any large gathering unless a
permit has been issued to such person by the Development Services Director
under the provisions of this chapter. A permit shall be required for each large
gathering and is not transferable to other persons. The permit shall be issued
by the Development Services Director upon the written reports of the Health
Director, Sheriff, Fire Marshal and Electrical Inspector, whose inspections and
reports shall be to determine whether the provisions of this chapter have been
complied with by the applicant.
(Ord. passed 5-3-1982; Ord. passed 12-7-2020) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   Application for a permit for a large gathering shall be made to the
Development Services Director, on a form and in a manner prescribed by him or
her, by the person who will organize, sponsor or hold the large gathering. The
application shall be filed with the Development Services Director at least 30
days prior to the commencement of the large gathering. A fee of $100 shall
accompany the application.
   (B)   The application shall contain the following information:
identification of the applicant; identification of any other person(s)
responsible for organizing, sponsoring or holding the large gathering; the
location of the proposed large gathering; the estimated maximum number of
persons reasonably expected to be in attendance at any one time; the date or
dates and the hours during which the large gathering is to be conducted; and a
statement as to the total time period involved.
   (C)   The application shall be accompanied by an outline map of the area to
be used, to approximate scale, showing the location of all proposed and
existing privies and toilets; lavatory and bathing facilities; all water supply
sources including lakes, ponds, streams, wells, storage tanks, etc.; all areas
of assemblage; all camping areas; all food service areas; all garbage and
refuse storage and disposal areas; all entrances and exits to public highways;
and emergency ingress and egress roads.
   (D)   The application shall be accompanied by such plans, reports and
information required by the Development Services Director as he or she shall
deem necessary to carry out the provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   In addition to requirements provided in divisions (A) through (D)
above, the application shall contain a written plan for adequate surveillance
and security to ensure compliance of those in attendance at such large
gatherings with applicable laws relating to traffic regulations, trespass and
crimes against persons and property within the activity area. The application
shall include a written statement by the Sheriff approving said plan.
   (F)   Prior instances of violations of this chapter, as evidenced by final
judgements of courts of this county or courts hearing cases arising out of this
county shall be considered by the Development Services Director along with the
information required to be set forth in the application provided for herein and
other evidence in determining whether or not to grant the requested permit, and
such violations within one year of the date of such application shall be
grounds for denying such permit.
(Ord. passed 5-3-1982; Ord. passed 12-7-2020)
§ 91.05 PROVISIONAL PERMIT AND BOND.
   (A)   Within ten days after the receipt of the application, the Development
Services Director and the County Health Director shall review the application
and inspect the proposed site for the large gathering. If it reasonably appears
that the requirements of this chapter can be met by the applicant, a
provisional permit shall be issued.
   (B)   The Development Services Director shall require the permittee, within
five days after issuance of the provisional permit, to file with the
Development Services Director a performance bond or other surety to be executed
to the county in the amount of $1,000. The bond shall be conditioned on full
compliance with this chapter and shall be forfeitable upon non-compliance and a
showing by the Development Services Director of any injury, damage or other
loss to the state or local governmental agencies caused by the non-compliance.
(Ord. passed 5-3-1982; Ord. passed 12-7-2020)
§ 91.06 ISSUANCE OR REVOCATION; FORFEITURE OF BOND; CANCELLATION.
   (A)   If, upon inspection by the Development Services Director three days
prior to the starting date of the large gathering, or earlier upon request of
the permittee, the required facilities are found to be in place and
satisfactory arrangements are found to have been made of required services, and
other applicable provisions of this chapter are found to have been met, the
Development Services Director shall issue a permit for the large gathering. If,
upon such inspection the facilities, arrangements or other provisions are not
in compliance with this chapter, the provisional permit shall be revoked and no
permit issued.
   (B)   Upon revocation of either the provisional permit or the permit, the
permittee shall immediately announce cancellation of the large gathering in as
effective a manner as is reasonably possible, including, but not limited to,
the use of whatever methods were used for advertising or promoting the large
gathering.
   (C)   If the provisional permit or the permit is revoked prior to or during
the large gathering, the Development Services Director may order the permittee
to install such facilities and make arrangements as may be necessary to
accommodate those persons who may nevertheless attend or be present at the
large gathering despite the cancellation and to restore the site to a safe and
sanitary condition. In the event the permittee fails to comply with the order
of the Development Services Director, the Development Services Director may
immediately proceed to install such facilities and make such other arrangements
and provisions for clean-up as may be minimally required in interest of public
health and safety, utilizing such state and local funds and resources as may be
available to him or her. Prior to and within 60 days after such action, the
Development Services Director may apply to a court of competent jurisdiction to
order forfeiture of the permittee's performance bond or surety for violation of
this chapter. The court may order that the proceeds shall be applied to the
extent necessary to reimburse the state and local governmental agencies for
expenditures made pursuant to the action taken by the Development Services
Director upon the permittee's failure to comply with his or her order. Any
excess proceeds shall be returned to the insurer of the bond or to the surety
after deducting costs.
(Ord. passed 5-3-1982; Ord. passed 12-7-2020)
§ 91.07 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   Authorized representatives of the Development Services Director and the
County Health Director shall have, at all times, the right of proper entry upon
any and all parts of the premises of any place in which such entry is necessary
to carry out the provisions of this chapter, or the rules and regulations
adopted under the authority of this chapter; and it shall be unlawful for any
person to resist a proper entry by such authorized representatives of the
Development Services Director or County Health Department.
(Ord. passed 5-3-1982; Ord. passed 12-7-2020) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.08 APPEAL.
   Any person, firm, corporation or other organization of any kind adversely
affected by the decision of the Development Services Director and
administration of this chapter would have the right to appeal to the Surry
County Board of Health; such appeal to be heard within 15 days of the written
notification of adverse decision by the Development Services Director.
(Ord. passed 5-3-1982; Ord. passed 12-7-2020)
STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS
§ 91.20 GENERALLY.
   The following standards and requirements are intended to protect the health,
welfare and safety of those attending large gatherings and of other persons who
may be affected by large gatherings.
(Ord. passed 5-3-1982)
§ 91.21 ACTIVITY AREA.
   An activity area shall be provided of sufficient size to accommodate the
estimated number of persons reasonably expected to be in attendance at any one
time.
(Ord. passed 5-3-1982) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.22 DISTANCE FROM DWELLINGS.
   No part of the activity, parking and camping areas shall be within 50 feet
of any property lines.
(Ord. passed 5-3-1982) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.23 DISTANCE FROM CERTAIN PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY SOURCES.
   No part of the perimeters of the activity, including camping areas, shall be
located within one mile of a Class I or Class II reservoir, as classified by
the Sanitary Engineering Division of the North Carolina Division of Health
Services, or within three miles of a protected watershed which drains into an
A-1 stream, as classified by the North Carolina Department of Natural and
Economic Resources, and which stream is used as a source of public water
supply.
(Ord. passed 5-3-1982) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.24 CAMPING AREA.
   An area of adequate size shall be provided and designated for camping.
(Ord. passed 5-3-1982) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.25 COMMAND POSTS.
   An adequate command post at a conveniently accessible location shall be
provided. The plan for the command post shall be approved by the Sheriff and
Health Director. The permittee shall ensure access to it at all times by
authorized personnel.
(Ord. passed 5-3-1982) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.26 INGRESS AND EGRESS ROADS, ENTRANCES AND EXITS.
   The permittee shall provide personnel and arrangements necessary to keep
entrances and exits to public highways open to traffic at all times. Such plan
shall be approved by the Sheriff and the Highway Patrol.
(Ord. passed 5-3-1982) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.27 PARKING.
   Sufficient parking facilities shall be provided to serve the reasonably
expected attendance. Camper class vehicles shall park in the camping area
provided in §
91.24 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 5-3-1982) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.28 PLAN FOR LIMITING ATTENDANCE, EXCLUSION OF NON-TICKET HOLDERS, CROWD
CONTROL AND SECURITY ENFORCEMENT.
   The application for permit shall be accompanied by a written plan for
limiting attendance to the number stated in the application for a permit, the
exclusion of persons not holding tickets and a written plan for security
enforcement, including the number of security guards to be provided for
internal and external crowd control and security enforcement. The plan shall be
accompanied by a written statement by the Sheriff that the plan seems adequate.
(Ord. passed 5-3-1982) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.29 DUST CONTROL.
   The application shall be accompanied by a written plan for dust control. The
permittee shall execute the plan.
(Ord. passed 5-3-1982) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.30 FIRE PREVENTION AND CONTROL.
   The application shall be accompanied by a written plan for fire prevention
and control. The application shall be accompanied by a written statement by the
Fire Marshal that the plan seems adequate.
(Ord. passed 5-3-1982) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.31 PLAN FOR EMERGENCIES.
   The application shall be accompanied by written plans for dealing with
emergency situations involving the occurrence of incidents requiring rapid
evacuation and plans for providing emergency medical attention on site.
(Ord. passed 5-3-1982) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.32 WATER SUPPLY.
   Drinking water, if provided, shall be adequate in quantity and quality; and
the sponsor shall have in his or her possession, at the time of the inspection
as provided in §
91.05 of this chapter, the reports of bacteriological and chemical examinations
of water samples by the Laboratory Section of the State Division of Health
Services. The water supply and the facilities for distribution and dispensing
shall be provided with effective safeguards to prevent the introduction of
contaminates.
(Ord. passed 5-3-1982) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.33 TOILET FACILITIES; SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Sanitary toilet facilities shall be provided at an adequate number of
convenient and readily accessible locations properly distributed throughout the
activity and camping areas at a rate of not more than 100 persons per toilet
seat.
   (B)   If chemical toilet rental is to be employed, all toilets shall be so
located as to be readily accessible by service vehicles and shall be serviced
as often as necessary. Material removed from such toilets shall be disposed of
in a public or community sewerage system, or in a disposal trench to be
constructed in the area. Each load of material deposited in such a trench shall
be covered immediately with earth or lime. At the end of each 24-hour period,
the material shall be covered with a layer of at least six inches of earth.
   (C)   If trench latrines are to be used, all trenches shall be covered with
fly-tight seat boxes with hinged lids.
   (D)   If water-carried sewage facilities are provided, the sewer system
shall be connected to a sewage system having wastewater treatment facilities of
adequate capacity to treat the flow of wastewater from the large gatherings;
and the application shall be accompanied by a signed statement by the Health
Director attesting to the adequacy of the treatment facilities. A similar
statement shall accompany the application if material removed from a chemical
toilet is to be disposed of in a public or community sewage system. No sewage
shall be discharged to the surface of the ground or into any watercourse.
(Ord. passed 5-3-1982) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.34 SOLID WASTE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Facilities shall be provided for all solid wastes to be collected and
stored in leak-proof, non-absorbent containers, and all solid wastes shall be
removed as needed and disposed of in a sanitary landfill.
   (B)   Approved receptacles having a minimum capacity of 52 gallons shall be
provided at places conveniently located throughout the activity, camping and
parking areas, and at each food service facility for the storage of solid
wastes. These receptacles shall be emptied at least once per day into dumpster-
type containers, which shall be emptied as needed.
(Ord. passed 5-3-1982) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.35 FOOD DISPENSING.
   Sanitary food dispensing facilities shall be provided at accessible and
convenient locations and shall be maintained in a sanitary condition.
Perishable food items dispensed from such facilities shall be limited to pre-
packaged items, such as wrapped sandwiches, prepared in commercial
establishments under official sanitary supervision and shall be dispensed in
the unbroken packages; provided that, hamburgers and frankfurters obtained from
approved sources may be cooked and packaged at the site at all operations of
preparation, cooking and packaging in unit packages for dispensing to
individuals are done inside an approved structure or vehicle, in a sanitary
manner and otherwise in compliance with § .0477 of the “Rules Governing the
Sanitation of Restaurants and Other Foodhandling Establishments” of the North
Carolina Division of Health Services. Perishable food shall be stored at or
below 45°F, or in the frozen state, until heated or cooked immediately before
serving.
(Ord. passed 5-3-1982) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.36 INSECT AND RODENT CONTROL.
   There shall be no fly or mosquito breeding places, rodent harborages or
undrained areas on the premises. Necessary measures shall be taken to control
flies, mosquitos, rodents and other vermin.
(Ord. passed 5-3-1982) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.37 POST-GATHERING CLEAN-UP.
   Within one week after the end of the large gathering, the areas and
immediate surrounding properties shall be cleaned of all litter and solid
wastes which can be attributed to the large gathering. All solid wastes shall
be disposed of as provided in §
91.34 of this chapter. Unless otherwise directed by the owner of the property,
all temporary facilities (such as solid waste receptacles and signs) shall be
removed from the area.
(Ord. passed 5-3-1982) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.38 LIGHTING.
   The application shall be accompanied by detailed plans for lighting designed
to illuminate the site. Such plans and final installation shall be approved in
writing by the County Electrical Inspector.
(Ord. passed 5-3-1982) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.39 SIGNS.
   Adequate signs shall be provided to show the locations of toilet facilities,
water supply outlets, solid waste receptacles, food stands, first aid
facilities and the command post.
(Ord. passed 5-3-1982) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person who willfully holds a large gathering, as herein
defined, without first securing a permit to do so as herein provided shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a
fine of not more than $50 or imprisonment for a period not to exceed 30 days.
      (2)   Any person who willfully fails to perform any other act required by
this chapter, or who willfully does any act prohibited by this chapter shall be
guilty of misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine
not to exceed $50 or by imprisonment for a period not to exceed 30 days.
    (B)   If any person shall violate or threaten to violate the provisions of
this chapter or any rules and regulations adopted pursuant thereto and such
violation, if continued, or such threatened violation, if committed, is or may
be dangerous to the public health, safety or welfare, or if any person shall
hinder or interfere with the proper performance of duty of the Development
Services Director or the Health Director for Surry County and such hindrance or
interference is or may be dangerous to the public health, the Development
Services Director may institute an action in the Superior Court of the county
in which such violation, threatened violation, hindrance or interference
occurred for injunctive relief against such continued violation, hindrance or
interference, irrespective of all other remedies at law and, upon the
institution of such an action, the procedure shall be in accordance with the
provisions of G.S. Ch. 1, Art. 37.
(Ord. passed 5-3-1982; Ord. passed 12-7-2020)
CHAPTER 92: ABATEMENT OF HEALTH AND SAFETY NUISANCE ORDINANCE
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Title
   
92.02   Purpose
   
92.03   Framework
   
92.04   Definitions
   
92.05   Access to premises and records
   
92.06   Nuisance determination
Standards and Requirements
   
92.20   Investigation and response to health or safety nuisance
   
92.21   Extension of time to perform
   
92.22   Failure to act
   
92.23   Hearing standards upon appeal
   
92.24   Appeal to General Court of Justice
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the "Abatement of Health and Safety Nuisance
Ordinance."
(Ord. passed 10-18-2021)
§ 92.02 PURPOSE.
   The intent and purpose of this chapter is to establish a uniform procedure
within the unincorporated areas of Surry County, to enforce G.S. § 153A-140 and
to establish procedural and enforcement safeguards to ensure due process rights
of owners and occupants of property within the County while protecting visitors
and residents within the County from conditions that are dangerous or
prejudicial to public health or safety.
(Ord. passed 10-18-2021)
§ 92.03 FRAMEWORK.
   (A)   This Ordinance specifies:
      (1)   The manner in which an owner or occupant of property in the County
is provided notice of a dangerous or prejudicial condition on their property;
      (2)   Directs the owner or occupant to remove, abate or remedy the
dangerous or prejudicial condition;
      (3)   Permits the owner or occupant a reasonable time for the dangerous
or prejudicial condition to be remedied; and
      (4)   Provides authority for the County to remove, abate or remedy the
condition should the owner or occupant fail to or refuse to act within a
reasonable time.
   (B)   Before the County takes action to remove, abate or remedy, the
property owner or occupant has:
      (1)   A right to appeal, offer evidence and confront the complaining
party; and
      (2)   A right of appeal to the General Court of Justice from a finding by
the Surry County Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 10-18-2021)
§ 92.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABATEMENT. The proper removal and/or containment of substances or materials
hazardous to humans and/or the environment. ABATEMENT is part of remediation.
   BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS. The currently elected Surry County Board of
Commissioners and may be referred to as "the Board" or "the County Board."
   COUNTY. Surry County.
   DEPARTMENT. The Surry County Planning Department, responsible for enforcing
this chapter and may be referred to as "the Department."
   HEALTH AND SAFETY NUISANCE. Any act or condition that is dangerous or
prejudicial to the public health or safety and shall include, but not be
limited to, conditions which pose an immediate and direct hazard to human
health if left unheeded due to the existence of the condition itself or due to
the immediate threat of transmission or infection resulting from the condition.
   OCCUPANT. Any person who occupies improved or unimproved real property,
whether with or without any right, title or interest in the property, and any
person in possession or charge of such property, in the event the owner resides
or is located elsewhere.
   ORDINANCE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. A County employee that is tasked with
ordinance compliance and that reports to the Planning Director.
   OWNER. Any person, partnership, persons, organization, company or
corporation that owns improved or unimproved real property, in whole or in
part, including, but not limited to, the land, structure or other fixture
permanently attached to the real property or improvement.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. All property other than that defined in the definitions
of "property" and "real property, real estate and land" of this chapter and
that is subject to ownership.
   PROPERTY. Publically or privately owned real property including parcels of
land, buildings or structures.
   REAL PROPERTY, REAL ESTATE, AND LAND. Not only the land itself, but also
buildings, structures, improvements, and permanent fixtures on the land, and
all rights and privileges belonging to or in any way appertaining to the
property.
(Ord. passed 10-18-2021)
§ 92.05 ACCESS TO PREMISES AND RECORDS.
   (A)   The owner or occupant shall, upon the request of the Department and
after proper identification, permit access to all parts of the site or
structure as necessary, and at any reasonable time for the purposes or
inspection, remediation and abatement of nuisance conditions, and shall exhibit
and allow copying of all records necessary to ascertain compliance with this
chapter.
   (B)   If the occupant or owner will not permit entry upon the property, the
Department shall complete the requirements of an Administrative search warrant
in order to inspect the conditions.
(Ord. passed 10-18-2021)
§ 92.06 NUISANCE DETERMINATION.
   It shall be the duty of the Department and the Department shall have
authority to determine whether a public health or safety nuisance exists and if
the owner or occupant shall be afforded the privileges and prescriptions set
forth in this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-18-2021)
STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS
§ 92.20 INVESTIGATION AND RESPONSE TO HEALTH OR SAFETY NUISANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt by the Department of: (1) a written complaint; (2) an
oral or anonymous complaint; or (3) observance of circumstances by the
Ordinance Enforcement Officer that a condition exists that may be dangerous or
prejudicial to public health or safety, the notification shall be forwarded to
the Director of the Department or the Director's designee. The complaint shall
identify the property location by street address or parcel identification
number, if possible. It shall further include information identifying the
nature of the public health or safety nuisance.
   (B)   Request to investigate. The Director shall assign an ordinance
enforcement officer to investigate and document the conditions and formulate a
written report including photographs (if relevant), a description of
conditions, and a recommendation on whether further action is warranted. The
investigation shall begin within 96 hours of receipt of the complaint.
   (C)   No action. If the Ordinance Enforcement Officer's recommendation is
"no action", the file will be closed and the complainant will receive written
notification of that fact.
   (D)   Further action. If the Ordinance Enforcement Officer recommends
further action to remove, abate or remedy the dangerous or prejudicial
conditions, the Director will schedule an on-site meeting with the Ordinance
Enforcement Officer to review the conditions and report the Director's
recommendations to the County Manager.
   (E)   Owner/occupant notification. If the County Manager concurs with the
Director's recommendation, the property owner and occupant shall receive: (1)
written notice that the conditions on the owner's and occupant's property have
been determined to be a public health or safety nuisance; and (2) an order to
remove, abate or remedy said nuisance.
      (1)   The notice and order shall be mailed by First Class Mail and by
certified mail, return receipt requested, to the property address maintained by
the Surry County Tax Administrator which is presumed to be the owner's correct
address. Additionally, the occupant shall be personally served with notice and
order by an officer authorized to serve a warrant as well as by First Class
Mail addressed to the occupant's last known address. If the occupant and owner
are one and the same, only one notice and order shall be mailed.
      (2)   The notice and order may be posted upon the property in a manner
permitted by law.
      (3)   The notice and order shall include the property address by street
location and parcel identification number, along with the nature of the public
health or safety nuisance existing upon or at the property.
      (4)   The notice and order shall direct the owner or occupant to remove,
abate or remedy the health or safety nuisance within a certain date, not to
exceed 30 days from the receipt of the notice, unless a shorter time is
required due to the Department's further determination that imminent abatement
is necessary to protect public health and safety.
      (5)   The notice shall include the owner's and occupant's right of appeal
of the Department's finding that a public health or safety nuisance exists on
their property.
      (6)   The Department's finding that a public health or safety nuisance
exists shall be appealable to the Surry County Board of Commissioners by owner
or occupant upon written notice to the Clerk and to the Board, 114 W. Atkins
Street, P.O. Box 1467, Dobson, NC 27017 within seven days of notice and order.
(Ord. passed 10-18-2021)
§ 92.21 EXTENSION OF TIME TO PERFORM.
   Upon timely written request and for good cause, the owner and occupant may
receive an extension of time to remedy the conditions. Any extension shall be
written and signed by the Director, or Director's designee, and shall designate
a time certain within which the nuisance conditions must be removed, remedied
or abated.
(Ord. passed 10-18-2021)
§ 92.22 FAILURE TO ACT.
   (A)   Should the property owner or occupant fail to take action or appeal
following written notice and order, and any extension granted, the Director
shall cause the dangerous and prejudicial conditions on the owner or occupant's
property be removed, abated or remedied by the County.
   (B)   The expense of the action to remove, abate or remedy shall be paid by
the person in default, occupant and/or owner, and if not paid within a
reasonable time, not to exceed 60 days, shall be a lien upon the land of the
premises where the nuisance arose, and shall be collected as unpaid taxes.
(Ord. passed 10-18-2021)
§ 92.23 HEARING STANDARDS UPON APPEAL.
   (A)   Upon the appeal of a nuisance finding by the Department, the Surry
County Board of Commissioners at its next regular meeting shall receive
evidence including:
      (1)   The written report prepared by the Ordinance Enforcement Officer;
      (2)   Testimony from the Ordinance Enforcement Officer, Director or other
witness;
      (3)   Expert testimony, if available;
      (4)   Photographic evidence, if relevant; and
      (5)   Testimony and documentary evidence from the owner or occupant, if
offered.
   (B)   The Board shall deliberate to determine whether the described
condition is dangerous or prejudicial to public health or safety. If the Board,
following receipt of testimony and documentary evidence, determines by the
greater weight of the evidence that conditions described are dangerous or
prejudicial to public health and safety of those in close proximity, the Board
shall enter an order that the County take all necessary action to remove, abate
or remedy those conditions found at hearing to be dangerous or prejudicial to
the public health or safety pursuant to G.S. § 153A-140. The County's action
shall take place following expiration of the appellant's right to appeal.
   (C)   The expense of the action to remove, abate or remedy shall be paid by
the person in default, occupant and/or owner, and if not paid within a
reasonable time, not to exceed 60 days, shall be a lien upon the land of the
premises where the nuisance arose, and shall be collected as unpaid taxes.
(Ord. passed 10-18-2021)
§ 92.24 APPEAL TO GENERAL COURT OF JUSTICE.
   (A)   Any time within five days of the Board's order finding that conditions
on the owner/occupant's premises are dangerous or prejudicial to the public
health or safety and an order for removal, abatement or remedy has issued, the
owner/occupant may appeal for a writ of certiorari to the General Court of
Justice with written notice of appeal mailed by first class mail to the Clerk
to the Board at P.O. Box 1467, Dobson, NC 27017. The appeal may be delivered to
the Board's Clerk at 114 W. Atkins Street, Dobson, NC 27017.
   (B)   Upon appeal to the General Court of Justice, the Clerk to the Board
shall cause to be produced a record of the Board's hearing in the form of a
transcription together with each and every exhibit considered by the Board in
its deliberation. Said record shall be delivered to the Clerk of Superior Court
and a copy shall be provided to appellant.
(Ord. passed 10-18-2021)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter, or who permits a
violation to exist on the premises under his/her control, or fails to take
action to abate the existence of the violation(s) within the specified time
period when ordered or notified to do so by Department, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided by law.
Each day of a violation constitutes a separate offense.
   (B)   Civil remedies. In the event of a violation or threat of violation of
this chapter, the County Attorney may take appropriate action to enforce this
chapter, including application for injunctive relief, action to compel
performance, or other appropriate action in court, if necessary, to prevent,
restrain, correct or abate such violations or threatened violations. The County
Attorney enforcing provisions of this chapter may seek costs and expenditures,
including staff time and attorneys' fees.
   (C)   Citations. When the Department issues a violation of this chapter, a
citation may be issued to the person charged with the violation, or in the case
of a corporation or municipality, to any officer or agent expressly or
impliedly authorized to accept such service.
(Ord. passed 10-18-2021)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
      
111.   CABLE TELEVISION
      
112.   AMBULANCE SERVICE
      
113.   SOLICITATIONS
      
114.   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT
      
115.   MOTOR VEHICLES
CHAPTER 110: SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
Section
   
110.01   Purpose and statutory authority
   
110.02   Enforcement
   
110.03   Definitions
   
110.04   Storage and disposal
   
110.05   Secured loads
   
110.06   Littering
   
110.07   Public health nuisance abatement
   
110.08   Burying, submerging solid waste
   
110.09   Landfill management
   
110.10   Solid waste receptacles
   
110.11   Licensing solid waste collectors
   
110.12   Franchising solid waste collectors
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 PURPOSE AND STATUTORY AUTHORITY.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate the storage, collection and
disposal of solid waste in Surry County and to protect the public health and
welfare. This chapter is adopted pursuant to the authority contained in G.S. §§
130A, 153A-121, 153A-132.1 and 153A-136.
(Ord. passed 8-17-2009)
§ 110.02 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Local Ordinance Officer, the Development Services Director, the Sheriff
of the County, his or her authorized representatives, and the authorized
inspections personnel of the Environmental Health Department are hereby
empowered to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 8-17-2009; Ord. passed 12-7-2020)
§ 110.03 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions apply in the interpretation and enforcement of
this chapter.
   ACCUMULATED JUNK. Wrecked, scrapped, disassembled, unusable or unrepairable
items including, but not limited to, vehicles, boats, trailers, manufactured
homes, heavy machinery, construction equipment, appliances, vehicle tires,
engines, transmissions, frames, axles, any parts and accessories of these
objects and any other non-vegetative debris collected or stored on the grounds
of a private residence, property or business.
   BULKY WASTE. Large items of solid waste such as household appliances,
furniture, large auto parts, tires, trees, branches, stumps and other oversize
waste whose large size precludes or complicates
their handling by normal solid waste collection, processing or disposal
methods.
   CIRCUMSTANTIAL EVIDENCE. A fact that can be used to infer another fact.
Examples relating to solid waste violations include mail, bills, check stubs,
receipts, names, phone numbers, addresses and any other evidence or information
found or recovered that may link a person or persons to the violation.
   COLLECTION. The act of moving solid waste from a point of generation to a
central storage point or to a disposal site and from a central storage point to
a disposal site.
   COMMERCIAL SOLID WASTE. Solid waste generated by stores, offices,
restaurants, warehouses and other non-manufacturing activities.
   CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION WASTE. Waste building materials, packaging and
rubble resulting from construction, remodeling, repair and demolition
operations on pavements, houses, commercial buildings and other structures.
   DIVISION OF PUBLIC HEALTH. Division of Public Health of the NC Department of
Health and Human Services.
   DIVISION OF WASTE MANAGEMENT. The North Carolina Division of Waste
Management, a state agency that licenses private solid waste collection
businesses and solid waste maintenance facilities, regulates solid waste
disposal, hazardous waste management, underground storage tanks and superfund
cleanups; and provides technical assistance to businesses, industries, local
governments and citizens to help them reduce and better manage wastes.
   GARBAGE. All putrescible solid wastes, including food wastes and food
containers, animal and vegetable matter, animal offal, animal carcasses,
recognizable industrial by-products or other matter that is subject to
decomposition, decay or the generation of noxious or offensive gases or odors,
or which after decay, may serve as a breeding or feeding material for rodents,
insects or other animals. GARBAGE does not include sewage and human wastes.
   HAZARDOUS WASTES. Waste, or a combination of wastes, in a solid, liquid,
contained gaseous or semi-solid form that may cause, or contribute to, an
increase in mortality or an increase in serious irreversible, or incapacitating
reversible illness, taking into account the toxicity of such waste, its
persistence and degradability, its potential for accumulation or concentration
in tissue and other factors that may otherwise cause or contribute to adverse
acute or chronic effects on the health of persons or other organisms.
   HEALTH DIRECTOR. The Director of the Surry County Health and Nutrition
Center or his or her authorized representative.
   INDUSTRIAL SOLID WASTE. Solid wastes generated by industrial processes and
manufacturing.
   INFECTIOUS WASTE.
      (1)   Equipment, instruments, utensils and fomites (any substance that
may harbor or transmit pathogenic organisms) of a disposable nature from the
rooms of patients who are suspected to have or have been diagnosed as having a
communicable disease and must therefore, be isolated as required by public
health agencies;
      (2)   Laboratory wastes, such as pathological specimens (e.g., all
tissues, specimens of blood elements, excreta and secretions from patients or
laboratory animals) and disposable fomites attendant thereto; and
      (3)   Surgical operating room pathologic specimens and disposable fomites
attendant thereto, and similar disposable materials from outpatient areas and
emergency rooms.
   INSTITUTIONAL SOLID WASTE. Solid wastes generated by educational, health
care, correctional and other institutional facilities.
   LANDFILL. A site established for the disposal of waste by burial, and
approved and licensed by the State of North Carolina. LANDFILL establishment
and operation are subject to the provisions of G.S. § 130A-294 and to other
state and federal guidelines, hereby incorporated by reference as enforceable
provisions of this chapter.
   LITTER. Any solid waste discarded upon public or private property by a
person other than the owner(s) of the property.
   LITTERING. To dispose or to intentionally or recklessly cause the disposal
of litter upon public or private property owned by another person or persons.
   LOCAL ORDINANCE OFFICER. Agent or agents employed by the county to enforce
the provisions of land use and other locally enacted laws.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, association,
governmental unit or agency or other legal entity.
   PUBLIC HEALTH NUISANCE. Any action or condition that is dangerous or
prejudicial to public health or safety, including, but not limited to, the
following:
      (1)   Accumulated junk, tires, trash, refuse or construction debris that
may be a breeding ground or nest for mosquitoes, other insects, rodents or
other pests;
      (2)   Any material causing offensive odors or health risks to others such
as dead animals, stagnant water, decayed vegetables and fruit, or unclean
privies and stables;
      (3)   Uncovered human-made structures or containers with stagnant water
found to be a breeding ground for mosquitoes, other insects, rodents or other
pests; and
      (4)   Any uncovered well, open pit, appliance, unsecured vehicle,
unsecured building or unsecured manufactured home, or other condition or
structure that may cause entrapment or injury, or be a breeding ground or nest
for mosquitoes, other insects, rodents or other pests.
   RADIOACTIVE WASTE. Any wastes that emit ionizing radiation spontaneously.
   RECYCLING CENTER. A site for the collection of garbage and other recyclable
items.
   REFUSE. Solid wastes, excluding garbage and ashes, collected from
residences, commercial establishments and institutions.
   SOLID WASTE.
      (1)   Discarded materials and any accumulated junk, bulky waste,
commercial waste, construction/demolition waste, hazardous waste, infectious
waste, industrial waste, hazardous or non- hazardous garbage, litter, refuse or
sludge from a waste treatment plant, water supply treatment plant, or air
pollution control facility and other discarded material, including solid,
liquid, semi-solid or contained gaseous material resulting from industrial,
institutional, commercial and agricultural operations, and from community
activities.
      (2)   The term does not include:
         (a)   Fowl and animal fecal waste;
         (b)   Solid or dissolved material in:
            1.   Domestic sewage and sludges generated by the treatment thereof
in sanitary sewage disposal systems which have a design capacity of more than
3,000 gallons or which discharge effluents to the surface waters;
            2.   Irrigation return flows; and
            3.   Wastewater discharges and the sludges incidental thereto and
generated by the treatment thereof which are point sources subject to permits
granted under § 402 of the Clean Water Act, as amended (Pub. Law No. 92-500),
and permits granted under G.S. § 143-215.1 by the Environmental Management
Commission.
         (c)   Oils and other liquid hydrocarbons controlled under G.S. Ch.
143, Art. 21A;
         (d)   Any radioactive material as defined by the North Carolina
Radiation Protection Act, G.S. §§ 104E-1 through 104E-23; or
         (e)   Mining refuse covered by the North Carolina Mining Act, G.S. §§
74-46 through 74-68, and regulated by the North Carolina Mining Commission.
   SOLID WASTE COLLECTOR. Any person who for hire, collects, transports or
disposes of solid wastes.
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL SITE. A location at which solid wastes are disposed of
by incineration, sanitary landfill or other approved method.
   SOLID WASTE RECEPTACLE. Large metal container used for the temporary storage
of solid wastes and capable of being automatically emptied into collection
vehicles.
(Ord. passed 8-17-2009)
§ 110.04 STORAGE AND DISPOSAL.
   (A)   No owner, occupant, tenant or lessee of any property may deposit,
store or permit to accumulate any solid wastes upon his or her property that is
not stored or disposed of in a manner prescribed by this chapter.
   (B)   The owner, occupant, tenant or lessee of any property shall remove or
cause to be removed all solid wastes from his or her property at least once
each month (30-day period), and at least once each week (seven-day period) if
required for health and sanitation reasons.
   (C)   Garbage shall be stored only in a container that is durable, rust-
resistant, non-absorbent, water- tight and easily cleaned, with a close-fitting
fly-tight cover in place, with adequate handles or bails to facilitate
handling. The capacity of the container may not exceed 35 gallons.
   (D)   Refuse shall be stored in a manner that will not provide harborage to
rodents and varmints and will not create a fire hazard.
   (E)   No owner, occupant, tenant or lessee of any building or dwelling may
leave outside the building or dwelling, in a place accessible to children, any
abandoned or unattended icebox, refrigerator or other receptacle that has an
air-tight door without first removing the door.
   (F)   Solid waste shall be disposed of only in one of the following ways:
      (1)   In a sanitary landfill approved and permitted by the Division of
Waste Management;
      (2)   In an incinerator that has all required local, state and federal
air pollution control permits;
      (3)   In solid waste receptacles provided by the county, or by private
collectors licensed by the Division of Waste Management;
      (4)   A householder may dispose of solid wastes generated at his or her
residence on his or her property in a manner approved by the Division of Waste
Management, and the Division of Waste Management shall publish a list of
generally approved methods of disposal; and
      (5)   By any other method, including reclamation and recycling processes
that have been approved by the Division of Waste Management.
   (G)   Construction and demolition wastes may be disposed of at the county
landfill with permission from the landfill manager or his or her
representatives.
   (H)   Bulky wastes may be disposed of at the county landfill with permission
from the landfill manager or his or her representatives.
   (I)   Infectious, hazardous and radioactive wastes shall be disposed of
according to written procedures approved by the Health Director.
   (J)   Any person collecting and transporting solid wastes generated on his
or her property for disposal at an approved disposal site shall comply with
divisions (F)(1) and (F)(2) above concerning vehicles and containers.
(Ord. passed 8-17-2009) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.05 SECURED LOADS.
   Transport of solid waste, whether residential, commercial or industrial,
from the point of origin to a landfill or recycling center, must be completely
secured so as to prevent the unintended release of solid waste from the
transport vehicle and littering public rights-of-way, public property and
private property. Licensed and/or franchised solid waste collectors who violate
this section at least three times within a one-year period will risk having
their license/franchise revoked by the Board of Commissioners for a period of
not less than 365 days. This provision shall apply to municipal haulers of
solid waste within the county, but outside of municipal limits.
(Ord. passed 2-20-1017)
§ 110.06 LITTERING.
   Littering shall be deemed a violation of this chapter and shall be enforced
by the county in addition to any state-enforced laws and penalties for same. To
that purpose, littering violations, if not immediately remedied by the
offender, shall be referred to state law enforcement authorities for
prosecution in addition to local enforcement measures.
(Ord. passed 8-17-2009) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.07 PUBLIC HEALTH NUISANCE ABATEMENT.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to promote the public safety, health
and welfare of the citizens of Surry County through regulation of public health
nuisances in the county.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to create a public
health nuisance on any parcel of land or allow a nuisance to remain on his, her
or their property.
(Ord. passed 8-17-2009) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.08 BURYING, SUBMERGING SOLID WASTE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to bury in the earth or submerge in a body of
water solid waste materials for the purpose of disposal. Exceptions to this
regulation are those materials approved by the Division of Waste Management for
filling low lying areas such as: concrete, cinder block, brick, rock, asphalt
or granite.
   (B)   Permitted landfill sites approved by the Division of Waste Management
and otherwise compliant with applicable state and federal laws are exempt from
the regulation of this section.
(Ord. passed 8-17-2009) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.09 LANDFILL MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   The sanitary landfills of Surry County may be used for the disposal of
solid wastes by any person who is a resident or property owner of Surry County
during regular hours of operation of the landfill. Solid wastes shall be
disposed of at the landfill in the manner and according to the procedures
required by the landfill manager or his or her representative.
   (B)   The following wastes may not be disposed of in the landfills without
permission of the landfill manager or his or her representative:
      (1)   Bulky wastes;
      (2)   Construction and demolition wastes;
      (3)   Tires, unless they have been quartered or shredded;
      (4)   Infectious wastes; and/or
      (5)   Wet sludge.
   (C)   Radioactive wastes shall not be disposed of in the landfills.
(Ord. passed 8-17-2009) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.10 SOLID WASTE RECEPTACLES.
   (A)   Solid wastes may be deposited in receptacles provided by the county.
   (B)   All solid wastes shall be deposited inside the solid waste receptacle.
No solid waste may be left at the solid waste disposal site outside the
receptacle.
   (C)   The following wastes may not be deposited in solid waste receptacles:
      (1)   Hazardous wastes;
      (2)   Liquid wastes;
      (3)   Infectious wastes;
      (4)   Radioactive wastes;
      (5)   Bulky wastes;
      (6)   Tires;
      (7)   Construction and demolition wastes; and/or
      (8)   Burning or smoldering materials or any other materials that would
create a fire hazard.
   (D)   No person may remove any item from a solid waste receptacle, climb on
or into a receptacle or damage any receptacle.
(Ord. passed 8-17-2009) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.11 LICENSING SOLID WASTE COLLECTORS.
   (A)   No person shall engage in business as a solid waste collector except
as holder of a valid license or permit issued by the state’s Division of Waste
Management pursuant to the policies and procedure prescribed by that agency, by
the Solid Waste Act of 2007, and by any subsequent amendment to that Act.
   (B)   No license issued pursuant to this chapter shall be assignable.
(Ord. passed 8-17-2009) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.12 FRANCHISING SOLID WASTE COLLECTORS.
   (A)   The Board of County Commissioners may issue exclusive and non-
exclusive franchises authorizing persons to collect, transport and dispose of
solid wastes and describing the area for which the franchise is issued.
   (B)   No person may be issued a franchise by the Board of County
Commissioners unless he or she holds a license issued by the Division of Waste
Management to engage in the business of solid waste collection.
   (C)   Applications for franchises shall be filed with the Board of County
Commissioners through the County Manager, on forms prescribed by the County
Manager and shall include a copy of the applicant’s license application to the
Division of Waste Management and any other information the County Manager deems
pertinent. A valid Certificate of Insurance (COI) must accompany the
application with a minimum coverage of $1,000,000.
   (D)   The Board of County Commissioners may grant a franchise only upon
finding that the applicant will render prompt, efficient and continuing service
to the area for which the franchise is granted and that the applicant has
sufficient equipment and personnel to render service to all persons generating
solid wastes within the service area.
   (E)   The Board of County Commissioners shall determine the area for which a
franchise is granted.
   (F)   The Board of County Commissioners shall set or approve all fees
charged by solid waste collectors before granting a franchise. The Board may
classify fees according to whether residential, commercial, institutional or
industrial customers are served, so that reasonable compensation may be
provided in accordance with the public interest. Fee schedules may be amended
by the Board from time to time.
   (G)   A franchise shall be for a term of three years and shall be renewable.
   (H)   A solid waste collector franchised under this chapter shall present to
each prospective customer, in advance of any agreement with that customer, a
schedule of his or her fees, as authorized by this chapter, to be charged. All
solid wastes shall be removed from the customer’s premises at least once a
week; provided, the customer is no more than 30 days in arrears in payment of
the required collection fees.
   (I)   The Board of County Commissioners may grant temporary franchises for
the collection, transportation or disposal of solid wastes to provide service
in the event of abandonment of an existing franchise or for other cause.
   (J)   All disputes regarding the granting of a franchise and disagreements
concerning franchised areas shall be resolved by the Board.
   (K)   No franchise shall be assignable.
   (L)   A solid waste collector granted a franchise under this chapter shall
give 60 days’ written notice to the Board of County Commissioners before
abandoning the franchise.
   (M)   The Board of County Commissioners may terminate or suspend all or any
portion of a franchise for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Loss of the franchisee’s license to operate as a solid waste
collector;
      (2)   Failure of the franchisee to comply with the authorized fee
schedules;
      (3)   Failure of the franchisee to render prompt and effective service as
determined by the Board of County Commissioners to persons within his or her
service area; or
      (4)   Failure of the franchisee to comply with any provision of this
chapter or applicable regulations of the Division of Waste Management.
(Ord. passed 8-17-2009) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Surry County shall take any enforcement actions as prescribed below, if
there is probable cause to believe that a person or persons are in violation of
this chapter.
   (A)   A warning citation may be issued at the discretion of the authorized
agent assigned to the violation. The warning citation may include orders that
direct the violator to correct his, her or its actions within a specified
amount of time.
   (B)   A civil citation may be issued directly to the violator(s) of this
chapter, or mailed to the violator by certified mail. If such person does not
claim citation by certified mail, a copy may be posted conspicuously at the
last known or present address of the violator. A cited violator shall respond
to the citation within 72 hours of service or mailed notice acceptance, or
within ten days of lawful posting of the citation on the property. The civil
citation shall be paid in full to the Surry County Development Services
Department on or before the specified date and time described on the citation.
The authorized agent may order the violator to remedy the violation in addition
to paying the civil citation. If such an order is issued, the violator(s) shall
present evidence that such remedy has been or is being executed as ordered and
according to any time allowances given in such order, along with the payment of
any civil citations issued.
   (C)   Fines in civil citations under this chapter shall be administered as
follows:
      (1)   First offense: $50;
      (2)   Second offense: $100; and
      (3)   Third and sequential citations: $100.
   (D)   Each day a violation continues shall be deemed a separate and distinct
offense, punishable as provided herein.
   (E)   A civil citation may be issued for violation of this chapter based
upon circumstantial evidence recovered by the local ordinance officer.
   (F)   The civil penalties shall be administered in addition to any and all
other penalties that may be imposed by a court of law resulting from actions in
violation of this chapter.
   (G)   A misdemeanor criminal summons may be issued against the violator(s)
of this chapter if deemed necessary to remedy the violation in the discretion
of one or more of those named in §
110.02 of this chapter.
   (H)   Any person violating this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
punishable by a fine, community service or both. Each day’s violation shall be
treated as a separate offense.
(Ord. passed 8-17-2009; Ord. passed 12-7-2020)
CHAPTER 111: CABLE TELEVISION
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Short title
   
111.02   Statement of intent and purpose
   
111.03   Definitions
   
111.04   Right-of-way construction
   
111.05   Franchise fee
   
111.06   Performance bond
   
111.07   Bonds, indemnification and insurance
   
111.08   Revocation
   
111.09   Foreclosure and receivership
   
111.10   Purchase of system
   
111.11   Rights of individuals protected
   
111.12   Rate regulation
   
111.13   Rights reserved to grantor
   
111.14   Non-enforcement by the county
   
111.15   Governing law and choice of forum
   
111.16   Severability
   
111.17   Publication of notices
   
111.18   System construction capabilities and schedule
   
111.19   Customer service standards
Franchises
   
111.30   Franchise requirements
   
111.31   Franchise renewal
   
111.32   Grant of additional franchise
   
111.33   Permits for non-franchised entities
   
111.34   Application and renewal fees
   
111.35   Design provisions
   
111.36   Drops to public buildings
   
111.37   Uses of grantee facilities
   
111.38   Upgrade of system
   
111.39   Non-discriminatory access to cable system
   
111.40   Institutional networks and public, education and government access
Technical Standards
   
111.55   General technical standards
   
111.56   Books and records available to grantor
   
111.57   Technical standards compliance
   
111.58   Tests and compliance procedure
   
111.59   Emergency requirements
   
111.60   Programming decisions
   
111.61   Parental control
   
111.62   Periodic subscriber survey
   
111.63   Installations exceeding standard installation
   
111.64   Service areas and line extension policy
   
111.65   County monitoring
   
111.66   Access to inside wiring
 
   
111.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “County of Surry Ordinance for
Regulations of the Cable Television Services” (the “chapter”).
(Ord. passed 12-19-2005)
§ 111.02 STATEMENT OF INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   The County of Surry, North Carolina, pursuant to applicable federal
and state law, is authorized to grant one or more non-exclusive franchises to
construct, operate, maintain and reconstruct cable systems within the
unincorporated areas of the county.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners of the County of Surry finds that cable
service has become an integral part of its citizens’ lives, and that evolving
cable systems have the potential to play an even more dramatic role in the
future, providing great benefits and advanced capabilities to the county. At
the same time, the Board further finds that the public convenience, safety and
general welfare can best be served by establishing regulatory powers that are
vested in the county or such persons as the county designates.
   (C)   In order to ensure that the county and its residents receive state-of-
the-art cable services and capabilities as this technology further evolves, all
franchises granted pursuant to this chapter will be subject to periodic review
to keep current with changing law, technology and services. It is the intent of
this chapter to help ensure that local cable operators provide the best
possible cable service to residents of the county, and any franchises issued
pursuant to this chapter shall be deemed to include this finding as an integral
part thereof.
   (D)   Further, it is recognized that cable systems have the capacity to
provide entertainment and information services to the county’s residents, and
may have the capacity to provide a variety of broadband, interactive
communications services to institutions and individuals. For these purposes,
the following goals underlie the regulations contained herein.
      (1)   Cable television services should be made available to all of the
county’s residents at the lowest reasonable cost.
      (2)   The system should be capable of accommodating both the present and
reasonably foreseeable future state-of-the-art cable television needs of the
county.
      (3)   The systems authorized by this chapter shall be responsive to the
needs and interests of the local community, and shall provide the widest
possible diversity of information sources and services to the public. Each of
the above-enumerated goals shall be sought to the maximum extent, taking into
account the costs and benefits to the residents of the County of Surry.
   (E)   The Board further finds that on-going industry consolidation could
result in less local accountability, and that, therefore, stringent customer
service standards, including liquidated damages provisions, may be the only
practical means of ensuring compliance and approximating the costs of franchise
agreement non-compliance to the county and its residents.
(Ord. passed 12-19-2005)
§ 111.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and
their derivations shall have the meaning given herein. When not inconsistent
with the context, words used in the present tense include the future tense,
words in the plural number include the singular number, and words in the
singular number include the plural number. The words “shall” and “will” are
mandatory and “may” is permissive. Words not defined shall be given their
common and ordinary meaning.
   ADDITIONAL SERVICE. Any cable service other than basic service provided over
the system.
   BASIC CABLE SERVICE. Any cable service tier that includes the lawful
retransmission of local television broadcast signals and any public,
educational and governmental access programming required by this chapter or a
franchise agreement to be carried on the basic tier. BASIC CABLE SERVICE, as
defined herein, shall be consistent with 47 U.S.C. § 543(b)(7) (1997), and
shall include any signal of any television broadcast station that is provided
by a grantee to any subscriber, except a signal which is secondarily
transmitted by a satellite carrier beyond the local service area of such
station. Additional signals may be added to the basic tier by the grantee.
   BOARD. The County Board of Commissioners of the County of Surry, North
Carolina, or its delegates.
   CABLE ACT, CABLE INTERNET SERVICE. Any cable service offered by a grantee
whereby persons receive access to the internet or high-speed data information
services through the cable system.
   CABLE SERVICE or SERVICE. The one-way transmission to subscribers of (i)
video programming, or (ii) other programming service; subscriber interaction,
if any, which is required for the selection or use of such video programming or
other programming service; and, for purposes of this chapter, CABLE INTERNET
SERVICE shall be considered information service unless determined otherwise by
state or federal law.
   CABLE TELEVISION SYSTEM or CABLE SYSTEM. A facility, consisting of a set of
closed transmission paths and associated signal generation, reception and
control equipment that is designed to provide cable service to multiple
subscribers within the franchise area, but such term does not include: a
facility that serves only to retransmit the television signals of one or more
television broadcast stations; a facility that serves subscribers without using
any public right-of-way; or a facility of a common carrier which is subject, in
whole or in part, to the provisions of 47 U.S.C. §§ 201 through 226; except
that, such facility shall be considered a cable system to the extent such
facility, whether on a common carrier basis or otherwise, is used in the
transmission of video programming directly to subscribers.
   CAPITAL CONTRIBUTION. A contribution provided by a grantee as determined in
a franchise agreement that may, at the county’s discretion, be utilized for the
capital costs of the municipal access channel facilities, or to help defray the
costs of an I-Net.
   CHANNEL. A portion of the electromagnetic frequency spectrum that is capable
of carrying one standard video signal, in either analog or digital form.
Consistent with future changes in technology and/or applicable law, the parties
may mutually agree to a different definition in an individual franchise
agreement.
   COMPLAINT. Any written or electronic inquiry, allegation or assertion, made
by a person regarding service.
   CONTROL. The holding of legal or financial control of or over the holder of
the franchise, the service provider or system owner or operator, regardless of
whether such control is direct or indirect, or is exercised or is permitted to
be exercised directly or indirectly through other persons, holdings or
entities. CONTROL shall always be deemed to rest in the hands of any person or
entity that has the right or authority to establish or change any policy or
practice of the holder of the franchise or the service provider, whether such
control may be exercised directly, or indirectly through other persons,
holdings or entities.
   CONVERTER. An electronic device that converts signals to a frequency not
susceptible to interference within the television receiver of a subscriber and,
through the use of an appropriate channel selector, permits a subscriber to
view all authorized subscriber signals delivered at designated converter dial
locations.
   COUNTY. The County of Surry, North Carolina, as it is now, or may in the
future be, constituted.
   COUNTY ADMINISTRATOR. A person designated by the County Manager to represent
the county in all business with the grantee.
   DIRECT INCREMENTAL COSTS. The costs actually incurred by grantee in meeting
an obligation under its franchise which grantee would not otherwise have
incurred in order to either operate and conduct the business of its cable
system or meet another obligation of the franchise.
   DOWNSTREAM SIGNAL. A signal originating from or provided by a system to a
subscriber terminal or other terminal including video, audio, or digital
signals or any other type of data or information for either programs or other
uses such as security alert services, etc.
   DROP. The cable or cables that connect users of the system to the
distribution system in order to receive service.
   EDUCATIONAL ACCESS CHANNELS. Channels specially designated for locally
produced non- commercial educational access programming use.
   EFFECTIVE DATE. The date a franchise becomes effective in accordance with
the franchise and the rules and procedures of the county.
   FAIR MARKET VALUE. The price that a willing buyer would pay to a willing
seller for a going concern based on the system valuation prevailing in the
industry at the time.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission or a designated representative.
   FRANCHISE. The rights and obligations extended by the County of Surry
pursuant to an initial authorization or a renewal thereof, to a person to own,
lease, construct, maintain or operate a cable system in the right-of-way within
the franchise area for the purpose of providing cable services. Any such
authorization, in whatever form granted, shall not mean or include:
      (1)   Any other permit or authorization required for the privilege of
transacting and carrying on a business within the county required by the
ordinances and laws of the county, including the provision of
telecommunications services; and
      (2)   Any generally applicable non-discriminatory permit, agreement or
authorization required in connection with operations in the right-of-way
including, without limitation, permits and agreements for placing devices on or
in poles, conduits or other structures, whether owned by the county or a
private entity, or for excavating or performing other work in or along the
right-of-way.
   FRANCHISE AGREEMENT. The document which grants a franchise pursuant to this
chapter.
   FRANCHISE AREA. The geographic area for which a franchise is granted under
the authority of this chapter. If not otherwise specifically stated in the
franchise agreement, the FRANCHISE AREA shall be the entire geographic
unincorporated area within the county as it is now, or may in the future be,
constituted.
   FRANCHISE FEE. Any tax, fee or assessment of any kind imposed by the county
or other governmental entity on a grantee solely because of its status and
activities as such. The term FRANCHISE FEE does not include:
      (1)   Any tax, fee or assessment of general applicability (including any
such tax, fee or assessment imposed on both utilities and cable operators or
their services, but not including a tax, fee or assessment that is unduly
discriminatory against cable operators or cable subscribers);
      (2)   Capital costs that are required by a franchise agreement to be
incurred by a grantee for public access channels equipment and facilities;
      (3)   Requirements or charges incidental to the award or enforcement of a
franchise, including payments for bonds, security funds, letters of credit,
insurance, indemnification, compliance audits, penalties or liquidated damages;
or
      (4)   Any fee imposed under U.S.C. Title 17.
   GOVERNMENT ACCESS CHANNELS. Channels specially designated for locally
produced non- commercial governmental access programming use.
   GRANTEE. A person who is granted a franchise or that person’s lawful
successors, transferees or assignees.
   GRANTOR. The County.
   GROSS REVENUES.
      (1)   Any and all revenue, whether received in the form of cash, credits,
barter, trade, property or consideration of any kind or nature, arising from,
attributable to or in any way derived by the grantee from the operation of a
grantee’s system to provide cable service, whether such revenue is received by
the grantee, its affiliates or any person in which the grantee has a financial
interest, or by any other person who operates the system, directly or
indirectly. This definition is intended to reach as broadly as possible to
encompass all revenue. GROSS REVENUE includes, by way of illustration and not
limitation, amounts charged for basic service; optional premium, per-channel,
per-program services; cable programming services; audio services; launch fees;
channel guide subscriptions; installation, disconnection, reconnection and
changes-in-service; equipment sales or rentals; leased channel fees; late fees
and administrative charges of any type; consideration received from
programmers; advertising revenue; and revenue from the sale of subscriber names
and addresses. To the extent that grantee receives revenue from cable services
provided to a subscriber for a fixed price that also includes non-cable
services (i.e., those services are “bundled”), the grantee shall allocate an
appropriate portion of those revenues for inclusion in gross revenues. If the
fixed price of the bundled services is lower than the aggregate of the prices
of those services if purchased individually, then the appropriate amount of the
revenue to be allocated to each service shall be proportional to the individual
price of that service when compared to the aggregate of the individual prices
of those services when unbundled.
      (2)   GROSS REVENUES shall not include:
         (a)   Bad debt, except to the extent that bad debt is recovered;
         (b)   The revenue of any person including, without limitation, a
supplier of programming to the grantee to the extent that said revenue is also
included in gross revenue of the grantee;
         (c)   Pass-through payments received by the grantee from third-party
programmers to purchase services from entities other than the grantee, which
services benefit, only the third-party programmers and for which the grantee
neither received nor provides any consideration;
         (d)   Any taxes on services furnished by the grantee which are imposed
directly on any subscriber by the state, the county or other governmental unit
and which are collected by the grantee on behalf of said governmental unit. A
franchise fee is not such a tax; or
         (e)   To the extent the scope of gross revenues is limited by federal
law or judicial action, the definitions herein shall be so amended.
   HEADEND. The electronic control center of the system including components
that amplify, filter and convert incoming broadcast and other television and
electronic signals for distribution over the cable system.
   INSTITUTIONAL NETWORK or I-NET. Capacity, fibers or both, from both within
the primary cable network and/or separately constructed networks that are
dedicated to municipal users or other governmental and educational users as
determined by the county for two-way, broadband, non-commercial, non-
competitive, not-for-profit communications. The I-NET includes all equipment
and maintenance of equipment required to make the capacity available including
but not limited to fiber, cable modems, coaxial cable and all switching,
routing, transmitting and receiving equipment necessary for the use of the I-
NET, as determined in the individual franchise agreement.
   INSTITUTIONAL NETWORK SERVICES. The provision of an I-Net by a grantee to
municipal users and other governmental and educational users as determined by
the county, pursuant to the terms of a franchise agreement for non-commercial,
non-competitive, not-for-profit applications including, but not limited to,
two-way dedicated voice, data, video, internet and telephony channels
connecting and interconnecting user facilities; computerized traffic-control
systems; GIS systems; and the interconnection of facilities serving police,
fire and other public safety systems.
   LOCKOUT DEVICE. A mechanical or electrical accessory to a subscriber’s
terminal that inhibits the video or audio portions of a certain program or
certain channel(s) provided by way of a cable system.
   NON-COMMERCIAL. Channels or programming that is operated on a not-for-profit
basis.
   NORMAL BUSINESS HOURS. Those hours during which most similar businesses in
the community are open to serve customers. In all cases, NORMAL BUSINESS HOURS
must include some evening hours at least one night per week and/or some weekend
hours.
   NORMAL OPERATING CONDITIONS. Any and all situations or conditions that are
ordinarily within the control of a grantee, including, but not limited to,
management or corporate decisions; employee conduct; staffing levels; special
promotions; pay-per-view events; rate increases; regular peak or seasonal
demand periods; electronic and video equipment; and maintenance, repair or
upgrade of the cable system, and any associated computer or software systems.
Those conditions that are not within the control of a grantee include, but are
not limited to, natural disasters; civil disturbances; power outages; telephone
network outages; and severe or unusual weather conditions. A condition shall
not be deemed to be beyond the grantee’s control if committed by a corporation
or other business entity which the grantee controls.
   OTHER PROGRAMMING SERVICE. Information that a grantee makes available to all
subscribers generally.
   PERSON. Any corporation, partnership, proprietorship, individual,
organization, company, governmental entity or any natural person.
   PUBLIC ACCESS CHANNELS. Channels specially designated for locally produced
non- commercial public access programming use.
   PUBLIC BUILDING. A building, or any portion thereof, owned, leased or
otherwise occupied by the county.
   REASONABLE NOTICE. Written notice addressed to the county or grantee at such
location as the parties have designated in the franchise agreement as the
address to which notice shall be transmitted to it, which notice shall be sent
by certified mail and postmarked not less than seven business days prior to
that day in which the party giving such notice shall commence any action which
requires the giving of notice. In computing said seven days, holidays
recognized by the county shall be excluded.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. Each of the following which have been, or are hereafter,
dedicated to the public and maintained by any public authority or by others and
located within the county, including without limitation, the surface and space
within, above and below any real property in which the county has an interest
in law or equity, whether held in fee, or other estate or interest, or as a
trustee for the public, including, but not limited to, any public street,
boulevard, road, highway, freeway, lane, alley, court, sidewalk, parkway,
swale, river, tunnel, viaduct, bridge, park or any other place, area,
easements, rights-of-way and similar public property and areas, or real
property owned by or under the control of the county.
   SCHOOL. Any state-accredited public or non-profit educational institution
including primary and secondary schools, both public and private.
   SERVICE INTERRUPTION. The loss of picture or sound on one or more cable
channels.
   STANDARD INSTALLATION. Any service drop not exceeding 150 feet from a single
point or pedestal attachment to the subscriber’s residence.
   STATE-OF-THE-ART. The addition of new services and associated equipment as
they are developed, available and when economically feasible and marketable to
subscribers as specifically required under the terms of a franchise agreement.
   SUBSCRIBER. Any person who or which elects to subscribe for any purpose to
cable service provided by a grantee by means of, or in connection with, the
cable system, and whose premises or facilities are physically wired and
lawfully activated to receive cable service from grantee’s cable system.
   SYSTEM. A grantee’s cable system operated pursuant to a franchise agreement
within the franchise area.
   TRAINED REPRESENTATIVE. Employees of the grantee who have the authority and
capability while speaking with a subscriber to, among other things, answer
billing questions, adjust bills and schedule service and installation calls.
   UPSTREAM SIGNAL. A signal originating from a subscriber’s terminal to the
head end of the system including video, audio or digital signals or any other
type of data or information for either programs or other uses such as security
alert services, etc.
(Ord. passed 12-19-2005)
§ 111.04 RIGHT-OF-WAY CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   General. Prior to commencing any construction in the county, a grantee
must obtain all necessary permits and licenses required by federal, state and
generally applicable county laws, ordinances and rules, and pay all associated
non-discriminatory fees. Further, a grantee shall comply with all applicable
laws, ordinances, rules and standards relating to the construction, operation
and maintenance of a cable system.
   (B)   Compliance with laws. The construction, installation and maintenance
of the cable system shall be effectuated by grantee in a manner that is
consistent with the laws, ordinances and construction standards of the State of
North Carolina, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the National
Electrical Safety Code, National Electrical Code and the FCC, to the extent
applicable, as well as all other laws, rules, regulations and ordinances that
are generally applicable and promulgated pursuant to the county’s lawful police
power. All open connections on splitters, couplers and other devices shall be
properly terminated.
   (C)   Minimum interference. All of the grantee’s construction, installation,
operation, repair and maintenance, and the arrangement of its lines, cables and
other appurtenances, on public or private property, shall be conducted in such
a manner as to not unreasonably interfere with the rights and reasonable
convenience of property owners that may be affected. In the event such work is
not in accordance with applicable rules and regulations, the county may require
the removal within such period of time after notice as is reasonable under the
circumstances, of the grantee’s lines, cables and appurtenances from the public
rights-of-way in question, at the sole expense of the grantee.
   (D)   Repair of property. The grantee shall promptly repair and restore any
county or private property which may be damaged as a result of the
construction, installation, operation, repair, maintenance or removal of the
cable system. Any such property damaged or destroyed shall be promptly repaired
and restored by the grantee, at the grantee’s sole cost and expense to the
reasonable satisfaction of the county, to its condition prior to being damaged,
or shall be replaced by grantee with equivalent property. The county may
inspect and approve the condition of the public rights-of-way and cables,
wires, attachments and poles after restoration. The liability, indemnity,
insurance and performance bond as provided herein shall continue in full force
and effect during the period of any removal and until the grantee has fully
complied with the terms and conditions of this chapter and the franchise
agreement. In the event of a failure by the grantee to complete any restoration
work required by the county within the time as may be established by the county
and to the reasonable satisfaction of the county, the county may, following
reasonable notice to the grantee, cause such work to be done and the grantee
shall reimburse the county the cost thereof within 30 days after receipt of an
itemized list of such cost, or the county may at its option recover such costs
through the performance bond provided by grantee. The county shall be permitted
to seek legal and equitable relief to enforce the provisions of this section.
   (E)   Erection of poles. The grantee shall not erect any pole on or along
any public rights-of-way in an existing aerial utility system without the
advance written approval of the county. If additional poles in an existing
aerial route are required, the grantee shall negotiate, as needed, with the
owners thereof for the installation of the needed poles. The grantee shall
negotiate the lease of pole space and facilities from the existing pole owners
for all aerial construction, under mutually acceptable terms and conditions.
   (F)   Reservations of street rights. Nothing in this chapter shall be
construed to prevent the county from constructing storm or sanitary sewers,
grading, paving, repairing or altering any public rights-of-way, or laying
down, repairing or removing water mains, traffic signal control systems, county
fiber plant or constructing or establishing any public utility, service or
other public work that the county may operate or undertake now or in the
future. All such work shall be done, insofar as practicable, in such manner as
not to obstruct, injure or prevent the free use and operation of poles, wires,
conduits, conductors, pipes or appurtenances of the grantee. If the county, in
its reasonable judgment, shall determine that the grantee’s facilities
interfere with the construction location or repair of any public right-of-way
or public improvement, then all such facilities of the grantee shall be removed
or replaced, or temporarily disconnected, in such manner as shall be directed
by the county so that the same shall not interfere with the public works of the
county. Such removal or replacement shall be at the expense of grantee;
provided, however, that, nothing in this chapter shall preclude grantee from
seeking reimbursement for removal or replacement costs from any public funds
generally available to rights-of-way users for the reimbursement of such costs.
   (G)   Underground installation. In those areas within the county where cable
television, telephone or electrical facilities are currently placed
underground, all cable system facilities shall remain or be placed underground.
In areas where either telephone or electric utility facilities are above ground
at the time of installation, the grantee may install its cable system
facilities above ground; provided that, at such time as both electric and
telephone utility facilities are placed underground, the grantee shall likewise
place its cable system facilities underground without cost to the county.
Nothing contained in this section shall require a grantee to construct, operate
and maintain underground any ground-mounted appurtenances; except that, grantee
shall take steps to minimize the number and visual impact of such facilities.
If the grantor reimburses any utility for such relocation, the grantee shall be
similarly reimbursed. This section shall not prevent the county or any of its
agencies or joint agencies from requiring the installation or relocation of
cable services facilities underground pursuant to a separate ordinance or
regulation or requirement imposed in accordance with the exercise of the
general police power or regulatory function of such agency or joint agency.
   (H)   Conduit.
      (1)   The county shall not be responsible for any cuts or damage to
buried or underground facilities of a grantee that are not clearly marked or
cannot be located through the North Carolina “one-call” service.
      (2)   The grantee shall provide the county detailed strand and trench
maps in both paper and a mutually agreed upon electronic format of all new
underground and buried cable facilities upon activation of such sections of the
system, as may be necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter or a
franchise agreement. Should the grantee consider this information of a
proprietary nature, the maps may be viewed at the grantee’s facility.
      (3)   The grantee shall provide a contact number for the county to call
in emergency situations requiring an immediate response on the part of the
county. If the grantee does not properly and effectively identify the precise
location of its facilities within 45 minutes of an emergency call from the
county, the county shall not be responsible for damage to the grantee’s
facilities.
   (I)   Clearing poles and cables. The grantee shall have the right to remove,
trim, cut and to keep clear of its poles, cables, underground conduits and
related equipment the trees, shrubs and woody plants in and along the public
rights-of-way, but, in the exercise of such right, the grantee shall not cut
such trees, shrubs and woody plants to any greater extent that is reasonably
necessary for the construction, erection, installation, maintenance and use of
cable system equipment. Except in emergency situations, all tree, shrub and
woody plant pruning shall be carried out under the supervision of the County
Arborist and shall be governed in accordance with pruning guidelines of the
American National Standard Institute and National Electric Code. The grantee
shall compensate the county or any private owners of such trees, shrubs and
woody plants for any damage caused by the grantee’s negligent conduct.
   (J)   Moving facilities. The grantee, on the request of the county, or any
person holding a building permit issued by the county, or any permit issued by
an appropriate state agency, shall temporarily move its wires, cables, poles or
other cable system facilities to permit the moving of large objects, vehicles,
buildings or other structures. The expense of such temporary moves shall be
paid to the grantee by the person requesting the same and grantee shall have
the authority to require such payment in advance. The grantee shall be given
not less than 30 days’ advance notice to arrange for such temporary moves.
   (K)   Work performed by others. To the extent applicable, all provisions of
this chapter shall apply to any subcontractors or others performing any work or
services pursuant to the provisions of a franchise agreement on behalf of a
grantee.
   (L)   Liability. Nothing contained in this chapter shall relieve any person
from liability arising out of the failure to exercise reasonable care to avoid
injuring the grantee’s facilities while performing any work connected with
grading, re-grading or changing the line of any public rights-of-way or with
the construction of any sewer or water system or utility system.
(Ord. passed 12-19-2005)
§ 111.05 FRANCHISE FEE.
   (A)   The administration of this chapter or the franchise agreement imposes
upon the county additional regulatory responsibility and expense and in
consideration for permission to use the public rights-of-way of the county for
the construction, operation and maintenance, of a cable system within the
county, a grantee of any franchise hereunder shall pay to the county a
franchise fee in an amount as designated in the franchise agreement, up to the
maximum amount allowed by applicable law. To the extent that applicable law
changes the maximum authorized franchise fee, the county reserves the right to
change the franchise fee as stated in the franchise agreement, by adopting an
ordinance establishing the new franchise fee rate and allowing reasonable
notice to the grantee for administration of the change. The county shall hold a
public hearing prior to adopting any change in the franchise fee.
   (B)   Payments due the grantor under this section shall be computed
quarterly, for the preceding quarter. Each quarterly payment shall be due and
payable no later than 45 days after the end of the preceding quarter. Each
payment shall be accompanied by a brief report by a grantee showing the basis
for the computation and a “franchise fee worksheet” listing all of the sources
of revenues attributable to the operation of the grantee’s system in the
county. All such payments shall be certified as correct by an officer of the
grantee.
   (C)   No acceptance of any payment shall be construed as an accord that the
amount paid is in fact the correct amount, nor shall such acceptance of payment
be construed as a release of any claim the grantor may have for further sums
payable under the provisions of this chapter or a franchise agreement. All
amounts paid shall be subject to audit and re-computation by grantor or its
designee at any time during any calendar year (but not more than once per
calendar year) upon 20 calendar days’ notice, which shall include a request for
any documents sought to be reviewed. Audits shall be at the expense of the
grantee if the additional amount due is greater than 2% of the amount paid. Any
additional amount due to the county as a result of the audit shall be paid
within 60 days following written notice to the grantee by the county which
notice shall include a copy of the audit report. The grantor’s right to audit
and the grantee’s obligation to retain records related to the franchise fee
audit, shall expire three years from the date on which the most recent
franchise fee payment by the grantee was due from the time of written notice.
   (D)   In the event that any franchise payment or recomputed amount is not
made on or before the dates specified herein, the grantee shall pay as
additional compensation an interest charge, computed from such due date, at the
annual rate equal to the commercial prime interest rate of the county’s primary
depository bank during the period that such unpaid amount is owed.
(Ord. passed 12-19-2005)
§ 111.06 PERFORMANCE BOND.
   Each grantee shall maintain a performance bond with the county to ensure
compliance with this chapter and the applicable franchise agreement, in an
amount and in a manner as set forth in the grantee’s franchise agreement.
(Ord. passed 12-19-2005)
§ 111.07 BONDS, INDEMNIFICATION AND INSURANCE.
   Each grantee shall maintain bonds and insurance with the county in amounts
and in a manner as set forth in the grantee’s franchise agreement. Each grantee
also shall be required to indemnify the county in a manner as set forth in the
grantee’s franchise agreement.
(Ord. passed 12-19-2005)
§ 111.08 REVOCATION.
   (A)   Grounds for revocation. The grantor reserves the right to revoke the
franchise, and all rights and privileges pertaining thereto, in the event that:
      (1)   A grantee substantially violates any material provision of this
chapter or a franchise agreement;
      (2)   A grantee attempts to evade any of the material provisions of this
chapter or a franchise agreement;
      (3)   The grantee practices an act of fraud or deceit upon the grantor;
      (4)   A grantee becomes insolvent, unable or unwilling to pay its debts
or is adjudged bankrupt;
      (5)   A grantee fails to provide or maintain in full force and effect the
liability and indemnification coverage or the performance bond as required
pursuant to its franchise; or
      (6)   A grantee violates any orders or rulings of any regulatory body
having jurisdiction over the grantee relative to this chapter or the franchise
and after notice thereof, shall continue the violation and not remedy the same
within 60 days.
   (B)   Procedure for revocation.
      (1)   Whenever grantor has reason to believe that there may be grounds
for revocation of a franchise, the grantor shall first notify the grantee in
writing of its basis for believing grounds for revocation exist. Such notice
shall indicate with reasonable specificity the grounds for revocation that are
believed to exist so that the grantee may have a reasonable opportunity to cure
or otherwise address the same. If a grantee fails to adequately cure or address
the purported grounds for revocation within 30 days of such notice, then the
grantor may, upon 30 days’ written notice to the grantee, commence a public
administrative hearing to determine whether there exists any ground for
revocation.
      (2)   The administrative hearing shall be conducted so as to protect the
full due process rights of the parties and provide for, at a minimum, the right
to have counsel, the right to call and cross examine witnesses, and the right
to a full transcript of the proceedings.
      (3)   After the close of the hearing, the grantor or the designated
hearing officer shall issue a written decision based on the record of the
proceedings, stating with specificity the findings and reasons supporting the
decision.
      (4)   Upon revocation, a grantee shall have a period of 120 days
subsequent to the date of the formal adoption of a revocation of the franchise
by the county within which to file an appeal with a court of competent
jurisdiction.
      (5)   During the appeal period, the franchise shall remain in full force
and effect.
(Ord. passed 12-19-2005)
§ 111.09 FORECLOSURE AND RECEIVERSHIP.
   (A)   Foreclosure. Upon the foreclosure or other judicial sale of all or a
part of a system, a grantee shall notify the grantor of such fact and such
notification shall be treated as a notification that a change in control of the
grantee has taken place, and the provisions of this chapter governing the
consent to transfer or change in ownership shall apply without regard to how
such transfer or change in ownership occurred.
   (B)   Receivership. Apart from and supplemental to the right to revoke a
franchise, grantor shall have the right to cancel a franchise agreement 120
days after the appointment of a receiver or trustee to take over and conduct
the business of a grantee, whether in receivership, reorganization, bankruptcy
or other action or proceeding, unless such receivership or trusteeship shall
have been vacated prior to the expiration of said 120 days, or unless: within
120 days after its election or appointment, the receiver or trustee has fully
complied with all the provisions of the grantee’s franchise agreement and this
chapter and remedied all defaults thereunder; and such receiver or trustee,
within said 120 days, has executed an agreement, duly approved by a court
having jurisdiction, whereby such receiver or trustee assumes and agrees to be
bound by each and every provision of this chapter and the applicable franchise
agreement.
(Ord. passed 12-19-2005)
§ 111.10 PURCHASE OF SYSTEM.
   (A)   Purchase by grantor. Upon termination of franchise term or revocation
of franchise, the grantor may, in accordance with and to the extent permitted
by 47 U.S.C. § 547, upon the payment of a fair valuation, purchase, condemn,
acquire, take over and hold the property and plant of a grantee, in whole or in
part, on the following conditions.
      (1)   Upon revocation of a franchise, a fair valuation shall be an
equitable value that shall not include any sum attributable to the value of the
franchise itself, and plant and property shall be valued according to its book
value at the time of revocation, or the system’s initial cost less depreciation
and salvage.
      (2)   At the expiration of a franchise agreement and following a denial
of renewal of the franchise agreement, a fair valuation shall be the fair
market value of the plant and property, exclusive of the value attributed to
the franchise itself.
      (3)   In the event a grantor shall acquire a franchise pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter or a franchise agreement, and commence operation of
the system, the grantor shall reimburse the grantee for the fair market value
of the system.
   (B)   Sale or transfer.
      (1)   No grantee shall sell, transfer, lease, assign, sublet or dispose
of, in whole or in part, an interest in or control of a franchise or cable
system or any of the rights or privileges granted by a franchise agreement,
without the prior consent of the grantor, which consent shall not be
unreasonably denied or delayed and may be denied only upon a good faith finding
by the grantor that the proposed transferee lacks the legal, technical or
financial qualifications to consummate the transaction and operate the system
so as to perform its obligations under this chapter and the applicable
franchise agreement. This section shall not apply to sales of property or
equipment in the normal course of business. Consent from the grantor shall not
be required for a transfer in trust, mortgage or other instrument of
hypothecation, in whole or in part, to secure indebtedness, or for a transfer
to a corporation, partnership or other entity controlling, controlled by or
under common control with a grantee.
      (2)   The following additional events shall be deemed to be a sale,
assignment or other transfer of an interest in or control of a grantee or its
franchise or cable system requiring compliance with this section:
         (a)   The sale, assignment or other transfer of all or a majority of a
grantee’s assets;
         (b)   The sale, assignment or other transfer of capital stock or
partnership, membership or other equity interests in a grantee by one or more
of its existing shareholders, partners, members or other equity owners so as to
create a new controlling interest in a grantee;
         (c)   The issuance of additional capital stock or partnership,
membership or other equity interest by a grantee so as to create a new
controlling interest in a grantee; and
         (d)   A grantee’s agreement to transfer management or operation of the
grantee or the system.
      (3)   The term “controlling interest”, as used herein, is not limited to
major stockholders, but includes actual working control in whatever manner
exercised.
      (4)   In the case of any sale or transfer of ownership of an interest in
or control of a grantee or its franchise or cable system, the county shall have
120 days to act upon any request for approval of such sale or transfer that
contains or is accompanied by such information as is required in accordance
with FCC regulations and the requirements of this chapter and the applicable
franchise agreement, including information related to the legal, technical and
financial qualifications, and the proposed transferee’s ability to operate the
system in accord with this chapter and the franchise agreement. Failure to
provide all information reasonably requested by the county as part of its
review may be grounds for a denial of the proposed transfer. If the county
fails to render a final decision on the request within 120 days after receipt
by the county of all required information, such request shall be deemed granted
unless the grantee and the county agree to an extension of the 120-day period.
      (5)   The consent or approval of the county to any transfer of the
grantee shall not constitute a waiver or release of the rights of the county in
and to the public rights-of-way, and any transfer shall, by its terms, be
expressly subject to the terms and conditions of this chapter and the franchise
agreement.
      (6)   In the absence of extraordinary circumstances, the county will not
approve any transfer or assignment of the franchise prior to completion of
construction of the proposed initial system.
      (7)   Any approval by the county of a transfer shall be contingent upon
the prospective new grantee becoming a signatory to the franchise agreement.
(Ord. passed 12-19-2005)
§ 111.11 RIGHTS OF INDIVIDUALS PROTECTED.
   (A)   Discriminatory practices prohibited. No grantee shall deny service,
deny access or otherwise discriminate against subscribers, programmers or
general citizens on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, sex,
disability or age. Every grantee shall strictly adhere to the equal employment
opportunity requirements of state and federal law. Each grantee shall comply at
all times with all other applicable federal, state and local laws and all
executive and administrative orders relating to non- discrimination.
   (B)   Subscriber privacy. Grantees shall, at all times, comply with the
federal subscriber privacy requirements codified at 47 U.S.C. § 551.
(Ord. passed 12-19-2005)
§ 111.12 RATE REGULATION.
   (A)   The county reserves the right to regulate rates for all services
offered over the cable system, to the extent permitted by federal or state law.
The grantee shall be subject to the rate regulation provisions provided for
herein, and those of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) at 47 C.F.R.
part 76.900, subpart N. The county shall follow the rules relating to cable
rate regulation promulgated by the FCC at 47 C.F.R. part 76.900, subpart N. To
the extent required by applicable federal or state law, the grantee shall
establish rates that are non-discriminatory within the same general class of
subscribers and which must be applied fairly and uniformly to all subscribers
in the franchise area for all services.
   (B)   Nothing contained herein shall prohibit the grantee from offering:
      (1)   Discounts to commercial and multiple-family dwelling subscribers
billed on a bulk basis;
      (2)   Promotional discounts;
      (3)   Reduced installation rates for subscribers who have multiple
services;
      (4)   Discounts for senior citizens and/or low income residents; or
      (5)   Reduced rates to subscribers who receive non-cable services in
addition to cable services.
(Ord. passed 12-19-2005)
§ 111.13 RIGHTS RESERVED TO GRANTOR.
   (A)   (1)   Upon either the expiration or revocation of a franchise, the
grantor may permit and/or require a grantee to continue to operate the cable
system for an extended period of time not to exceed three months from the date
of such expiration or revocation.
      (2)   A grantee shall continue to operate the system under the terms and
conditions of this chapter and the applicable franchise agreement and to
provide cable service and any and all other services which the grantee had been
providing.
   (B)   (1)   The grantor shall have the right to compel continued operation
of the cable system whether by the grantee or a trustee or receiver or by the
grantor, and to ensure that such operation is consistent with public interest
as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction.
      (2)   The grantee may not remove equipment or documents necessary for
continued operation of the system.
   (C)   At all reasonable times, the grantee shall permit examination by the
county of the system, together with any appurtenant property of the grantee
situated within or without the county when necessary to ascertain the grantee’s
compliance with this chapter, the franchise agreement and all applicable laws.
   (D)   The county shall have the right of intervention in any suit or
proceeding to which the grantee is a party relative to grantee’s operations in
the county and the grantee shall not oppose such intervention by the county.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided by applicable law, the grantee shall have
no recourse whatsoever against the county or its officials, boards,
commissions, agents or employees for any loss, cost, expense or damage arising
out of any provision or requirements of this chapter or the franchise agreement
or of their enforcement.
(Ord. passed 12-19-2005)
§ 111.14 NON-ENFORCEMENT BY THE COUNTY.
   The grantee shall not be relieved of its obligation to comply with any of
the provisions of this chapter or the franchise agreement by reason of any
failure of the county to enforce prompt compliance.
(Ord. passed 12-19-2005)
§ 111.15 GOVERNING LAW AND CHOICE OF FORUM.
   Any dispute arising with respect to this chapter or a franchise agreement
granted pursuant to it shall be subject to review by the state and federal
courts having primary jurisdiction in the County of Surry, North Carolina.
(Ord. passed 12-19-2005)
§ 111.16 SEVERABILITY.
   If any material portion of this chapter, or a franchise agreement adopted
pursuant to it, is held by an authority of competent jurisdiction, to be
invalid or unlawful as conflicting with applicable laws now or hereafter in
effect, or is held by a court or competent governmental authority to be
modified in any way in order to conform to the requirements of any such
applicable laws, such provision shall be considered a separate, distinct and
independent part of this chapter or franchise agreement and, to the extent
possible, such holding shall not affect the validity and enforceability of all
other provisions thereof.
(Ord. passed 12-19-2005)
§ 111.17 PUBLICATION OF NOTICES.
   All public notices required to be published by the grantor under this
chapter or any franchise agreement shall be published in a manner consistent
with the public notice laws of the State of North Carolina.
(Ord. passed 12-19-2005)
§ 111.18 SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION CAPABILITIES AND SCHEDULE.
   (A)   The cable system shall generally conform to the system design and
channel capacity specifications set forth by the grantee in its application for
a franchise submitted to the county. At a minimum, the grantee shall construct
a system with equivalent technical capabilities to a hybrid fiber coax [HFC]
750 MHZ cable system. The grantee is permitted to modify its design and
implementation plan, pursuant to the conditions provided herein, to accommodate
technological innovations and refinements that enhance system reliability and
capacity.
   (B)   The initial construction required under initial franchise agreement
shall be completed in compliance with a schedule specified therein. If the
grantee shows that, notwithstanding its due diligence, that it has been unable
to extend service to a specified area because the acts or omissions of a third
party (excluding the grantee’s subcontractors or agents) or other factors have
caused a delay in construction beyond that reasonably expected during the
course of construction, and the grantee proposes a reasonable alternative
deadline for extension of service to that area, the county shall grant
reasonable extensions of time to complete construction.
   (C)   In the event the county requires the grantee to interconnect the cable
system with any other entity for any purposes, the county and grantee shall
mutually agree upon the terms of interconnection.
(Ord. passed 12-19-2005)
§ 111.19 CUSTOMER SERVICE STANDARDS.
   The grantee will at all times comply with the FCC’s customer service
standards (47 C.F.R. part 76, Cable Television Service, subpart H, General
Operating Requirements, as amended).
(Ord. passed 12-19-2005)
FRANCHISES
§ 111.30 FRANCHISE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Operating without franchise. It shall be unlawful for any person to
construct, operate or maintain a cable system or to provide cable service in
the county without a franchise. Any such person shall be subject to a fine of
$500 per day. The payment of such fine notwithstanding, all such violators
shall be subject to all other applicable provisions of this chapter, including,
but not limited to, the payment of a franchise fee.
   (B)   Non-exclusive. Any franchise granted pursuant to this chapter shall be
non-exclusive. The grantor specifically reserves the right to grant, at any
time, such additional franchises for a cable system or any component thereof,
to any other person including itself, as it deems appropriate, subject to
applicable federal and state law.
   (C)   Discrimination and competition. In the event the county grants more
than one franchise or similar authorization for the construction, operation or
maintenance of any cable system to a qualified person in the county, the county
shall grant the franchises on terms that are non-discriminatory and
competitively neutral; provided that, nothing herein shall be construed as
requiring the use of identical terms or conditions, in accordance with federal
law.
   (D)   Term. A franchise agreement shall establish the term of each
individual franchise.
   (E)   Federal, state and county jurisdiction.
      (1)   The county shall exercise appropriate regulatory authority under
the provisions of this chapter, the Cable Act and all applicable laws. This
authority shall be vested in the County of Surry County Board and administered
through the County Manager or his or her designee in order to provide day-to-
day administration and enforcement of the provisions of this chapter and any
franchise granted hereunder and to carry out the county’s responsibilities with
regard to cable service.
      (2)   This chapter shall be construed in a manner consistent with all
applicable federal and state laws.
      (3)   In the event that the federal or state government discontinues
preemption in any area of cable communications over which it currently
exercises jurisdiction in such manner as to expand rather than limit municipal
regulatory authority, the grantor may, if it so elects, adopt rules and
regulations in these areas to the extent permitted by law; provided, the same
do not materially alter the rights and obligations of a grantee under any
existing franchise.
      (4)   The grantee’s rights are subject to the police powers of the county
to adopt and enforce ordinances necessary to the health, safety and welfare of
the public. The grantee shall comply with all applicable general laws and
ordinances enacted by the county pursuant to that power.
      (5)   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all franchises
granted or renewed after the effective date of this chapter. This chapter shall
also apply to all existing franchises, to the extent not inconsistent with the
terms of any such franchise or applicable law. In the event of any conflict
between the terms and conditions of a franchise agreement and the provisions of
this chapter, and other generally applicable regulatory ordinances of the
county, the terms of this chapter shall control unless otherwise expressly set
forth in the franchise agreement. A franchise agreement (including all of the
grantee’s particular rights, powers, protections, privileges, immunities and
obligations associated therewith as the same exist on the date hereof) shall
constitute a legally binding contract between the county and the grantee, and
as such, cannot be amended, modified or changed by the county or grantee
without the consent of the grantee and grantor in any manner whatsoever,
whether by ordinance, rule, regulation or otherwise, to impose on grantee more
stringent or burdensome requirements or conditions; provided, however, that,
nothing herein contained shall preclude the county from the proper exercise of
its police powers, or its powers of eminent domain.
      (6)   In the event of a change in state or federal law which by its terms
would require the county to amend this chapter, the parties shall modify the
existing franchise in a mutually agreed upon manner.
      (7)   The grantee shall not be relieved of its obligation to comply with
any of the provisions of this chapter or a franchise agreement by reason of any
failure of the county to enforce prompt compliance.
   (F)   Rights reserved to the grantor. In addition to any rights specifically
reserved to the grantor by this chapter or a franchise agreement, grantor
reserves to itself every right and power that is required to be reserved by a
provision of any other ordinance or under any other franchise.
   (G)   Franchise agreement.
      (1)   Every grantee shall agree to the terms and provisions of a
franchise agreement as negotiated between the grantee and the grantor.
      (2)   In addition to those matters required elsewhere in this chapter to
be included in the franchise agreement, each franchise agreement must contain
the following express representations by each grantee:
         (a)   The grantee has examined all of the provisions of this chapter
and accepts and agrees to all of the provisions of this chapter, as it exists
as of the effective date of the grantee’s franchise agreement; and
         (b)   The grantee recognizes, unless otherwise agreed in the
applicable franchise agreement, the right of the county to adopt such
additional regulations of general applicability as it shall find necessary in
the exercise of its police power.
      (3)   Every franchise agreement shall contain such further conditions or
provisions as may be negotiated between the county and a grantee; except that,
no such conditions or provisions shall be such as to conflict with any
provisions of state or federal law. In case of any conflict or of any ambiguity
between any terms or provisions of a franchise agreement and this chapter, the
provisions of this chapter shall control, unless expressly set forth in the
franchise agreement.
   (H)   Initial franchise applications. Any person desiring an initial
franchise for a cable system shall file an application with the county. An
application for an initial franchise for a cable television system shall
contain, where applicable:
      (1)   A statement as to the proposed franchise area;
      (2)   Resume of prior history of applicant, including the legal,
technical and financial expertise of applicant in the cable television field;
      (3)   List of the partners, general and limited, of the applicant, if a
partnership, or a list of the principals of the applicant, if a limited
liability company, or the percentage of stock owned or controlled by
shareholders holding 10% or greater, if a corporation;
      (4)   List of officers, directors and managing employees of applicant,
together with a description of the background of each such person;
      (5)   The names and addresses of any parent or subsidiary of applicant or
any other business entity owning or in control of applicant, in whole or in
part, or owned or controlled in whole or in part by applicant;
      (6)   A current financial statement of applicant verified by a CPA audit
or otherwise certified to be true, complete and correct to the reasonable
satisfaction of the county;
      (7)   Proposed preliminary construction and cable service schedule; and
      (8)   Any additional information that the county may require for the
administration of the franchise.
   (I)   Consideration of initial applications. Upon receipt of any application
and application fee for an initial franchise, the County Administrator shall
prepare a report and make his or her recommendations respecting such
application to the Board.
(Ord. passed 12-19-2005)
§ 111.31 FRANCHISE RENEWAL.
   Franchise renewals shall be in accordance with applicable law including, but
not limited to, the Cable Communications Policy Act of 1984, as amended. The
grantor and a grantee, by mutual consent, may enter into renewal negotiations
at any time during the term of the franchise.
(Ord. passed 12-19-2005)
§ 111.32 GRANT OF ADDITIONAL FRANCHISE.
   (A)   Competing or overlapping franchises may have an adverse impact on the
public rights-of-way and on the quality and availability of services to the
public.
   (B)   In considering whether to grant one or more additional franchises, the
county shall specifically consider, and address in a written report or in
provisions of the franchise agreement, the following issues:
      (1)   The positive and/or negative impact of an additional franchise on
the community;
      (2)   The ability and willingness of the specific applicant in question
to provide cable services to the franchise area;
      (3)   The amount of time it will take the applicant to complete
construction of the proposed system and activate service in the franchise area;
and, whether the applicant can complete construction and activation of its
system in a timely manner;
      (4)   The financial capabilities of the applicant and its guaranteed
commitment to make the necessary investment to erect, maintain and operate the
proposed cable system for the duration of the franchise term. In order to
ensure that any prospective the grantee does have the requisite current
financial capabilities, the county may request equity and debt financing
commitment letters, current audited financial statements, bonds, letters of
credit or other documentation to demonstrate to the county’s satisfaction that
the requisite funds to construct and operate the proposed system are available;
      (5)   The quality and technical reliability of the proposed system, based
upon the applicant’s plan of construction and the method of distribution of
signals, and the applicant’s technical qualifications to construct and operate
such system;
      (6)   The experience of the applicant in the erection, maintenance and
operation of a cable system;
      (7)   The capacity of the public rights-of-way to accommodate one or more
additional cable systems and the potential disruption of those public rights-
of-way and private property that may occur if one or more additional franchises
are granted;
      (8)   The likelihood and ability of the applicant to continue to provide
competing cable service to subscribers within the franchise area for the
duration of the franchise; and
      (9)   Such other information as the county may deem appropriate to be
considered prior to granting any competing or overlapping franchise.
   (C)   The purpose of this section is to ensure that any competition which
may occur among grantees will be on terms which when taken as a whole are non-
discriminatory according to federal law.
(Ord. passed 12-19-2005)
§ 111.33 PERMITS FOR NON-FRANCHISED ENTITIES.
   (A)   General. The county may issue a license, easement or other permit to a
person other than the grantee to permit that person to traverse any portion of
the grantee’s franchise area within the county in order to provide service
outside, but not within the county. Such license or easement, absent a grant of
a franchise in accordance with this chapter, shall not authorize nor permit
said person to provide cable service to any subscriber within the county, nor
render any other service within the county. The granting of such license,
easement or permit shall be conditioned upon the payment of fee for occupancy
of the public right-of-way to the extent permitted by applicable law.
   (B)   Review for competition.
      (1)   The county recognizes that the cable television and
telecommunications industries are in a period of convergence, that the
technologies and services provided by these industries are rapidly changing,
and that the Telecommunications Act of 1996 promoted and encouraged competition
between and among these formally discrete industries. At this time, it is
premature to know fully the extent to which there will be changes in law,
technology or services that may impact entities that have been or may be
granted franchises or licenses to use the county’s rights-of-way. It is the
desire of the county to be a communications friendly county that encourages the
development of competitive advanced communications capabilities for the benefit
of all its citizens.
      (2)   For this reason, the regulatory ordinances and franchises of the
county should not impede or restrict the fair opportunity to compete, but
rather are intended to provide uniform and consistent requirements for all
similarly situated providers.
(Ord. passed 12-19-2005)
§ 111.34 APPLICATION AND RENEWAL FEES.
   (A)   An application fee shall not be deemed to be “franchise fees” within
the meaning of § 622 of the Cable Act (47 U.S.C. § 542), and such payments
shall not be deemed to be:
      (1)   “Payments in kind” or any involuntary payments chargeable against
the compensation to be paid to the county by grantee; or
      (2)   Part of the compensation to be paid to the county by grantee
pursuant to this chapter or a franchise agreement.
   (B)   All applicants for an initial franchise shall submit an application
fee of $9,500 to compensate the county for its costs in reviewing, preparing
and awarding a franchise. Consistent with the Cable Act, all such fees shall
not constitute or be credited towards a grantee’s franchise fee obligation.
   (C)   The county reserves the right, unless prohibited by applicable law, to
require a grantee to pay the incidental costs of the franchise renewal and
negotiation process. Incidental costs include staff time, professional fees and
administrative costs as stated in the franchise agreement.
(Ord. passed 12-19-2005)
§ 111.35 DESIGN PROVISIONS.
   (A)   General. Every grantee shall offer service that meets the current and
future needs of the county, taking into account the costs of meeting those
needs. The franchise agreement shall incorporate a description of the grantee’s
application including the general design and capabilities of the system to
identify for the county how the system will meet the current and future cable
service needs of the county.
   (B)   State-of-the-art review. The franchise agreement shall include
provisions to ensure cable service and cable system compatibility with changes
in law, technology and programming and services to maintain a state-of-the-art
system throughout the franchise term.
   (C)   The system. Every system shall pass by every single-family dwelling
unit and multiple-family dwelling unit within the franchise area in accordance
with line extension policies set forth in this chapter. Service shall be
provided to subscribers in accordance with the schedules and line extension.
Unless specified otherwise, service shall also be extended to commercial
buildings on a consistent basis with the residential line extension policies.
(Ord. passed 12-19-2005)
§ 111.36 DROPS TO PUBLIC BUILDINGS.
   (A)   (1)   Every grantee shall provide installation of at least one cable
drop, and provide monthly basic cable service, without charge, to public
buildings in accordance with the line extension policies of this chapter, or as
otherwise specified in the applicable franchise agreement. Schools shall also
receive one cable drop and basic cable service at no charge.
      (2)   Following the county’s designation of additional buildings(s) to
receive cable service, and upon the county’s request, a grantee shall complete
construction of the drop and outlet within 30 days.
   (B)   All such cable service outlets shall not be utilized for commercial
purposes.
   (C)   In instances where the drop to the public building exceeds 150 feet,
the grantee may charge for the actual and reasonable cost of its labor and
materials.
   (D)   Every grantee that offers two-way interactive broadband services to
subscribers within the county shall provide and install at no cost for the term
of the franchise agreement cable modems at every school and to all public
libraries, within the franchise area that are passed by the portions of the
grantee’s cable system that are capable of supporting such two-way services.
(Ord. passed 12-19-2005)
§ 111.37 USE OF GRANTEE FACILITIES.
   The county shall have the right to install and maintain county equipment, at
the actual cost for the space, not including cost for existing space. Any use
by the county will be negotiated in a separate agreement with the grantee. Cost
will be limited to any incremental cost for any wire or fixtures. This applies
to the excess space upon the poles and within the underground pipes and
conduits of a grantee, any wires and fixtures desired by the county to the
extent that such installation and maintenance does not interfere or compete
with existing operations of a grantee. The county will relinquish its use of
such poles and conduits upon 90 days’ notice from a grantee that county’s use
interferes with company’s actual or anticipated use of the same.
(Ord. passed 12-19-2005)
§ 111.38 UPGRADE OF SYSTEM.
   Every grantee shall upgrade its system (herein referred to as the “system
upgrade”), if required, as set forth in its respective franchise agreement.
(Ord. passed 12-19-2005)
§ 111.39 NON-DISCRIMINATORY ACCESS TO CABLE SYSTEM.
   The grantee may be required to allow non-discriminatory access to its cable
system if such shall be required by federal law. Prior to the enactment of any
such requirement, a grantee shall be provided with reasonable notice and an
opportunity to be heard, including the right to present evidence with respect
to the need for such a requirement. The grantee reserves, and has not waived,
any right it may have, or may later be determined to have, to challenge the
county’s implementation of an open access requirement.
(Ord. passed 12-19-2005)
§ 111.40 INSTITUTIONAL NETWORKS AND PUBLIC, EDUCATIONAL AND GOVERNMENTAL
ACCESS.
   (A)   Every grantee shall to the extent required by federal statutes provide
institutional to the extent that a grantee is obligated to provide such support
pursuant to its franchise agreement. Such may be supported pursuant to a
separate contract arrangement if so agreed upon in the franchise agreement.
   (B)   Every grantee shall provide a channel or channels, bandwidth capacity,
service, and funding for separate public, educational and government (“PEG”)
access channels, as specified in its franchise agreement. All such PEG access
channels shall be available to all subscribers as part of basic cable service.
   (C)   Oversight and administration of the PEG access channels shall be set
forth in the franchise agreement. The county may designate a community access
corporation or similar entity to administer one or more of the access channels.
   (D)   Cost associated with construction and operation of the I-Net shall not
be a considered a franchise fee unless specified in the franchise agreement.
(Ord. passed 12-19-2005)
TECHNICAL STANDARDS
§ 111.55 GENERAL TECHNICAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   This chapter incorporates technical standards and establishes customer
service practices with which a grantee must comply. In addition, a grantee
shall comply with any additional or stricter requirements established by FCC
regulations, or other federal regulation that may be adopted or amended from
time to time.
   (B)   A grantee shall maintain such equipment and keep such records as are
required to enable the grantor to determine whether the grantee is in
compliance with all standards required by these regulations and other
applicable laws.
(Ord. passed 12-19-2005)
§ 111.56 BOOKS AND RECORDS AVAILABLE TO GRANTOR.
   (A)   The grantee shall maintain an office conveniently located to serve the
Surry subscribers. The county shall have the right, upon reasonable notice, to
inspect and copy or transcribe at any time during normal business hours, all
books, records, maps, plans, financial records, performance test results and
other like materials of the grantee kept or maintained by grantee or under its
control, maintained in the ordinary course of business, concerning the
operations, finances, affairs, transactions or property of grantee when
necessary to ascertain the grantee’s compliance with the material terms of this
chapter or the franchise agreement. Access to the aforementioned records shall
not be denied by the grantee on the basis that said records contain
“proprietary” information. Access to proprietary information shall be treated
as confidential and not subject to public disclosure.
   (B)   If any of such maps or records is not kept in the county, or upon
reasonable notice made available in the county, and if the county shall
determine that an examination of such records is necessary or appropriate, all
reasonable expenses necessarily incurred in making such examination shall be
paid by the grantee. Maps may be provided in a form mutually agreed upon by the
grantee and the county necessary for the county to ensure compliance with this
chapter or the franchise agreement.
   (C)   The grantee shall file with the county, upon reasonable request:
      (1)   Regulatory communications. All reports required by the Federal
Communications Commission (FCC) including, but not limited to, annual proof of
performance tests and results, Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) reports and
all petitions, applications and communications of all types submitted by the
grantee to the FCC, the Security and Exchange Commission (SEC) or any other
federal or state regulatory commission or agency, having jurisdiction over any
matter affecting operation of grantee’s system;
      (2)   Facilities report. An annual report setting forth the physical
miles of plant construction and plant in operation at the end of the fiscal
year will be made available at the local office of the grantee for review by
the county;
      (3)   Rebuild/upgrade/construction reports. Such reports shall be sent to
the county 30 days after the initial franchise agreement is awarded and monthly
thereafter until construction is completed as specified in this chapter or the
franchise agreement;
      (4)   Proof of performance tests. Proof of performance test results
performed as required by the FCC shall be supplied to the county;
      (5)   Test required by county. Tests required by county as specified in
this chapter shall be submitted within 30 days of notification;
      (6)   Grantee rules. The grantee’s schedule of charges, regular
subscriber service policy regarding the processing of subscriber complaints,
delinquent subscriber disconnect and reconnect procedures and any other terms
and conditions adopted as the grantee’s policy in connection with its
subscribers shall be in accordance with applicable state and federal laws,
rules or regulations;
      (7)   Proof of bonds and insurance. The grantee shall submit to the
county the required performance bond, or a certified copy thereof, and
insurance certificates as required under the terms and conditions described in
this chapter;
      (8)   Financial and ownership reports. The following financial reports
for the franchise area shall be submitted to the county, upon reasonable notice
and as required by the county:
         (a)   A statement verifying the amount of gross annual revenues
derived from the franchise, certified by the vice president for finance or a
duly authorized officer or manager of the grantee; and
         (b)   An annual list of officers and members of the board of directors
of the grantee and of the grantee’s parent corporation, if applicable.
      (9)   Additional reports. The grantee shall prepare and furnish to the
county at the times and in the form prescribed, such additional reports with
respect to its operation, affairs, transactions or property, as may be
reasonably necessary and appropriate to ascertain the grantee’s compliance with
this chapter or the franchise agreement.
(Ord. passed 12-19-2005)
§ 111.57 TECHNICAL STANDARDS COMPLIANCE.
   The technical standards used in the operation of a system shall comply, at a
minimum, with the technical standards promulgated by the FCC relating to cable
systems pursuant to the FCC’s rules and regulations found in 47 C.F.R. §§
76.601 to 76.617, as may be amended or modified from time to time, which
regulations are expressly incorporated herein by reference. The results of any
tests required by the FCC, or a franchise agreement shall be made available to
the county within 30 days of written request.
(Ord. passed 12-19-2005)
§ 111.58 TEST AND COMPLIANCE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Conformance. Tests for a system shall be performed periodically in a
manner so as to conform to FCC specifications. The county shall notify the
grantee of its desire to witness such tests for a period of 90 days beyond the
date of request. The grantee shall notify the county at least five business
days prior to conducting such tests. Representatives of the county may witness
the tests and written test reports shall be made available to the county upon
request. If any test locations fail to meet such specifications, the grantee
shall be required to indicate what corrective measures have been or will be
taken. The grantee shall have the site re-tested on a timely basis as needed.
   (B)   Complaints. Whenever there have been similar complaints made or when
there exists other evidence, which, in the reasonable judgment of the county,
casts doubt on the reliability or quality of the grantee’s system, the county
shall have the right and authority to compel the grantee to test, analyze and
report on the performance of its system. The county may require additional
tests, full or partial repeat tests, different test procedures, or tests
involving a specific subscriber’s terminal. Reports on such tests shall be
delivered to the county no later than 30 days after the county formally
requests the tests and shall include the following information: the nature of
the complaints which precipitated the special tests; what system component was
tested; the equipment used, and procedures employed in said testing; the
results of such tests; and methods by which said complaints were resolved. Said
tests and analyses shall be supervised by an engineer or other trained
technical specialist who shall sign all records of the special tests and
forward same to the county with a report interpreting the results of the tests
and recommending what actions should be taken by the county. All such tests
conducted by grantee shall be at the expense of the grantee.
   (C)   Consultants. The county shall have the right to employ or contract
with an independent qualified consultants and attorneys if necessary or
desirable, to assist in the administration of this, or any other section of
this chapter or the franchise agreement. If test results differ by more than
10% from the FCC technical standard, the grantee shall reimburse the county for
its reasonable costs associated with the testing.
(Ord. passed 12-19-2005)
§ 111.59 EMERGENCY REQUIREMENTS.
   Each grantee must provide emergency alert override capabilities in a manner
consistent with the FCC’s emergency alert system (“EAS”) rules and consistent
with any state and/or regional emergency alert system plans adopted in response
to the FCC’s EAS rules that are applicable to the franchise area.
(Ord. passed 12-19-2005)
§ 111.60 PROGRAMMING DECISIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Each grantee shall provide programming from each of the broad
programming categories identified in its franchise agreement.
      (2)   All programming decisions remain within the sole discretion of each
grantee; provided that, each grantee complies with federal law regarding notice
to grantor and subscribers prior to any channel additions, deletions, or
realignments, and further subject to the grantee’s signal carriage obligations
pursuant to 47 U.S.C. §§ 531 through 536, as may be amended and subject to the
county’s rights pursuant to 47 U.S.C. § 545, as may be amended.
   (B)   The grantee shall use its good faith efforts to ensure diversity of
programming.
(Ord. passed 12-19-2005)
§ 111.61 PARENTAL CONTROL.
   Every grantee shall make available to any subscriber upon request a
“lockout” device for blocking both video and audio portions of any channel(s)
of programming entering the subscriber’s premises. Such device shall be
provided at a reasonable charge, except to the extent that federal law
specifically provides otherwise. The grantee may, however, require a reasonable
security deposit for the use of such a device. This section shall not apply to
channels that are on the basic or expanded basic tier of programming unless the
subscriber receives service via a programmable terminal device, such as a
converter.
(Ord. passed 12-19-2005)
§ 111.62 PERIODIC SUBSCRIBER SURVEY.
   The franchise agreement shall provide terms for a periodic subscriber survey
to assess the cable service needs and interests of the community throughout the
term of the franchise as well as procedures for review and implementation of
changes identified through any such survey.
(Ord. passed 12-19-2005)
§ 111.63 INSTALLATIONS EXCEEDING STANDARD INSTALLATION.
   Service drops in excess of 150 feet and concealed wiring in the home shall
be charged to the subscriber based upon time and material. The desire of the
subscriber as to the point of entry into the residence shall be observed
whenever possible. Runs in building interiors shall be as unobtrusive as
possible. The grantee shall use due care in the process of installation and
shall repair any damage to the subscriber’s property caused by said
installation. Such restoration shall be undertaken within no more than ten days
after the damage is incurred and shall be completed as soon as possible
thereafter.
(Ord. passed 12-19-2005)
§ 111.64 SERVICE AREA AND LINE EXTENSION POLICY.
   (A)   No grantee may discriminate in the build-out of its system to a
particular area of the county in providing service to an individual or groups
of residents on the basis of race, creed, religion or economic condition.
Unless the franchise agreement provides otherwise, every grantee shall serve
all areas of the county equally. The grantee shall serve annexed areas with
populations of at least 15 residential dwelling units per cable mile as
measured from a grantee’s existing distribution system. The franchise agreement
shall provide a schedule of the areas to be served, and the specific build-out
requirements of the grantee, and shall also describe the process for extending
service to areas that will meet minimum density requirements at some future
date. Unless the franchise agreement provides otherwise, every grantee shall
extend service to commercial areas at no additional costs where the costs to do
so does not exceed the same costs of providing service in a residential area.
   (B)   During the initial construction phase of a new system, a grantee may
implement its system in stages pursuant to a schedule and line extension policy
established in its franchise agreement that serves all areas of the county
equally; provided that, any deviation from the service and line extension
requirements of this chapter do not discriminate between different areas of the
county on the basis of race, creed, religion or economic condition. A grantee
of any such new franchise shall comply with all customer service obligations
with respect to customers whose premises are passed by portions of the
grantee’s network which are fully activated, tested and available for service.
   (C)   In annexed areas with less than 15 homes per proposed cable mile, the
grantee shall offer a cost-sharing arrangement to residents. The grantee shall
bear its pro rata share of the current construction costs based upon the actual
number of homes per mile. The cost-sharing arrangement shall consist of the
following: on the request of a subscriber desiring service, grantee shall
prepare, at its cost, an engineering survey and cost analysis to determine the
cost of the plant extension required to provide service to the subscriber from
the closest usable point on the cable system. The cost of construction shall be
allocated based on the following formula: if a request for extension into a
residential area requires the construction of cable plant which does not pass
at least 15 homes per cable mile, a proportionate share of construction costs
shall be borne by grantee and by the subscribers. For example, if there are ten
dwelling units per mile, the grantee’s share will equal 10/15th of the
construction cost. The remaining cost will be shared equally by each subscriber
in the area to be constructed. The line extension formula shall also be applied
to a portion of a cable mile meeting proportionate density requirements. For
example, if there are seven dwelling units per one-half mile, the grantee shall
construct the plant. The cost sharing described above would be utilized if
there were less than the proportionate share of dwelling units per the portion
of a mile needed to reach the dwelling units. Should additional subscribers
request cable service, subscribers utilizing the cost-sharing plan for
extension shall be reimbursed pro-rata for their contribution or a proportional
share thereof. In such case, the pro-rata shares shall be recalculated and each
new subscriber shall pay the new pro-rata share, and all prior subscribers
shall receive refunds. In any event, at the end of 24 months from completion of
the project, the subscribers are no longer eligible for refunds, and the
amounts paid by subscribers will be credited to the plant account of the
grantee. The average cost of the line extension shall be recalculated annually
based upon the current costs of labor and material. Each person contributing
toward the direct cost of the line extension shall waive all ownership interest
in the line extension. All equipment and components of the line extension,
including, but not limited to, cable wire, electronics and pedestals shall at
all times remain the exclusive property of the grantee.
(Ord. passed 12-19-2005)
§ 111.65 COUNTY MONITORING.
   In addition to free cable service required by the ordinance, the grantee
shall provide one service feed to county administration offices (unless
otherwise specified by county) that shall receive without charge all basic and
expanded basic cable programming provided by the grantee. Such service shall be
provided in such a manner that the county may monitor the programming and use
of the cable system for compliance with the franchise agreement and this
chapter. The services provided pursuant to this requirement shall be in a
secure office location, and not in a location open to public viewing.
(Ord. passed 12-19-2005)
§ 111.66 ACCESS TO INSIDE WIRING.
   Access to, and ownership of, inside wiring shall be in accordance with §§
76.800 et seq. of the FCC rules and regulations, as the same may be amended
from time to time.
(Ord. passed 12-19-2005)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whenever the grantor has reason to believe that a grantee has violated
any material provision of a franchise agreement or this chapter, the grantor
shall first notify the grantee of the alleged material violation and demand
correction within a reasonable time, which shall not be less than 20 days in
the case of the failure of a grantee to pay any sum or other amount due the
grantor under a franchise agreement, and 45 days in all other cases. If a
grantee fails to correct the alleged violation within 45 days, or if a grantee
is unable to correct the alleged violation and fails to commence corrective
action within the time prescribed and to diligently remedy such violation
thereafter, the grantee shall then be given written notice of not less than 45
days for public comment. Said notice shall indicate with reasonable specificity
the violation alleged to have occurred.
   (B)   At the public hearing, the Board shall hear and consider all relevant
evidence and thereafter render findings and a decision based upon the evidence.
Any such hearing must, at a minimum, provide the grantee a full and fair
opportunity to be heard by the Board.
   (C)   In the event the Board finds that a grantee has corrected the
violation or promptly commenced correction of such violation after notice
thereof from grantor and is diligently proceeding to fully remedy the
violation, or that no violation has occurred, the proceedings shall terminate
and no penalty or other sanction shall be imposed.
   (D)   In the event the Board finds that a violation exists and that a
grantee has not corrected the same in a satisfactory manner or did not promptly
commence and diligently proceed to correct the violation, the Board may impose
liquidated damages to be collected from the performance bond, as set out in the
franchise agreement.
   (E)   If the Board elects to assess liquidated damages, then such election
shall constitute the grantor’s exclusive remedy for a period of 60 days.
Thereafter, if a grantee remains in non-compliance, the grantor may pursue any
other available remedy.
   (F)   In the event that a franchise is cancelled or terminated by reason of
the default of a grantee, the performance bond deposited pursuant to a
franchise agreement shall remain in effect and available to the grantor until
all pending claims or penalties are resolved or settled, after which point any
remaining amounts in the performance bond shall revert to the grantee.
   (G)   The rights reserved to grantor with respect to the security fund are
in addition to all other rights of grantor, whether reserved by a franchise
agreement, this chapter or authorized by law, and no action, proceeding or
exercise of a right with respect to such performance bond shall affect any
other right grantor may have.
   (H)   In instances of repeated violations, whether remedied or not, the
grantor shall serve special notice outlining additional remediation
requirements. Failure to cure, as measured by repeated instances of the same
violation, is evidence of an evasive practice and may lead to revocation.
   (I)   The grantee acknowledges that non-compliance with the provisions of
the franchise agreement and this chapter will harm subscribers and the county
and the amounts of actual damages will be difficult or impossible to ascertain.
The county may therefore assess the following liquidated damages against
grantee for unexcused non-compliance with the requirements of the franchise
agreement and master ordinance. The grantee acknowledges that the liquidated
damages set forth below are a reasonable approximation of actual damages and
that this provision is intended to provide compensation and is not a penalty.
All damages provided shall be cumulative, unless expressly stated:
      (1)   For failure to materially complete construction or extend service
in accordance with this chapter and the franchise agreement: $50/calendar day
for each day the violation continues;
      (2)   For failure to materially comply with requirements for access
channels: $50/calendar day for each day the violation continues;
      (3)   For failure to comply with the material requirements of the I-Net
provisions of this chapter/franchise agreement: $50/calendar day for each day
the violation continues;
      (4)   For repeated, willful or continuing failure to submit reports,
maintain records, provide documents or information: $50/calendar day for each
day the violation continues;
      (5)   For failure to comply with the material requirements of the
customer service standards: $250/calendar day for each day the violation
continues;
      (6)   For failure to comply with the transfer provisions: $50/calendar
day for each day the violation continues; and
      (7)   For violation of other material provisions of this chapter and the
franchise agreement: up to $50/day for each day the violation continues.
   (J)   For the purposes of calculating the amount of liquidated damages, time
periods shall be tolled for such time as the grantee is found to be diligently
working to remedy such violation.
(Ord. passed 12-19-2005)
CHAPTER 112: AMBULANCE SERVICE
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Franchise required
   
112.03   Application process
   
112.04   Franchise granting
   
112.05   Franchise term
   
112.06   Exemptions
Conditions and Specifications
   
112.20   Existing ambulances
   
112.21   Ambulance specifications
   
112.22   Drivers and attendants
   
112.23   Communications standards
   
112.24   General operating rules
   
112.25   Authority to fix rates, fees and charges
   
112.26   Authority to determine franchise service area
   
112.27   Compliance investigation
   
112.28   Call reporting
   
112.29   Quality management
   
112.30   Continuing education training requirement
   
112.31   OEMS system plan; OEMS SCTP system plan
   
112.32   Medical direction
 
   
112.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the
following prescribed meanings except where the context clearly indicates a
different meaning.
   AMBULANCE. An NC OEMS permitted vehicle equipped and approved to transport
injured or infirm persons, on call or demand, accepting patients and
transporting them from a point in Surry County. This shall not be construed to
include taxis, taxi services or like vehicles.
   ATTENDANT. A person credentialed at the NC EMT level or higher.
   BOARD. The Surry County Board of Commissioners.
   CALL, RUN. The act of moving toward the scene of need with an ambulance and
transporting the patient to his or her destination.
   DRIVER. A person credentialed at the NC Emergency Medical Technician level
or higher.
   EMERGENCY CALL. Responding to a scene where a person is in dire need of
medical attention and transporting the patient to a medical facility.
   EMT. Emergency Medical Technician.
   EMT-I. Emergency Medical Technician - Intermediate.
   EMT-P. Emergency Medical Technician - Paramedic.
   FCC. Federal Communications Commission.
   NCCEP. North Carolina College of Emergency Physicians.
   NC DHHS. North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services.
   NC OEMS. North Carolina Office of Emergency Medical Services.
   NON-EMERGENCY CALL. Responding to a scene where a person (or his or her
legal guardian) requests medical attention of a non-emergency nature and
transporting the patient to a medical facility.
   OWNER. Any person to whom a franchise for the operation of an ambulance(s)
has been granted.
   PATIENT. Any person being transported to medical attention, from medical
attention or from medical facility to medical facility.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, association, corporation or other
organization owning, operating or proposing to operate an ambulance(s) within
Surry County.
   SCES. Surry County Emergency Services.
   SCTP. Specialty Care Transport Program.
(Ord. passed 9-7-2004)
§ 112.02 FRANCHISE REQUIRED.
   (A)   In accordance with NC Administrative Code, (10 NCAC 13P.0201(A3)),
except as otherwise indicated herein, no person shall establish a base of
operation or operate or cause to operate an ambulance within Surry County, on a
point to point basis, without applying for and obtaining a franchise from the
Board authorizing such operation and being written into County EMS system plan.
   (B)   No person shall operate or cause to operate an ambulance within Surry
County after revocation or during suspension of a franchise unless the
franchise has been reinstated.
   (C)   This chapter shall not apply to non-point-to-point ambulance services
provided by an accredited tertiary hospital enterprise, whether organized as a
“for profit” or “not-for-profit” enterprise.
(Ord. passed 9-7-2004) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.03 APPLICATION PROCESS.
   Except as otherwise set forth within this chapter, all applicants applying
to the Board for an ambulance franchise to operate one or more ambulances,
shall file a sworn application on a form provided by Surry County stating the
following:
   (A)   The name and address of the owner. In the case where the owner is a
corporation, a certificate of good standing from the Office of the Secretary of
State must be provided. Out of state applicants must first domesticate with the
North Carolina Secretary of State;
   (B)   The number of vehicles actually owned and the number of vehicles
actually operated by such owner on the date of said application, if any;
   (C)   The net worth applicant;
   (D)   Whether there are any unsatisfied judgements of record against the
owner and, if so, the captions of all actions and the amount of all judgements
unsatisfied;
   (E)   The make, type, year of manufacture, serial number and equipment
therein for each ambulance owned or operated or proposed to be operated by the
applicant for a franchise within the county;
   (F)   Criminal record, if any, of applicant must be provided. This includes
a corporation and any court records of its officers, directors, management and
supervisors;
   (G)   Other reasonable information as the Board may require at its
discretion;
   (H)   The level of service applicant seeks to provide, to wit: convalescent,
emergency, critical care or other; and
   (I)   Hospitals (including Forsyth/Novant and/or WFU BMC) desiring an
ambulance franchise for point-to-point service may make application for the
specific level of franchise desired by making a written request to the Board of
Commissioners and the proposed method and manner for offering such service. The
standard application form need not be used for hospitals and/or major medical
center applicants.
(Ord. passed 9-7-2004)
§ 112.04 FRANCHISE GRANTING.
   (A)   Hearing on application.
      (1)   Upon receipt of application for franchise, the Board shall fix a
time and place for hearing the applicant. A franchise shall not be granted
unless the Board shall find, after the hearing, that public convenience and
necessity require the proposed level of ambulance service applicant seeks to
provide. In determining whether the public convenience and necessity require
the operation of the proposed ambulance service for which the application for
franchise is made, the Board will consider and investigate the statements made
in the application, the adequacy of the existing ambulance service, the
financial responsibility experience and character of the applicant.
      (2)   Other determining factors include the public need for additional
service level applied by applicant, the ability of existing holders of
certificates to provide any necessary additional service, and any other factors
pertinent to such determination. Under no circumstance shall franchised
operator offer a level of ambulance service for which it has neither applied
nor qualified.
   (B)   Issuance of franchise. Upon finding that the public convenience and
necessity require the proposed level of ambulance service for which applicant
applied, the Board shall grant to the applicant a franchise on the terms and
conditions described in this chapter; provided:
      (1)   The applicant complies with all provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   The ambulance(s) proposed to be operated under said franchise shall
be found to meet the requirements identified in the General Statutes enacted 1-
1-2002 and adopted by the NC DHHS or a representative thereof; and
      (3)   There are no unappealed unsatisfied judgments of record against the
applicant.
(Ord. passed 9-7-2004)
§ 112.05 FRANCHISE TERM.
   (A)   In order that applicants granted a franchise may establish the capital
investment essential to adequate and efficient ambulance service provision
required, the term of any franchise granted shall be a maximum of five years.
Any franchise granted may be suspended or revoked by the Board after a hearing
held upon 30 days’ notice to any franchise holder for failure to comply with
any provision of this chapter.
   (B)   If, upon such hearing, the Board shall find that the franchise holder
has corrected substantially all of the deficiencies, and has brought himself or
herself into substantial compliance with the provisions of this chapter, the
franchise shall not be suspended or revoked.
   (C)   If a franchised operator is in good standing and desires a renewal of
the term of its franchise agreement, it may request a renewal in writing prior
to expiration of the initial or renewal term. The request should be directed to
the County Manager. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Board reserves the right
to terminate any ambulance franchise upon finding that the public convenience
and necessity no longer requires the proposed level of service offered by
franchised operator.
   (D)   A granted franchise may not be sold, assigned or transferred or become
vested in any person other than the applicant to whom the franchise was
originally granted.
(Ord. passed 9-7-2004; Ord. passed 8-16-2021)
§ 112.06 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Vehicles owned and operated by the following agencies are excluded
from the requirements of this chapter:
      (1)   Vehicles owned and/or operated by the State of North Carolina;
      (2)   Vehicles owned and/or operated by the United States Federal
Government;
      (3)   Ambulances and/or ambulance services requested by the SCES
Emergency Services Director or designee to provide assistance in the event of a
disaster;
      (4)   Ambulances owned and operated by Surry County are exempt from §§
111.02 through
111.06 of this chapter; and
      (5)   Ambulances owned and/or operated by any of the several rescue
squads operating within Surry County.
   (B)   Ambulances and/or ambulance services that do not have an office or
station within Surry County and that are transporting patients from a location
outside Surry County to a location inside Surry County are excluded from the
requirements of this chapter. Ambulances and/or ambulance services may not
receive a patient from within Surry County for transportation to a location
within Surry County without a franchise to operate within Surry County. This
chapter shall not apply to ambulances or ambulance services that receive a
patient outside of Surry County, but transport the patient through Surry County
en route to another destination.
(Ord. passed 9-7-2004; Ord. passed 9-2-2008)
CONDITIONS AND SPECIFICATIONS
§ 112.20 EXISTING AMBULANCES.
   Every owner operating an ambulance(s) in Surry County and holding a current
franchise agreement as of the effective date of this chapter shall be deemed,
in absence of evidence and findings of the Board to the contrary, to be
operating under public convenience and necessity provided that all requirements
of this chapter have been met.
(Ord. passed 9-7-2004)
§ 112.21 AMBULANCE SPECIFICATIONS.
   Vehicles utilized as ambulances shall conform to specifications and
requirements mandated by NC OEMS, a division of NC DHHS and Surry County
emergency services model system plan.
(Ord. passed 9-7-2004)
§ 112.22 DRIVERS AND ATTENDANTS.
   (A)   Qualifications. No person shall be employed or act as an ambulance
driver or attendant unless they have met minimum credential standards as
governed and enforced by the NC OEMS.
   (B)   Prohibited acts. Persons employed or acting as a driver or attendant
are hereby forbidden to commit or cause to commit the following acts:
      (1)   To drive or attend a patient while under the influence of alcohol
or other judgement impairing drug, (prescription or illicit) while on call;
      (2)   To smoke while inside the unit;
      (3)   To move any patient if there is suspicion of “foul play” without
first notifying a law enforcement officer, unless necessary to preserve life or
limb;
      (4)   To recommend to any person a mortuary preference to handle a
deceased body;
      (5)   To use profanity in the presence of a patient, the patient’s family
or bystanders;
      (6)   To commit or cause to be committed an assault or battery on
bystanders, unless necessary to protect the patient or in self-defense; and
      (7)   To drive or cause to be driven, any ambulance at a speed greater
than reasonably necessary without due regard for the safety of others.
   (C)   Occupation. Every ambulance on an emergency or non-emergency call
within Surry County shall be occupied, at a minimum; by at least one NC
credentialed EMT-I and one NC credentialed EMT-P. Mass casualty incidents are
the only exception to this requirement.
(Ord. passed 9-7-2004)
§ 112.23 COMMUNICATIONS STANDARDS.
   (A)   Each ambulance shall be equipped with a two-way VHF radio licensed by
the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) which must be in operative
condition at all times. The radio shall also be compatible with SCES radios
which includes, but is not limited to, the following frequencies:
 
Frequency    Rx      PI    Tx      PI
EMS Fl       155.055 141.3 158.895 141.3
340          155.340 141.3 155.340 141.3
STATE RESCUE 155.280 141.3 155.280 141.3
EMS F2       155.580 141.3 158.970 141.3
 
   (B)   Each ambulance shall also be equipped with a two-way UHF radio
licensed by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) which must be in
operative condition at all times. The radio shall also be compatible with SCES
radios which includes, but is not limited to the following frequencies:
 
Frequency Sub-Tone Tower
Med 1     “B”  Saurtown Mountain
Med 10    “C”  Turner Mountain
 
   (C)   Each service shall provide the Board a copy of the FCC license
authorizing the use of the communication equipment owned and operated by the
service.
   (D)   Cellular phones are also required, as back-up communications and these
numbers must remain operational and available to SCES Administration.
(Ord. passed 9-7-2004)
§ 112.24 GENERAL OPERATING RULES.
   (A)   Operating rules.
      (1)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle as an ambulance unless such
vehicle has been registered in accordance with state law and all required
licenses and permits have been obtained through the proper agency.
      (2)   Every ambulance shall be operated in accordance with the laws of
the state and the ordinances of Surry County.
   (B)   Ambulance insurance required. Pursuant to G.S. § 153A-250, the county
shall exercise its right to establish minimum limits for liability insurance
maintained by franchised operators. Every owner operating ambulances under a
franchise shall submit to the Board evidence of public liability and property
damage insurance currently in force with an insurance company licensed to
conduct business in the state, or shall enter into a bond with a personal or
corporate surety, in the following minimum amounts:
      (1)   Bodily injury: $1,000,000 per person; and
      (2)   Property damage: $1,000,000 per accident.
   (C)   Liability insurance required. Every owner operating ambulances under a
franchise shall submit to the Board evidence of public liability and property
damage insurance currently in force with an insurance company licensed to
conduct business in the state, covering the acts of the ambulance attendants in
an amount of not less than $1,000,000.
(Ord. passed 9-7-2004) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.25 AUTHORITY TO FIX RATES, FEES AND CHARGES.
   Pursuant to G.S. § 153A-250, the county shall exercise its right to
establish and/or revise a schedule of rates, fees and charges that may be
charged by franchised operators. Regulation of rates shall arise upon a finding
that a franchised operator’s rate schedule is so excessive so as effectively
undermine the public convenience and necessity found to have existed when the
franchise was awarded.
(Ord. passed 9-7-2004)
§ 112.26 AUTHORITY TO DETERMINE FRANCHISE SERVICE AREA.
   At its discretion, the Board shall have authority to fix and change from
time to time the areas that may be served by each franchised operator.
(Ord. passed 9-7-2004)
§ 112.27 COMPLIANCE INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Agent to investigate. The Board shall have the authority to appoint
the SCES Emergency Services Director, or other qualified person (“Inspector”)
to make inspections of ambulance and ambulance services to aid the Board in
determining compliance with this chapter and in investigating alleged
violations of this chapter.
   (B)   Inspection of ambulances. Any person holding a franchise shall allow
the designated Inspector to make inspections of its ambulances, access all
records kept in connection with the operation of the ambulance or ambulance
service, access all equipment used in connection with the operation of the
ambulance or ambulance service, and access to any other material or items
necessary to determine compliance with this chapter or to investigate alleged
violations of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 9-7-2004)
§ 112.28 CALL REPORTING.
   (A)   Each franchised operator shall report the number of calls and/or runs
no later than the tenth day of each month to the Surry County Emergency
Services Director (or designee).
   (B)   The report shall be in writing and contain at a minimum the following
information:
      (1)   The number of emergency calls with times and dates;
      (2)   The number of non-emergency calls with times and dates; and
      (3)   The total number of calls with times and dates.
(Ord. passed 9-7-2004)
§ 112.29 QUALITY MANAGEMENT.
   Each franchised operator (or designee) shall attend all regularly scheduled
SCES quality management meetings. Failure to attend these meetings may result
in suspension and/or revocation of its franchise.
(Ord. passed 9-7-2004)
§ 112.30 CONTINUING EDUCATION TRAINING REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Each franchised operator shall ensure that its personnel actively
participate in an approved continuing education program appropriate to their
level of credential and/or licensure. A copy of its education plan will be
available for review by the SCES ALS Training Coordinator as well as sign-in
rosters and in-service program outlines. Failure to ensure that personnel
actively participate in an approved continuing education program may result in
suspension and/or revocation of its franchise.
   (B)   A copy of the continuing education plan shall be provided to the Board
upon application for franchise and reviewed by the SCES ALS Training
Coordinator and/or Emergency Services Director.
(Ord. passed 9-7-2004)
§ 112.31 OEMS SYSTEM PLAN; OEMS SCTP SYSTEM PLAN.
   (A)   Each franchise applicant planning to operate a transport service
within Surry County is required to comply with the provisions of the Surry
County EMS system plan. A franchise shall not be awarded until all requirements
of this plan are met.
   (B)   Franchise applicants planning to operate a critical care transport
service (aka: SCTP) are required to submit a SCTP plan for approval. A
franchise shall not be awarded until the NC OEMS gives its approval. A copy of
the approved SCTP system plan shall also be provided to the Board upon
application for franchise and prior to hearing.
(Ord. passed 9-7-2004)
§ 112.32 MEDICAL DIRECTION.
   Franchise applicants are required to submit the name of the physician
providing medical direction for their service. This physician shall meet the
minimum requirements outlined in the NCCEP recommendations for medical
directors. A letter with the original signature of the medical director shall
be submitted to the Board upon application for franchise as well as
documentation of an in force medical malpractice insurance policy.
(Ord. passed 9-7-2004)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the franchise holder to assure the provisions
of this chapter are adhered to at all times.
   (B)   (1)   Violation of §
112.02 of this chapter shall constitute a Class 3 misdemeanor punishable by a
fine of not more than $700. Each day of continuing violation shall constitute a
separate offense.
      (2)   The County Manager for Surry County is hereby empowered to seek a
court order to enjoin the violation of §
112.02 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 9-7-2004)
CHAPTER 113: SOLICITATIONS
Section
   
113.01   Prohibited activity
   
113.02   Exceptions
   
113.03   Statutory authority
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 PROHIBITED ACTIVITY.
   (A)   The solicitation for sales of goods or services by for-profit
corporations, partnerships and/or individuals upon county owned property or
that property leased by or controlled by the county is hereby prohibited.
   (B)   The following acts are declared to be in violation of this section,
but such enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive:
      (1)   The display of goods or services for sale to the general public or
to county employees on county owned property, including office buildings,
parking lots, unimproved parcels and upon any real property which the county is
in rightful possession of as a result of an oral or written lease agreement;
      (2)   The canvassing or solicitation of orders for the sale of goods and/
or services on county owned property, including office buildings, places of
assembly and both improved and unimproved real estate; and
      (3)   Begging or otherwise canvassing the public upon county owned
property for contributions for the private benefit of the solicitor.
(Ord. passed 10-7-1996) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.02 EXCEPTIONS.
   The following activities are exempt from the provisions of this chapter:
   (A)   Advertisements in wireless, print or photographic medium generally
available to the public, but this exception shall not permit solicitation by
distribution of leaflets on county property;
   (B)   Commercial sales of supplies and office equipment to the County
Purchasing Agent or, as permitted, to a department head, the Register of Deeds
or the Sheriff, or the designated agent of those individuals. Further, nothing
shall prohibit the demonstration of office supplies and/or office equipment by
commercial sales representative at the request of the County Purchasing Agent,
a department head, the Register of Deeds, the Sheriff or their designated
agents;
   (C)   This section shall not apply to vending sales upon county owned
property where the owner or rightful possessor of a vending machine or device
has received oral or written approval by contract or lease for placement from
the County Manager, or the County Purchasing Agent, for county owned offices,
buildings, places of assembly and other real estate or from the Register of
Deeds or the Sheriff, for their offices, respectively;
   (D)   This section shall not apply to the purchase or sale of goods
determined to be “surplus” by the County Commissioners, to the purchase or sale
of copies, maps or other archived information which is available to the public
from any county office or agency in the ordinary course of that department’s
business or affairs;
   (E)   This section shall not apply to court ordered or judicial sales or to
the levy of fines, the payment of court costs, the collection of inspection
fees or the delivery of medicine or medical services in any county or state
office in that office’s ordinary course of business; and
   (F)   Solicitation by non-profit charities with permission by the County
Manager.
(Ord. passed 10-7-1996)
§ 113.03 STATUTORY AUTHORITY.
   The statutory authority to which this chapter is passed pursuant to G.S. §§
153A-121 and 153A-125.
(Ord. passed 10-7-1996)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of this section by any person shall subject the offender to
a civil penalty or fine of $100. All subsequent violations by the same person
within one year shall subject such person to a civil penalty or fine of $300.
   (B)   Violation of the within section shall amount to a trespass on county
owned property.
(Ord. passed 10-7-1996)
CHAPTER 114: ADULT ENTERTAINMENT
Section
   
114.01   Unlawful operation
   
114.02   Definitions
   
114.03   Findings; locations
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 UNLAWFUL OPERATION.
   (A)   It is and shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, as
hereafter defined, to operate or allow to be operated adult live entertainment
or an adult live entertainment business within the boundaries of Surry County
outside the corporate limits of any city or town within the boundary of Surry
County, except as otherwise permitted by this chapter.
   (B)   Adult live entertainment which permits less than completely or
opaquely covered human genitals or pubic region of either males or females is
expressly prohibited.
(Ord. passed 7-21-1997) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT LIVE ENTERTAINMENT. Any performance of or involving the actual
presence of real people which exhibits specified anatomical areas as defined in
the provisions of this chapter, as hereinafter set forth.
   ADULT LIVE ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS. Any establishment or business wherein
adult live entertainment is shown for observation by patrons.
   PERSON. Includes:
      (1)   The agent in charge of the building, premises, structure or
facility;
      (2)   The owner of the building, premises, structure or facility or other
property when such owner knew or reasonably should have known the nature of the
business located therein, and such owner has refused to cooperate with public
officials in reasonable measures designed to terminate a prohibited use;
provided, however, that, if there is an agent in charge, and if the owner did
not have actual knowledge of the prohibited conduct, the owner shall not be
prosecuted;
      (3)   The owner of the business; or
      (4)   The manager of the business.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Less than completely and opaquely covered human
genitals or pubic region or female breasts uncovered below a point immediately
at the top of the areola.
(Ord. passed 7-21-1997)
§ 114.03 FINDINGS; LOCATIONS.
   (A)   Adult live entertainment involving the display of less than completely
or opaquely covered female breasts has been recognized by the State of North
Carolina as a protected display of free speech which is subject to reasonable
local regulation as to geographic location in order to serve a substantial
governmental interest if such regulation allows for reasonable alternative
areas for the regulated activity. Accordingly, adult live entertainment which
includes the display of less than completely or opaquely covered female
breasts, uncovered below a point immediately at the top of the areola is
permitted only in an enclosed building, premises or structure where the
activity is not visible from outside of the enclosed building or structure.
Such enclosed building or structure must be located at least 2,000 feet from an
area of interest. Furthermore, such adult live entertainment conducted within
said enclosed building shall be conducted in such manner so that viewing,
display or sound from within the building cannot be experienced outside the
walls of the building. Any building containing an adult live entertainment
business must be 100 feet from the right of way of a publicly owned road and 50
feet from the neighboring side or rear property boundary. An adult live
entertainment business shall be screened along all property lines with an
opaque fence not less than seven feet in height or a solid landscaped area at
least 15 feet in width and seven feet in height at time of initial planting.
Landscaping shall be properly maintained at all times. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, adult live entertainment businesses shall not be required to screen
Department of Transportation (DOT) minimum driveway requirement to provide safe
and suitable access from adult entertainment premises to and from state
maintained road.
   (B)   (1)   “Area of interest” shall include all of the following: churches
and other places of public organized worship; schools and educational
facilities; parks; child care and day care facilities; retirement, rest or
nursing homes; inns and bed and breakfasts; hotels or motels; cemeteries;
public libraries; residential subdivisions; approved mobile home parks; public
recreational facilities; residentially zoned districts (by county or
municipality) and buildings included in the National Register of Historic
Places. Surry County has substantial interests in protecting the public health,
safety and morals of those areas, activities and individuals defined within
area of interest.
      (2)   However, should an activity, individual or use defined in area of
interest determine to locate within 2,000 feet of an existing enclosed adult
live entertainment business, as defined by this chapter, the prescribed minimum
separation requirement shall not apply. Should an adult live entertainment
business cease operation for a period of 60 consecutive days, it shall not
constitute an existing adult live entertainment business as contemplated by
this division (B).
(Ord. passed 7-21-1997) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and subject to a fine not to exceed $500 or imprisonment for not
more than 30 days. Enforcement of this chapter shall be pursuant to G.S. §§ 14-
4 and 153A-123. Each violation of this chapter shall constitute a separate and
distinct offense.
(Ord. passed 7-21-1997)
CHAPTER 115: MOTOR VEHICLES
Section
Short-Term Lease or Rental of Motor Vehicles
   
115.01   Definitions
   
115.02   Levy of tax
   
115.03   Administration
   
115.04   Collection
   
115.05   Report and payment of tax
   
115.06   Taxpayer to keep records
   
115.07   Tax Administrator to provide forms
   
115.08   Situs
   
115.09   Assessment procedure
   
115.10   Penalties, interest and remedies
   
115.11   Appeals
   
115.12   Authority
   
115.13   Effective date
Motor Fuel Dispensing Devices
   
115.25   Definitions
   
115.26   Attendant
   
115.27   Fire extinguishers
 
   
115.99   Penalty
SHORT-TERM LEASE OR RENTAL OF MOTOR VEHICLES
§ 115.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions shall apply to this subchapter.
   CUSTOMER. Any person that leases or rents a vehicle on a short-term lease or
rental basis.
   GENERAL STATUTES. The North Carolina General Statutes, and any reference to
a particular section thereof shall include the same as may be from time to time
amended, modified, supplemented, revised or superseded.
   GROSS RECEIPTS. The total lease or rental price charged to a customer for
the short-term lease or rental of vehicles, including fuel charges,
administrative fees, mandatory maintenance agreements, and the rental of
optional equipment such as child seats, furniture blankets or hand trucks,
excluding sales taxes and excluding the taxes imposed by this subchapter.
   LEASE or RENTAL. A transfer, for consideration, of the use, but not the
ownership, of a vehicle to another for a period of time.
   PERSON. Any individual, trustee, executor, other fiduciary, corporation,
unincorporated association, partnership, sole proprietorship, company, firm or
other legal entity.
   RETAIL. Any vehicle lease or rental, whether written or verbal, which is
made to the same person for a period of less than 365 continuous days.
   SHORT-TERM LEASE OR RENTAL. Any vehicle lease or rental, whether written or
verbal, which is made to the same person for a period of less than 365
continuous days.
   TAX ADMINISTRATOR. The Surry County Tax Administrator.
   TAXPAYER. Any person liable to Surry County for the collection, reporting
and payment of the taxes imposed by this subchapter.
   VEHICLE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A motor vehicle of the private passenger type, including a
passenger van, mini-van or sport utility vehicle;
      (2)   A motor vehicle of the cargo type, including cargo van, pickup
truck or truck with a gross vehicle weight of 26,000 pounds or less used
predominately in the transportation of property for other than commercial
freight and that does not require the operator to possess a commercial driver’s
license; and
      (3)   A trailer or semi-trailer with a gross vehicle weight of 6,000
pounds or less.
(Ord. passed 2-19-2001)
§ 115.02 LEVY OF TAX.
   A tax is hereby imposed and levied in an amount equal to 1.5% of the gross
receipts, as defined in §
115.01 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 2-19-2001)
§ 115.03 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Tax Administrator shall administer and collect the taxes levied from
every person engaged in the business of short-term leasing or rental of
vehicles, and the Tax Administrator may promulgate additional rules and
regulations necessary for implementation of the taxes. In addition to the
provisions herein, the levy and collection of the taxes herein imposed shall be
administered in the same manner as the sales and use tax as provided in G.S.
Ch. 105, Art. 5 and 9, Subch. 1.
(Ord. passed 2-19-2001)
§ 115.04 COLLECTION.
   Every person engaged in the business of the short-term lease or rental of
vehicles at retail to customers shall collect, at the time of the lease or
rental, the tax herein levied, place the tax so collected in a segregated
account and, thereafter, remit such tax to the Tax Administrator in accordance
with the provisions of this subchapter. The taxpayer shall include a provision
in each retail short-term lease or rental agreement stating that 1.5% of the
total lease or rental price, excluding sales tax, is being charged as a tax on
gross receipts. The amount of tax shall be stated separately from the lease or
rental amount and shall be shown separately on the taxpayer’s records. The
customer shall pay the tax to the taxpayer as trustee for and on account of
Surry County. The taxpayer shall be liable for the collection thereof and for
its payment to the Tax Administrator, and the taxpayer’s failure to charge or
to collect said tax from the customer shall not affect such liability. The
taxes collected under this subchapter are not subject to sales tax. The taxes
collected this subchapter belong to Surry County and are not subject to
creditor liens against the taxpayer.
(Ord. passed 2-19-2001)
§ 115.05 REPORT AND PAYMENT OF TAX.
   (A)   The taxes levied hereby are due and payable when a return is required
to be filed. Every taxpayer shall, within the time specified, submit a return
to the Tax Administrator on the form prescribed by the Tax Administrator. The
taxpayer or the taxpayer’s agent must sign the return. Returns of taxpayers are
due to the Tax Administrator each month on or before the fifteenth day of the
month following the month in which the tax accrues. A return filed for this
purpose is not a public record as defined by G.S. § 132-1, and information
contained in a return may not be disclosed, except as required by law.
   (B)   The return may be filed by personal delivery to the Tax Administrator
or by United States mail. Returns submitted by mail shall be deemed to be filed
as of the date shown on the postmark affixed by the United States Postal
Service. If no date is shown on the postmark, or if the postmark is not affixed
by the United States Postal Service, the return shall be deemed to be filed
when received in the office of the Tax Administrator. The burden of proof shall
be on the taxpayer to show that the return was timely filed.
(Ord. passed 2-19-2001)
§ 115.06 TAXPAYER TO KEEP RECORDS.
   The taxpayer shall keep and preserve suitable records of the gross receipts
received by such taxpayer in the conduct of business and such other books or
accounts as may be necessary to determine the amount of the tax for which such
taxpayer is liable under the provisions of this subchapter. It shall be the
duty of the taxpayer to keep and preserve for a period of three years all such
records of gross receipts and other books and accounts described. All records,
books and accounts herein described shall be for examination at all reasonable
hours during the day by the Tax Administrator or his or her duly authorized
agent.
(Ord. passed 2-19-2001)
§ 115.07 TAX ADMINISTRATOR TO PROVIDE FORMS.
   The Tax Administrator shall design, prepare, print and make available to all
taxpayers operating within Surry County forms and instructions for filing
returns to ensure a full collection of and an account for taxes due. The
failure of any taxpayer to obtain or receive forms shall not relieve such
taxpayer from the payment of the tax at the time and in the manner provided.
(Ord. passed 2-19-2001)
§ 115.08 SITUS.
   The transaction giving rise to the tax herein levied shall be deemed to have
occurred at the location of the person from whom the customer takes delivery of
the vehicle.
(Ord. passed 2-19-2001)
§ 115.09 ASSESSMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   If the Tax Administrator discovers that any return or tax is due from
a taxpayer, the taxpayer shall be notified in writing of the failure to file
and of the proposed assessment, if known by the Tax Administrator. The
assessment may be made on the best information of the Tax Administrator. A
proposed assessment is presumed to be correct. The notice shall be delivered
either in person or by United States mail sent to the taxpayer’s last known
address. The notice is presumed to have been received by the taxpayer unless
the taxpayer makes as affidavit to the contrary within 90 days after the notice
was mailed. If the taxpayer makes this affidavit, the time limitations for a
request for hearing as hereafter provided apply as if the notice had been
delivered on the date the taxpayer makes the affidavit.
   (B)   A taxpayer who objects to the proposed assessment or to the
requirement to file a return is entitled to a hearing upon written request
within 30 days after the notice was mailed, or within 30 days after the date of
personal delivery. If no request for a hearing is timely made, the proposed
assessment becomes final without further notice.
   (C)   If a taxpayer files a timely request for hearing, the Tax
Administrator shall set a hearing date within 90 days, and notify the taxpayer
at least ten days prior to the hearing date. Within 90 days after the hearing,
the Tax Administrator shall notify the taxpayer of the final decision. The
taxpayer may then appeal the decision as set forth in §
115.11 of this chapter. The Tax Administrator shall have no authority to waive
or compromise any interest or penalty imposed by this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 2-19-2001)
§ 115.10 PENALTIES, INTEREST AND REMEDIES.
   (A)   The provisions with respect to penalties, interest and remedies
applicable to G.S. Ch. 105, Subch. VIII (Local Government Sales and Use Tax),
as contained in G.S. Ch. 105, Art. 5 and 9, Subch. I, and the provisions
applicable to remedies provided by the Machinery Act (G.S. Ch. 105, Subch. II),
shall be applicable in like manner to the tax levied and collected under this
subchapter, to the extent that the same are not inconsistent with the
provisions hereof.
   (B)   Without limiting the foregoing, and subject to any changes in the
General Statutes with respect to penalties, interest and remedies, the
following shall be applicable with respect to the levy and collection of the
taxes imposed herein.
      (1)   Any taxpayer who fails to file a return on the date it is due,
determined with regard to any extension of time for filing, shall pay a penalty
equal to 5% of the amount of the tax if the failure to file is for not more
than one month, with an additional 5% for each additional month, or fraction
thereof, during which the failure continues, not exceeding 25% in the
aggregate, or $5, whichever is greater.
      (2)   Any taxpayer who fails to pay the tax levied herein when due,
without intent to evade the tax, shall pay a penalty equal to 10% of the tax,
except the penalty shall in no event be less than $5.
      (3)   Taxes shall be payable at par or face amount if paid on or before
the filing date as set forth in §
115.05 of this chapter. Taxes paid after the filing date will be delinquent and
shall be subject to interest charges. Interest shall accrue at the rate of 3/4%
a month or fraction thereof until the principal amount of the taxes, the
accrued interest and any penalties are paid.
      (4)   When the bank upon which any uncertified check tendered to the Tax
Administrator in payment of taxes, penalties or interest returns the check
because of insufficient funds or the non- existence of an account of the
drawer, the Tax Administrator shall assess a penalty equal to 10% of the check,
subject to a minimum of $1 and a maximum of $1,000.
      (5)   Any taxpayer who willfully attempts, or any person who aids or
abets any taxpayer to attempt in any manner to evade or defeat a tax imposed
herein or its payment, shall, in addition to other penalties provided by law,
be guilty of a Class II felony.
      (6)   Any taxpayer required to collect, withhold, account for and pay
over any tax who willfully fails to collect or truthfully account for and pay
over the tax shall, in addition to other penalties provided by law, be guilty
of a Class I misdemeanor.
      (7)   Any taxpayer required to pay any tax, to make a return, to keep any
records, or to supply any information, who willfully fails to pay the tax, make
the return, keep the records, or supply the information, at the time or times
as required by law, or rules issued pursuant thereto, shall, in addition to
other penalties by law, be guilty of a Class I misdemeanor.
      (8)   If a corporation or a limited liability company fails to file any
return or pay the tax required for 90 days after it is due, the Tax
Administrator shall inform the Secretary of State of this failure pursuant to
the provisions of G.S. Ch. 105, § 230.
      (9)   The Tax Administrator shall have the rights of attachment and
garnishment as set forth in G.S. Ch. 105, §§ 242 or 368, in enforcing the
collection of taxes imposed herein, and any other remedies authorized by law.
(Ord. passed 2-19-2001)
§ 115.11 APPEALS.
   The Surry County Board of Commissioners, exercising the powers of the
Secretary of Revenue in collecting sales and use taxes, designates the Surry
County Manager, or his or her designee, to act as deputy for the purpose of
compromising or forgiving for good cause shown any penalty or additional tax
imposed herein, and for conducting any hearings and making decisions to
determine the validity of a tax imposed by the Tax Administrator. If a taxpayer
claims that a tax, additional tax, penalty or interest is excessive, a notice
of appeal must be filed by the taxpayer within 30 days after the final notice
of the Tax Administrator is mailed or personally delivered to the taxpayer as
provided in §
115.09 of this chapter. The final decision of the deputy shall be made and
mailed or delivered within 30 days after the hearing. The taxpayer shall pay
the tax, additional tax, penalty or interest without prejudice to any defense
the taxpayer has. The taxpayer may file suit for a refund in the Superior Court
of Surry County pursuant to the provisions of G.S. Ch. 105, § 267.
(Ord. passed 2-19-2001)
§ 115.12 AUTHORITY.
   This subchapter is enacted pursuant to the provisions of G.S. § 153A-156.
(Ord. passed 2-19-2001)
§ 115.13 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter and the taxes thereby levied and imposed became effective 4-
1-2001.
(Ord. passed 2-19-2001)
MOTOR FUEL DISPENSING DEVICES
§ 115.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GASOLINE. Refined petroleum naphtha which by its composition is suitable for
use as a carburetant in internal combustion engines.
   MOTOR FUEL. All products commonly or commercially known or sold as gasoline,
regardless of their classification or uses, and any liquid prepared,
advertised, offered for sale or sold for use as or commonly and commercially
used as a fuel in internal combustion engines. In addition, such term shall
mean any volatile and inflammable liquid sold or used, or offered for sale or
use, to propel a motor vehicle.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, association, institution,
corporation, club, business, proprietorship or other establishment, public or
private.
(Ord. passed 4-4-1972)
§ 115.26 ATTENDANT.
   (A)   All motor fuel dispensing devices for use by or on behalf of the
public, including, but not limited to, those which are preset, remote preset,
coin-operated, card-operated or money-operated, shall have at least one
attendant on duty on the premises whereon said devices are located at all times
such devices are open to or available for use by or on behalf of the public.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of such attendant to supervise, observe and
control the dispensing of motor fuel by such device or devices; provided,
however, that, nothing herein shall be construed as prohibiting a customer or
user from operating the device and serving himself or herself so long as said
attendant is on duty on the premises to ensure that said motor fuel is
dispensed to eliminate to the extent possible the risk of bodily injury and
property damage which could result from the improper handling or use of the
dispensing device.
(Ord. passed 4-4-1972) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.27 FIRE EXTINGUISHERS.
   There shall be present and available for use on the premises whereon is
located any motor fuel dispensing device, as referred to in §
115.26 of this chapter, at least one fire extinguisher, in good working
condition, suitable for and effective against fires of flammable liquids, gases
and greases, which extinguisher shall be capable of extinguishing a 25 square
foot area of flammable liquid fire, and shall be located within 100 feet of the
motor fuel dispensing device or devices.
(Ord. passed 4-4-1972) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of §§
115.25 through
115.27 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction,
shall be fined not more than $50 or imprisoned for not more than 30 days. Each
day of violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. passed 4-4-1972)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   REGISTERED SEX OFFENDERS
      
131.   LOITERING
      
132.   NOISE
CHAPTER 130: REGISTERED SEX OFFENDERS
Section
   
130.01   Definitions
   
130.02   Entering into public parks, recreational areas
   
130.03   Posting regulation
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply.
   PUBLIC PARK. Any publicly owned, leased, operated or maintained land,
building or facility which is designated by County of Surry as its park or
recreational facility, including, but not limited to, Fisher River Park, Shoals
Community Park, White Plains Community Center, Lowgap Community Center,
Westfield Community Center, canoe access area in Mountain Park, Beulah
Community Center, Eldora Ruritan/Scout Building, Family Resource Center and
Ball Fields (Old JJ Jones School), Paynetown Community Building (Headstart) and
any other after-acquired recreational facility owned or operated by the County
of Surry.
   REGISTERED SEX OFFENDER. An individual who is registered by any state or
federal agency as a sex offender and whose name is published on any state or
federal registered sex offender listing, including, but not limited to, Sex
Offender Registry established pursuant to G.S. Ch. 14, Art. 27A.
(Ord. passed 11-3-2008)
§ 130.02 ENTERING INTO PUBLIC PARKS, RECREATIONAL AREAS.
   (A)   No registered sex offender shall enter into or upon any public park
owned or operated by the County of Surry. Each entry into a public park,
regardless of the time period between such entries, shall constitute a separate
offense under this section.
   (B)   When such recreational facility or park is used as a polling place for
an election, a registered sex offender may enter for the limited purpose of
voting if he or she qualifies to do so at that polling place. He or she shall
leave the premises immediately after voting and shall not return until the next
election cycle.
(Ord. passed 11-3-2008) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 POSTING REGULATION.
   The Director of the Surry County Parks and Recreation Department, or his or
her designee, shall post this regulation at the main entrance of each park
within 30 days of the passage of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-3-2008)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   A violation of this chapter is a misdemeanor as set forth in G.S. § 14-4.
Anyone found in violation of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of not
less than $500 per offense and/or 30 days in jail. Each entry into the park
shall constitute a separate offense under this chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-3-2008)
CHAPTER 131: LOITERING
Section
Violation of State’s Controlled Substance Act
   
131.01   Definition
   
131.02   Unlawful activity
 
   
131.99   Penalty
VIOLATION OF STATE’S CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE ACT
§ 131.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any street, sidewalk, bridge, alley or alleyway, plaza, park,
driveway, parking lot or transportation facility, or the doorways and entrance
ways to any building that fronts on any of these places, or a motor vehicle in
or on any of these places, or any property owned by Surry County.
(Ord. passed 4-5-1999)
§ 131.02 UNLAWFUL ACTIVITY.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to remain or wander about in a public
place and for the purpose of violating any provision of G.S. Ch. 90, Art. 5:
   (A)   Repeatedly beckon to, stop or attempt to stop passers-by or repeatedly
attempt to engage passers-by in conversations;
   (B)   Repeatedly stop or attempt to stop motor vehicles;
   (C)   Repeatedly interfere with the free passage of other persons; or
   (D)   Repeatedly pass to or receive from passers-by, whether on foot or in a
vehicle, money or objects.
(Ord. passed 4-5-1999) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
131.02 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not
more than $50 or imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both, at the
discretion of the court.
(Ord. passed 4-5-1999)
CHAPTER 132: NOISE
Section
   
132.01   Prohibited acts
   
132.02   Exceptions
   
132.03   Petition for variance; variance exemption
 
   
132.99   Penalty
§ 132.01 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions set out below, the creation of any
unreasonably loud and disturbing noise in the county is prohibited. Noise of
such character, intensity and duration so as to be detrimental to the health,
safety or welfare of a reasonable person of ordinary sensibilities is
prohibited.
   (B)   The following acts are declared to be loud and disturbing noises in
violation of this section, but such enumeration shall not be deemed to be
exclusive:
      (1)   Pets and animals. The keeping, possessing or harboring of any dog,
other animal or bird(s) which, by frequent or habitual howling, yelping,
barking or other natural sound, causes an unreasonably loud noise and produces
serious annoying disturbance to the quiet, comfort or repose of a reasonable
person of ordinary sensibilities residing in the vicinity;
      (2)   Music and voice transmission. The playing of any radio, television,
phonograph, tape or CD player or any musical instrument or appliance (amplified
or otherwise) in such manner or with such volume, particularly during the hours
between 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., so as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort
or repose of a reasonable person of ordinary sensibilities residing in any
dwelling, hotel or any other type of residence;
      (3)   Language. The use of any loud, boisterous, profane or raucous
language or shouting so as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of
a reasonable person of ordinary sensibilities in the vicinity;
      (4)   Building operations. The erection (including excavation),
demolition, alteration or repair of any building in a residential area between
the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. of any day or in any district other than a
residential area between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. of any day,
except in the case of urgent necessity in the interest of public safety and
then only with a permit from the County Manager or his or her designee, which
permit may be renewed for a period of three days or less while the emergency
continues;
      (5)   Loud speakers or amplifiers. Except for auctions during normal
business hours, commercial use of mechanical loud speakers or amplifiers on
trucks, or other vehicles, for advertising or other commercial purpose is
prohibited; and
      (6)   Vehicles. The use of any automobile, motorcycle or other vehicle so
out of repair, so loaded or operated in such a manner as to create loud
unreasonable grating, grinding, rattling or other noise.
(Ord. passed 9-5-1995) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.02 EXCEPTIONS.
   The following are exempt from the provisions of this chapter:
   (A)   Noise associated with ongoing business activity (except those
activities outlined in §
132.01(B)(2) of this chapter dealing with music and voice transmission) in
existence as of the date of the adoption of this chapter shall be permitted to
the extent that such noise remains substantially similar in nature or is
reduced. The burden shall be on said business to establish its preexisting
nature and noise intensity. However, such ongoing business exception shall not
apply during the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. The intent of the foregoing
business exception is to permit ordinary, orderly business operations and to
discourage complaints from those that have relocated to an area of existing
noise;
   (B)   Noises of safety signals, warning devices, church bells, clock chimes
and ventilation equipment;
   (C)   Noise resulting from any authorized emergency vehicle when responding
to an emergency call or acting in time of emergency;
   (D)   Unamplified or amplified sound at street fairs, street festivals or
other outdoor activity authorized or conducted by the county;
   (E)   Noises coming from the normal operation of properly equipped motor
vehicles; provided that, the manufacturer’s standard mufflers and noise
reducing equipment are in place. Excluded from this exception are noises from
cooling compressors on over-the-road trailers parked in residential areas;
   (F)   Noise from lawful fireworks or noise makers on holidays or religious
ceremonies;
   (G)   Lawn mowers and landscape maintenance equipment used between the hours
of daybreak and 9:00 p.m. when operated with all manufacturer’s standard
mufflers and noise reducing equipment in use and in proper operating condition;
   (H)   Noise resulting from the provision of government services; and
   (I)   Noise resulting from bona fide farming operations, specifically
including, but not limited to, the operation of irrigation equipment or
machinery as well as all forms of engines that could be used for normal farming
practices, including engines that generate power, pump water or run tillage
equipment. Bona fide farming operations shall defined as those commercial
activities listed in G.S. § 106-581.1.
(Ord. passed 9-5-1995; Ord. passed 9-4-2018)
§ 132.03 PETITION FOR VARIANCE; VARIANCE EXEMPTION.
   (A)   In the event that an individual, business or commercial entity desires
to locate within Surry County for the operation of a business endeavor that may
be prohibited by this chapter, said applicant may petition the Board of County
Commissioners for a public hearing for determination of:
      (1)   Whether the anticipated business operation would be in violation of
this chapter; and
      (2)   Whether the Commissioners would grant a variance to the applicant
to permit him or her to conduct the business under consideration.
   (B)   Applicants desiring to locate in new or existing industrial parks will
not be required to seek a ruling from the County Commissioners or variance
permit unless the park abuts a residential area in the vicinity of applicant’s
plant location.
(Ord. passed 9-5-1995)
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A violation of this section by any person shall subject the offender
to a civil penalty or fine of $100. All subsequent violations by the same
person within a one-year period shall subject such person to a civil penalty or
fine of $300.
   (B)   A Sheriff’s Deputy or Ordinance Enforcement Officer may issue a
citation subjecting the violator to a monetary fine as per the schedule set out
above. Upon non-payment, the charge may be recovered by the county in a civil
action.
   (C)   A misdemeanor warrant may be issued either by a Sheriff’s Deputy,
Ordinance Enforcement Officer or by a private citizen upon application to a
magistrate and upon establishing probable cause for the warrant’s issuance. In
all cases, a complainant must fully identify himself or herself by name and
address prior to the misdemeanor warrant being issued.
   (D)   Each day’s continuing violation shall be a separate and distinct
offense.
   (E)   A misdemeanor violation of this chapter may be waiverable, in the
discretion of the chief district court judge by tendering fine and court costs
as in the case of other waiverable offenses. In the case of a citation, an
offender may tender the amount of the civil penalty and a $15 delinquency
charge to the County Finance Officer, or his or her designee, within ten days
of the date of the citation in full satisfaction of obligation.
(Ord. passed 9-5-1995)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   ROAD ADDRESSING
      
152.   RESERVED
      
153.   RESERVED
      
154.   DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
      
155.   VOLUNTARY AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
   
150.01   State Building Codes adopted
§ 150.01 STATE BUILDING CODES ADOPTED.
   (A)   (1)   The North Carolina State Building Codes, as they may be amended,
superseded or modified, including indexes and appendices thereto, are hereby
adopted by Surry County and shall be enforceable within the county, including,
but not limited to, the Building Code, Residential Code, Mechanical Code,
Electrical Code, Plumbing Code, Administrative Code, Fuel/Gas Code, Energy
Conservation Code, Existing Building Code and Fire Prevention Code.
      (2)   The North Carolina State Building Codes are adopted for the
regulation and governing of the conditions and maintenance of all property,
buildings and structures; by providing the standards for supplied utilities and
facilities and other physical things and conditions essential to insure that
structures are safe, sanitary and fit for occupation and use; and the
condemnation of buildings and structures unfit for human occupancy and use and
the demolition of such structures as provided herein; providing for the
issuance of permits and collection of fees therefore; and each and all of the
regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said Building Codes
on file in the office of the Clerk to the Board of Commissioners are hereby
referred to, adopted and made a part hereof; as if fully set out in this
section, as they may be amended, superseded or modified, including indexes and
appendices thereto.
   (B)   If, for any reason, any section, division, sentence, clause or phrase
of this section is, for any reason, held to be unconstitutional, such decision
shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this section. The
Board of Commissioners hereby declares that it would have passed this chapter,
and each section, division, clause or phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact
that any one or more sections, divisions, sentences, clauses and phrases be
declared unconstitutional.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter or in the Building Code hereby adopted shall
be construed to affect any suit or proceeding pending in any court, or any
rights acquired, or liability incurred, of any cause or causes of action
acquired or existing, under any act or ordinance hereby repealed as sighted
herein; nor shall any just or legal remedy or right of any character be lost,
impaired or affected by this section.
   (D)   This section and the rules, regulations, provisions, requirements,
orders and matters established and adopted hereby shall take affect and be in
full force and affect from and after the date of its final passage and
adoption.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2015)
CHAPTER 151: ROAD ADDRESSING
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Purpose
   
151.002   Enactment and authority
   
151.003   Short title
   
151.004   Territorial jurisdiction
   
151.005   Incorporated areas
   
151.006   Addressing map
   
151.007   Schedule of fees
   
151.008   Legal status provisions; violations
   
151.009   Variance
   
151.010   Definitions of specific terms or words
   
151.011   Conflict with other laws
   
151.012   Severability
   
151.013   Effective date
Numbering System
   
151.025   Uniformity of the system
   
151.026   Road naming and numbering criteria
   
151.027   Numbering method
   
151.028   Dead end roads
   
151.029   Numbers begin with 100, 200, 300 and the like
Addressing System
   
151.040   Method of assigning a number
   
151.041   Corner lots
   
151.042   Road name of address
   
151.043   Requirements for road naming and numbering
   
151.044   Duplex and multi-family dwellings
   
151.045   Assigning of unit designators
   
151.046   Mobile homes
   
151.047   Recreational or resort communities
Posting Requirements for Structures
   
151.060   Time constraints
   
151.061   Number specifications
   
151.062   Posting locations
   
151.063   Maintenance of structure numbers
Road Naming
   
151.075   Approval of private road names
   
151.076   Deceptively similar names
   
151.077   New road names
   
151.078   Road names
   
151.079   Discouraged names
   
151.080   Suffixes
   
151.081   Road segments
   
151.082   Offset intersections and split routes
   
151.083   Impasses
Road Name Signs and Standards
   
151.095   Installation and maintenance
   
151.096   Sign standards
Administration
   
151.110   Ordinance Administrator and responsibilities
   
151.111   Applications and petitions
   
151.112   Building permits
   
151.113   Certificate of occupancy
   
151.114   Fees
   
151.115   Reason for denial
Amendments
   
151.130   Public notification requirements
   
151.131   Letter of notification
   
151.132   Proposal of amendment
   
151.133   Protest of an amendment
 
   
151.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.001 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to protect the safety and welfare of the
general public through the orderly assignment of addresses to facilitate the
location of individual dwellings and businesses by emergency response
personnel.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2004)
§ 151.002 ENACTMENT AND AUTHORITY.
   There is hereby established and adopted a detailed, permanent, uniform,
addressing system, pursuant to authority of G.S. Ch. 62A. In addition, pursuant
to authority provided in G.S. Ch. 153A, Art. 12, empowers the county to name
roads.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2004)
§ 151.003 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Road Addressing Ordinance of Surry
County, North Carolina”, and may be referred to as the “Addressing Ordinance”
or “this chapter”, and the map referred to shall be identified by the title
“Official Road Name and Structure Numbering Map, Surry County, North Carolina”,
and may be known as the “Addressing Map”.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2004)
§ 151.004 TERRITORIAL JURISDICTION.
   The road addressing policies set forth in this chapter shall be applicable
for all of the unincorporated areas of the county.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2004)
§ 151.005 INCORPORATED AREAS.
   Any incorporated area within the county that is being provided radio/
communications services by the county’s Communications/E-911 Center is
requested to adhere to the road addressing policies set forth in this chapter,
which may require the adoption of a compatible ordinance by its governing
board.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2004)
§ 151.006 ADDRESSING MAP.
   (A)   The address-numbering map shall be entitled “Official Road Name and
Structure Numbering Map, Surry County, North Carolina”. The effective date of
said map shall be entered here 6-21-2004 upon completion of all of the
aforementioned mapping, addressing and data base development by ASI Landmark,
Inc. Said map shall hereby be adopted as the Official Road Name and Structure
Numbering Map of Surry County. All county addresses assigned shall be assigned
in accordance with this map.
   (B)   The addressing map shall be kept on file in the Surry County Tax
Department. This map may be maintained and updated in data processing storage
systems.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2004)
§ 151.007 SCHEDULE OF FEES.
   Any fees shall be as set by the county.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2004)
§ 151.008 LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS; VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use or display a different
address or portion thereof, except as provided by this chapter or the “Official
Road Name and Structure Numbering Map, Surry County, North Carolina”.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to name or designate the name of
any private road, street, drive, easement, right-of-way, access area or any
other thoroughfare, except as provided by this chapter.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to establish or erect any road
sign that does not comply with the standards set forth in this chapter.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally destroy, mar or
deface any county road name sign.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2004) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.009 VARIANCE.
   The Tax Department Addressing Committee will have the right to authorize and
approve alternative methods of displaying addressing numbers which meet the
intent of this chapter when strict adherence to these standards cannot be
reasonably met.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2004)
§ 151.010 DEFINITIONS OF SPECIFIC TERMS OR WORDS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, certain terms or words used herein shall be
interpreted as follows:
   AVENUE (AVE). A major road that runs generally in an east/west direction.
   BOULEVARD (BLVD). An unusually wide street typically in residential areas;
often with central, dividing median.
   CIRCLE (CIR). A short road that begins at and returns to the same road.
   COURT (CT). A dead end right of way often ending as a cul-de-sac.
   DRIVE (DR). A curving secondary road.
   HIGHWAYS (HWY). A designated state or federal highway.
   INTERSTATE (I-#). A thoroughfare of the highest order and federally
designated as an “interstate”.
   LANE (LN). A short private road that branches off of another road.
   LOOP (LP). A short road that starts and ends on the same street or road.
   ORDINANCE ADMINISTRATOR. The Surry County Tax Administrator or such other
county official as may be designated by the County Commissioners.
   PARKWAY (PKWY). A special scenic route or park drive.
   PLACE (PL). A cul-de-sac or permanent dead end road.
   PRIVATE ROAD. Any road which is not maintained by a governmental entity or
agency through the use of public funds. Road name suffixes for private roads
include: Trail, Lane and Way.
   PUBLIC ROAD. Any road which is maintained by a governmental entity or agency
through the use of public funds.
   RADIO/COMMUNICATIONS. Includes any radio communications, transmissions,
disservices patching or future enhanced 911 communications that may involve
police, emergency, fire or rescue operations, but are not limited to these
aforesaid operations.
   ROAD (RD). A well-traveled secondary road often connecting with a U.S. or
state primary highway.
   STREET (ST). A major road that runs generally in a north/south direction.
   STREET ADDRESS. An unique identifier for each addressable structure within
the county. The minimum adequate street address shall be defined as the
assigned structure number and the officially adopted road name. Where required
by this chapter, the STREET ADDRESS shall also include the assigned unit
designator.
   STRUCTURE. Any building, whether residential, commercial, industrial or
institutional in nature and use, under its own roof system.
   STRUCTURE NUMBER. The numerical portion of the street address, as assigned
by the addressing technician or his or her designee, in accordance with the
Official Road Name and Structure Numbering Map of Surry County, N.C.
   THOROUGHFARE. A general all inclusive term for roads, public or private,
street, drive, easement, right-of-way or any other word or words that means a
way of access.
   TRAIL (TRL). A short private road that branches off another road.
   UNIT DESIGNATOR. The portion of the street address used to distinguish
individual units within the same structure.
   WAY (WAY). A short private road that branches off another road.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2004)
§ 151.011 CONFLICT WITH OTHER LAWS.
   (A)   All other ordinances or parts of ordinances not specifically in
conflict herewith are hereby continued in force and effect, but all such
ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby repealed.
   (B)   Where the provisions of this chapter are higher or more restrictive
than those imposed by any other applicable law or regulation, such higher or
more restrictive provisions shall apply.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2004)
§ 151.012 SEVERABILITY.
   Should any section, division, sentence, clause, phrase provision of this
chapter be declared unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the chapter in its
entirety or of any part thereof other than that so declared to be
unconstitutional or invalid.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2004)
§ 151.013 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter took effect and was in force from and after its adoption.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2004)
NUMBERING SYSTEM
§ 151.025 UNIFORMITY OF THE SYSTEM.
   (A)   All roads that are officially designated on the addressing map,
whether public or private, shall be numbered uniformly and consecutively along
the roadway centerline.
   (B)   Numbers shall be assigned along the entirety of all named
thoroughfares.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2004)
§ 151.026 ROAD NAMING AND NUMBERING CRITERIA.
   (A)   All roads, both public and private, shall be named, have road name
signs installed, and all appropriate structures shall be numbered, if two or
more addressable structures, including mobile homes, are located on and
accessed by the road.
   (B)   Two structures sharing a driveway that are both clearly visible from
the existing roadway are an exception and will not require a named road at the
discretion of the Tax Department Addressing Committee. The second structure
will be given the nearest consecutive number for that side of the road (for
example 102 and 104 for even or 103 and 105 for odd).
   (C)   A road will not be named that already has one inhabited structure due
to the addition of a structure, that will not be regularly inhabited or
occupied which requires an address, (examples of such structures includes
chicken houses, cell towers, farm buildings, outbuildings or any other similar
structures).
   (D)   Any road, not designated by plat, shall be deleted and the road sign
shall be removed if the Tax Department Addressing Committee determines there
are no remaining addressable structures accessed by the road. Public roads
meeting this criteria will only be deleted if they are no longer publicly
maintained.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2004)
§ 151.027 NUMBERING METHOD.
   (A)   A set of numbers consisting of a three-, four- or five-digit natural
numbers called a structure number shall be assigned at intervals of 21.12 feet
along a roadway centerline.
   (B)   Ascending numbers moving away from the beginning point shall be
assigned odd structure numbers on the left side of the road. Even numbers shall
be assigned to structures on the right side of the road in a like manner.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2004)
§ 151.028 DEAD END ROADS.
   All dead end roads and cul-de-sacs shall begin with ascending numbers at the
open end, that being the end connecting to another road.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2004)
§ 151.029 NUMBERS BEGIN WITH 100, 200, 300 AND THE LIKE.
   The first potentially assignable structure number (in the first 21.12 feet)
on a given road shall be the number 100, 200, 300, etc.. or the number
currently assigned by a municipal numbering system.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2004)
ADDRESSING SYSTEM
§ 151.040 METHOD OF ASSIGNING A NUMBER.
   (A)   The Historic Court House, located in Dobson, North Carolina, serves as
point of axis for the county’s jurisdiction. Roads beginning within a
municipality, and ending within the jurisdiction of the county, shall resume
numbering where the municipality’s numbers (if any) end. The address range
shall increase to the nearest 100th number (200, 300, 400, etc.) and shall be
numbered uniformly and consecutively along the roadway centerline to the end of
said road, or to the ending of said road that connects to another road.
   (B)   Addressing shall start at the road, street, lane, etc., that is near
the axis with odd numbers on the left side of the road, and even numbers on the
right, ascending to the next intersection or end of road block range. There
shall be a pair of numbers every 21.12 feet throughout the county, leaving room
for future growth.
   (C)   Where county boundaries adjoin on the same road, one set of numbers
“running consecutively” shall be used. Addressing shall be coordinated between
the counties to establish the addressing method used.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2004)
§ 151.041 CORNER LOTS.
   Structures on corner lots shall be assigned a structure number from the road
in which the main access to the structure is oriented. The number shall be
assigned using the method in §
151.040 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2004)
§ 151.042 ROAD NAME OF ADDRESS.
   The road name for an address shall be the name of the road from which the
structure is numbered.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2004)
§ 151.043 REQUIREMENTS FOR ROAD NAMING AND NUMBERING.
   If development of a private road meets or exceeds the minimum structure
regulations (§
151.026 of this chapter), said road shall be named and numbered and structures
readdressed according to the requirements herein.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2004)
§ 151.044 DUPLEX AND MULTI-FAMILY DWELLINGS.
   One structure number shall be assigned to each structure whose units share a
common roof. Each unit within the structure shall be assigned a unit
designator. Unit designators shall include apartment numbers for apartments and
suite numbers for commercial buildings. The unit designator shall be a numeric
or alphabetic character. Condominiums are addressed in the same manner as
single residential dwellings.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2004)
§ 151.045 ASSIGNING OF UNIT DESIGNATORS.
   (A)   Residential and commercial unit designators shall be as follows:
ground level floor numbers: #102, #103, #104...second floor numbers: #202,
#203, #204...etc. All floor levels are to follow this scheme. Underground floor
designators shall follow this scheme. Underground floor designators shall
follow the same scheme with the exception of having a “U” for a prefix, for
example #U101, #U102...etc.
   (B)   This section specifically applies to multi-family dwellings.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2004)
§ 151.046 MOBILE HOMES.
   Manufactured housing or mobile homes shall be assigned individual street
addresses according to the requirements herein, whether they are located on
individual lots or in developed parks.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2004)
§ 151.047 RECREATIONAL OR RESORT COMMUNITIES.
   Resort communities or recreational developments that have established sites
with telephone service including wireless shall be assigned individual street
addresses in accordance with the requirements herein.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2004)
POSTING REQUIREMENTS FOR STRUCTURES
§ 151.060 TIME CONSTRAINTS.
   Within 90 days after written notification of the assignment of or change of
a structure number, the owner of said property shall post the assigned
structure number in compliance with the requirements herein.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2004)
§ 151.061 NUMBER SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   All structure numbers shall be constructed of a durable material. The
color shall contrast with the color scheme of the structure and, if mounted on
glass, shall contrast with the background and be clearly visible.
   (B)   (1)   The minimum number size for residential structures or units
shall be four inches in height. The minimum size for all other structure
numbers shall be six inches in height.
      (2)   In all cases, a number larger than the minimum size may be required
where the minimum size does not provide adequate identification.
      (3)   A mailbox is used for the sole purpose of delivering mail. A
mailbox or mailbox post shall not serve as the designated address marker.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2004)
§ 151.062 POSTING LOCATIONS.
   (A)   All structure numbers shall be easily identifiable without obstruction
of view.
   (B)   Any dwelling or business located at more than 100 feet from the
roadway and/or not clearly visible shall be required to have numerical posting
at both the entrance of the driveway and located in close proximity to the
front door or entranceway of said structure.
   (C)   A minimum of five feet in posting height shall be required for all
addressable structures for identification and shall be located in close
proximity to the entranceway.
   (D)   The post height of three feet above ground shall be required for all
entrances or private drives that require numerical posting. A four-by-four
wooden post will be suitable. All numerical posting shall be installed on the
same side of the road that the entranceway to the property is located.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2004)
§ 151.063 MAINTENANCE OF STRUCTURE NUMBERS.
   Following the posting of the assigned number as required herein, the
property owner shall maintain the structure number at all times in compliance
with the requirements of this subchapter. Structure numbers and unit
designators, as viewed from the road, shall not be obstructed from view.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2004)
ROAD NAMING
§ 151.075 APPROVAL OF PRIVATE ROAD NAMES.
   (A)   Pursuant to authority provided in G.S. Ch. 153A, Art. 12, empowers the
county to name all roads, public or private.
   (B)   The Tax Department Addressing Committee shall coordinate the naming of
all streets within the incorporated areas of the county with existing
ordinances of the municipality.
   (C)   All road names, public or private, that have been officially approved
by the Surry County Board of Commissioners shall remain for a minimum of not
less than five years. After which time, all applications (if applicable) shall
comply with this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2004)
§ 151.076 DECEPTIVELY SIMILAR NAMES.
   The Surry County Tax Department shall maintain a database of existing road
names, such that duplicate or “deceptively similar” road names are neither
approved nor assigned.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2004)
§ 151.077 NEW ROAD NAMES.
   (A)   A change to an existing road name or the name of a new road may be
accomplished by application to the Tax Department on a form prescribed by the
Tax Department Addressing Committee in accordance with rules set forth by that
Committee.
   (B)   New road names that relate to the history, location or scale of a
project area, shall be given consideration. Road names must be no more than 14
letters maximum including spaces and excluding road name suffixes such as Trl,
Way, Rd, Ln, etc. The road-naming petition must be returned within 30 days. The
Tax Department Addressing Committee shall choose a road name for petitions that
are not returned in the designated time frame. The road naming petition must
include a percentage of 75% of landowners signatures and the landowners must
agree to the selected names on the petition to be considered by the Tax
Department Addressing Committee. If there is a survey or plat, showing the road
in question, a copy must be submitted with the petition.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2004; Ord. passed 8-12-2024)
§ 151.078 ROAD NAMES.
   Road names that are appropriate, easy to read and add pride to home
ownership, shall be promoted.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2004; Ord. passed 8-12-2024)
§ 151.079 DISCOURAGED NAMES.
   (A)   The following kinds of names shall be avoided: numerical,
alphabetical, similar in nature and complicated names.
   (B)   The Tax Department Addressing Committee is hereby given authority to
refuse to accept any road name that in its opinion violates the spirit or the
provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2004)
§ 151.080 SUFFIXES.
   (A)   The following road name suffixes are allowed: Avenue (AVE), Boulevard
(BLVD), Circle (CIR), Court (CT), Drive (DR), Highway (HWY), Lane (LN), Loop
(LP), Parkway (PKWY), Place (PL), Road (RD), Street (ST), Trail (TRL) and Way.
   (B)   Private roads shall be assigned the suffixes Trail, Lane or Way. All
other suffixes shall be reserved for public roads.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2004)
§ 151.081 ROAD SEGMENTS.
   (A)   Each road shall bear the same name and uniform numbering along the
entirety of the road. Segments of roads shall not be allowed to have different
or separate names.
   (B)   The Tax Department Addressing Committee shall determine what
constitutes a road or way, by reference to Chs.
152,
153 and
154 of this code of ordinances and this chapter, where the provisions are
higher and more restrictive than those imposed by any other applicable law or
regulation, such higher or more restrictive provisions shall apply, as stated
in §
151.008(A) of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2004)
§ 151.082 OFFSET INTERSECTIONS AND SPLIT ROUTES.
   Split routes, also known as “dog-leg” offset intersections, shall be treated
as separate roads with different names and numbering to preserve the integrity
and continuity of the numbering system.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2004)
§ 151.083 IMPASSES.
   Impasses or sections of a road that are impassable shall be assigned
different names and numbering to each portion of the road on either side of the
impasse to preserve the integrity and continuity of the numbering system.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2004)
ROAD NAME SIGNS AND STANDARDS
§ 151.095 INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   All public and private road name signs required by this chapter shall be
installed and maintained by the Surry County Public Works Department.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2004)
§ 151.096 SIGN STANDARDS.
   Road name signs shall meet the following standards.
   (A)   All road name sign blades shall be a minimum six-inch flat vertical
dimension sign with a minimum of four-inch engineer grade “C” font letters.
   (B)   Public road name signs or “blades” shall be made of a reflective green
sheeting with the road name in reflective silver letters on both sides.
   (C)   Private name signs or “blades” shall be made of a reflective green
sheeting with the road name in reflective silver letters and a small yellow
sheeting at the end of each sign with the black lettering of “PVT” on both
sides.
   (D)   Historical name signs or “blades” shall be made of reflective brown
sheeting with the road name in reflective white letters on both sides.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2004; Ord. passed 8-12-2024)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 151.110 ORDINANCE ADMINISTRATOR AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The Tax Department Addressing Committee shall be responsible for the
administration of this chapter, including, but not limited to:
   (A)   Developing general policies and procedures;
   (B)   Giving technical assistance;
   (C)   Preparing a progress report for the Surry County Board Commissioners;
   (D)   Maintaining addressing standards and assigning all numbers for
addressable structures;
   (E)   Maintaining appropriate addressing records;
   (F)   Designating individual unit addresses within the multiple housing
units in conformity with this chapter;
   (G)   Approval of change of address schematic when needed to facilitate
house number assignments along existing roads;
   (H)   Authorizing legal enforcement action as required by ordinance;
   (I)   Notification of citizens, governments, agencies and post offices, as
required by law; and
   (J)   Authorize to correct such clerical or administrative errors that may
occur in keeping with the overall plan and intent of this chapter and to
approve alternate methods of displaying and/or assigning road addresses which
meet the intent of this chapter when strict adherence to these standards cannot
be reasonably met.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2004)
§ 151.111 APPLICATIONS AND PETITIONS.
   Applications and petitions shall be kept on file in the Surry County Tax
Department. Address applications will only be processed if the landowner on the
address application is the same landowner as reflected on the current recorded
deed in the Surry County Register of Deeds. Address applications may only be
signed by the current landowner or their contractor.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2004)
§ 151.112 BUILDING PERMITS.
   A building permit shall be issued using the current tax parcel number. The
final valid address will only be assigned by the Land Records/Addressing
Technician in the Surry County Tax Department at the time the permit is issued.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2004; Ord. passed 8-12-2024)
§ 151.113 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   Final approval for a certificate of occupancy of any addressable structure
or building erected or repaired after the effective date of this chapter shall
be withheld until permanent and proper structure numbers have been posted in
accordance with the requirements herein.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2004)
§ 151.114 FEES.
   (A)   Fees and charges provided herein for the filing of petitions,
applications, the cost of hearings, variances and maps shall be paid by the
applicant under this chapter at the time of application.
   (B)   Applicants, developers, surveyors, etc., or the applicant’s
representatives, shall pay the cost of road name signage blades, post and caps,
including bolts, and lock nuts, as stated within Ch. 155 of this code of
ordinances.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2004)
§ 151.115 REASON FOR DENIAL.
   If the Tax Administrator or the Tax Administrator’s designee denies
approval, the Tax Administrator shall provide a written statement of the
reasons for non-approval of a particular action (petition, variance,
application, etc.).
(Ord. passed 6-21-2004)
AMENDMENTS
§ 151.130 PUBLIC NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   These regulations may be amended or revised from time to time by the Board
of County Commissioners. The Board shall cause notice of public hearing, while
not mandatory, shall be considered and, where feasible, shall be advertised
once a week for two successive calendar weeks in a newspaper having general
circulation in the area. The notice shall be published for the first time not
less than ten days or more than 25 days before the appointed date of the
hearing. In computing such period, the day of publication is not to be
included, but the day of the hearing shall be included.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2004; Ord. passed 8-12-2024)
§ 151.131 LETTER OF NOTIFICATION.
   Whenever there is a proposal for a change in the addressing system involving
any portion of an address, the land owner of that parcel’s address as shown on
the county tax listing shall be mailed a notice of the proposed change in the
addressing system. The notice shall be mailed ten days prior to the change of
an address of a business by certified, return receipt, first class mail to the
last address listed of the business according to the county tax abstracts.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2004; Ord. passed 8-12-2024)
§ 151.132 PROPOSAL OF AMENDMENT.
   (A)   A proposal of amendment shall include the following:
      (1)   The applicant’s name and address in full;
      (2)   In the case of a text amendment, it shall set forth the new text to
be added and the existing text to be deleted and any other text changes that
will have to be made as a result of the effect on the remaining articles,
sections, definitions, diagrams or attachments; and
      (3)   If the proposed amendment will change the addressing map, a copy of
the addressing map shall be marked to indicate the impact of the proposed
amendment to the existing map and shall be presented with the application for
amendment.
   (B)   All proposed amendments to this chapter shall be submitted to the Tax
Administrator for review and recommendation. The Tax Administrator shall have
45 days to submit its report. If the Tax Administrator fails to submit its
report within the above period, it shall be deemed to have approved the
proposed amendment.
   (C)   A public hearing shall be held by the Board of County Commissioners
before the adoption of any proposed amendments to this chapter. If the Board of
County Commissioners denies any application for the change of a portion or
matter of this chapter, it shall not thereafter accept any other application
for the same change involving that portion or matter of the ordinance until the
expiration of six months from the date of such previous denial.
   (D)   Before any action shall be taken concerning an amendment request, the
party or parties proposing or recommending said amendment shall deposit the
required fee with the Tax Department at the time the petition is filed to cover
publication and other miscellaneous costs for said change. Under no condition
shall said fee or any part thereof be refunded for failure of said amendment to
be adopted. However, in the event an application is withdrawn prior to the time
it is ordered advertised for hearing by the Tax Administrator, three-fourths of
the fee shall be refunded.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2004)
§ 151.133 PROTEST OF AN AMENDMENT.
   No protest against any change in, or amendment to, this chapter,
regulations, proposals or the addressing system, shall be valid or effective
unless it is in the form of a written petition. The petition shall bear the
names and signatures of the opposing property owners and shall affirm and state
the nature of protest to the proposal. All petitions shall be submitted to the
Tax Administrator and shall be processed as stated in §§
151.110 through
151.115 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2004)
§ 151.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Violation of this chapter is a misdemeanor as provided by G.S. §
14-4 and may be punished as provided therein.
      (2)   Civil penalties may be imposed in accordance with the following
procedure:
         (a)   Initial notification of violation, in writing by first class
main return receipt, to last known address of the person to be notified;
         (b)   If not corrected within ten days, a warning citation shall be
issued;
         (c)   If not corrected within seven days of issuance of a warning
citation, a second citation including a fine of $50 shall be issued; and
         (d)   Each day the violation continues shall constitute a separate
violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Notification of violation shall:
      (1)   Be issued by the Tax Administrator or his or her designee;
      (2)   Be in writing, first class mail notice directed to the name and
address of the owner of the property; and
      (3)   Must set forth the action necessary for the offender to be in
compliance with this chapter.
   (C)   Violation of §
151.008 of this chapter shall be punishable by maximum fines of up to $50 for
each violation.
   (D)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the County of Surry from taking
other such lawful actions as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2004)
CHAPTER 152: RESERVED
CHAPTER 153: RESERVED
CHAPTER 154: ZONING
Section
   
154.01   Development ordinance adopted by reference
§ 154.01 DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Surry County Development Ordinance, adopted on 4-17-2023, is hereby
adopted by reference as set forth in Appendix A to this chapter.
APPENDIX A: DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
Section
   
154.001   Enactment and Authority
   
154.002   General Provisions
      
154.002-01   Title
      
154.002-02   Official zoning map
      
154.002-03   Jurisdiction
      
154.002-04   Bona fide farms exempt
      
154.002-05   Interpretation and conflict
      
154.002-06   Severability
      
154.002-07   Consistency with land use plans
      
154.002-08   Repeal of previous ordinance
      
154.002-09   Effective date
      
154.002-10   Review and approval responsibilities
   
154.003   Definitions
      
154.003-01   Terms defined
      
154.003-02   Definitions
   
154.004   Planning Board, Board of Adjustment, Historic Preservation Commission
and Technical Review Committee
      
154.004-01   Planning Board
      
154.004-02   Board of Adjustment
      
154.004-03   Historic Preservation Commission (HPC)
      
154.004-04   Technical Review Committee
   
154.005   Administration, Enforcement, and Non-Conformities
      
154.005-01   Zoning administration
      
154.005-02   Administrative development approvals and determinations
      
154.005-03   Certificates of occupancy
      
154.005-04   Other permits
      
154.005-05   Public hearings; revocation of permits and variances; appeals;
fees
      
154.005-06   Vested rights
      
154.005-07   Subdivision administration
      
154.005-08   Floodplain Administrator
      
154.005-09   Watershed Protection Administrator
      
154.005-10   Violations
      
154.005-11   Enforcement
      
154.005-12   Non-conformities
   
154.006   Zoning
      
154.006-01   Zoning affects all land and every building and use
      
154.006-02   Applicability to incorporated and extraterritorial areas
      
154.006-03   Subdivisions in the Rural Agricultural (RA, RA-C) District
      
154.006-04   Street access
      
154.006-05   Required yards not to be used by building
      
154.006-06   Relationship of building to lot
      
154.006-07   Reduction of lot and yard areas prohibited
      
154.006-08   Business uses of modular homes
      
154.006-09   Zero lot lines
      
154.006-10   Recreational vehicles prohibited as a dwelling type
      
154.006-11   Zoning districts established
      
154.006-12   District boundaries shown on zoning map
      
154.006-13   Rules governing interpretation of district boundaries
      
154.006-14   Intent of zoning districts
      
154.006-15   Dimensional table
      
154.006-16   Conditional zoning
      
154.006-17   Conditional zoning districts supplement for zoning permits
      
154.006-18   Effect of approval
      
154.006-19   Planned Residential Conditional District (PR-CD)
      
154.006-20   Rural Preservation District (RPD)
      
154.006-21   Overlay districts
      
154.006-22   Village of Rockford Zoning District
   
154.007   Table of Uses
      
154.007-01   Table of Permitted Uses
      
154.007-02   Temporary uses
   
154.008   Special Requirements for Individual Uses
   
154.009   Amendments
      
154.009-01   In general
      
154.009-02   Amendment procedures for map and text amendments
      
154.009-03   Additional amendment procedures for conditional zoning
   
154.010   Special Use Permits, Variances, and Appeals
      
154.010-01   Special use permits procedures
      
154.010-02   Standards for granting a special use permit for any proposed
alteration, expansion, change, rebuilding or resumption of a non-conformity
      
154.010-03   Zoning variances
      
154.010-04   Appeals
   
154.011   Development Review Process
      
154.011-01   Development review responsibilities
      
154.011-02   Fees
      
154.011-03   Subdivisions
      
154.011-04   Site plan procedures
      
154.011-05   Minor deviations from subdivision and site plans
   
154.012   Development Plan Requirements
      
154.012-01   Development plan requirements
      
154.012-02   Subdivision
      
154.012-03   Site plans
      
154.012-04   Detailed development plan
   
154.013   Subdivisions
      
154.013-01   Generally
      
154.013-02   Subdivision names, street names and addressing
      
154.013-03   Streets
      
154.013-04   Lots; minimum dimensional requirements
      
154.013-05   Modifications
      
154.013-06   Easements
      
154.013-07   Phasing
      
154.013-08   Subdivision entrance markers and landscaped medians
      
154.013-09   Connection to state streets
      
154.013-10   Required dedication of lands
      
154.013-11   Required improvements
      
154.013-12   Performance guarantees
   
154.014   Parking and Loading Development Standards
      
154.014-01   Off-street parking required
      
154.014-02   Certification of minimum parking requirements
      
154.014-03   Combination of required parking space
      
154.014-04   Remote parking space
      
154.014-05   Requirements for parking lots
      
154.014-06   Vehicle storage
      
154.014-07   Minimum parking requirements
      
154.014-08   Design standards for off-street parking
      
154.014-09   Off-street loading; purpose and general requirements
      
154.014-10   Design standards for off-street loading space
      
154.014-11   Minimum off-street loading requirements
   
154.015   Buffers and Screening Development Standards
      
154.015-01   Purpose of buffers
      
154.015-02   Buffers required
      
154.015-03   Buffer specifications
      
154.015-04   Location of buffer
      
154.015-05   Construction and maintenance
      
154.015-06   Deferring requirements
      
154.015-07   Enclosure requirements
   
154.016   Signs
      
154.016-01   Statement of purpose
      
154.016-02   Signs must meet requirements of subchapter
      
154.016-03   More than one principal use per lot
      
154.016-04   Plan approval required
      
154.016-05   Exemptions
      
154.016-06   Prohibited signs
      
154.016-07   Temporary signs
      
154.016-08   Portable signs
      
154.016-09   Shopping center signs
      
154.016-10   Billboards
      
154.016-11   Location of signs
      
154.016-12   Non-conforming signs
      
154.016-13   Maintenance and removal of unsafe or abandoned signs
      
154.016-14   Signs permitted in RA, RE, RR, RL, RG, CP, MHP and MR Districts
      
154.016-15   Signs permitted in RB District
      
154.016-16   Signs permitted in CB District
      
154.016-17   Signs permitted in HB and MI Districts
      
154.016-18   Computation of sign area
   
154.017   Flood Hazard Areas and Water Supply Watershed Protection
      
154.017-01   Flood hazard areas
      
154.017-02   Flood hazard area application requirements
      
154.017-03   Floodplain development permit, zoning permit, and certification
requirements
      
154.017-04   Corrective procedures
      
154.017-05   Variance procedures
      
154.017-06   General standards for flood hazard reduction
      
154.017-07   Specific standards for flood hazard reduction
      
154.017-08   Standards for floodplains without established Base Flood
Elevations (BFE)
      
154.017-09   Standards for riverine floodplains with BFE but without
established floodways or non-encroachment areas
      
154.017-10   Floodways and non-encroachment areas
      
154.017-11   Standards for areas of shallow flooding (Zone AO)
      
154.017-12   Water supply watershed protection
      
154.017-13   State enforcement authority for water supply watershed
   
154.018   Mountain Ridge Protection
      
154.018-01   Title
      
154.018-02   Purpose
      
154.018-03   Authority and enactment
      
154.018-04   Jurisdiction
      
154.018-05   Interpretation and definitions
      
154.018-06   Violations
      
154.018-07   Severability
      
154.018-08   Conflict with other laws
      
154.018-09   Effective date
      
154.018-10   Administration and enforcement
   
154.019   Manufactured Homes and Manufactured Home Parks
      
154.019-01   Purpose
      
154.019-02   General manufactured home development standards
      
154.019-03   Manufactured home parks; application; meetings; plan
§ 154.001 ENACTMENT AND AUTHORITY.
   The Board of County Commissioners of Surry County, North Carolina, pursuant
to the authority granted by G.S. Ch. 160D, does hereby ordain and enact into
law the following subchapters and sections.
(Ord. passed 9-17-2001; Ord. passed 3-17-2003; Ord. passed 5-5-2003; Ord.
passed 5-29-2003; Ord. passed 12-1-2003; Ord. passed 5-17-2004; Ord. passed 8-
16-2004; Ord. passed 2-21-2005; Ord. passed 4-18-2005; Ord. passed 1-17-2006;
Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.002 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
§ 154.002-01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Development Ordinance of Surry County,
North Carolina”.
(Ord. passed 9-17-2001; Ord. passed 3-17-2003; Ord. passed 5-5-2003; Ord.
passed 5-29-2003; Ord. passed 12-1-2003; Ord. passed 5-17-2004; Ord. passed 8-
16-2004; Ord. passed 2-21-2005; Ord. passed 4-18-2005; Ord. passed 1-17-2006;
Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.002-02 OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
   An official zoning map depicting the actual location of the zoning districts
is made a part of this chapter and adopted by reference. The official zoning
map, which is identified by the title "Zoning Map of Surry County, North
Carolina", shall be known as the "zoning map". Pursuant to G.S. § 160D-105,
current and prior official zoning maps shall be maintained in paper or digital
format in the Surry County Development Services Department for public
inspection. Any state or federal maps incorporated by reference into the zoning
map shall also be maintained.
(Ord. passed 9-17-2001; Ord. passed 3-17-2003; Ord. passed 5-5-2003; Ord.
passed 5-29-2003; Ord. passed 12-1-2003; Ord. passed 5-17-2004; Ord. passed 8-
16-2004; Ord. passed 2-21-2005; Ord. passed 4-18-2005; Ord. passed 1-17-2006;
Ord. passed 12-7-2020; Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.002-03 JURISDICTION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply within the areas designated as
zoning districts on the official zoning map(s) by the Board of Commissioners of
Surry County. This consists of all of Surry County except for areas under
municipal zoning authority and any extra-territorial jurisdictions granted to
the municipalities by the county. The official zoning map(s) will be on file in
the Development Services Department.
(Ord. passed 9-17-2001; Ord. passed 3-17-2003; Ord. passed 5-5-2003; Ord.
passed 5-29-2003; Ord. passed 12-1-2003; Ord. passed 5-17-2004; Ord. passed 8-
16-2004; Ord. passed 2-21-2005; Ord. passed 4-18-2005; Ord. passed 1-17-2006;
Ord. passed 12-7-2020; Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.002-04 BONA FIDE FARMS EXEMPT.
   Pursuant to G.S. § 160D-903 and the definition of bona fide farm in §
154.003-02, zoning regulations may not affect property used for bona fide farm
purposes; provided, however, that this section does not limit zoning regulation
with respect to the use of farm property for non-farm purposes. Except as
provided in G.S. § 106-743.4 for farms that are subject to a conservation
agreement under G.S. § 106-743.2, bona fide farm purposes include the
production and activities relating or incidental to the production of crops,
grains, fruits, vegetables, ornamental and flowering plants, dairy, livestock,
poultry, and all other forms of agriculture, as defined in G.S. § 106-581.1.
Activities incident to the farm include existing or new residences constructed
according to the applicable residential building code and situated on the farm
occupied by the property owner, lessee, or operator of the farm and other
buildings or structures sheltering or supporting the farm use and operation.
For purposes of this section, "when performed on the farm" in G.S. § 106-581.1
(6) includes the farm within the jurisdiction of the county and any other farm
owned or leased to or from others by the bona fide farm operator, no matter
where located. For purposes of this section, the production of a non-farm
product that the Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services recognizes as
a "Goodness Grows in North Carolina" product that is produced on a farm subject
to a conservation agreement under G.S. § 106-743.2 is a bona fide farm purpose.
   (A)   For purposes of determining whether a property is being used for bona
fide farm purposes, any of the following is sufficient evidence that the
property is being used for bona fide farm purposes:
      (1)   A farm sales tax exemption certificate issued by the Department of
Revenue;
      (2)   A copy of the property tax listing showing that the property is
eligible for participation in the present-use value program pursuant to G.S. §
105-277.3;
      (3)   A copy of the farm owner's or operator's Schedule F from the
owner's or operator's most recent federal income tax return; and
      (4)   A forest management plan.
   (B)   Failure to maintain the requirements of this division for a period of
three years after the date the structure was originally classified as a bona
fide farm purpose subjects the structure to applicable zoning and development
regulation ordinances adopted by the county pursuant to G.S. § 160D-702, in
effect on the date the property no longer meets the requirements of this
section.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, AGRITOURISM means any activity carried
out on a farm or ranch that allows the public, for recreational, entertainment,
or educational purposes, to view or enjoy rural activities, including farming,
ranching, historic, cultural, harvest-your-own activities, hunting, fishing,
equestrian activities, or natural activities and attractions. A structure used
for agritourism includes any structure used for public or private events,
including, but not limited to, weddings, receptions, meetings,  demonstrations
of farm activities, meals, and other events that are taking place on the farm
because of its farm or rural setting.
(Ord. passed 9-17-2001; Ord. passed 3-17-2003; Ord. passed 5-5-2003; Ord.
passed 5-29-2003; Ord. passed 12-1-2003; Ord. passed 5-17-2004; Ord. passed 8-
16-2004; Ord. passed 2-21-2005; Ord. passed 4-18-2005; Ord. passed 1-17-2006;
Ord. passed 11-4-2013; Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.002-05 INTERPRETATION AND CONFLICT.
   In interpreting and applying the provisions of this chapter, they shall be
held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public safety,
health, convenience, prosperity, and general welfare. It is not intended by
this chapter to interfere with, abrogate or annul any easements, covenants, or
other agreements between parties. However, where this chapter imposes a greater
restriction upon the use of buildings or premises or upon the height of
buildings or requires larger open space than is imposed or required by other
ordinance, rules, regulations or by easements, covenants or agreements, the
provisions of this chapter shall govern.
(Ord. passed 9-17-2001; Ord. passed 3-17-2003; Ord. passed 5-5-2003; Ord.
passed 5-29-2003; Ord. passed 12-1-2003; Ord. passed 5-17-2004; Ord. passed 8-
16-2004; Ord. passed 2-21-2005; Ord. passed 4-18-2005; Ord. passed 1-17-2006;
Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.002-06 SEVERABILITY.
   If any subchapter, section, sentence, clause, or phrase of this chapter is
for any reason held to be invalid by the courts, such decision shall not affect
the validity of the remaining portion of this chapter. The Board of County
Commissioners hereby declares that it has passed this chapter and each sub
chapter, section, clause, and phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that any
one or more subchapters, sections, sentences or phrases be declared invalid by
the courts.
(Ord. passed 9-17-2001; Ord. passed 3-17-2003; Ord. passed 5-5-2003; Ord.
passed 5-29-2003; Ord. passed 12-1-2003; Ord. passed 5-17-2004; Ord. passed 8-
16-2004; Ord. passed 2-21-2005; Ord. passed 4-18-2005; Ord. passed 1-17-2006;
Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.002-07 CONSISTENCY WITH LAND USE PLANS.
   (A)   Board of County Commissioners statement.
      (1)   Pursuant to G.S. §§ 160D-605 and 160D-701, zoning regulations shall
be made in accordance with land use plans adopted by Surry County. Prior to
adopting or rejecting any zoning amendment, the Board of County Commissioners
shall adopt one of the following statements, which shall not be subject to
judicial review:
         (a)   A statement approving the zoning amendment and describing its
consistency with the adopted land use plan and explaining why the action taken
is reasonable and in the public interest;
         (b)   A statement approving the zoning amendment and describing its
inconsistency with the adopted land use plan and explaining why the action
taken is reasonable and in the public interest; and
         (c)   A statement rejecting the zoning amendment and describing its
inconsistency with an adopted land use plan and explaining why the action taken
is reasonable and in the public interest.
      (2)   If the amendment is adopted and the action is deemed inconsistent
with the adopted plan, the zoning amendment shall have the effect of also
amending the future land use map in the approved plan and no additional request
or application for a plan amendment shall be required. A plan amendment and a
zoning amendment shall be considered concurrently.
   (B)   Planning Board statement. Pursuant to G.S. § 160D-604(d), the Planning
Board shall advise and comment on whether the proposed amendment is consistent
with any land use plans that have been adopted and any other officially adopted
plan that is applicable. The Planning Board shall provide a written
recommendation to the Board of County Commissioners that addresses plan
consistency and other matters as deemed appropriate by the Planning Board, but
a recommendation from the Planning Board that a proposed amendment is
inconsistent with the land use plan shall not preclude consideration or
approval of the proposed amendment by the Commissioners.
   (C)   Land use plan meaning. For the purposes of this section, the term LAND
USE PLANS shall mean the following: comprehensive plan, land use plan, small
area plan, community plan, community development plan, corridor plan,
thoroughfare or transportation plan and capital improvements plan.
(Ord. passed 9-17-2001; Ord. passed 3-17-2003; Ord. passed 5-5-2003; Ord.
passed 5-29-2003; Ord. passed 12-1-2003; Ord. passed 5-17-2004; Ord. passed 8-
16-2004; Ord. passed 2-21-2005; Ord. passed 4-18-2005; Ord. passed 1-17-2006;
Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.002-08 REPEAL OF PREVIOUS ORDINANCE.
   The Zoning Ordinance originally adopted on 7-6-1964 that applies to the
Mount Airy fringe area is hereby repealed. It is not intended by this chapter
to repeal, abrogate, annul or in any way to impair or interfere with any other
existing provisions of law or ordinance. Nor is it the intention to stay any
action to enforce the previous regulations, as provided for in those
regulations, as may be in process or may occur, as appropriate, upon or after
the effective date of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 9-17-2001; Ord. passed 3-17-2003; Ord. passed 5-5-2003; Ord.
passed 5-29-2003; Ord. passed 12-1-2003; Ord. passed 5-17-2004; Ord. passed 8-
16-2004; Ord. passed 2-21-2005; Ord. passed 4-18-2005; Ord. passed 1-17-2006;
Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.002-09 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter was in force from and after its passage and approval.
(Ord. passed 9-17-2001; Ord. passed 3-17-2003; Ord. passed 5-5-2003; Ord.
passed 5-29-2003; Ord. passed 12-1-2003; Ord. passed 5-17-2004; Ord. passed 8-
16-2004; Ord. passed 2-21-2005; Ord. passed 4-18-2005; Ord. passed 1-17-2006;
Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.002-10 REVIEW AND APPROVAL RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The following chart identifies the advisory or decision-making
responsibilities of the various bodies that have specific review and approval
roles under this chapter. Certain decisions require approvals by more than one
decision-making body. §§
154.009 describe procedures for map and text amendments. §§
154.010 describes procedures for special use permits, variances and appeals. §§
154.011 describes procedures for subdivisions and site plans. The submittal
requirements for all plan types is in §§
154.012.
REVIEW AND APPROVAL RESPONSIBILITIES
SR = STAFF REPORT       R = RECOMMENDATION D = DECISION             A = APPEAL
< PUBLIC HEARING >      << QUASI-JUDICIAL PUBLIC HEARING [ PUBLIC MEETING ]
                        >>
          Review and Decision-Making Bodies
Permit or Administrator TRC Planning Board County        Board of   Courts
Procedure                                  Commissioner  Adjustment
REVIEW AND APPROVAL RESPONSIBILITIES
SR = STAFF REPORT                                                     R =          D = DECISION            A =
                                                                      RECOMMENDATION                       APPEAL
< PUBLIC HEARING >                                                    << QUASI-JUDICIAL PUBLIC  [ PUBLIC MEETING
                                                                      HEARING >>                ]
                                                        Review and Decision-Making Bodies
Permit or Procedure                                     Administrator TRC Planning County       Board of   Courts
                                                                          Board    Commissioner Adjustment
Administrative determination or development approval    D                                       << A >>    A
Zoning permit                                           D                                       << A >>    A
Minor or exempt subdivision                             D                                       << A >>    A
Major subdivision                                       SR            [ R [ D ]                 << A >>    A
                                                                      ]
Minor site plan                                         D                                       << A >>    A
Minor deviations to site plans and subdivisions per §  D                                       << A >>    A
154.011-05
Group development; non-residential over 2,500 sf with   SR            [ R [ D ]                 << A >>    A
major site plan                                                       ]
General zoning and text amendments                      SR                < R >    < D >                   A
Conditional zoning with development plan                SR            [ R < R >    < D >                   A
                                                                      ]
Special use permit with major site plan (all but VR     SR            [ R                       << D >>    A
Districts)                                                            ]
Special use permit with major site plan (VR District)   SR            [ R << D >>                          A
                                                                      ]
Certificate of appropriateness (VR Districts)           SR                << D >>                          A
Zoning variance                                         SR                                      << D >>    A
 
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.003 DEFINITIONS.
§ 154.003-01 TERMS DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. All words
not defined below shall be defined by the North American Industry
Classification System (NAICS) 2017. If the word cannot be found in the NAICS,
the standard edition of the Webster's Dictionary shall be used.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.003-02 DEFINITIONS.
   Words used in the “present tense” shall include the “future tense”.Words
used in the “singular” shall include the “plural” and words used in the
“plural” shall include the “singular”. The words “shall” and “will” are always
mandatory. The words “should” and “may” indicate optional. The word “lot”
includes the words “plot”, “tract” and/or “parcel”. The word “building”
includes the word “structure”. The words “used” or “occupied”, as applied to
any land, or building, shall be construed to include the words “intended”,
“arranged” or “designated to be “used” or “occupied”. The word “person”
includes a “firm”, “association”, “organization”, “partnership”, “trust”,
“company”, “corporation” and/or “individual”. The words “residential property”
shall apply to land zoned for residential use and to other land occupied by
residential structures. The words “a map”, “zoning map” or “Surry County Zoning
Map” shall mean the Zoning Map of Surry County, North Carolina. The words
“development ordinance” or “Surry County Zoning Ordinance” shall mean the
Development Ordinance of Surry County, North Carolina. The words “Surry County
planning area” or “planning area” shall mean the area within which Surry County
exercises zoning authority. The term “Board of Commissioners” or “Governing
Body” shall always indicate the Board of County Commissioners of Surry County,
North Carolina. The term “County Manager” shall always indicate the County
Manager of Surry County, North Carolina. The term “Planning Board” shall always
indicate the Surry County Planning Board of Surry County, North Carolina. The
term “Board of Adjustment” shall always indicate the Surry County Board of
Adjustment.
   ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT. A secondary dwelling unit established in
conjunction with and clearly subordinate to a primary dwelling unit, whether a
part of the same structure as the primary dwelling unit or a detached dwelling
unit on the same lot.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. See STRUCTURE, ACCESSORY.
   ACCESSORY USE. See USE, ACCESSORY.
   ACCOUNTING, AUDITING and BOOKKEEPING. This industry comprises establishments
primarily engaged in providing services such as auditing of accounting records,
designing accounting systems, preparing financial statements, developing
budgets, preparing tax returns, processing payrolls, bookkeeping, and billing.
   ADMINISTRATIVE DECISION. Decisions made in the implementation,
administration, or enforcement of development regulations that involve the
determination of facts and the application of objective standards set forth in
G.S. Ch. 160D or local government development regulations. These are sometimes
referred to as ministerial decisions or administrative determinations.
   ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING. A proceeding to gather facts needed to make an
administrative decision.
   ADULT ESTABLISHMENT. Any structure or use of land which meets the definition
of adult establishment as outlined in G.S. § 14-202.10. (Licensed health
massage/body work therapists shall not be considered an adult massage
business.) See § 154.008 for special requirements.
   ADULT LIVE ENTERTAINMENT. Any performance of or involving the actual
presence of real people which exhibits specified anatomical areas as defined in
the provisions of this section, as hereinafter set forth.
   ADULT LIVE ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS. Any establishment or business wherein
adult live entertainment is shown for observation by patrons.
   ADVERTISING AGENCY. This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged
in creating advertising campaigns and placing such advertising in periodicals,
newspapers, radio and television or other media. These establishments are
organized to provide a full range of services (i.e.,  through in-house
capabilities or subcontracting), including advice, creative services, account
management, production of advertising material, media planning and buying
(i.e., placing advertising).
      AGRICULTURAL LAND. Any parcel of land which is used in the raising of
agricultural, dairy or forest products, livestock, poultry or fur-bearing
animals.
      AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION, CROP. The use of land for the primary purpose of
raising and harvesting row, field or tree crops on a commercial basis on a bona
fide farm. The growing and sale of agricultural crops on the premises shall
constitute AGRICULTURAL CROP PRODUCTION.
      AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION, LIVESTOCK. The use of land for the primary
purpose of raising animals or producing animal products, such as eggs or dairy
products, on a commercial basis on a bona fide farm, including grazing,
ranching and dairy farming.
      AGRICULTURE CULTURAL CENTER. A facility established for the purpose of
educating the public about agricultural activities and/or the heritage and
culture of agricultural activities. In addition, this definition shall also
include a museum dedicated only to agriculture themes and living historic farm
sites/properties.
      AGRITAINMENT. Events and activities that allow for recreation,
entertainment and tourism in conjunction with agriculture support and services
directly associated with on-going agricultural activities on-site that are for-
profit events and activities include the following: hay rides, corn mazes, hay
mazes, petting zoos (farm animals only), living historical farms, farm tours
(for profit) and agricultural festivals.
      AGRITOURISM. Farm-related enterprises that operate for the enjoyment and
education of the public which bring together tourism and agriculture.
Enterprises include those that are for-profit and those that are provided free
of charge to the public.
      AIRPORT; ELKIN MUNICIPAL AIRPORT. The following definitions apply
specifically to the Elkin Municipal Airport Overlay District.
         (a)   AIRPORT ELEVATION. The highest point of an airport’s usable
landing area measured in feet from sea level. The Elkin Municipal Airport is
1,068 feet above sea level.
         (b)   APPROACH SURFACE. A surface longitudinally centered on the
extended runway centerline, extending outward and upward from the end of the
primary surface and at the same slope as the approach zone height limitation
slope set forth in the overlay district regulations. In the plan, the perimeter
of the approach surface coincides with the perimeter of the approach zone.
         (c)   APPROACH, TRANSITIONAL, HORIZONTAL AND CONICAL ZONES. These
zones are set forth in the overlay district regulations.
         (d)   CONICAL SURFACE. A surface extending outward and upward from the
periphery of the horizontal surface at a slope of 20:1 for a horizontal
distance of 4,000 feet.
         (e)   HORIZONTAL SURFACE. A horizontal plane 100 feet above the
established airport elevation, the perimeter of which, in plan, coincides with
the perimeter of the horizontal zone.
         (f)   LARGER THAN UTILITY RUNWAY. A runway that is constructed for and
intended to be used by propeller driven aircraft of greater than 12,500 pounds
maximum gross weight and jet powered aircraft.
         (g)   NON-PRECISION INSTRUMENT RUNWAY. A runway having an existing
instrument approach procedure utilizing air navigation facilities with only
horizontal guidance or area type navigation equipment, for which a straight-in
non-precision instrument approach procedure has been approved or planned.
         (h)   PRECISION INSTRUMENT RUNWAY. A runway having an existing or
planned instrument approach procedure utilizing an instrument landing system
(ILS) or a precision approach radar (PAR). It also means a runway for which a
precision approach system is planned and is so indicated on an approved airport
layout plan or any other planning document.
         (i)   PRIMARY SURFACE. A surface longitudinally centered on a runway.
When the runway has a specially prepared hard surface, the PRIMARY SURFACE
extends 200 feet beyond each end of that runway; for military or planned hard
surface, the PRIMARY SURFACE ends at each end of that runway. The width of the
PRIMARY SURFACE is set forth in the overlay district regulations. The elevation
of any point on the primary surface is the same as the elevation of the nearest
point on the runway centerline.
         (j)   TRANSITIONAL SURFACES. These surfaces extend outward at 90-
degree angles to the runway centerline and the runway centerline extended at a
slope of seven feet horizontally for each foot vertically from the sides of the
primary and approach surfaces to where they intersect the horizontal and
conical surfaces. TRANSITIONAL SURFACES for those portions of the precision
approach surfaces, which project through and beyond the limits of the conical
surface, extend 5,000 feet measured horizontally from the edge of the approach
surface and at 90-degree angles to the extended runway centerline.
      AIRPORT; MOUNT AIRY/SURRY COUNTY AIRPORT OVERLAY DISTRICT. The following
definitions apply to the Mount Airy/Surry County Airport Overlay District.
         (a)   AIRPORT ELEVATION. The highest point of an airport’s useable
landing area measured in feet above mean sea level (MSL). The Mount Airy/Surry
County Airport elevation equals 1,248 MSL.
         (b)   APPROACH SURFACE. A surface longitudinally centered on the
extended runway centerline, extending outward and upward from the end of the
primary surface and at the same slope as the approach zone height limitation
slope as set forth in the overlay district regulations.
         (c)   APPROACH, TRANSITIONAL, HORIZONTAL, CONICAL AND HAZARDOUS
TERRAIN ZONES. These zones are set forth in the overlay district regulations.
         (d)   AWOS CRITICAL AREA. The land area encompassed by a 500-foot
radius surrounding an existing Automated Weather Observing Station (AWOS),
located on the southwest portion of the airport property at or near the
following coordinates as of February 2018, subject to amendment: Longitude: 80
degrees, 33 minutes, 17.43 seconds W; Latitude: 36 degrees, 27 minutes, 24.26
seconds N.
         (e)   CONICAL SURFACE. A surface extending outward and upward from the
periphery of the horizontal surface at a slope of 20:1 for a horizontal
distance of 4,000 feet.
         (f)   HAZARD TO NAVIGATION. An obstruction determined to have a
substantial adverse effect on the safety and efficient utilization of the
navigable airspace.
         (g)   HEIGHT. For the purpose of determining the height limits in the
airport height restrictive area, the datum shall be mean sea level elevation
unless otherwise specified.
         (h)   HORIZONTAL SURFACE. A horizontal plane 150 feet above the
established airport elevation, the perimeter of which in plan coincides with
the perimeter of the horizontal zone.
         (i)   MSL. Mean sea level.
         (j)   NON-CONFORMING USE (AIRPORT). Any pre-existing structure, object
of natural growth, or use of land which is inconsistent with the provisions of
this chapter or amendment thereto.
         (k)   NON-PRECISION APPROACH ZONE. The inner edge of this approach
zone coincides with the width of the primary surface and is 500 feet wide. The
approach zone expands outward uniformly to a width of 3,500 feet, at a
horizontal distance of 10,000 feet from the primary surface. Its centerline is
the continuation of the centerline of the runway.
         (l)   NON-PRECISION INSTRUMENT RUNWAY. A runway having an existing
instrument approach procedure utilizing air navigation facilities with only
horizontal guidance or area type navigation equipment for which a straight-in
non-precision instrument approach procedure has been planned or approved.
         (m)   OBSTRUCTION. Any structure, growth or other object, including a
mobile object, which exceeds a limited height set forth in the overlay district
regulations.
         (n)   PRIMARY SURFACE. A surface longitudinally centered on a runway.
The PRIMARY SURFACE extends 200 feet beyond each end of that runway. The
elevation of any point on the PRIMARY SURFACE is the same as the elevation of
the nearest point on the runway centerline. The width of the PRIMARY SURFACE is
500 feet.
         (o)   RUNWAY. A defined area on an airport prepared for landing and
takeoff of aircraft along its length.
         (p)   STRUCTURE. An object, including a mobile object, constructed, or
installed by humans, including, but not limited to buildings, towers, cranes,
smokestacks, earth formation and overhead transmission lines.
         (q)   TRANSITION SURFACES. These surfaces extend outward at right
angles (90-degree angles) to the runway centerline and extend at a slope of
seven feet horizontally for each foot vertically from the sides of the primary
and approach surfaces to where they intersect the horizontal and conical
surfaces.
         (r)   TRANSITIONAL ZONES. The transitional zones are the area beneath
the transitional surfaces.
         (s)   TREE. Any object of natural growth.
         (t)   UTILITY RUNWAY. A runway that is constructed for and intended to
be used by propeller aircraft of 12,500 pounds maximum gross weight and less.
         (u)   VISUAL APPROACH ZONE. The inner edge approach zone coincides
with the width of the primary surface and is 500 feet wide. The approach zone
expands outward uniformly to a width of 1,500 feet at a horizontal distance of
5,000 feet from the primary surface. Its centerline is the continuation of the
centerline of the runway.
         (v)   VISUAL RUNWAY. A runway intended solely for the operation of
aircraft using visual approach procedures.
      AIRPORT, PUBLIC. Landing fields, aircraft parking or service facilities,
passenger or baggage terminals, or related facilities for operation, service,
fueling, repair, storage, charter, or sales or rental of aircraft, operated by
an airport authority or other corporation.
      AIRSTRIP, PRIVATE. A landing field for the private use of the property
owner, including a small hangar area for aircraft used by the owner or lessee
at the airstrip.
      ALLEY. A vehicular way used for providing service access along rear or
side property lines of lots. Residential ALLEYS will generally remain private.
      AMBULANCE SERVICE/RESCUE SQUAD. This industry comprises establishments
primarily engaged in providing transportation of patients by ground or air,
along with medical care. These services are often provided during a medical
emergency but are not restricted to emergencies. The vehicles are equipped with
lifesaving equipment operated by medically trained personnel.
      AMORTIZATION. The process of providing for a timed extinction of a use,
which is not in compliance with this chapter.
      AMUSEMENT PARK. This industry comprises establishments, known as
amusement or theme parks, primarily engaged in operating a variety of
attractions, such as mechanical rides, water rides, games, shows, theme
exhibits, refreshment stands and picnic grounds. These establishments may lease
space to others on a concession basis.
      ANIMAL HOSPITAL/VETERINARY CLINIC. Any facility used for the purpose of
giving licensed medical treatment to animals or pets and any other customarily
incidental treatment of the animals, such as grooming, boarding or selling of
pet supplies.
      ANTIQUE SHOPS. This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged
in retailing used merchandise, antiques and secondhand goods (except motor
vehicles such as automobiles, RVs, motorcycles and boats; motor vehicle parts;
tires; and mobile homes).
      APARTMENT. A room or suite of rooms in a multi-unit residential building,
generally rented by the occupant, which provides complete independent living
facilities for one or more persons, including permanent provisions for living,
sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation in each separate unit.
      APPAREL AND FOOTWEAR. The apparel industry group comprises establishments
primarily engaged in retailing new clothing. The footwear industry comprises
establishments primarily engaged in retailing all types of new footwear (except
hosiery and specialty sports footwear, such as golf shoes, bowling shoes and
spiked shoes). Establishments primarily engaged in retailing new tennis shoes
or sneakers are included in this industry.
      APPEAL. An action requesting reversal or modification of a decision.
      APPEAL, ADMINISTRATIVE. An action requesting reversal or modification of
an administrative decision made in the application of these regulations.
      APPLIANCES. This U.S. industry comprises establishments known as
appliance stores primarily engaged in retailing an array of new household
appliances such as refrigerators, dishwashers, ovens, irons, coffee makers,
hair dryers, electric razors, room air-conditioners, microwave ovens, sewing
machines and vacuum cleaners; or engaged in retailing new appliances in
combination with appliance repair services.
      AQUARIUM. An establishment where aquatic collections of living organisms
are kept and exhibited.
      ARCADES. Establishments that primarily offer amusements such as video
games, pinball machines and other similar games, but not including electronic
gaming operations or gambling of any type.
      ARCHITECTS. Persons licensed to practice architecture in the State of
North Carolina.
      AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or VO Zone on a community’s
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with base flood depths from one to three feet
where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of the flood is
unpredictable and indeterminate, and where the velocity flow may be evident.
      AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain within a
community subject to a 1% or greater chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year, as determined in §§ 154.017.
      ARMED FORCES ESTABLISHMENTS, INCLUDING ARMORIES. This industry comprises
government establishments of the armed forces, including the National Guard,
primarily engaged in national security and related activities.
      ART GALLERIES. This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged
in retailing original and limited-edition art works. Included in this industry
are establishments primarily engaged in displaying works of art for retail sale
in ART GALLERIES.
      ART SUPPLIES. Establishments engaged in retail sales of arts and crafts
supplies.
      ARTS AND GRAPHICS SERVICES. This industry comprises establishments
primarily engaged in planning, designing and managing the production of visual
communication in order to convey specific messages or concepts, clarify complex
information or project visual identities. These services can include  the
design of printed materials, packaging, advertising, signage systems and
corporate identification (logos). This industry also includes commercial
artists engaged exclusively in generating drawings and illustrations requiring
technical accuracy or interpretative skills.
      ASPHALT PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING. A facility preparing asphalt and/or
concrete mixtures for street and driveway paving, including contractors engaged
in asphalt and/or cement work.
      AUCTION HOUSE. A structure or enclosure where goods are sold by auction.
      AUDITORIUMS. An open, partially enclosed or fully enclosed facility used
or intended to be used primarily for spectator sports, entertainment events,
expositions and other public gatherings. Typical uses include convention
facilities, exhibition halls and amphitheaters.
      AUDITORS and BOOKKEEPERS. See accounting, auditing and bookkeeping.
      AUTOMATIC TELLER MACHINE. A type of banking and financial services with
automated or self-service banking features with no staff or personnel provided.
      AUTOMOBILE DETAILING. This U.S. industry comprises establishments
primarily engaged in cleaning, washing and/or waxing automotive vehicles such
as passenger cars, trucks, vans and trailers.
      AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING. These establishments are primarily engaged in
manufacturing:
         (a)   Complete automobiles and light duty motor vehicles (i.e., body
and chassis or unibody); or
         (b)   Chassis only.
      AUTOMOBILE SALVAGE YARD. Any establishment which is maintained, used or
operated for storing, keeping, buying and/or selling two or more wrecked,
junked, scrapped, ruined, dismantled or inoperable motor vehicles, regardless
of the length of time which individual motor vehicles are stored or kept at
said establishment. Parts and components of the vehicles in an AUTOMOBILE
SALVAGE YARD may be sold off as replacement parts to willing customers.
AUTOMOBILE SALVAGE YARDS shall not engage in the recycling or crushing of
vehicles (as defined in this definition). Crushing and compacting shall include
any activity which materially reduces the dimensions or size of the vehicle by
application of any force, dropping, or slinging the vehicle. No scrap tires
shall be stored at the yard longer than 30 days.
      AUTOMOBILE, TRUCK AND MOTORCYCLE SALES. An establishment primarily
engaged in the retail sale of new and used automobiles, trucks, motorcycles,
motor scooters, mopeds, all-terrain vehicles, snowmobiles, go-carts, utility
trailers and similar items. Shall include any outdoor area where the above-
mentioned are stored throughout the day and the night and are held for the
purpose of sale or lease as an entire or complete unit. The sale of wrecked,
junked, scrapped, ruined, dismantled or inoperable motor vehicles is not
included in this definition and is only permitted in an automobile salvage
yard.
      AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIES.
         (a)   This category comprises one or more of the following:
            1.   Establishments known as automotive supply stores primarily
engaged in retailing new, used and/or rebuilt automotive parts and accessories.
            2.   Automotive supply stores that are primarily engaged in both
retailing automotive parts and accessories and repairing automobiles; and
            3.   Establishments primarily engaged in retailing and installing
automotive accessories.
         (b)   This category also comprises establishments primarily engaged in
wholesaling motor vehicle supplies, accessories, tools and equipment; and new
motor vehicle parts (except new tires and tubes).
      BAIT AND TACKLE SALES. This category is comprised primarily of
establishments that sell fishing supplies.
      BAKERIES. This category is comprised of establishments that primarily
sell baked goods made on the premises.
      BANKS AND FINANCE COMPANIES. A facility engaged in deposit banking or
extending credit in the form of loans.
      BARBER AND BEAUTY SHOPS. This category comprises establishments primarily
engaged in providing hair, nail and skin services such as haircuts, manicures,
facials and the like. Procedures that alter skin permanently such as
application of permanent makeup or tattoos are not included in this category.
      BASE FLOOD. A flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year.
      BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). A determination as published in the flood
insurance study of the water surface elevations of the base flood. When the BFE
has not been provided in a special flood hazard area, it may be obtained from
engineering studies available from a federal, state or other source using FEMA
approved engineering methodologies. This elevation, when combined with the
freeboard, establishes the regulatory flood protection elevation.
      BASEBALL HITTING RANGES. These establishments are primarily engaged in
providing recreational facilities for customers who practice hitting baseballs
with the use of automated pitching machines.
      BASEMENT. The lowest level or story which has its floor sub-grade on all
sides.
      BED AND BREAKFAST. An owner-occupied or manager-occupied residential
facility providing rooms for overnight lodging or lodging and meals.
      BEDDING MANUFACTURING. This industry comprises establishments primarily
engaged in manufacturing innerspring, box spring and non-innerspring
mattresses, including mattresses for waterbeds.
      BICYCLE REPAIR. This category comprises establishments primarily engaged
in repairing and servicing bicycles without retailing new bicycles.
      BICYCLE SALES AND SERVICE. This category comprises establishments
primarily engaged in selling new or used bicycles.
      BILLBOARD. An off-premises advertising sign, having a display area of 50
square feet or greater, located within view of, but not upon, a public right-
of-way; and situated to be observed safely by motorists traveling on the public
road.
      BILLIARD OR POOL HALLS. These establishments are primarily engaged in
providing space and equipment for patrons to play billiards or pool.
      BLACKSMITH OPERATIONS. These establishments are primarily engaged in
manually forging iron or black metal, as opposed to tin or white metal on a
small scale (and as opposed to automated or mass forging of the above listed
metals).
      BLUEPRINTS AND DRAFTING SUPPLIES. These establishments are primarily
engaged in selling instruments and/or supplies for draftspeople and blueprint
services.
      BOAT WORKS MANUFACTURING. This U.S. industry comprises establishments
primarily engaged in building boats. “Boats” are defined as watercraft not
built in shipyards and typically of the type suitable or intended for personal
use.
      BONA FIDE FARM. Crop lands, timber lands, pasture lands, apple orchards,
idle or other farmlands as well as any farmhouses, barns, poultry houses, and
tenant houses for workers, as long as such houses for workers shall be in the
same ownership as the farm and located on the farm.
      BOOK AND STATIONARY STORES. These establishments are primarily engaged in
retailing books and/or stationary.
      BOTANICAL GARDENS. These establishments are primarily engaged in the
preservation and exhibition of live plant displays.
      BOTTLING PLANTS. These establishments are primarily engaged in bottling
beverages. Processes may involve:
         (a)   Combining purchased syrup or flavoring with other liquids; and/
or
         (b)   Carbonating beverages.
      BOWLING ALLEY. These establishments primarily operate bowling centers and
often provide food and beverage services for patrons.
      BREAKAWAY WALL. A wall that is not part of the structural support of the
building and is intended through its design and construction to collapse under
specific lateral loading forces without causing damage to the elevated portion
of the building or the supporting foundation system. A BREAKAWAY WALL shall
have a design safe loading resistance of not less than ten and no more than 20
pounds per square foot. A wall with loading resistance of more than 20 pounds
per square foot requires a professional engineer or architect’s certificate.
      BRICK, TILE AND POTTERY YARDS. These establishments are primarily engaged
in storage and distribution of brick, tile and pottery, without manufacture.
      BUFFER ZONE. The strip of land adjacent to a lake or natural watercourse.
      BUFFERS. The portion of a yard where special plantings may be required by
this chapter to separate and partially screen two adjacent land uses that are
ordinarily incompatible by virtue of their use.
      BUILDABLE AREA. The area of a zoning lot remaining after the minimum
setback requirements of this chapter have been satisfied.
      BUILDING. See also STRUCTURE. Any structure used or intended for
supporting or sheltering any use or occupancy.
      BUILDING ADDITION. An extension or increase in the floor area or height
of a building or structure.
      BUILDING CLEANING AND MAINTENANCE SERVICES. These establishments
primarily clean and maintain building interiors.
      BUILDING HEIGHT or HEIGHT, BUILDING. The vertical distance from the
average elevation at the finished grade of all the sides of a building,
measured at the midpoint of each side to the highest point of a flat roof, or
to the deck line of a mansard roof, or the average height level between eaves
and ridges for gable, hip, gambrel and pitch roofs.
      BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. The building in which the principal use of the
zoning lot is conducted.
      BUILDING SUPPLIES AND MATERIALS. An establishment engaged in selling
lumber and a general line of building materials and hardware to the public.
      BUS GARAGES. These establishments primarily provide parking space for
buses.
      BUS TERMINAL. A facility for the storage, maintenance and dispatch of
buses or taxis, and associated customer ticketing and waiting areas.
      BUSINESS OFFICES. An establishment primarily engaged in providing
engineering, architectural and surveying services; accounting, auditing and
bookkeeping services; public relations services; legal services; real estate
services; the services of insurance agents, brokers and carriers; the services
of security and commodity brokers; and the services of bank holding companies.
      CABINET SHOPS. These establishments primarily retail specialized lines of
kitchen and bath cabinets and countertops to be installed.
      CAMERA AND PHOTOGRAPHY SUPPLIES. This industry comprises establishments
primarily engaged in either retailing new cameras, photographic equipment and
photographic supplies; or in retailing new cameras and photographic equipment
in combination with activities such as repair services and film developing.
      CAMPGROUNDS AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS. A contiguous site or tract of
land under unified ownership intended and designed to accommodate recreational
vehicles or tent spaces as temporary living quarters for recreational or
vacation purposes.
      CANDY STORE. An establishment that primarily retails candy and other
confections, nuts and popcorn that is not for immediate consumption and not
made on the premises.
      CANVAS GOODS MANUFACTURING. The manufacturing of canvas and canvas-like
products, such as awnings, sails, tarpaulins and tents, from purchased fabrics.
      CAR WASH. A facility where motor vehicles are washed, cleaned and/or
waxed by hand or with manually operated equipment or automatic machinery.
      CARDBOARD CONTAINER MANUFACTURING. These establishments are primarily
engaged in converting paperboard into containers without manufacturing
paperboard. They may use corrugating, cutting and shaping machinery to form
paperboard into containers. Products made by these establishments include
boxes; corrugated sheets, pads and pallets; paper dishes; and fiber drums and
reels.
      CARPET MANUFACTURING. This industry comprises establishments primarily
engaged in:
         (a)   Manufacturing woven, tufted and other carpets and rugs, such as
art squares, floor mattings, needle punch carpeting, and door mats and
mattings, from textile materials or from twisted paper, grasses, reeds, sisal,
jute or rags; and/or
         (b)   Finishing carpets and rugs.
      CARPORT. A roofed structure enclosed on not more than two sides and used
for the parking of motor vehicles.
      CASE GOODS MANUFACTURING. These establishments are primarily engaged in
manufacturing case goods. CASE GOODS are pieces of furniture that are
essentially built like a box, such as cabinets, a chest of drawers or a
breakfront. These pieces are generally meant for storage, and so their
construction often incorporates drawers, doors and shelves.
      CEMETERY, PRIVATE. Land and facilities used for the burial of the dead,
including municipal, private family, farm, church or animal cemeteries, which
have not been licensed and do not meet the licensing requirements of a
perpetual care cemetery under state law.
      CEMETERY, PUBLIC. Land and facilities used for burial of the dead meeting
the requirements of a perpetual care cemetery under state law. Such a facility
includes any burial ground, mausoleum or columbarium operated by a cemetery
company and meeting licensing requirements of the state.
      CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING. Manufacturing based on the transformation of
organic and inorganic raw materials by a chemical process and the formulation
of products.
      CHEMICAL STORAGE FACILITY. A building, portion of a building or exterior
area adjacent to a building used for the storage of any chemically reactive
products.
      CHILD CARE CENTER. A day care facility in which day care is provided for
13 or more children when any child is preschool age; or 16 or more children
when all children are school age.
      CHILD DAY CARE (SMALL HOME). A day care operation in which day care is
provided for three to five preschool-age children, plus up to three additional
school-age children.
      CHILDREN’S HOME. A facility engaged in the care of children who have been
abandoned or given up for adoption. “Home” may include living quarters, dining
areas, recreation areas, education facility, and the like.
      CHURCH. A facility of a church or religious organization operated for
worship and which may include religious training or study (including fellowship
buildings).
      CIRCUS; CARNIVAL; FAIR. This category is comprised of live performing
arts productions or the organization and promotion of those and similar events
such as state fairs, county fairs, agricultural fairs, concerts and festivals.
      CLUBS AND LODGES. A building or land used for the activities of a private
club or social organization and not adjunct to, or operated as, or in
connection with, a public tavern, cafe or other place open to the public.
      COFFEE HOUSE. An informal restaurant primarily offering coffee, tea and
other beverages, and where light refreshments and limited menu meals may also
be sold.
      COIN-OPERATED LAUNDRY. These establishments are primarily engaged in:
         (a)   Operating facilities with coin-operated or similar self-service
laundry equipment for customer use on the premises; and/or
         (b)   Supplying and servicing coin-operated or similar self-service
laundry equipment for customer use in places of business operated by others,
such as apartments and dormitories.
      COLLEGE; UNIVERSITY; TECHNICAL COLLEGE. An institution of higher
education offering associate, undergraduate and/or graduate degrees.
      COMMON OPEN SPACE. The open space land held in common ownership by
property or unit owners in a development, normally provided for in the
declaration or restrictive covenants and normally in common use.
      COMMUNITY CENTER. An area or facility designed to meet the demand for
active recreation, including play fields, ball diamonds, parks with picnic and
playground equipment, tennis courts, swimming pools, tot lots and similar uses,
available to the public and under the management or control of a public agency.
      COMPUTER AND DATA PROCESSING SERVICES. A category of services in which
the primary service is data processing. This type of facility is primarily
devoted to computers, with minimal employment required for monitoring and
servicing.
      CONCRETE PRODUCT FABRICATION. These establishments are primarily engaged
in fabricating products made of concrete, without producing the concrete used.
      CONCRETE PRODUCTION. This industry comprises establishments such as batch
plants or mix plants, primarily engaged in manufacturing concrete delivered to
a purchaser in a plastic and unhardened state. Ready-mix concrete manufacturing
establishments may mine, quarry or purchase sand and gravel.
      CONDITIONAL ZONING DISTRICT. Pursuant to G.S. §§ 160D-102(7) and 703(b),
a zoning district that does not have any inherent permitted or conditional uses
and corresponds with an existing general use zoning district. May also be
referred to as CONDITIONAL DISTRICT in this chapter. Development activities are
restricted to those specifically approved by the Board of Commissioners
following a legislative public hearing. Conditions to development can be
imposed if they are volunteered or consented to by the applicant.
      CONDITIONAL ZONING DISTRICT SUPPLEMENT. An addendum to a zoning permit
issued by the Zoning Administrator following a zoning map amendment (i.e.,
rezoning) to a conditional zoning district. This supplement outlines the
specific uses permitted and the conditions for development within the district
as dictated by the Board of Commissioners following a legislative public
hearing.
      CONDOMINIUM. A dwelling unit owned as a single-family home within a
multiple property together with an undivided portion of ownership in areas and
facilities held in common with other property owners in the development.
CONDOMINIUMS may take several forms such as attached townhouses, apartments or
other forms of residential structures. The common areas and structures may
include underlying land, parking areas, recreation facilities, swimming pools
and, in the case of an apartment house, hallways, basements, heating units and
elevators.
      CONSTRUCTION, START OF. After issuance of a building permit by the
Inspections Department, the first placement of a structure, including a
manufactured home, on a site, for which a building inspection is required. This
shall include excavation; forming and bracing for concrete placement; the
subsequent installation and tying of steel reinforcements for footings, piles
or columns (if required); the pouring of slabs or footings; or excavation or
the placements of a manufactured home on a foundation.
      CONTIGUOUS AREA. Any area which abuts directly on a subject property or
is separated from the subject property by a street or the right-of-way of a
railroad or other utility or public service corporation.
      CONTRACTOR’S OFFICE. The administrative headquarters for establishments
primarily engaged in contracting for construction, renovation, demolition and
other types of property development.
      CONVENIENCE STORE. Any retail establishment offering for sale gasoline,
diesel fuel, kerosene, automotive products, prepackaged food products,
household items and/or other goods commonly associated with the same.
      COOPERATIVE WINERY. A winery that is established by a group of grape
growers to cater to surrounding vineyards, absent of any on-site winery. The
facility is traditionally located independent of any on-site vineyard.
      CORN MAZE. A recreational facility that creates a labyrinth utilizing an
agricultural product such as corn to create a system of paths. Definition shall
apply to HAY MAZES, as well.
      CORNER LOT. See LOT, CORNER.
      CORRECTIONAL FACILITY. A facility providing housing and care for
individuals confined by law, operated under the authority of local, state or
federal government.
      COUNTRY CLUBS. Facilities offering dining and other recreational
activities in a membership venue. These establishments often provide food and
beverage services, equipment rental services and golf courses with associated
instruction services.
      CRAFT STORE. Any business establishment that sells articles of artistic
quality, effect or handmade workmanship. Examples include products created from
candle making, glass blowing, weaving, pottery, woodworking, sculpting,
painting and other associated activities.
      CREMATORIUM. A location containing properly installed, certified
apparatus intended for use in the act of cremation.
      CREST. The uppermost line of a mountain or chain of mountains from which
the land falls away on at least two sides to a lower elevation or elevations.
      CUL-DE-SAC. A local street having only one end open to traffic with the
other end permanently terminated by a vehicular turnaround.
      DAIRY, MEAT AND SEAFOOD MARKET. These establishments primarily retail
fresh, frozen or cured meats and poultry. Delicatessen-type establishments
primarily engaged in retailing fresh meat are included in this industry, as are
dairy products that are not made on the premises.
      DANCE HALL. A recreational establishment that primarily provides
facilities for dances.
      DANCE SCHOOLS. An establishment primarily engaged in offering instruction
in the arts, specifically dance.
      DELICATESSEN. See DAIRY, MEAT AND SEAFOOD MARKET above.
      DENSITY. The ratio of dwelling units permitted on a zoning lot to the
area of the zoning lot. DENSITY is expressed in this chapter as the number of
units per one acre.
      DEPARTMENT STORES. These establishments are primarily engaged in
retailing a wide range of the following new products, with no one merchandise
line predominating: apparel, furniture, appliances and home furnishings, and
selected additional items such as paint, hardware, toiletries, cosmetics,
photographic equipment, jewelry, toys and sporting goods. Merchandise lines are
normally arranged in separate departments.
      DETECTIVE AGENCY. This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily
engaged in providing investigation and detective services.
      DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
      DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. An administrative permit issued by the Development
Services Department that specifies how a property may be developed based on an
approved preliminary plat, approved site plan, conditional zoning, or special
use permit.
      DEVELOPMENT SERVICES DIRECTOR. The Director of the Surry County
Development Services Department.
      DEVELOPMENT SERVICES STAFF. The Zoning Administrator or appointed
authorized official(s) in the Surry County Development Services Department.
      DISCOTHEQUES. A club where recorded music is played for dancing.
      DISCOUNT STORES. These retail establishments are primarily engaged in
offering a wide range of consumer goods at a substantially lower price than
department or specialty stores.
      DISPOSAL. As defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(6), the discharge, deposit,
injection, dumping, spilling, leaking or placing of any solid waste into or on
any land or water so that the solid waste or any constituent part of the solid
waste may enter the environment or be emitted into the air or discharged into
any waters, including ground waters.
      DRAG-STRIP AND RACETRACKS. This U.S. industry comprises establishments
primarily engaged in operating racetracks. These establishments may also
present and/or promote the events held in these facilities such as auto, dog
and horse races.
      DRINKING ESTABLISHMENTS. This industry comprises establishments known as
bars, taverns, nightclubs or drinking places primarily engaged in preparing and
serving alcoholic beverages for immediate consumption. These establishments may
also provide limited food services.
      DRUG STORES. This industry comprises establishments known as pharmacies
and drug stores engaged in retailing prescription or non-prescription drugs and
medicines.
      DRY CLEANERS.
         (a)   These establishments are primarily engaged in:
            1.   Providing dry cleaning services (except coin-operated);
            2.   Providing laundering services (except coin-operated, linen or
uniform supply);
            3.   Providing drop off and pickup sites for laundries; and
            4.   Providing specialty cleaning services for garments and other
textile items such as fur, leather, draperies, and the like (except for carpets
and upholstery).
         (b)   Any combination of the above is included in this definition.
      DRY CLEANING PLANTS. These establishments may perform any or all the
services of dry cleaners as listed above, but do not participate in retailing
the services to the final consumer.
      DWELLING. A building that contains one or two dwelling units used,
intended, or designed to be used, rented, leased, let or hired out to be
occupied for living purposes.
      DWELLING, ADDITIONAL. Additional dwelling units may be constructed on
lots where a density of ten-acres per dwelling unit exists. The appropriate
zoning district will dictate the type of dwelling units permitted. This
provides an option from subdividing lots or zoning lots for additional
dwellings. However, this provision does not supersede the definition of a
manufactured home park in this section. Nor does it supersede or negate the
owner-occupied and family cluster provisions found in this chapter.
      DWELLING, DUPLEX. A single-family dwelling that is connected on only one
side by means of a common dividing structural or load bearing party wall of at
least ten linear feet to another single-family dwelling.
      DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY. A detached building constructed on-site in
compliance with the North Carolina State Building Code and designed for three
or more dwelling units.
      DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY (MODULAR). A dwelling unit constructed in
accordance with the standards set forth in the North Carolina State Building
Code and composed of components substantially assembled in a manufacturing
plant and transported to the building site for final assembly on a permanent
foundation.
      DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY (ON-SITE STICK-BUILT). A detached building
constructed completely on-site and in no way utilizing prefabricated sections
or modules to construct the dwelling.
      DWELLING UNIT. A single unit providing complete, independent living,
sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation.
      EASEMENT. A grant of one or more of the property rights for a specific
purpose by the property owner to, or for the use by, the public or another
person.
      ECO-TOURISM ENTERPRISE. Tourism activities and facilities which focus on
visitation and observation of our education about natural history, indigenous
ecosystems, native plant or animal species, natural scenery or other features
of natural environment. ECO-TOURISM ENTERPRISES may include cultural activities
related to such activities or work projects that tend to conserve or safeguard
the integrity of a natural feature, habitat, or ecosystem. Facilities for an
ECO-TOURISM ENTERPRISE may include recreational outfitters. Eco-tourism tends
to result in a minimal or positive impact on the features observed or visited
or tends to produce economic benefits from conservation.
      ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE AND EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING. These establishments
are primarily engaged in the manufacture of electrical appliances and/or
electrical equipment.
      ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE SALES. These establishments are primarily engaged in
the sale of household electrical appliances.
      ELECTRONIC AND ELECTRICAL REPAIR. These establishments are primarily
engaged in repairing and maintaining consumer electronics such as televisions,
stereos, speakers, video recorders, CD players, radios and cameras without
retailing new consumer electronics.
      ELECTRONIC GAMING OPERATION. Any business enterprise where, as a
principal use, persons use electronic machines, including but not limited to
computers and gaming terminals, to conduct games, whether games of odds or
chance or games of skill or dexterity, where cash, merchandise, or other items
of value are redeemed or otherwise distributed, whether the value of such
distribution is determined by electronic games played, by predetermined odds,
or by any other method. ELECTRONIC GAMING OPERATIONS may include, but are not
limited to, internet cafes, internet sweepstakes, electronic gaming machines,
or cyber cafes. This definition does not include any lottery approved by the
State of North Carolina.
      ELEVATED BUILDING. A non-basement building which has its reference level
raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear walls, posts, piers,
pilings or columns.
      EMPLOYMENT AGENCY. This industry comprises establishments primarily
engaged in listing employment vacancies and in referring or placing applicants
for employment. The individuals referred or placed are not employees of the
employment agencies.
      EMS DEPARTMENT. Surry County Emergency Services Department.
      ENCROACHMENT, FLOODPLAIN. The advance or infringement of uses, fill,
excavation, buildings, permanent structures or development into a floodplain,
which may impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
      ENFORCEMENT OFFICER/AGENCY. Such officer or board as the County
Commissioners may from time to time appoint.
      ENGINEER. A person licensed to practice engineering in the State of North
Carolina.
      ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH. Surry County Environmental Health Department.
      EQUIPMENT RENTAL. This industry group comprises establishments primarily
engaged in renting or leasing commercial-type and industrial-type machinery and
equipment. The types of establishments included in this industry group are
generally involved in providing capital or investment-type equipment that
clients use in their business operations. These establishments typically cater
to a business clientele and do not generally operate a retail-like or store-
front facility.
      EROSION. The wearing away of land surface by the action of wind, water,
gravity or any combination thereof.
      EROSION CONTROL ACT. The North Carolina Sedimentation Pollution Control
Act of 1973 and all rules and orders adopted pursuant to it and amendments
(regulated by NCDEQ).
      EROSION, NATURAL. The wearing away of the earth’s surface by water, wind
or other natural agents under natural environmental conditions undisturbed by
humans.
      EVIDENTIARY HEARING. A hearing to gather competent, material, and
substantial evidence to make findings for a quasi-judicial decision required by
a development regulation adopted under G.S. §§ 160D-102, 160D-406 and 160D-705.
      EXECUTIVE OR INSTITUTIONAL RETREAT. A facility used for professional,
educational or religious conclaves, meetings, conferences or seminars and which
may provide meals, housing and recreation for participants during the period of
the retreat or program only. Such facilities may not be utilized by the public
for meals or overnight accommodations. Housing for participants may be in
lodges, dormitories, sleeping cabins (with or without bathrooms), or in such
other temporary quarters as may be approved, but kitchen and dining facilities
shall be in a single centrally located building or buildings.
      EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. For the
purposes of this chapter, a manufactured home park or subdivision for which the
construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured
homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads) was completed before the initial effective date of
the floodplain management regulations adopted by the community.
      EXPLOSIVES MANUFACTURING AND STORAGE. This industry comprises
establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing and/or storing explosives
and/or explosive parts as listed in NAICS 325920.
      EXTERMINATORS. This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged
in exterminating and controlling birds, mosquitoes, rodents, termites and other
insects and pests (except for crop production and forestry production).
Establishments providing fumigation services are included in this industry.
      FABRIC STORES. These establishments primarily retail products such as new
sewing supplies, fabrics, patterns, yarns and other needlework accessories, or
retail these products in combination with selling new sewing machines.
      FAMILY.
         (a)   One or more persons related by blood, adoption or marriage, and
their foster parents, or children, or stepparents, or stepchildren, living
together in a single dwelling unit; or several persons 18 years or older, not
exceeding four and their children or stepchildren under 18 years of age, living
together in a single dwelling unit, though not all related by blood, adoption
or marriage; and such domestic servants as are employed on the same premises. A
FAMILY may include five or fewer foster children placed in a family foster home
licensed by the State of North Carolina. The term FAMILY shall not be construed
to include any group of persons living together as a fraternal, sororal,
social, honorary or professional organization.
         (b)   For the purposes of this definition, the following persons shall
be considered related by blood:
            1.   Any relative of the head of household or of the spouse
(whether living or dead) of the head of household to the third degree of
collateral consanguinity, or to any degree of lineal consanguinity, as defined
in state law.
            2.   A parent or child by adoption, marriage or legitimization of
any person (including the head of household or spouse of the head of household)
described in division (b)1. above, and
            3.   A dependent, as defined in state law, of any person described
in divisions (b)1. and (b)2. above.
      FAMILY CARE HOME. A transitional housing facility with support and
supervisory personnel licensed by the State of North Carolina or operated by a
non-profit corporation chartered pursuant to G.S. Ch. 55A, which provides room
and board, personal care and rehabilitation services in a supportive family
environment for not more than three residents per bedroom in the facility,
exclusive of supervisory personnel, including but not limited to, handicapped
persons, older adults, foster children, abused individuals, homeless persons
and those recovering from drug or alcohol abuse. This use shall include family
care homes, as defined by state law. This use shall not serve primarily as an
alternative to incarceration, shall not include individuals who are dangerous
to others, as defined in G.S. § 122C3-(11)(b), and shall not include persons
living together as a fraternal, sororal, social, honorary or professional
organization.
      FAMILY MEMBERS, DIRECT. Direct lineal decedents (children, grandchildren,
and great grandchildren) and direct lineal ascendants (father, mother,
grandfather and grandmother); and brothers, sisters, nieces and nephews.
      FARM MACHINERY MANUFACTURING. These establishments are primarily engaged
in manufacturing agricultural and farm machinery and equipment, as well as
other turf and grounds care equipment including planting, harvesting and grass
mowing equipment (except lawn and garden-type).
      FARM SUPPLIES. These establishments are primarily engaged in selling farm
supplies such as animal feeds, fertilizers, agricultural chemicals, pesticides,
plant seeds and plant bulbs.
      FARM TENANT HOUSING. A dwelling unit occupied by the family of a person
employed in agriculture-related activities on the premises.
      FARM/HEAVY EQUIPMENT SALES AND RENTAL. These establishments are primarily
engaged in selling and/or renting specialized machinery, equipment and related
parts generally used in agricultural, farm and lawn and garden activities.
      FARMER’S MARKET, COMMUNITY-SCALE. A facility that is 4,999 square feet in
size or smaller that offers for sale fresh agricultural products directly to
the consumer in a market setting that caters to the immediate community.
FARMER’S MARKETS include multiple vendors who offer homegrown produce raised by
the vendor or produce bought by the vendor on consignment, for retail sale.
      FARMER’S MARKET, REGIONAL-SCALE. A facility that is 5,000 square feet in
size or larger that offers for sale fresh agricultural products directly to the
consumer in a market setting that caters to a regional area. FARMER’S MARKETS
include multiple vendors who offer homegrown produce raised by the vendor or
produce bought by the vendor on consignment, for retail sale.
      FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (FAA). Federal government organization
appointed to regulate air travel.
      FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (FCC). Federal government organization
appointed to regulate wireless communications.
      FEDERAL STYLE. Architecture style strongly influenced by the “Adam-style”
and a postcolonial successor to “Georgian-style” found in the United States ca.
1776–early 1800s. Style is symmetrical in elevation and plan, often with
relatively simple brick or clapboard exterior walls and ornamentation at the
entrance, such as a paneled door with fanlight and sidelights.
      FERTILIZER MANUFACTURING AND STORAGE. These establishments are primarily
engaged in one or more of the following:
         (a)   Manufacturing and/or storing nitrogenous or phosphatic
fertilizer materials;
         (b)   Manufacturing and/or storing fertilizers from sewage or animal
waste;
         (c)   Manufacturing and/or storing nitrogenous or phosphatic materials
and mixing with other ingredients into fertilizers; and
         (d)   Mixing ingredients made elsewhere into fertilizers.
      FIBER CEMENT BOARD. A dense, smooth-surfaced composition board composed
of highly compressed fibers, designed to imitate wood or concrete construction.
Varieties include Masonite.
      FIBERGLASS MANUFACTURING AND STORAGE. These establishments are primarily
engaged in the manufacturing or storage of fiberglass. During manufacture, very
thin glass filaments are made into textile or paper products or are embedded in
plastic or other substances for use as a construction or insulating material.
      FIRE MARSHAL. Surry County Fire Marshal’s Office.
      FIRING RANGE, INDOOR. An enclosed facility used for the discharge of
firearms at targets.
      FIRING RANGE, OUTDOOR. An outdoor facility used for the discharge of
firearms at targets.
      FLEA MARKETS (INDOOR). These indoor establishments house vendors
primarily engaged in retailing merchandise (except fuel and/or food for
immediate consumption) via direct sale to the customer, including used
merchandise, and antiques and secondhand goods (except motor vehicles, such as
automobiles; RVs; motorcycles and boats; motor vehicle parts; tires; and mobile
homes).
      FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
         (a)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and
         (b)   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters
from any source.
      FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). An official map of a community,
issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, on which the special flood
hazard areas and the floodways are delineated. This official map is a
supplement to and shall be used in conjunction with the Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM).
      FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). An official map of a community, issued
by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, where the boundaries of the special
flood hazard areas have been defined as Zone A.
      FLOOD INSURANCE. The insurance coverage provided under the National Flood
Insurance Program.
      FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of the community, issued
by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), on which both the special
flood hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community are
delineated.
      FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). An examination, evaluation, and
determination of flood hazard areas, corresponding water surface elevations (if
appropriate), flood insurance risk zones, and other flood data in a community
issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency. The FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY
report includes Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMs) and Flood Boundary and
Floodway Maps (FBFMs), if published.
      FLOOD ZONE. A geographical area shown on a flood hazard boundary map or
flood insurance rate map that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the
area.
      FLOODPLAIN. Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from
any source.
      FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. See ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
      FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. Any type of permit that is required in
conformance with the provisions of this chapter, prior to the commencement of
any development activity.
      FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective
and preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including, but not limited
to, emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations and open space plans.
      FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS. This chapter and other ordinances, subdivision
regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances and
other applications of police power which control development in flood-prone
areas. This term describes federal, state or local regulations, in any
combination thereof, which provide standards for preventing and reducing flood
loss and damage.
      FLOOD-PRONE AREA. See FLOODPLAIN.
      FLOOD-PROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural
additions, changes or adjustments to structures, which reduce or eliminate risk
of flood damage to real estate or improved real property, water and sanitation
facilities, or structures with their contents.
      FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent
land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
      FLOOR AREA, GROSS. The total number of square feet on all floors of a
building, as measured from the outside faces of the building.
      FLOOR COVERING STORES. This industry comprises establishments primarily
engaged in retailing new floor coverings, such as rugs and carpets, vinyl floor
coverings and floor tile (except ceramic or wood only); or retailing new floor
coverings in combination with installation and repair services.
      FLORISTS. This industry is comprised of establishments known as florists
that are primarily engaged in retailing cut flowers, floral arrangements and
potted plants purchased from others. These establishments usually prepare the
arrangements they sell.
      FLOUR AND FEED MILLS. This U.S. industry comprises establishments
primarily engaged in:
         (a)   Milling flour or meal from grains (except rice) or vegetables.
         (b)   Milling flour and preparing flour mixes or doughs; and/or
         (c)   Manufacturing animal feed products from grain, oilseed mill
products and meat products.
      FOOD AND FOOD PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING. Industries in the food
manufacturing subsector which transform livestock and agricultural products
into products for intermediate or final consumption. The food products
manufactured in these establishments are typically sold to wholesalers or
retailers for distribution to consumers, but establishments primarily engaged
in retailing bakery and candy products made on the premises, but not for
immediate consumption, are included. Beverage manufacturing is not included in
this category.
      FOOD CATERING. This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged
in providing single event-based food services. These establishments generally
have equipment and vehicles to transport meals and snacks to events and/or
prepare food at an off-premises site. Banquet halls with catering staff are
included in this industry. Examples of events catered by establishments in this
industry are graduation parties, wedding receptions, business or retirement
luncheons and trade shows.
      FOOD OR DRUG STORE. An establishment primarily engaged in selling food
for home preparation and consumption, or prescription drugs, non-prescription
medicines and related lines.
      FORESTRY. Industries in the forestry and logging subsector which grow and
harvest timber on a long production cycle (i.e., of ten years or more). Long
production cycles use different production processes than short production
cycles, which require more horticultural interventions prior to harvest,
resulting in processes more like those found in the crop production subsector.
Industries in this subsector specialize in different stages of the production
cycle. Reforestation requires production of seedlings in specialized nurseries.
Timber production requires natural forest or suitable areas of land that are
available for a long duration. The maturation time for timber depends upon the
species of tree, the climatic conditions of the region and the intended purpose
of the timber. The harvesting of timber (except when done on an extremely small
scale) requires specialized machinery unique to the industry. Establishments
gathering forest products such as gums, barks, balsam needles, rhizomes,
fibers, Spanish moss, ginseng and truffles are also included in this subsector.
      FOUNDRIES. This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged
in pouring molten metal into molds or dies to form castings. Establishments
that make castings and carry out further manufacturing processes, such as
machining or assembling a specific manufactured product, are classified in the
industry of the finished product. FOUNDRIES may perform operations such as
cleaning and deburring on the castings they manufacture.
      FREEBOARD. The height added to the base flood elevation (BFE) to account
for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater
than the height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions,
such as wave action, blockage of bridge openings and the hydrological effect of
urbanization of the watershed. The base flood elevation (BFE) plus the
freeboard establishes the regulatory flood protection elevation.
      FRONT LOT LINE. See LOT LINE, FRONT.
      FRONT YARD. See YARD, FRONT.
      FRONTAGE. The property abutting on one side of a street measured along
the street right-of-way line.
      FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT FACILITY. A facility which cannot be used for its
intended purpose unless it is near water, such as a docking or port facility
necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, shipbuilding or
ship repair. The term does not include longterm storage, manufacture, sales or
service facilities.
      FUNERAL HOME. An establishment engaged in undertaking services, such as
preparing the human dead for burial and in arranging and managing funerals.
This definition includes on-site crematories and mortuaries.
      FURNITURE AND HOME FURNISHINGS STORE. An establishment primarily engaged
in the retail sale of new or used household furniture, floor coverings,
draperies, curtains and upholstery materials, and miscellaneous home
furnishings, such as bedding and linens, lamps and shades, mirrors, Venetian
blinds and window shades.
      FURNITURE MANUFACTURING. Industries in the furniture and related product
manufacturing subsector which make furniture and related articles such as
mattresses, window blinds, cabinets and fixtures. The processes used in the
manufacture of furniture include the cutting, bending, molding, laminating and
assembly of such materials as wood, metal, glass, plastics and rattan. The
integrated design of the article for both esthetic and functional qualities is
also a major part of the process of manufacturing furniture.
      FURNITURE REFINISHING AND REPAIR. This industry comprises establishments
primarily engaged in one or more of the following:
         (a)   Reupholstering furniture;
         (b)   Refinishing furniture;
         (c)   Repairing furniture; and
         (d)   Repairing and restoring furniture.
      FURRIERS. Those establishments which are primarily engaged in selling
garments made of fur.
      GAS OR SERVICE STATION. This industry comprises establishments engaged in
retailing automotive fuels (e.g., diesel fuel, gasohol, gasoline) in
combination with convenience store or food mart items. These establishments can
either be in a convenience store (i.e., food mart) setting or a gasoline
station setting. These establishments may also provide automotive repair
services.
      GENERAL CONTRACTOR’S OFFICE. An establishment providing general
contracting and/or building construction services for residential, farm,
industrial or commercial uses, and which does not involve outdoor storage of
machinery or equipment.
      GENERAL STORE. A single store which offers for sale primarily most of the
following articles: milk, bread, cheese, canned and bottled foods, bottled
drinks, tobacco products, candy, papers and magazines, general hardware items,
clothing and local crafts, among other retail items. The store may also have a
snack bar for prepared food, either prepared on-site or offsite, for
consumption, but is smaller than a full-service restaurant and is incidental to
the general store activities.
      GIFT SHOPS. This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in
retailing new gifts, novelty merchandise, souvenirs, greeting cards, seasonal
and holiday decorations and curios.
      GLASS PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING. This industry comprises establishments
primarily engaged in manufacturing glass and/or glass products. Establishments
in this industry may manufacture glass and/or glass products by melting silica
sand or cullet, or by purchasing glass.
      GO-CART TRACK. These establishments are primarily engaged in operating
racetracks for go-carts.
      GOLF COURSE. An area designed for golf, not including a par 3 golf
course, having at least nine holes, each with a tee, fairway, green and one or
more hazards. A clubhouse, pool and other facilities associated with a country
club built around a golf course are considered part of the GOLF COURSE.
      GOLF DRIVING RANGE (INDEPENDENT). An open-air golf practice facility
operated independently of an on-site golf course.
      GOTHIC REVIVAL STYLE. Architecture that is an imitation of various
medieval Gothic architectural styles starting at the beginning of the
nineteenth century and widespread during the years 1840–1870. Typical elements
include symmetrical facades, gable dormers, steeply pitched roofs with cross
gables, scrollwork bargeboards, and hood molds over square-headed or point-
arched windows. Common architecture for churches, colleges and rural houses.
      GOVERNING BOARD. The Surry County Board of County Commissioners.
      GOVERNMENTAL MAINTENANCE FACILITY. These facilities are used by
government for storage and/or maintenance purposes.
      GREEK REVIVAL STYLE. A style of architecture based on classic Greek
temples. Typical elements include low-pitch gable or hipped roofs, pedimented
gable ends, simple architrave bands at the eaves, entry porches with Doric
style columns and entablature, front door with narrow sidelights and
rectangular fanlight, multi-paned double-hung or triple-hung windows (common in
the United States, ca. 1820–1860).
      GREENHOUSES AND NURSERIES, COMMERCIAL. An establishment primarily engaged
in the retail sale of trees, shrubs, other plants, seeds, bulbs, mulches, soil
conditioners, fertilizers, pesticides, garden tools and other garden supplies
to the general public. These establishments primarily sell products purchased
from others but may sell some plants which are grown at the establishment.
      GREENHOUSES, PRIVATE. A small facility where plants are grown for
personal use, not for retail or commercial sale.
      GREENWAY. A linear open space along a natural or constructed corridor
which may be used for pedestrian or bicycle passage. GREENWAYS often link areas
of activity, such as parks, cultural features, or historic sites with each
other and with populated areas.
      GROSS FLOOR AREA. The total area of any buildings in the project,
including the basements, mezzanines and upper floors, exclusive of stairways
and elevator shafts. It excludes separate service facilities outside the
buildings such as boiler rooms and maintenance shops.
      GROUND COVER. Any natural vegetative growth or other material which
renders the soil surface stable against accelerated erosion.
      GROUP DEVELOPMENT. Development where two or more structures are to be
constructed on a single parcel, which is not intended to be subdivided. These
include, but are not limited to, manufactured home parks, mini-warehousing,
multi-family developments and shopping centers.
      G.S. North Carolina General Statutes.
      GUEST HOUSE (ON-SITE STICK-BUILT). An attached or detached dwelling that
provides living quarters for guests which:
         (a)   May or may not contain cooking facilities;
         (b)   The total square footage of the house is no greater than 60% of
the total square footage of the principal residence on the same zoning lot and
is clearly subordinate and incidental to the principal residence on the same
zoning lot;
         (c)   Is a stick-built structure; and
         (d)   Is not rented or leased, whether compensation is direct or
indirect.
      GUN AND AMMUNITION SALES. These establishments are primarily engaged in
sales of small firearms to be carried and fired by the same individual making
the purchase, and/or engaged in sales of ammunition for small firearms.
      GUNSMITH. These establishments are primarily engaged in forging small
firearms.
      HARDWARE STORE. An establishment primarily engaged in the retail sale of
a number of basic hardware lines, such as tools, builder’s hardware, paint,
glass, housewares, household appliances and cutlery.
      HATCHERIES. An establishment where the eggs of fish or chickens are
incubated and raised for commercial purposes.
      HAZARDOUS MATERIAL. Any substance listed as such in the Superfund
Amendments and Reauthorization Act (SARA) § 302, Extremely Hazardous
Substances; the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and
Liability Act (CERCLA) Hazardous Substances; or § 311 of the Clean Water Act
(CWA) (oil and hazardous substances).
      HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE. Any chemical defined as a physical hazard or a
health hazard under standards of North Carolina Administrative Code § 7C.0101
(a)(105). Physical hazards include, but are not limited to, chemicals which are
combustible, explosive, flammable and reactive. Health hazards include, but are
not limited to, chemicals which are carcinogens, toxins, corrosives and
irritants.
      HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT FACILITY. A facility for the collection,
storage, processing, treatment, recycling, recovery or disposal of hazardous
waste as defined in G.S. Ch. 130A, Art. 9.
      HEALTH CLUBS. This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in
operating fitness and recreational sports facilities that feature exercise and
other active physical fitness conditioning, or recreational sports activities
such as swimming, skating or racquet sports.
      HEALTH PRACTITIONER’S OFFICE. This industry comprises establishments of
health practitioners having the degree of M.D. (Doctor of Medicine) or D.O.
(Doctor of Osteopathy) primarily engaged in the independent practice of general
or specialized medicine (e.g., anesthesiology, oncology, ophthalmology,
psychiatry) or surgery. These practitioners operate private or group practices
in their own offices (e.g., centers, clinics) or in the facilities of others
such as hospitals or HMO medical centers.
      HEATING AND REFRIGERATION SHOPS. This industry comprises establishments
primarily engaged in selling warm air heating and air-conditioning equipment
and supplies and/or refrigeration equipment (except household-type
refrigerators, freezers and air-conditioners).
      HEAVY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING. These establishments are primarily engaged
in manufacturing heavy equipment such as that used for construction and
industrial manufacturing.
      HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE (HAG). The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface, prior to construction, immediately next to the proposed walls of the
structure.
      HISTORIC PROPERTY VENTURES. Retail and service uses utilized in
conjunction with an established historic property or historic district, as
designated by the North Carolina State Historic Preservation Office or the
United States Department of the Interior.
      HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
         (a)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places
(a listing maintained by the U.S. Department of Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register.
         (b)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district.
         (c)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic landmarks
in communities with a “Certified Local Government (CLG) Program”.
         (d)   Certified as contributing to the historical significance of a
historic district designated by a community with a “Certified Local Government
(CLG) Program”; or
         (e)   Identified in “Simple Treasures: The Architectural Legacy of
Surry County”. (This division (e) does not apply as a definition for a HISTORIC
STRUCTURE as it relates to flood hazard areas).
      HOBBY, TOY AND CRAFT STORES. This industry comprises establishments
primarily engaged in retailing new toys, games and hobby and craft supplies
(except needlecraft).
      HOME OCCUPATION. Any profession or occupation carried on by a member of a
family or a member of a recognized profession residing on the premises;
provided that no merchandise or commodity is sold or offered for sale on the
premises and that no mechanical equipment is installed or used except such that
is normally used for domestic or professional purposes; and provided that not
over 25% of the total actual floor area of any structure is used for home
occupation (work within the home) or professional purposes and that all parking
generated by the conduct of such home occupation be off the street and other
than in a required front yard. A sign may be used in conjunction with the HOME
OCCUPATION but shall not be larger than four square feet.
      HOME OCCUPATION OF A COMMERCIAL NATURE. A detached commercial use of
greater scale than the traditional home occupation, but which is still
secondary and incidental to the residential use; but not including agricultural
or horticultural activities.
      HOMEGROWN RESTAURANT. Farm-based, tourism driven restaurants that serve
food and beverages primarily to customers seated at tables or counters located
within the building or designated outdoor seating areas. At a minimum, 50% of
the food which is served at this type of restaurant must be grown on-site or on
nearby farms in the same ownership.
      HOSIERY MILLS. This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged
in knitting or knitting and furnishing hosiery and socks.
      HOSPITAL. A facility providing medical, psychiatric or surgical services
for sick or injured persons, including emergency treatment, diagnostic
services, training, research and administration.
      HOTEL or MOTEL. A building or group of buildings used principally to
provide shelter, with or without meals, for not fewer than four paying guests.
      HUD. United States Department of Housing and Urban Development.
      ICE CREAM PARLOR. An establishment engaged in sales of ice cream and
other related dairy products, as well as related retail sales.
      ICE MANUFACTURING. This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily
engaged in manufacturing ice.
      IMPROVEMENT. Any structure or constructed feature not included under the
definition of STRUCTURE.
      INDUSTRIAL SUPPLIES AND EQUIPMENT. This industry comprises establishments
primarily engaged in manufacturing or wholesaling:
         (a)   Machinery and equipment; and/or
         (b)   Supplies used in machinery and equipment that is generally
utilized in manufacturing, oil wells and warehousing activities.
      INSPECTIONS DEPARTMENT. Surry County Inspections Department.
      INSURANCE AGENCY. This industry comprises establishments primarily
engaged in acting as agents (i.e., brokers) in selling annuities and insurance
policies.
      INTERIOR DESIGNERS. This industry includes interior decorating
consultants engaged exclusively in providing aesthetic services associated with
interior spaces, but may also include establishments primarily engaged in
planning, designing and administering projects in interior spaces to meet the
physical and aesthetic needs of people using them. The industry may take into
consideration building codes, health and safety regulations, traffic patterns
and floor planning, mechanical and electrical needs, and interior fittings and
furniture.
      JEWELRY STORES.
         (a)   This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in
retailing one or more of the following items:
            1.   New jewelry (except costume jewelry);
            2.   New sterling and plated silverware; and
            3.   New watches and clocks.
         (b)   Also included are establishments retailing these new products in
combination with lapidary work and/or repair services.
      JUNK. Old or scrapped copper, brass, rope, rags, batteries, paper, trash,
rubber, debris, waste, iron, steel and other old or scrap ferrous or non-
ferrous material.
      JUNKYARD. Any open area which is maintained, operated or used for
storing, keeping, salvaging, abandoning, buying or selling junk regardless of
length of time that junk is stored or kept, but shall not include county
operated facilities. The processing, dismantling or disassembling of these
items is prohibited; this includes materially reducing the size by force,
dropping, or slinging materials. No scrap tires shall be stored at the yard
longer than 30 days.
      KENNEL.
         (a)   Any facility used for the purpose of boarding animals, excluding
horses, cattle, swine, sheep, goats, poultry, geese or other livestock. KENNELS
may conduct other such incidental activities as the sale of animals, treatment
of the animals, grooming or cleaning and the sale of pet supplies. In addition,
any establishment wherein any person engages in business or practice, for fee,
of boarding, breeding, grooming, letting for hire, or training of more than
three adult animals or more than one litter in any 12-month period; or any
facility, other than a retail pet shop, that houses domesticated animals in
connection with an activity requiring a license under the state and/or federal
animal welfare acts. “Domesticated animals”, for the purpose of this chapter,
shall be defined as dogs, cats and other generally accepted household pets. One
litter refers here to the offspring produced from a single pregnancy.
         (b)   In no way shall these provisions regulate the ownership of
domesticated animals:
            1.   As household pets;
            2.   For hunting or tracking purposes;
            3.   For exhibiting and/or competition at shows or at obedience or
field trials;
            4.   For protection or guarding of residences or commercial
establishments; or
            5.   To assist impaired or disabled persons.
      KNITTING MILLS. This industry group comprises establishments primarily
engaged in knitting apparel or knitting fabric and then manufacturing apparel.
This industry group includes jobbers performing entrepreneurial functions
involved in knitting apparel and accessories. Knitting fabric, without
manufacturing apparel, is classified in NAICS Subsector 313, Textile Mills.
      LAKE OR NATURAL WATERCOURSE. Any stream, river, brook, swamp, sound, bay,
creek, run, branch, canal, waterway, estuary and any reservoir, lake or pond,
natural or impounded, in which sediment may be moved or carried in suspension,
and which could be damaged by accumulation of sediment.
      LAND DISTURBING ACTIVITY. Any use of the land by any person in
residential, industrial, educational, institutional or commercial development
or highway and road construction and maintenance that results in a change in
the natural cover or topography that may cause or contribute to sedimentation.
      LANDFILL, CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION. A landfill which accepts
construction or demolition debris or waste including solid waste from
construction, remodeling, repair or demolition operations on pavement,
buildings or other structures.
      LANDFILL, SANITARY. A facility for the disposal of all types of solid
wastes, excluding hazardous wastes or toxic substances.
      LANDOWNER OR OWNER. The holder of the title in fee simple. Absent
evidence to the contrary, the county may rely on the county tax records to
determine who is a landowner. The landowner may authorize a person holding a
valid option, lease, or contract to purchase to act as his or her agent or
representative for the purpose of making applications for development
approvals.
      LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT. A person licensed to use the title of landscape
architect in the State of North Carolina.
      LANDSCAPERS. These professionals are:
         (a)   Primarily engaged in providing landscape care, maintenance
services and/or installing trees, shrubs, plants, lawns or gardens; and
         (b)   Primarily engaged in providing these services along with the
design of landscape plans and/or the construction (i.e., installation) of
walkways, retaining walls, decks, fences, ponds and similar structures.
      LAWN AND GARDEN CARE. This industry comprises:
         (a)   Establishments primarily engaged in providing landscape care and
maintenance services and/or installing trees, shrubs, plants, lawns or gardens;
and
         (b)   Establishments primarily engaged in providing these services
along with the design of landscape plans and/or the construction (i.e.,
installation) of walkways, retaining walls, decks, fences, ponds and similar
structures.
      LAWN AND GARDEN SUPPLIES. This industry comprises establishments
primarily engaged in retailing nursery and garden products such as trees,
shrubs, plants, seeds, bulbs and sod that are predominantly grown elsewhere.
These establishments may sell a limited amount of a product they grow
themselves.
      LAWNMOWER REPAIR. This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily
engaged in repairing and servicing home and garden equipment without retailing
new home and garden equipment such as lawnmowers, handheld power tools, edgers,
snow- and leaf-blowers and trimmers.
      LEATHER PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING. Establishments in the leather and allied
product manufacturing subsector which transform hides into leather by tanning
or curing and fabricating the leather into products for final consumption. It
also includes the manufacture of similar products from other materials
including products (except apparel) made from “leather substitutes”, such as
rubber, plastics or textiles. Rubber footwear, textile luggage and plastics
purses or wallets are examples of “leather substitute” products included in
this group. The products made from leather substitutes are included in this
subsector because they are made in similar ways leather products are made
(e.g., luggage). They are made in the same establishments, so it is not
practical to separate them.
      LEGISLATIVE DECISION. The adoption, amendment, or repeal of a regulation
under G.S. Ch. 160D or an applicable local act. The term also includes
decisions to approve, amend, or rescind a development agreement consistent with
the provisions of G.S. Ch. 160D, Art. 10.
      LEGISLATIVE HEARING. A hearing to solicit public comment on a proposed
legislative decision.
      LEVEE. A man-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, or
divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary flooding.
      LEVEE SYSTEM. A flood protection system which consists of a levee, or
levees, and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which
are constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
      LIBRARY, PUBLIC. A publicly operated facility housing a collection of
books, magazines, audio and videotapes, or other material for use by the
general public.
      LINEN AND UNIFORM SUPPLY SERVICES. This U.S. industry comprises
establishments primarily engaged in supplying, on a rental or contract basis,
laundered items, such as table and bed linens, towels, diapers and uniforms,
gowns, or coats of the type used by doctors, nurses, barbers, beauticians and
waitresses.
      LIQUOR STORE. An establishment regulated by the Alcoholic Beverage
Control Board selling alcoholic beverages.
      LIVESTOCK, NON-FARM. Possession of livestock on a residential lot for
non-agricultural purposes, such as recreation and/or pleasure (i.e., horses,
swine, goats, and the like).
      LIVESTOCK SALE BARNS. These are facilities where livestock producers
gather to sell their livestock and where the livestock is temporarily housed
during this process.
      LIVESTOCK SALES. A commercial establishment wherein livestock is
collected for sale or auctioning.
      LOCAL ZONING ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Designee or such other person in the
Development Services Department as the adopting jurisdiction may designate as
the officer principally responsible for the enforcement of this chapter.
      LOCKSMITH. This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged
in:
         (a)   Selling mechanical or electronic locking devices, safes and
security vaults, along with installation, repair, rebuilding or adjusting
services; or
         (b)   Installing, repairing, rebuilding and adjusting mechanical or
electronic locking devices, safes and security vaults.
      LOG HOME MANUFACTURING. A facility where all components of log homes are
produced and shipped to work sites.
      LOT. A parcel of land, the boundaries of which are established by some
legal instrument such as a deed or a recorded plat (but not tax map) and which
is recognized as a separate tract for purposes of transfer of title, in single
ownership, occupied or intended for occupancy by a principal building together
with its accessory buildings, including the open space required under this
chapter. For purposes of this chapter, the word LOT shall mean any number of
contiguous lots or portions of lots upon which one principal building and its
accessory buildings are located or are intended to be located that are intended
for occupancy.
         (a)   LOT, ADJACENT. Any lot or parcel, which has a common boundary,
right-of-way or easement with the subject lot.
         (b)   LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting two or more streets at their
intersection, or upon two parts of the same street, forming an interior angle
of less than 135 degrees as measured at the centerline of the street. The point
of intersection of the street right-of-way lines, or of the street right-of-way
lines as extended, is the corner.
         (c)   LOT COVERAGE. That portion of the lot area, expressed as a
percent that is covered by impervious surface cover.
         (d)   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A lot having frontage and access on two or
more streets. A corner lot shall not be considered as having double frontage
unless it has frontage and access on three or more streets.
         (e)   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot.
         (f)   LOT FRONT. That side of a lot, which fronts on a street. In the
case of a corner lot, the subdivider shall designate the front of the lot for
purposes of these regulations and the Surry County Zoning Ordinance by labeling
the front and side building lines as such on the final plat.
         (g)   LOT LINE. A line or series of connected line segments bounding a
lot.
         (h)   LOT LINE, FRONT. The line which separates the lot from a street
right-of-way. Corner lots shall have only one front lot line.
         (i)   LOT LINE, INTERIOR. A side lot line which separates the lot from
another lot.
         (j)   LOT LINE, REAR. That lot line which is opposite and most distant
from the front lot line. In cases where neither of these conditions is
applicable, the Zoning Officer shall designate the rear lot line.
         (k)   LOT LINE, SIDE. A lot line other than a front or rear lot line.
         (l)   LOT, NON-CONFORMING. A lot which does not meet all the
dimensional requirements of the zoning district in which it is located, which
exists by virtue of the fact that it lawfully existed on the day before the
effective date of this chapter or subsequent amendments, and which continues to
exist.
         (m)   LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is a part of a subdivision, a plat of
which has been recorded in the office of the Register of Deeds, or a lot which
is described by metes and bounds, the description of which has been so
recorded, prior to the effective date of this chapter.
         (n)   LOT WIDTH. The horizontal distance between the side lot lines at
the building front setback line as measured along a straight line parallel to
the front lot line or parallel to the chord thereof.
      LOW COVERAGE STEALTH WIRELESS SYSTEM. An unconventional wireless system
designed to provide wireless services to rural areas that will not benefit from
the construction of wireless communication towers; designed to utilize existing
structures such as utility poles and rooftops to support the wireless system
instead of the traditional tower. The wireless system shall be much smaller
than the traditional wireless system found on a wireless communication tower
and shall clearly be stealth in nature to minimize the effect on the
surrounding area.
      LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE (LAG). The elevation of the ground, sidewalk or
patio slab immediately next to the budding, or deck support, after completion
of the building. For Zones A and AO, use the natural grade elevation prior to
construction.
      LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or limited storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR; provided that such
an enclosure is not built to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
      LUGGAGE MANUFACTURING. This U.S. industry comprises establishments
primarily engaged in manufacturing luggage of any material.
      LUMBER AND BUILDING MATERIALS SALES. This industry comprises
establishments primarily engaged in selling lumber; plywood; reconstituted wood
fiber products; wood fencing; doors and windows and their frames (all
materials); wood roofing and siding; and/or other wood or metal millwork.
      LUMBERYARD. This industry comprises establishments (except those known as
home centers, paint and wallpaper stores, and hardware stores) primarily
engaged in retailing lumber.
      MACHINE AND WELDING SHOPS. This industry comprises establishments known
as machine shops primarily engaged in machining metal parts on a job or order
basis. Generally, machine shop jobs are low volume using machine tools such as
lathes (including computer numerically controlled); automatic screw machines;
and machines for boring, grinding and milling. This industry also comprises
establishments primarily engaged in the repair and maintenance of commercial
and industrial machinery and equipment. Establishments in this industry either
sharpen/install commercial and industrial machinery blades and saws; or provide
welding (e.g., automotive, general) repair services; or repair agricultural and
other heavy and industrial machinery and equipment (e.g., forklifts and other
materials handling equipment, machine tools, commercial refrigeration
equipment, construction equipment and mining machinery).
      MACHINE TOOLS MANUFACTURING. This U.S. industry comprises establishments
primarily engaged in manufacturing metal cutting machine tools (except hand
tools) and metal forming machine tools (except hand tools) such as punching,
sheering, bending, forming, pressing, forging and die-casting machines.
      MAIL ORDER OFFICE. This industry comprises establishments primarily
engaged in retailing all types of merchandise by means of mail or by electronic
media, such as interactive television or computer. Included in this industry
are establishments primarily engaged in retailing from catalogue showrooms of
mail-order houses.
      MALL. See SHOPPING CENTER.
      MANAGEMENT CONSULTANTS. This industry comprises establishments primarily
engaged in providing advice and assistance to businesses and other
organizations on management issues such as strategic and organizational
planning; financial planning and budgeting; marketing objectives and policies;
human resource policies, practices and planning; production scheduling; and
control planning.
      MANUFACTURED AND MODULAR HOMES AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLE SALES. An
establishment primarily engaged in the retail sale of new and used manufactured
homes, modular homes, recreational vehicles and similar items. Any outdoor area
where manufactured homes, modular homes, recreational vehicles are stored
throughout the day and the night and are held for the purpose of sale or lease
as an entire or complete unit.
      MANUFACTURED HOME. A dwelling unit that is composed of one or more
components, each of which was substantially assembled in a manufacturing plant
and designed to be transported to the home site on its own chassis; a dwelling
unit that exceeds 40 feet in length and eight feet in width; a dwelling unit
that is constructed in accordance with the National Manufactured Home
Construction and Safety Standards; and a dwelling unit that is not constructed
in accordance with the standards of the North Carolina State Building Code for
one- and two-family dwellings.
         (a)   CLASS A. A manufactured home constructed after 7-1-1976 and that
meets or exceeds the construction standards promulgated by the Department of
Housing and Urban Development that were in effect at the time of construction
and that satisfies the following additional criteria:
            1.   Is a multi-sectional home (i.e., double-wide, triple-wide);
            2.   The pitch of the manufactured home’s roof has a minimum
vertical rise of two and two-tenths feet for each 12 feet of horizontal run and
the roof is finished with a roofing material with a fire rating of Class C or
better and is commonly used in standard residential construction;
            3.   The exterior siding consists predominately of vinyl horizontal
lap siding, wood or hardboard, cedar or other wood siding, wood grain, weather
resistant pressboard siding, stucco siding or brick or stone siding, or other
non-glare surface or other siding whose reflectivity does not exceed that of
flat white paint;
            4.   A continuous, permanent brick, masonry with stucco finish,
stone, metal curtain wall or foundation, unpierced, except for ventilation and
access, is installed under the manufactured home. For clarification on design
or sighting standards, refer to §§ 154.019; and
            5.   The tongue, axles, removable towing apparatus and transporting
lights are removed after final placement on the site.
         (b)   CLASS B. A manufactured home constructed after 7-1-1976 and that
meets or exceeds the construction standards promulgated by the Department of
Housing and Urban Development that were in effect at the time of construction
and that satisfies the following additional criteria:
            1.   Is a single-section home (i.e., single-wide);
            2.   The pitch of the manufactured home’s roof has a minimum
vertical rise of two and two-tenths feet for each 12 feet of horizontal run and
the roof is finished with a roofing material with a fire rating of Class C or
better and is commonly used in standard residential construction;
            3.   The exterior siding consists predominately of vinyl or
aluminum horizontal lap siding, wood or hardboard, or other non-glare surface
or other siding whose reflectivity does not exceed that of flat white paint;
            4.   A continuous, permanent brick, masonry stone with stucco
finish, vinyl, metal, curtain wall or foundation, unpierced, except for
ventilation and access, is installed under the manufactured home. For
clarification on design or sighting standards, refer to §§ 154.019; and
            5.   The tongue, axles, removable towing apparatus and transporting
fights are removed after final placement on the site.
      MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. A tract of unsubdivided land occupied or proposed
to be occupied by two or more manufactured homes. See §§ 154.019 for specific
requirements.
      MANUFACTURED HOME PARK SPACE. An area within an approved manufactured
home park for the placement of a single manufactured home and its associated
accessory structures.
      MANUFACTURED HOME SPACE. The land in a manufactured home park allotted to
or designed for the accommodation of one manufactured home.
      MANUFACTURERS’ SHOWROOMS. These establishments are primarily engaged in
providing show space for manufactured products such as furniture, bedding, and
the like, and may include wholesale and/or retail activities.
      MANUFACTURING.
         (a)   A manufacturing establishment primarily engaged in the
fabrication or assembly of products from pre-structured materials or
components. Because of the nature of its operations and products, MANUFACTURING
produces little or no noise, odor, vibration, glare and/or air and water
pollution and, therefore, has minimal impact on surrounding properties.
         (b)   A manufacturing establishment whose operations, including
storage of materials; processing, fabrication or assembly of products; and
loading and unloading of new materials and finished products occurs within an
enclosed building, and which does not produce or utilize in large quantities as
an integral part of the manufacturing process toxic, hazardous or explosive
materials. Noise, odor, dust or vibration from the manufacturing process may
result in only minor impacts on adjacent properties.
         (c)   A manufacturing establishment whose operations, including
storage of materials; processing, fabrication or assembly of products; and
loading and unloading of new materials and finished products may occur either
inside an enclosed building or outside on the premises. Toxic, hazardous or
explosive materials may be produced or used in large quantities as an integral
part of the manufacturing process. Noise, odor, dust, vibration or visual
impacts, as well as potential public health problems in the event of an
accident, could impact adjacent properties.
      MARKET VALUE. The building value, excluding the land value and that of
any accessory structures or other improvements on the lot, established by
independent certified appraisal, replacement cost depreciated by age of
building and quality of construction (actual cash value), or adjusted tax
assessed values.
      MEAN SEA LEVEL. For purposes of the NFIP, the National Geodetic Vertical
Datum (NGVD) as corrected in 1929, the North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) as
corrected in 1988, or other vertical control datum used as a reference for
establishing varying elevations within the floodplain, to which base flood
elevations (BFEs) shown on a FIRM are referenced. Refer to each FIRM panel to
determine datum used.
      MEAT PACKING AND POULTRY PROCESSING PLANTS. An establishment primarily
engaged in the slaughtering of cattle, chickens, hogs, sheep, lambs and calves
for meat to be sold or to be used on the same premises in canning, cooking,
curing and freezing, and in making sausage, lard and other products.
      MEDICAL AND DENTAL CLINICS. An establishment primarily engaged in
furnishing medical and surgical services to individuals and licensed for such
practice by the state.
      MEDICAL OR DENTAL LABORATORIES. An establishment primarily engaged in
providing professional analytic or diagnostic services to the medical
profession, or to the patient, on direction of a physician; or an establishment
primarily engaged in making dentures, artificial teeth and orthodontic
appliances to order for the dental profession.
      METAL FABRICATION. These establishments are primarily engaged in the
transformation of metal into intermediate or end products other than machinery,
computers and electronics, and metal furniture; or treating metals and metal-
formed products fabricated elsewhere. Important fabricated metal  processes are
forging, stamping, bending, forming and machining, used to shape individual
pieces of metal; and other processes, such as welding and assembling, used to
join separate parts together. Establishments in this subsector may use one of
these processes or a combination of these processes.
      METAL FABRICATION PLANT. A large-scale (greater than 10,001 square feet)
facility which is engaged in the shaping of metal and similar materials.
      METAL FABRICATION SHOP. A small-scale (10,000 square feet or less)
facility which is engaged in the shaping of metal and similar materials.
      METALSMITH OPERATIONS. These establishments are primarily engaged in
manually forging metal on a small scale (as opposed to automated or mass
forging of metals).
      MINIATURE GOLF. This is a non-professional, miniature golf course in a
non-member setting. These establishments often provide video arcades and/or
concessions.
      MINING, QUARRYING or RESOURCE EXTRACTION.
         (a)   Any mining activity, as defined in state law, including:
            1.   The breaking of the surface soil in order to facilitate or
accomplish the extraction or removal of minerals, ores or other solid matter;
            2.   Any activity or process constituting all or part of a process
for the extraction or removal of minerals, ores, soils and other solid matter
from its original location; and
            3.   The preparation, washing, cleaning or other treatment of
minerals, ores or other solid matter to make them suitable for commercial,
industrial or construction use.
         (b)   MINING shall not include those aspects of deep mining not having
significant effect on the surface, where the affected land does not exceed one
acre in area. MINING shall not include mining operations where the affected
land does not exceed one acre in area. MINING shall not include plants engaged
in processing minerals produced elsewhere and whose refuse does not affect more
than one acre of land. MINING shall not include excavation or grading when
conducted solely in aid of on-site farming or of on-site construction for
purposes other than mining. Removal of overburden and mining of limited amounts
of any ores or mineral solids shall not be considered MINING when done only for
the purpose and to the extent necessary to determine the location, quantity or
quality of any natural deposit, provided that no ores or mineral solids removed
during such exploratory excavation or mining are sold, processed for sale or
consumed in the regular operation of a business, and provided further that the
affected land resulting from any such exploratory excavation does not exceed
one acre in area.
      MINI-WAREHOUSE. Moving and/or storage services for household and business
goods, including self-service storage facilities.
      MODULAR HOME, CONVENTIONAL. A manufactured home which is constructed in
accordance with the N.C. State Building Code with wood frame construction and
set-up on a brick foundation.
      MODULAR HOME, ON-FRAME. A manufactured home which is constructed in
accordance with the N.C. State Building Code on a metal frame and is set-up on
block piers with brick underpinning.
      MONUMENT SALES. An establishment where concrete or rock-based monuments,
such as yard decor, tombstones, and the like, are sold.
      MOTOCROSS TRACK. A closed-course motorcycle racetrack over natural or
simulated rough terrain.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Any machine propelled by power other than human power,
requiring for use a license tag and registration by the NCDOT, Division of
Motor Vehicles, and designed to travel upon the highways and public streets
using wheels, treads, self-laying tracks, runners, slides or skids; including,
but not limited to, automobiles, trucks, motorcycles, motor scooters, campers,
tractors, trailers, and any part of the same.
      MOTOR VEHICLE BODY OR PAINT SHOP. An establishment primarily engaged in
body work, painting or customizing of automobiles or other motor vehicles.
      MOTOR VEHICLE, JUNKED. An unlicensed motor vehicle of any age that is
damaged or defective in any one or combination of any of the following ways
that either makes the vehicle immediately inoperable, or would prohibit the
vehicle from being operated in a reasonably safe manner upon the public streets
and highways under its own power if self-propelled, or while being towed or
pushed, if not designed to be self-propelled; to include but not limited to:
         (a)   Flat tires, missing tires, missing wheels or missing or
partially or totally disassembled tires and wheels;
         (b)   Missing or partially or totally disassembled essential part or
parts of the vehicle’s drive train, including, but not limited to, engine,
transmission, transaxle, drive shaft, differential or axle;
         (c)   Extensive exterior body damage or missing or partially or
totally disassembled essential body parts, including, but not limited to,
fenders, doors, engine hood, bumper or bumpers, windshield, or windows;
         (d)   Missing or partially or totally disassembled essential interior
parts, including, but not limited to, driver’s seat, steering wheel, instrument
panel, clutch, brake, gear shift lever;
         (e)   Missing or partially or totally disassembled parts essential to
the starting or running of the vehicle under its own power, including, but not
limited to, starter, generator or alternator, battery, distributor, gas tank,
carburetor or fuel injection system, spark plugs or radiator;
         (f)   Interior is a container for metal, glass, paper, rags or other
cloth, wood, auto parts, machinery, waste or discarded materials in such
quantity, quality and arrangement that a driver cannot be properly seated in
the vehicle;
         (g)   Lying on the ground (upside down, on its side or at other
extreme angle), sitting on blocks or suspended in the air by any other method;
or
         (h)   General environment in which the vehicle sits, including, but
not limited to, vegetation that has grown up around, in or through the vehicle,
the collection of pools of water in the vehicle, and the accumulation of other
garbage or debris around the vehicle.
      MOTOR VEHICLE, PROJECT. A project motor vehicle is an unlicensed motor
vehicle that is temporarily inoperable and is stored on residential premises
during an active process of restoration by the owner for personal use.
      MOTOR VEHICLE REPAIR. An establishment engaged in providing mechanical
automotive maintenance and repair, such as engine repair, exhaust system
replacement and transmission repair, and/or providing other related services,
such as upholstery or glass replacement. This use includes service stations but
does not include bodywork or painting. No scrap tires shall be stored at the
establishment longer than 30 days.
      MOTOR VEHICLE, UNLICENSED. A motor vehicle that does not display current
and valid license information issued by the NCDOT, Division of Motor Vehicles,
in the manner and form prescribed by that agency.
      MOVIE THEATER, DRIVE-IN. An establishment for the outdoor viewing of
motion pictures by patrons while in motor vehicles.
      MOVIE THEATER, INDOOR. An establishment for the indoor viewing of motion
pictures by patrons.
      MULTI-FAMILY. Includes the definitions of apartments, condominiums and
townhouses.
      MUSEUM or ART GALLERY. A structure used for the display and preservation
of paintings, sculpture and other constructed or natural objects illustrating
human or natural history.
      MUSIC STORES. This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in
retailing new or used prerecorded audio and video tapes, compact discs (CDs),
and phonograph records; and/or retailing new or used musical instruments, sheet
music and related supplies; or retailing these new products in combination with
musical instrument repair, rental or music instruction.
      NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY ACT (NEPA). Federal act that regulates
developments affecting wilderness areas, wildlife preserves, endangered
species, historical sites, Indian religious sites, floodplain, wetlands, high
intensity white lights in residential neighborhoods and radio frequency
emissions in excess of the FCC's guidelines.
      NCDEQ. North Carolina Department of Environmental Quality (formerly
NCDENR: North Carolina Department of Environment and Natural Resources).
      NCDOT. North Carolina Department of Transportation.
      NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the “start of construction”
commenced on or after the effective date of the original version of this
chapter and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
      NEWS SYNDICATES. This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged
in supplying information, such as news reports, articles, pictures and
features, to the news media.
      NEWSSTANDS. This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged
in retailing current newspapers, magazines and other periodicals.
      NIGHT CLUBS and PLACES OF ENTERTAINMENT.
         (a)   A commercial establishment operated as a place of entertainment
where the principal use is one or a combination of the following:
            1.   Live, recorded or televised entertainment;
            2.   Dancing; and
            3.   Magic, comedy or musicians.
         (b)   This definition does not include adult entertainment or the
dispensing or consumption of alcoholic beverages. (See DRINKING ESTABLISHMENTS)
      NON-CONFORMING BUILDING OR DEVELOPMENT. Any legally existing building or
development which fails to comply with the current provisions of this chapter
(see USE, NON-CONFORMING).
      NON-ENCROACHMENT AREA. The channel of a river or other watercourse and
the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base
flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one
foot as designated in the flood insurance study report.
      NOVELTY AND SOUVENIR STORES. This industry comprises establishments
primarily engaged in retailing new gifts, novelty merchandise, souvenirs,
greeting cards, seasonal and holiday decorations and curios.
      NURSING, CONVALESCENT, ASSISTED LIVING FACILITY. A home for persons aged,
ill or handicapped in which two or more persons not of the immediate family of
the owner or manager of said home are provided with food, shelter and nursing
care.
      OIL AND GASOLINE BULK STORAGE. The storage on a zoning lot of 2,500
gallons or more of flammable liquid, or 2,000 gallons water capacity or more of
flammable gas, excluding storage tanks, above ground as defined herein below.
      OPAQUE BARRIER. A vertical structure constructed of masonry, concrete or
wooden material which does not allow light to pass through.
      OPEN SPACE. Any area which is not divided into private or civic building
lots, streets, rights-of-way, parking or easements for purposes other than open
space conservation.
      OPEN SPACE, COMMON. Open space within a development, not in individually
owned lots, which is designed and intended for the common use or enjoyment of
the residents of the development.
      OPEN STORAGE. Any area which contains trash collection areas or
dumpsters, open air docks, outdoor storage of bulk materials and/or parts, or
areas regularly used for outdoor repair areas or service stations, motor
vehicle dealers or inspection stations, but excluding temporary construction
and related activities and closed bay docks.
      OPTICIAN and OPTICAL SUPPLY STORE. This industry comprises establishments
primarily engaged in one or more of the following:
         (a)   Retailing and fitting prescription eyeglasses and contact
lenses;
         (b)   Retailing prescription eyeglasses in combination with the
grinding of lenses to order on the premises; and
         (c)   Selling non-prescription eyeglasses.
      OPTOMETRIST OFFICE. This industry comprises establishments of health
practitioners having the degree of O.D. (Doctor of Optometry) primarily engaged
in the independent practice of optometry. These practitioners provide eye
examinations to determine visual acuity or the presence of vision problems, and
to prescribe eyeglasses, contact lenses and eye exercises. They operate private
or group practices in their own offices (e.g., centers, clinics) or in the
facilities of others, such as hospitals or HMO medical centers. They may also
provide the same service as opticians such as selling and fitting prescription
eyeglasses and contact lenses.
      OUTDOOR STORAGE. Includes the storage of materials, equipment, parts,
supplies, and similar items related to a commercial or industrial business.
OUTDOOR STORAGE does not include fully operational duly licensed and registered
motor vehicles currently in use by persons working at or visiting the property.
      OUTPARCEL SITE. A freestanding lot developed separately but linked
functionally to a shopping center.
      OVERLAY ZONING DISTRICT. A zoning district which overlays and combines
with one of the principal zoning districts established by this chapter. In such
case, the property involved is subject to the requirements of both districts.
      PAINT AND WALLPAPER STORES. This industry comprises establishments known
as paint and wallpaper stores primarily engaged in retailing paint, wallpaper
and related supplies.
      PAINT, VARNISH, AND FINISH MANUFACTURING. This industry comprises
establishments primarily engaged in:
         (a)   Mixing pigments, solvents and binders into paints and other
coatings such as stains, varnishes, lacquers, enamels, shellacs and water
repellant coatings for concrete and masonry; and/or
         (b)   Manufacturing allied paint products such as putties, paint and
varnish removers, paint brush cleaners and frit.
      PAPER GOODS MANUFACTURING. This industry group comprises establishments
primarily engaged in converting paper or paperboard without manufacturing paper
or paperboard.
      PAR 3 GOLF. A golf course that has at least nine holes, each with a tee,
fairway, green and one or more hazards, but which is smaller scale than a
traditional golf course. A clubhouse, pool and other facilities associated with
a country club built around a golf course are considered part of the golf
course.
      PARK AND RIDE LOTS. The temporary storage of motor vehicles daily for
persons traveling together to and from work either through carpools, vanpools
or mass transit.
      PARKING, COMMERCIAL. A principal use of a zoning lot with or without a
parking structure for use as a place for the temporary or long-term parking of
motor vehicles.
      PARKS AND PLAYGROUNDS. These establishments are primarily engaged in the
preservation and exhibition of natural areas or settings; and/or providing
outdoor play facilities for children.
      PARTICIPATORY FARMS. Farm-based, tourism-driven enterprises where
individuals or groups pay to participate on a working farm or dude ranch.
      PAWN SHOP. This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged
in providing nondepository credit (except credit card issuing, sales financing,
consumer lending, real estate credit, international trade financing and
secondary market financing) through consumer cash lending secured by personal
property.
      PERSON. Any individual partnership, firm, association, joint venture,
public or private corporation, trust, estate, commission, board, public or
private institution, utility, cooperative, interstate body or other legal
entity.
      PERSONAL STORAGE BUILDING. A structure permitted by this chapter as a
principle use in some zoning districts; to be used for non-commercial purposes
including storage of equipment for maintenance of the property, recreational
equipment or other items intended for the personal use of the owner or
occupant.
      PERSONNEL SERVICES. This industry comprises establishments primarily
engaged in supplying workers to clients’ businesses for limited periods of time
to supplement the working force of the client. The individuals provided are
employees of the temporary help service establishment. However, these
establishments do not provide direct supervision of their employees at the
clients’ work sites.
      PET SHOP. This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in
retailing pets, pet foods and pet supplies.
      PHARMACEUTICALS MANUFACTURING. This industry comprises establishments
primarily engaged in one or more of the following:
         (a)   Manufacturing biological and medicinal products;
         (b)   Processing (i.e., grading, grinding and milling) botanical drugs
and herbs;
         (c)   Isolating active medicinal principals from botanical drugs and
herbs; and
         (d)   Manufacturing pharmaceutical products intended for internal and
external consumption in such forms as ampoules, tablets, capsules, vials,
ointments, powders, solutions and suspensions.
      PHOTOCOPYING SERVICES. This U.S. industry comprises:
         (a)   Establishments generally known as copy centers or shops
primarily engaged in providing photocopying, duplicating, blueprinting, and
other document copying services, without also providing printing services
(e.g., offset printing, quick printing, digital printing, prepress services);
and
         (b)   Establishments (except private mail centers) engaged in
providing a range of office support services (except printing services), such
as document copying services, facsimile services, word processing services, on-
site PC rental services, and office product sales.
      PHOTOFINISHING LABORATORIES. This industry comprises establishments
primarily engaged in developing film and/or making photographic slides, prints
and enlargements.
      PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES AND STUDIOS. This industry comprises establishments
primarily engaged in providing still, video or digital photography services.
These establishments may specialize in a particular field of photography such
as commercial and industrial photography, portrait photography and special
events photography. Commercial or portrait photography studios are included in
this industry.
      PILLOW MANUFACTURING. These establishments are primarily engaged in
manufacturing pillows.
      PLACES OF ASSEMBLY. Establishments that are primarily engaged in
providing facilities (indoor and/or outdoors) for special events of a social
and/or business nature.
      PLAN. The following definitions describe various plans required by this
chapter.
         (a)   PLAN, COMPREHENSIVE. See definition for LAND USE PLAN.
         (b)   PLAN, COMPREHENSIVE TRANSPORTATION (CTP). A long term, long
range transportation plan for municipalities, counties and large metropolitan
areas (MPOs)
         (c)   PLAN, DETAILED DEVELOPMENT. A detailed development plan required
when seeking a conditional use permit for wireless communication towers and
manufactured home parks. Also required when developing within a special zoning
district.
         (d)   PLAN, DEVELOPMENT. Required when seeking approval of a group
development. The plan must be scaled, prepared and certified by a professional
surveyor and/or design engineer.
         (e)   PLAN, FINAL. The final map of all or a portion of a site,
showing the boundaries and location of proposed development activities and any
other requirements or information of this chapter which is presented for local
government approval and subsequent recordation with the Register of Deeds.
         (f)   PLAN, LAND USE. The comprehensive plan for the County of Surry
that has been officially adopted by the Board of Commissioners pursuant to G.S.
§ 160D-501.
         (g)   PLAN, MASTER DEVELOPMENT. Depicts phases of development and
general configuration and relationship of the principal elements of the
proposed development and uses. The plan will include delineated areas where
particular types of development or groups of buildings will be located, along
with access and internal circulation through the development. A MASTER
DEVELOPMENT PLAN is required for the approval of a group development and for
any development involving multiple phases.
         (h)   PLAN, PRELIMINARY. A map indicating the proposed layout of the
boundaries and location of proposed development activities and any other
requirements or information found in this chapter, which is presented for
preliminary approval. PRELIMINARY PLANS can be part of a process for
development plans and for subdivision plats.
         (i)   PLAN, SITE. A scaled drawing and supporting text showing the
relationship between lot lines and the existing or proposed uses, buildings, or
structures on the lot. The site plan shall include site-specific details such
as building areas, building height and floor area, setbacks from lot lines and
street rights-of-way, intensities, densities, utility lines and locations,
parking, access points, roads, and stormwater control facilities that are
depicted to show compliance with all legally required development regulations
that are applicable to the project and the site plan review. This definition
distinguishes a SITE PLAN from a SITE-SPECIFIC DEVELOPMENT PLAN or SUBDIVISION
PLAT.
         (j)   PLAN, SITE-SPECIFIC DEVELOPMENT. A plan which has been submitted
to the county by a landowner describing with reasonable certainty the type and
intensity of use for a specific parcel or parcels of property pursuant to G.S.
§ 160D-108.1. SITE-SPECIFIC DEVELOPMENT PLANS shall be prepared by a registered
surveyor, draftsperson or engineer. SITE-SPECIFIC DEVELOPMENT PLANS are
required for zoning amendments involving conditional zoning districts and for
requests for special use permits. SITE-SPECIFIC DEVELOPMENT PLANS may be used
for requests for vested rights. This definition distinguishes a SITE-SPECIFIC
DEVELOPMENT PLAN from a site plan or subdivision plat.
         (k)   PLAN, THOROUGHFARE. Any officially adopted thoroughfare plan.
      PLANING MILLS. This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily
engaged in planing purchased lumber. These establishments generally use
woodworking machinery such as jointers, planers, lathes and routers to shape
wood.
      PLANNED RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT. A residentially zoned area, planned and
developed as a unit, which is characterized by environmentally sensitive design
using flexible development standards.
      PLANNING BOARD. The Planning Board of Surry County.
      PLANTING AREA. An outdoor area, the surface of which may not be covered
by impervious surface cover, such as asphalt, concrete or gravel, nor by
structures, and must be devoted entirely to the planting and maintenance of
trees, shrubs and groundcovers, or construction of fences, walls and/or earth
berms.
      PLASTIC PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING. This industry group comprises
establishments primarily engaged in processing new or spent (i.e., recycled)
plastics resins into intermediate or final products using such processes as
compression molding, extrusion molding, injection molding, blow molding and
casting. Within most of these industries, the production process is such that a
wide variety of products can be made.
      PLAT. A surveyed map or plan or a parcel of land which is to be or has
been subdivided. A map or plan of a parcel of land which is to be, or which has
been, subdivided.
      PLAT, FINAL. The final map of all or a portion of a subdivision or site
showing the boundaries and location of lots, streets, easements and any other
requirements of the subdivision regulations, which is presented for local
government approval and subsequent recordation with the Register of Deeds.
      PLAT, PRELIMINARY. A map indicating the proposed layout of the
subdivision or site showing lots, streets, water, sewer, storm drainage and any
other requirements of the subdivision regulations which is presented for
preliminary approval.
      PLUMBING AND HEATING SUPPLIES. This industry comprises establishments
primarily engaged in wholesaling plumbing equipment, hydraulic heating
equipment, household-type gas appliances (except gas clothes dryers) and/or
supplies.
      POLICE OR FIRE STATION. A facility established for public law enforcement
purposes or public fire protection and prevention purposes.
      POST-FIRM. Construction or other development which started on or after
the effective date of the initial flood insurance rate map for the area.
      POST OFFICE. A facility or structure used for the collection, sorting and
distribution of mail within several zip code areas, having retail services for
the general public, such as stamps, postcards or postal insurance.
      POSTAL PROCESSING CENTER. A facility or structure used for the
collection, sorting, processing and distribution of bulk mail or packages to
other postal facilities or to the general public, and which may have some
retail services for the general public, such as stamps, postcards or postal
insurance.
      POTTERY MANUFACTURING. These establishments are primarily engaged in
manufacturing table and kitchen articles, art and ornamental items, and similar
vitreous china, fine earthenware, stoneware, coarse earthenware and other
pottery products.
      POTTERY STORE. See the definition for CRAFT STORE.
      PRE-FIRM. Construction or other development which started before the
effective date of the initial flood insurance rate map for the area.
      PRECISION INSTRUMENTS MANUFACTURING. These establishments are primarily
engaged in manufacturing metalworking machinery such as metal cutting and
forming machine tools; cutting tools; accessories for metalworking machinery;
special dies, tools, jigs and fixtures; industrial molds; rolling mill
machinery; assembly machinery; coil handling, conversion or straightening
equipment; and wire drawing and fabrication machines.
      PREMISES. A lot or parcel of real property where a business, profession,
service, commodity, product, accommodation, event, attraction or other
enterprise or activity or use exists or is conducted, manufactured, sold,
offered, maintained or takes place.
      PRINCIPAL BUILDING. See BUILDING, PRINCIPAL.
      PRINCIPAL USE. See USE, PRINCIPAL.
      PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND. That at least 51% of the actual cash value of
the structure is above ground.
      PRINTING. This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in
printing on apparel and textile products, paper, metal, glass, plastics and
other materials, except fabric (grey goods). The printing processes employed
include, but are not limited to, lithographic, gravure, screen, flexographic,
digital and letterpress. Establishments in this industry do not manufacture the
stock that they print, but may perform post printing activities such as
bending, cutting or laminating the materials printed, and mailing.
      PRIVATE RECREATION CLUBS. An area or facility designed to meet the demand
for active recreation, including play fields, ball diamonds, parks with picnic
and playground equipment, par 3 golf courses, tennis courts, swimming pools,
tot lots and similar uses, which are private.
      PROCESSING PLANTS. These establishments are primarily engaged in
transforming raw resources into end products suitable for consumption by the
final consumer.
      PRODUCE SALES. This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged
in retailing fresh fruits and vegetables.
      PROPERTY. All property subject to zoning regulations and restrictions and
zone boundaries within the zoning jurisdiction of the county.
      PROTECTED MOUNTAIN RIDGES. All mountain ridges whose elevation is 500 or
more feet above the elevation of an adjacent valley floor.
      PUBLIC. Under the control or responsibility of the elected body on behalf
of the general population, rather than individual or private control.
      PUBLIC RELATIONS SERVICES. This industry comprises establishments
primarily engaged in designing and implementing public relations campaigns.
These campaigns are designed to promote the interests and image of their
clients. Establishments providing lobbying, political consulting or public
relations consulting are included in this industry.
      PUBLIC SAFETY AND/OR NUISANCE. For the purposes of this chapter, anything
which is injurious or presents the threat of injury to the safety or health of
a community or neighborhood, or any number of persons, or unlawfully obstructs
the free passage or use, in the customary manner, of any navigable lake, or
river, bay, stream, canal or basin.
      PUBLIC SEWER SYSTEM. An approved sewage disposal system, including
municipal and sanitary district sewerage systems as well as “package” plants
constructed in a location and to specifications approved by the Environmental
Health Department in consultation with the NC Division of Health Services.
      PUBLIC UTILITY FACILITY (LARGE-SCALE). Facilities of any agency which
under public franchise or ownership, provides the general public with
electricity, gas, oil, water, sewage, electronic signals or rail
transportation. The term utility shall not be construed to include the
following: corporate or general offices; storage or service buildings or yards;
gas or oil processing, manufacturing or storage facilities; transmission
towers; or postal facilities. Size of such facilities shall be no larger than
0.25 acres. Size of such facilities shall be 0.26 acres or greater.
      PUBLIC UTILITY FACILITY (SMALL-SCALE). Facilities of any agency which
under public franchise or ownership, provides the general public with
electricity, gas, oil, water, sewage, electronic signals or rail
transportation. The term utility shall not be construed to include the
following: corporate or general offices; storage or service buildings or yards;
gas or oil processing, manufacturing or storage facilities; transmission
towers; or postal facilities. Size of such facilities shall be no larger than
0.25 acres.
      PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM. An approved water supply system, including
municipal and sanitary district water systems approved by the Environmental
Health Department in consultation with the NC Division of Health Services.
      PUBLISHING. These establishments are primarily engaged in the publishing
of newspapers, magazines, other periodicals and books, as well as database and
software publishing. In general, these establishments, which are known as
publishers, issue copies of works for which they usually possess copyright.
      QUARRY. See MINING, QUARRYING or RESOURCE EXTRACTION.
      QUASI-JUDICIAL DECISION. A decision involving the finding of facts gained
through sworn testimony regarding a specific application of a development
regulation and that requires the exercise of discretion when applying the
standards of the regulation. The term includes, but is not limited to,
decisions involving variances, special use permits, and appeals of
administrative determinations.
      RADIO AND TELEVISION REPAIR. This U.S. industry comprises establishments
primarily engaged in repairing and maintaining consumer electronics such as
televisions, stereos, speakers, video recorders, CD players, radios and
cameras, without retailing new consumer electronics.
      RADIO AND TELEVISION STUDIOS. An establishment primarily engaged in
providing two-way radio/telephone communication services, telephone voice and
data communications, telegraph services, radio and television broadcasting or
cable and other pay television services but excluding those uses classified as
utilities.
      RAILROAD STATION OPERATIONS. This U.S. industry comprises establishments
known as line-haul railroads primarily engaged in operating railroads for the
transport of passengers and/or cargo over a long distance within a rail
network. These establishments provide for the intercity movement of trains
between the terminals and stations on main and branch lines of a line-haul rail
network (except for local switching services).
      RAILROAD YARD OPERATIONS. This industry comprises establishments
primarily engaged in providing specialized services for railroad transportation
including servicing, routine repairing (except factory conversion, overhaul or
rebuilding of rolling stock), and maintaining rail cars; loading and unloading
rail cars; and operating independent terminals.
      REAL ESTATE SERVICES. This industry comprises establishments primarily
engaged in acting as agents and/or brokers in one or more of the following:
         (a)   Selling real estate for others;
         (b)   Buying real estate for others; and
         (c)   Renting real estate for others.
      RECREATION AREA, COMMON. An area of open space which is required in
certain types of developments for active or passive recreational uses.
      RECREATION SERVICES, INDOOR. Establishments engaged in providing indoor
amusement or entertainment services.
      RECREATION SERVICES, OUTDOOR. Establishments engaged in providing outdoor
amusement or entertainment services.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicular type unit primarily designed as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, or travel use that either
has its own motive power or is mounted on, or towed by, another vehicle. The
basic entities are camping trailer, fifth-wheel travel trailer, motor home,
travel trailer, and truck camper and similar items. This term shall not include
a manufactured home.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE SPACE. A plot of land within a recreational vehicle
park or recreation club designed for the accommodation of one recreational
vehicle, tent or other individual camping unit on a temporary basis.
      RECYCLING COLLECTION CENTER.
         (a)   An incidental use that serves as a community drop off point for
temporary storage of recoverable resources. No processing of such items is
allowed. This facility would generally be in a shopping center parking lot or
in other public or institutional areas, such as churches and schools.
         (b)   A facility that collects household garbage and recyclable items,
with no processing of such items allowed on-premises, for temporary storage
until they are transferred to a landfill or recycling plant; includes, but is
not limited to, county operated facilities.
      RECYCLING PLANT. Any facility at which recoverable resources, such as
newspapers, magazines, books and other paper products; glass; metal and
aluminum cans; waste oil; iron and steel scrap; automobiles; rubber and/or
other products are altered, crushed, compressed, or treated at any stage in the
recycling process.
      REFERENCE LEVEL (FLOOD HAZARD AREAS). The portion of a structure or other
development that must be compared to the regulatory flood protection elevation
to determine regulatory compliance. For structures within special flood hazard
areas designated as Zone A1-A30, AE, A, A99 or AO, the reference level is the
top of the lowest floor or bottom of lowest attendant utility including
ductwork, whichever is lower.
      REFINERIES. A facility which produces petroleum-based products.
      REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION. The elevation, in relation to mean
sea level, to which the reference level of all structures and other development
located within special flood hazard areas must be protected. Where base flood
elevations (BFEs) have been determined, this elevation shall be the BFE, plus
two feet of freeboard. Where no BFE has been established, this elevation shall
be at least two feet above the highest adjacent grade.
      REHABILITATION CENTER. A facility engaged in the treatment of substance
abuse patients.
      REMEDY A VIOLATION. To bring the structure or other development into
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
      RENTAL OF MOTOR VEHICLES. An establishment primarily engaged in
furnishing motor vehicle rental, leasing and parking services to the public.
      REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood -related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during any ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event, on the average, equals or exceeds 25% of the
market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
      RESEARCH ACTIVITIES. An establishment primarily engaged in commercial
research and providing testing services such as calibration and certification
of instruments, food testing services, forensic laboratories, metallurgical
testing and industrial X-ray inspection services, and the like.
      RESIDENT. Any person, as defined in this section, residing, doing
business, or maintaining an office within Surry County.
      RESIDENTIAL. Referring to permanent dwellings as defined herein.
      RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT SALES (OFFICE ON-SITE). A temporary
administrative office located on the site of a residential development for the
purpose of selling those same properties.
      RESORT. A group or groups of buildings, and outdoor assembly areas, that
provides outdoor recreation activities that include, but are not limited to,
golf, horseback riding, swimming, tennis, hiking, water sports, snow sports and
similar activities. A RESORT may also furnish indoor recreation activities as
well. A RESORT may furnish services customarily furnished by a hotel, including
restaurants, cocktail lounges and convention facilities.
      RESOURCE EXTRACTION (SAND, SOIL, CLAY). This industry comprises:
         (a)   Establishments primarily engaged in developing the mine site
and/or mining, quarrying, dredging for sand and gravel or mining clay and soil,
(e.g., china clay, paper clay, and slip clay); and
         (b)   Preparation plants primarily engaged in beneficiating (e.g.,
washing, screening and grinding) sand and gravel, clay, soil and ceramic and
refractory minerals.
      RESTAURANT (WALK-IN). An establishment which serves food and beverages
primarily to customers seated at tables or counters located within the building
or designated outdoor seating areas. This includes cafés, tea rooms and outdoor
cafes.
      RESTAURANT (WALK-IN, DRIVE-THROUGH SERVICE). An establishment which
delivers prepared food and/or beverages to customers in motor vehicles,
regardless of whether it also serves prepared food and/or beverages to
customers who are not in motor vehicles, for consumption either on or off the
premises.
      RETAIL STORE. An establishment primarily engaged in selling merchandise
for personal or household consumption not classified elsewhere.
      REUPHOLSTERY. See FURNITURE REFINISHING AND REPAIR.
      RIDGE. The elongated crest or series of crests at the apex or uppermost
point of intersection between two opposite slopes or sides of a mountain, and
includes all land within 100 feet below the elevation of any portion of such
line or surface along the crest.
      RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, and the like.
      ROADSIDE STAND. These stands located alongside roads are operated by
vendors selling directly to consumers. The stands are operated as temporary
and/or seasonal establishments. Fresh produce is commonly sold, among other
items.
      RODEO. These recreational venues provide a public exhibition of skill,
often in the form of competition, in the riding of unbroken horses, the roping
of calves and riding or wrestling with steers and the like.
      ROOF PITCH. The slope of a roof typically expressed as a ratio of
vertical inches to 12 horizontal inches (i.e., 8:12).
      SADDLERIES. These establishments are primarily engaged in making and/or
selling saddles.
      SANITARIUMS and MENTAL INSTITUTIONS. A health station, retreat or an
institution for the recuperation and treatment of persons suffering from
physical or mental disorders.
      SAWMILLS. This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged
in sawing and otherwise producing dimension lumber, boards, beams, timbers,
poles, ties, shingles, shakes, siding, mulch, and wood chips from logs or
bolts. SAWMILLS may plane the rough lumber that they make with a planing
machine to achieve smoothness and uniformity of size.
      SCHOOL, ELEMENTARY/MIDDLE/HIGH. A structure used primarily by and for any
two or more age or grade levels and operated by the public school system or
approved by the North Carolina Department of Public Instruction as meeting the
requirements of state law.
      SCRAP PROCESSING. The process of converting rejected or discarded parts
from manufacturing processes into fragments to become waste or to be used only
as material for reprocessing.
      SCREENING. The method by which the view from one site to an adjacent site
is shielded or hidden. SCREENING techniques include buffers, berms and opaque
fences or walls.
      SEAMSTRESS, TAILOR, DRESSMAKER. These establishments are primarily
engaged in sewing, mending and altering garments on a made-to-order basis for
individual consumers, as opposed to the mass production of clothing to be
retailed.
      SECONDHAND STORE/SWAP SHOPS. These establishments are primarily engaged
in selling used clothing and may include businesses such as consignment shops
that split proceeds with the previous owners of goods in exchange for providing
the marketplace.
      SEDIMENTATION. Solid particulate matter, both mineral and organic, that
has been or is being transported off the site of the land disturbing activity
or into a lake or natural watercourse.
      SEDIMENTATION AND EROSION CONTROL PLAN. Plan that shows the measures,
structures or devices which control the soil material within the land area
under responsible control of the person conducting the land disturbing activity
(regulated by NCDEQ.)
      SEPTIC SERVICES. A service provider who collects and disposes of solid
and liquid wastes from private sewage disposal systems.
      SERVICES, BUSINESS.
         (a)   An establishment primarily engaged in providing a service(s) to
businesses and to a lesser extent, individuals. All merchandise and rental
equipment is stored inside enclosed buildings.
         (b)   An establishment primarily engaged in providing services to
commercial and business establishments. Operations may include large-scale
facilities and storage of merchandise and equipment outside enclosed buildings.
      SERVICES, HEALTH. Kidney dialysis centers, blood banks, birth control
clinics, drug treatment centers and similar uses.
      SERVICES, PERSONAL. An establishment primarily engaged in providing a
service to individuals such as a beauty and/or barbershop, a dry-cleaning
establishment, advertising, or computer service.
      SETBACK. The minimum required horizontal distance between a structure and
the lesser of either the lot line, street right-of-way line or the line that
marks the beginning of street maintenance by NCDOT.
      SETBACK LINES. The lines on the front, rear and sides of a lot which
delineate the area within which a structure may be built and maintained
according to the district regulations.
      SHEET METAL SHOPS. This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily
engaged in manufacturing sheet metal work (except stampings).
      SHOE REPAIR AND SHINING. This industry comprises establishments primarily
engaged in repairing footwear and/or repairing other leather or leather-like
goods, without retailing new footwear and leather or leather-like goods such as
handbags and briefcases.
      SHOE STORES. This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in
retailing all types of new footwear (except hosiery and specialty sports
footwear such as golf shoes, bowling shoes and spiked shoes). Establishments
primarily engaged in retailing new tennis shoes or sneakers are included in
this industry.
      SHOPPING CENTER. A building or group of either connected or freestanding
which is designed with common parking, pedestrian movement, ingress and egress,
and used for the sale of merchandise or services to the public.
      SIDE YARD. See YARD, SIDE.
      SIGN. Any words, letters, figures, numerals, phrases, sentences, emblems,
devices, designs, trade names or trademarks, used to promote an individual,
firm, associations, corporation, profession, business, commodity or product.
Any form of publicity which is visible from any public way, directing attention
to an individual, business, commodity, service, activity or product, by means
of words,  lettering, parts of letters, figures, numerals, phrases, sentences,
emblems, devices, designs, trade names or trademarks, or other pictorial matter
designed to convey such information, and displayed by means of paint, bills,
posters, panels or other devices erected on an open framework, or attached or
otherwise applied to stakes, posts, poles, trees, buildings or other structures
or supports.
         (a)   SIGN, AWNING (ON-PREMISES). An on-premises sign constructed of
fabric-like, nonrigid material, which is a part of a fabric or flexible plastic
awning framed and attached to a building.
         (b)   SIGN, GROUND (OFF-PREMISES). A freestanding sign which draws
attention to or communicates information about a business, service, commodity,
accommodation, attraction or other activity which is conducted, sold or offered
at a location other than the premises on which the sign is located.
         (c)   SIGN, GROUND (ON-PREMISES). A freestanding on-premises sign.
         (d)   SIGN, MARQUEE. Any canopy substantially framed in steel which is
durably constructed and of sufficient strength and design to carry superimposed
sign structures.
         (e)   SIGN, OFF-PREMISES. See SIGN, GROUND (OFF-PREMISES).
         (f)   SIGN, ON-PREMISES. A sign displaying information pertaining only
to a business, industry, activity or profession located on the premises where
the sign is displayed and pertaining only to the name of the business, type of
product sold, manufactured or assembled, and/or service, activity or
entertainment offered on said premises, including business identification and
occupancy signs.
         (g)   SIGN PAINTING. These establishments are primarily engaged in
painting signs to be used for advertising purposes.
         (h)   SIGN, PROJECTING (ON-PREMISES). An on-premises sign supported by
a pole or other supporting structure, hanging from a building.
         (i)   SIGN, REAL ESTATE. A sign which is designed for the sale, lease,
promotion and identification of real estate.
         (j)   SIGN, ROOF (ON-PREMISES). An on-premises sign located above the
eaves and below the peak of the roof where the sign is located.
         (k)   SIGN, WALL (ON-PREMISES). An on-premises sign affixed to the
wall of any building and completely in contact with the building throughout its
greatest dimension, which does not extend beyond the main wall of the building
more than 12 inches, except in accordance with these regulations.
      SKATING RINKS. These establishments are primarily engaged in providing
recreational skating facilities for ice skating, roller-skating and/or
rollerblading.
      SLAUGHTERHOUSE. This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily
engaged in slaughtering animals (except poultry and small game). Establishments
that slaughter and prepare meats are included in this industry.
      SLEEPING UNIT. A room or space in which people sleep, which can also
include permanent provisions for living, eating, and either sanitation or
kitchen facilities but not both. Such rooms and spaces that are also part of a
dwelling unit are not sleeping units.
      SMALL MOTOR REPAIR. These establishments are primarily engaged in
repairing motors/engines for light machinery, cars and light trucks.
      SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM (SES). The components and subsystems required to
convert solar energy into electric or thermal energy suitable for use. For the
purposes of this definition, this term applies only to solar photovoltaic (PV)
systems and excludes private solar thermal systems and solar hot water systems.
A system fits into one of the two system types: Level 1 SES or Level 2 SES.
         (a)   LEVEL 1 SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. Level 1 SESs include the following:
            1.   Roof mounted on any code-compliant structure.
            2.   Ground-mounted on an area of up to 50% of the footprint of the
primary structure on the parcel but no more than one acre.
            3.   Covering permanent parking lot and other hardscape areas.
            4.   Building integrated solar (i.e., shingle, hanging solar,
canopy, and the like).
         (b)   LEVEL 2 SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. Level 2 SESs are ground-mounted
solar collection systems not included in the definition of level 1 solar energy
system, located on sites five acres or larger.
      SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITY. Any facility involved in the disposal of
solid waste, as defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(35).
      SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL SITE. Defined as in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(36), any
place at which solid wastes are disposed of by incineration, sanitary landfill
or any other method.
      SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). The land in the floodplain subject to a
1% or greater chance of being flooded in any given year as determined in this
chapter.
      SPECIAL USE PERMIT. A permit issued under quasi-judicial procedures to
authorize development or land uses in a particular zoning district upon
presentation of competent, material, and substantial evidence establishing
compliance with one or more general standards requiring that judgment and
discretion be exercised as well as compliance with specific standards.
      SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Less than completely and opaquely covered
human genitals or pubic region or female breasts uncovered below a point
immediately at the top of the areola.
      SPORTING GOODS STORE. These establishments are primarily engaged in
selling new sporting goods such as bicycles and bicycle parts, camping
equipment, exercise and fitness equipment, athletic uniforms, specialty sports
footwear and related accessories.
      SPRINGS MANUFACTURING. This industry comprises establishments primarily
engaged in:
         (a)   Manufacturing steel springs by training techniques such as
cutting, bending and heat winding metal rod or strip stock; and/or
         (b)   Manufacturing wire springs and fabricated wire products from
wire drawn elsewhere (except watch and clock springs).
      STABLE. These establishments are primarily engaged in:
         (a)   Selling horse rides and/or lessons; or
         (b)   Providing room and board for horses owned by others.
      STADIUM, COLISEUM or EXHIBITION BUILDING. A structure or facility
designed, intended or used primarily for public gatherings; indoor exhibitions,
galleries or conventions; or indoor or outdoor spectator events including, but
not limited to, professional and amateur sporting events, concerts, theatrical
presentations, and motor vehicle racing.
      STAINED GLASS SALES. These establishments are primarily engaged in
wholesaling or retailing stained glass with no manufacturing.
      START OF CONSTRUCTION.
         (a)   Includes substantial improvement, and means, for the purposes of
this chapter, the date the building permit was issued, provided the actual
start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition
placement or other improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The
actual START means either the first placement of permanent construction of a
structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation
of piles, the construction of columns or any work beyond the stage of
excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.  Permanent
construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and
filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor
does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers or foundations or
the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the
property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as
dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a substantial
improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of the building, whether that
alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
         (b)   For the purposes of this chapter, structure means a walled and
roofed building, a manufactured home or a gas, liquid or liquefied gas storage
tank that is principally above ground.
      STEALTH TOWERS. A wireless communication tower designated and installed
in such a manner that the antennae, supporting apparatus and associated
structures are aesthetically and architecturally appropriate with respect to
existing structures or the immediate environment in which the tower is located.
Examples include antennas on church steeples, utility poles, bell towers,
flagpoles and water towers; or antennae designed to resemble a tree or other
natural objects.
      STONE AND CLAY PRODUCTS. These establishments are primarily engaged in
transforming stone, granite, marble and/or other natural stone products into
end products such as curbing, without having mined the materials used.
      STORM, TEN-YEAR. The surface runoff resulting from a rainfall of an
intensity expected to be equaled or exceeded, on the average, once in ten years
and of a duration which will produce the maximum peak rate of runoff for the
watershed of interest under average antecedent wetness conditions.
      STORM, 25-YEAR. The surface runoff resulting from a rainfall of an
intensity expected to be equaled or exceeded, on the average, once in 25 years
and of a duration which will produce the maximum peak rate of runoff for the
watershed of interest under average antecedent wetness conditions.
      STORM, 100-YEAR. The surface runoff resulting from a rainfall of an
intensity expected to be equaled or exceeded, on the average, once in 100 years
and of a duration which will produce the maximum peak rate of runoff for the
watershed of interest under average antecedent wetness conditions.
      STREAM BUFFER. A natural or vegetated area through which storm water
runoff flows in a diffuse manner and which provides for infiltration of runoff
and filtering of pollutants. The buffer is measured landward from the top of
the bank defining the edge of the stream channel.
      STREAM, PERENNIAL. A watercourse that flows year-round, including rivers,
streams, lakes, and ponds, indicated as a solid blue line on the most recent
version of USGS 7.5 minute (1:24,000 scale) topographic maps.
      STREETS. See also THOROUGHFARE, CUL-DE-SAC.
         (a)   ARTERIAL STREET. A federal and/or state highway designed
primarily for the movement of large volumes of vehicular traffic from one area
to another: a thoroughfare.
         (b)   COLLECTOR STREET. A public way designed primarily to connect
residential streets with arterial streets and/or to provide direct connection
between two or more arterial streets, and which may be designed to carry
significant volumes of vehicular traffic having neither origin nor destination
on the street.
         (c)   COMMERCIAL/INDUSTRIAL STREET. A public way designed primarily to
connect minor commercial/industrial streets with arterial streets and/or to
provide direct connection between having neither origin, nor destination, on
the street.
         (d)   MINOR STREET. A public way used primarily for providing direct
access to abutting properties, and which does not have collector street
characteristics. MINOR STREETS are further classified as:
            1.   COMMERCIAL-INDUSTRIAL. Those streets whose primary function is
to provide direct access to commercial-industrial property.
            2.   CUL-DE-SAC. A short minor street having one end open to
traffic and the other end permanently terminated with a vehicular turnaround.
            3.   RESIDENTIAL. Those streets whose primary function is to
provide direct access to residential property.
            4.   STREET, HALF. A proposed vehicular travel way intended to be
developed by constructing one-half of a required width of a street with the
remainder to be provided at some future date.
         (e)   STREET, PRIVATE. A vehicular travel way, with direct access off
a public street, not dedicated as a public street.
         (f)   STREET, PUBLIC. A public right-of-way for vehicular travel which
has been constructed and then dedicated to and accepted by the North Carolina
Department of Transportation for public use or which has been otherwise
obtained by such agency for such use, or which is proposed to be constructed
and then dedicated to and accepted by such agency as a public right-of-way for
vehicular traffic for public use pursuant to this chapter. Street
classifications are as follows:
      STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected which is above grade including
a manufactured home and a storage trailer. For purposes of this chapter,
STRUCTURE does not include landscape features, such as ornamental pools,
planting boxes, sculpture, birdbaths, open terraces, at-grade bridges and
walkways, at-grade slab patios, driveways, walls or fences, shelters for pets,
playhouses, open stairs, recreational equipment, flagpoles, underground fallout
shelters, air-conditioning compressors, pump houses, wells, mailboxes, privies,
outdoor fireplaces, gate houses, burial vaults, cemetery markers or monuments,
bus shelters or wharves.
      STRUCTURE, ACCESSORY. A structure detached from a principal building on
the same zoning lot, the use of which is customarily incidental to the
principal building. Accessory dwelling units are considered ACCESSORY
STRUCTURES for the purposes of zoning dimensional standards and development
standards. This includes freestanding satellite dishes, any other devices which
access satellites and amateur radio antennae. Items excluded include doghouses,
fences and other minor personal property.
      SUBDIVIDER. A person engaging in the act of subdividing property.
      SUBDIVISION. All divisions of a tract or parcel of land into two or more
lots, building sites or other divisions when any one or more of those divisions
are created for the purpose of sale or building development (whether immediate
or future), and includes all divisions of land involving the dedication of a
new street or a change in existing streets. This chapter shall apply to new and
existing subdivisions submitted to the Development Services Department,
approved by the Planning Board, and approved by the Board of County
Commissioners. This chapter shall apply to subdivisions where individual lots
are held for sale, lease, rent, whether improved or unimproved.
         (c)   SUBDIVISION, EXEMPT. Not subject to the subdivision regulations
of this chapter.
            1.   The combination or recombination of portions of previously
subdivided and recorded lots where the total number of lots is not increased
and the resultant lots are equal to or exceed the standards of this chapter;
            2.   The division of land into parcels greater than ten acres where
no street right-of-way dedication is involved;
            3.   The public acquisition by purchase of strips of land for the
widening or opening of the streets or for public transportation system
corridors;
            4.   The division of a tract in single ownership whose entire area
is no greater than two acres into not more than three lots or tracts, where no
street right-of-way dedication is involved or proposed, and where the resultant
lots are equal to or exceed the standards of this chapter; and
            5.   The division of a tract into parcels in accordance with the
terms of a probated will or in accordance with intestate succession under G.S.
Ch. 29.
         (b)   SUBDIVISION, MAJOR. Any subdivision that is not a minor or
exempt subdivision.
         (c)   SUBDIVISION, MINOR. A minor subdivision is a subdivision which
contains eight five or fewer lots, each lot fronting with access on a state-
maintained street or road.
      SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure during
any one-year period whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before
damaged condition would equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the
structure before the damage occurred. See definition of “substantial
improvement”. SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE also means flood -related damage sustained by
a structure on two separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the
cost of repairs at the time of each such flood event, on the average, equals or
exceeds 25% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
      SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any combination of repairs, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition or other improvement of a structure, taking place
during any one-year period for which the cost equals or exceeds 50% of the
market value of the structure before the “start of construction” of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred “substantial
damage”, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
         (a)   Any correction of existing violations of state or community
health, sanitary or safety code specifications which have been identified by
the community code enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a historic structure; provided that, the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure.
      SUPERMARKET. Food markets or combination food markets and department
stores with more than 3,000 square feet of floor area.
      SURVEYOR. A person licensed to practice surveying in the State of North
Carolina.
      SWIMMING POOL, PRIVATE. A swimming pool intended for the private, non-
commercial use of a property owner(s), homeowner’s association, residential
development or club.
      SWIMMING POOL, PUBLIC. A swimming pool intended for use by the public,
traditionally operated within a public park by a local government.
      TALL BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES. Any building, structure or unit within a
multi-unit building, with a vertical height of more than 40 feet measured from
the top of the foundation of said building, structure or unit and the uppermost
point of said building, structure or unit; provided, however, that, where such
foundation measured from the natural, finished grade of the crest or the
natural, finished grade of the high side slope of a ridge exceeds three feet,
then such measurement in excess of three feet shall be included in the 40 feet
limitation described herein; provided, further, that, no such building,
structure or unit shall protrude at its uppermost point above the crest of the
ridge by more than 35 feet. TALL BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES do not include:
         (a)   Water, radio, telephone or television towers or any equipment
for the transmission of electricity or communications or both;
         (b)   Structures of a relatively slender nature and minor vertical
projections of a parent building, including chimneys, flag poles, flues,
spires, steeples, belfries, cupolas, antennas, poles, wires, or windmills; and
         (c)   Buildings and structures designated as National Historic Sites
in the National Archives Registry.
      TEA HOUSE. See COFFEE HOUSE.
      TESTING STANDARDS (WIRELESS COMMUNICATION TOWERS). Testing agencies:
American National Standards Institute (ANSI), Electronics Industry Association
(EIA) and the Telecommunications Industry Association (TIA).
      TEXTILE FINISHING AND DYEING.
         (a)   This industry comprises:
            1.   Establishments primarily engaged in finishing of textiles,
fabrics and apparel; and
            2.   Establishments of converters who buy fabric goods in the grey,
have them finished on contract, and sell at wholesale.
         (b)   Finishing operations include bleaching, dyeing, printing (e.g.,
roller, screen, flock, plisse), stonewashing and other mechanical finishing
such as press making, shrinking, sponging, calendering, mercerizing and
napping; as well as cleaning, scouring and the preparation of natural fibers
and raw stock.
      TRANSPORTATION NETWORK. Networks of transportation links, services and
facilities which collectively are of statewide importance though these
individual corridors, facilities or services which make up the network may be
of only local or regional significance. Examples include highways, rail, public
transportation, aviation and bicycle systems.
      THOROUGHFARE. Any street designated on the adopted thoroughfare plan or
any street which is an extension of any street on the thoroughfare plan, and
which extends into the area not covered by the THOROUGHFARE PLAN.
      TIRE RECAPPING SHOPS. These establishments are primarily engaged in
refurbishing tires.
      TOBACCO PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING. This industry comprises establishments
primarily engaged in manufacturing cigarettes, cigars, smoking and chewing
tobacco, and reconstituted tobacco.
      TOBACCO SHOP. This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily
engaged in retailing cigarettes, cigars, tobacco, pipes and other smokers’
supplies.
      TOWER ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A structure or structures, such as water
towers, utility towers, advertising, signs, farm silos, large buildings such as
hospitals, multiple story complexes, church steeples, and the like, equipped to
support attached wireless communication towers.
      TOWNHOUSE. A one-family dwelling unit, with a private entrance, which is
part of a structure whose dwelling units are attached horizontally in a linear
arrangement and having a totally exposed front and rear wall to be used for
access, light and ventilation.
      TRACT. All contiguous land and bodies of water being disturbed or to be
disturbed as a unit, regardless of ownership.
      TRAILER, TRAVEL. See RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
      TRANSFER COMPANIES. This industry comprises establishments primarily
engaged in providing local general freight trucking. General freight
establishments handle a wide variety of commodities, generally palletized and
transported in a container or van trailer. Local general freight trucking
establishments usually provide trucking within a metropolitan area that may
cross state lines. Generally, the trips are same-day return.
      TREE SERVICE. A service provider who engages in the destruction of trees
by cutting, girdling or interfering the water supply, by applying chemicals, or
regarding around the trunk of the tree.
      TRUCK, FARM EQUIPMENT, HEAVY EQUIPMENT SALES AND SERVICE. These
establishments are primarily engaged in sales or service of heavy equipment
such as transfer trucks, tractors, backhoes, dump trucks, and the like.
      TRUCK/FREIGHT TERMINAL. Any facility for handling freight, with or
without storage and maintenance facilities.
      UPHOLSTERING SHOPS. These establishments are primarily engaged in
finishing or repairing furniture with fabric and any associated stuffing
materials.
      USE. The purpose or activity for which land or structures are designed,
arranged or intended, or for which land or structures are occupied or
maintained, including any such activity with respect to the requirements of
this chapter.
      USE, ACCESSORY. A use or activity which is customarily incidental to a
specific principal use, and which is located on the same zoning lot as the
associated principal use except for off-site parking or other uses provided for
by this chapter.
      USE, NON-CONFORMING. Any use not permitted in the zoning district in
which it is located, which lawfully exists by virtue of the fact that it
existed on 9-17-2001, or lawfully existed as of the effective date of this
chapter or subsequent amendments, and which has not been discontinued under the
provisions of this chapter.
      USE, PRINCIPAL. Those uses of land listed in the Table of Uses (§
154.007-01). Also referred to as a PERMITTED USE.
      USE, TEMPORARY. A use which may be in a zoning district not allowing the
use on a permanent basis, after issuance of a permit specifying a limited
duration for the use.
      USGS. United States Geological Survey.
      UTILITY COMPANY OPERATION CENTER. Industries in the utilities subsector
which provide electric power, natural gas, steam supply, water supply and
sewage removal through a permanent infrastructure of lines, mains and pipes.
      VACUUM CLEANER REPAIR. These establishments are primarily engaged in
repairing vacuum cleaners without retailing new vacuum cleaners.
      VARIANCE. An action requesting consideration for relief from the strict
enforcement of the standards of this chapter where special circumstances or
unusual considerations may exist on the parcel of land.
      VARIETY STORES. This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged
in retailing new goods in general merchandise stores (except department stores,
warehouse clubs, superstores and supercenters). These establishments retail a
general line of new merchandise such as apparel, automotive parts, dry goods,
hardware, groceries, housewares or home furnishings, and other lines in limited
amounts, with none of the lines predominating.
      VENDING COMPANIES. This industry comprises establishments primarily
engaged in retailing merchandise through vending machines that they service.
      VESTED RIGHT. A right pursuant to G.S. §§ 160D-102, 160D-108(c), and
160D-108.1 to undertake and complete the development and use of property under
the terms and conditions of an approved site specific development plan.
      VICTORIAN STYLE. Any product or style used during the years 1837–1901.
Architectural styles of the period include Eastlake, Gothic Revival, High
Victorian Gothic, Italianate, Queen Ann, Renaissance Revival and Richardsonian
Romanesque. Features included: polychrome masonry exteriors with bays, towers
and turrets; typically, with contrasting colors and/or textures of brick or
stone. Also known as VICTORIAN GOTHIC.
      VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the provisions of this chapter. A structure or other development
that is not in full compliance with this chapter shall be presumed to be in
VIOLATION of this chapter until such time as documentation is provided to
refute any presumed violation.
      WAREHOUSING. Establishments primarily engaged in the warehousing and
storage of general merchandise, refrigerated goods and farm products.
      WASTE. Surplus materials resulting from on-site construction and disposed
of at other locations.
      WATCH, CLOCK, AND JEWELRY REPAIR. This industry comprises establishments
primarily engaged in repairing and servicing without retailing watches, clocks
and jewelry.
      WATER SUPPLY WATERSHED. An area from which water drains to a point of
impoundment and the water is then used principally as a source for a public
water supply.
      WATER SURFACE ELEVATION (WSE). The height, in relation to mean sea level
(depth above existing grade in case of Zone AO), of floods of various
magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine areas.
      WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
      WATERSHED PROTECTION ORDINANCE. The Surry County Watershed Protection
Ordinance.
      WETLANDS. Areas inundated or saturated by surface or ground water at a
frequency and duration sufficient to support and, under normal circumstances,
do support a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated
soil conditions. WETLANDS generally include swamps, marshes, bogs and similar
areas.
      WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTION. These establishments are wholesalers primarily
engaged in reselling products to other wholesalers.
      WHOLESALE STORE. These establishments are primarily engaged in re-selling
products to retail establishments.
      WINERY, BREWERY OR DISTILLERY. A manufacturing facility or establishment
engaged in the processing of fruits, hops, or other grains to produce wine,
wine-like, or distilled beverages.
      WINERY, BREWERY OR DISTILLERY TASTING ROOM. A facility in which wine
products used in the making of beverages are grown or processed on the owner’s
property may be tasted and sold. This definition shall also include the
following associated uses as permitted: gift/retail sales, assembly areas,
meeting rooms, dining and catering facilities, and a restaurant facility, if
expressly requested and permitted.
      WIRELESS COMMUNICATION TOWER. Any tower transmitting or receiving
signals, including, without limitation, telephonic, radio, television, cable
television or microwave signals. Non-commercial towers, not exceeding 35 feet
and which are intended for personal private use by the property owner, are
exempt from these regulations. See §
154.008.
      WOOD CLAPBOARD. One of a series of wood boards used for siding or
roofing; most often has a tapered cross section. This form of construction
dates to the mid-1700s and refers to a thin, rived board, four to five feet in
length, used as weatherboard.
      WOODWORKING FABRICATION SHOP. A small-scale (3,000 square feet or less)
facility, which is engaged in the shaping of wood and similar materials.
      WOODWORKING PLANT. A large-scale (greater than 3,001 square feet)
facility, which is engaged in the shaping of wood and similar materials.
      YARD. Any area of land located between a lot line and a required setback
line. The minimum depth of a YARD shall be determined by horizontal measurement
at a right angle from the applicable lot line.
         (a)   YARD, FRONT. The yard extending across the full width of the lot
and lying between the front lot line and the front setback line as required in
this chapter.
         (b)   YARD, INTERIOR SIDE. The yard extending along the length of the
lot between the required front yard and the required rear yard, and between the
side lot line and the side building setback line, as required in this chapter;
provided that the side lot line is not adjacent to a public street right-of-
way.
         (c)   YARD, REAR. The yard extending across the full width of the lot
and lying between the rear lot line and the rear building setback line as
required in this chapter.
         (d)   YARD, SIDE. An open, unoccupied space situated between the
sideline of the building and the adjacent sideline of the lot and extending
from the rear line of the front yard to the front line of the rear yard.
         (e)   YARD, STREET SIDE. The yard extending along the length of the
lot between the required front yard and the required rear yard adjacent to a
public right-of-way or private access easement and between the side lot line
and the side building setback line as required in this chapter.
      ZERO LOT LINE. A common lot line on which an interior or exterior wall of
a structure may be constructed which distinguishes the property line.
      ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. Individual, or individuals, appointed by the County
Manager, charged with the administration of this chapter to the public. The
Development Services Director shall also be considered a ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
      ZONING DISTRICT. A portion or section of the county, outside the land use
jurisdiction of any municipality, for which the regulations and provisions
governing the use of buildings and lands are uniform for each class of uses
permitted therein. May also be referred to as a GENERAL USE ZONING DISTRICT or
a PRINCIPAL ZONING DISTRICT in this chapter.
      ZONING LOT. A lot, or portion thereof, within a single zoning district
shall be considered and treated as one zoning lot.
      ZONING ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Designee or such other person in the
Development Services Department as the adopting jurisdiction may designate as
the officer principally responsible for the enforcement of this chapter.
      ZONING PERMIT. A permit issued by the Zoning Officer or his or her
designee which authorizes the recipient to use or occupy a tract of land or a
structure; or to erect, alter or install a structure or sign which fully meets
the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 9-17-2001; Ord. passed 3-17-2003; Ord. passed 5-5-2003; Ord.
passed 5-29-2003; Ord. passed 12-1-2003; Ord. passed 5-17-2004; Ord. passed 8-
16-2004; Ord. passed 2-21-2005; Ord. passed 4-18-2005; Ord. passed 1-17-2006;
Ord. passed 7-20-2009; Ord. passed 5-17-2009; Ord. passed 11-1-2010; Ord.
passed 4-20-2015; Ord. passed 9-19-2016; Ord. passed 8-21-2017; Ord. passed 12-
7-2020; Ord. passed - -2021; Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.004 PLANNING BOARD, BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT, HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION
AND TECHNICAL REVIEW COMMITTEE.
§ 154.004-01 PLANNING BOARD.
   (A)   Establishment.
      (1)   The Board of Commissioners finds that it is not necessary and not
in the public interest to maintain a separate Planning Board and Board of
Adjustment to perform their duties. Therefore, as provided in §
154.004-02, the Board of Commissioners shall designate and appoint members of
the Planning Board to serve as the Board of Adjustment. The Planning Board
shall also serve as the Surry County Historic Preservation Commission.
      (2)   The Board of Commissioners finds that the dissolution of the
Planning Board which existed prior to the adoption of this chapter and
reappointment of members is necessary in order for the Board of Commissioners
to appoint members who will be best suited to perform the added duties and
responsibilities of the Board of Adjustment and also comply with the special
interest, experience or education requirements of G.S. § 160D-303(a) and (b).
      (3)   The Planning Board which existed prior to the adoption of this
chapter is hereby dissolved and the Board of County Commissioners shall appoint
members to the new Planning Board. The Board of County Commissioners shall also
designate and appoint members of the new Planning Board to serve as members of
the Board of Adjustment according to the provisions of §
154.004-02.
      (4)   There shall be and hereby is created a Planning Board (hereafter
called the “Board”) consisting of five regular members and one alternate.
   (B)   Zoning powers and duties. The Surry County Planning Board shall have
certain powers and duties to be carried out in accordance with this chapter
which include, but are not limited to the following:
      (1)   To review and make recommendations to the Board of Commissioners on
all matters relating to the land use planning and zoning, including all land
use plans, within the jurisdiction of Surry County, whenever such matters
require the attention of the Board of Commissioners. These include requests for
rezonings and zoning text amendments;
      (2)   To adopt such rules of procedure necessary for the administration
of its responsibilities consistent with this chapter;
      (3)   To review and, based on conformity with standards contained in this
chapter, approve or deny preliminary subdivision plans and major site plans
which are submitted;
      (4)   To prepare and adopt rules of procedure, and prepare and adopt
principles and standards, not inconsistent with G.S. § 160D-947, to guide the
Board in determining congruity with the special character of the Village of
Rockford District for new construction, alterations, additions, moving and
demolition of properties within the Village of Rockford District. The Planning
Board is filling the role of a Historic Preservation Commission as authorized
by G.S. § 160D-303(B);
      (5)   To review and act upon proposals for alterations, demolitions, or
new construction within the VR District through the application for
certificates of appropriateness;
      (6)   To hear and decide on special use permits; use changes; and permits
for alteration, expansion change or rebuilding of a nonconformity in the VR
District;
      (7)   To act as the County Board of Adjustment as described in §
154.004-02; and
      (8)   To assume any other duties assigned by the Board of Commissioners,
including review and approval of subdivisions and site plans in accordance with
§
154.002-10.
   (C)   Number of board members; appointment. The Board of County
Commissioners shall appoint members of the Planning Board. The Planning Board
shall consist of five regular members and one alternate who shall be citizens
and residents of Surry County. At least three of the members shall have
demonstrated special interest, experience, or education in history,
architecture, or related fields. The Board shall serve at the pleasure of the
Board of County Commissioners. Any appointee may be removed at any time by a
majority vote of the Board of Commissioners.
   (D)   Officers. The Board shall annually elect one of its members as
Chairperson, another as Vice-Chairperson, and may appoint a Secretary and such
other subordinates as may be authorized by the Board of County Commissioners.
   (E)   Length of terms. Terms of appointment shall be for three years and
there shall be no limits of appointment. The Board shall serve at the pleasure
of the Board of County Commissioners. Any appointee may be removed at any time
by a majority vote of the Board of Commissioners. In appointing the original
members or in the filling of vacancies caused by the expiration of the terms of
existing members, the Board of Commissioners may appoint certain members for
less than three years so that the terms of all members shall not expire at the
same time.
   (F)   Vacancies. Vacancies that may occur for reasons other than term
expiration shall be filled by appointment of the Board of Commissioners for the
period of the unexpired term.
   (G)   Oath of office. Pursuant to G.S. § 153A-26, all members appointed to
the Planning Board shall, before entering their duties, qualify by taking an
oath of office as required by G.S. § 153A-26.
   (H)   Minutes. Pursuant to G.S. § 160D-308, the Planning Board shall keep
minutes of its proceedings.
   (I)   Voting. A majority of the members shall be required to decide any
matter. For the purposes of this division, vacant positions on the Board and
members who are disqualified from voting shall not be considered members of the
Board for calculation of the requisite majority if there are no qualified
alternates available to take the place of such members.
   (J)   Conduct of meetings. All meetings of the Planning Board shall be open
to the public. The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings showing the vote
of each member upon each issue and the absence or failure of any member to
vote. Minutes shall be maintained by the County Clerk and shall be available
for public review.
   (K)   Notice. The Board shall comply with North Carolina Public Meetings Law
prior to the public meeting.
   (L)   Conflict of interest. A Planning Board member shall not vote on any
advisory or legislative decision regarding a development regulation adopted
pursuant to G.S. Ch. 160D where the outcome of the matter being considered is
reasonably likely to have a direct, substantial, and readily identifiable
financial impact on the member. An appointed Board member shall not vote on any
zoning amendment if the landowner of the property subject to a rezoning
petition or the applicant for a text amendment is a person with whom the member
has a close familial, business, or other associational relationship. CLOSE
FAMILIAL RELATIONSHIP means a spouse, parent, child, brother, sister,
grandparent, or grandchild.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.004-02 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   Establishment.
      (1)   The Board of Commissioners finds that it is not necessary and not
in the public interest to maintain a separate Planning Board and Board of
Adjustment. The Board of Adjustment established with the Surry County
Development Ordinance previously enacted is hereby dissolved in order to allow
the Board of Commissioners to designate the Planning Board to perform all of
the duties of the Board of Adjustment.
      (2)   There shall be and hereby is created a Board of Adjustment
(hereafter called the “Board”). The Planning Board is hereby designated to
perform all of the duties of the Board of Adjustment and shall consist of the
five regular members and one alternate member of the Planning Board.
   (B)   Powers and duties. The Surry County Board of Adjustment shall have
certain powers and duties to be carried out in accordance with this chapter
which include the following:
      (1)   To hear and decide appeals from any specific order, requirement,
decision, or determination made under this chapter by the Zoning Administrator
in accordance with the provisions of §§
154.009;
      (2)   To hear and decide petitions for variances from the regulations of
this chapter in accordance with the provisions of §§
154.010;
      (3)   To hear, decide, and authorize the issuance of any special use
permits assigned to the Board elsewhere in this chapter;
      (4)   To hear requests for and to grant variances to the floodplain
regulations;
      (5)   To hear requests for variances to any watershed protection order,
requirement, decision, or determination made by the Zoning Administrator;
      (6)   To adopt such rules of procedure necessary for the administration
of its responsibilities consistent with this chapter; and
      (7)   To grant permits for any proposed alteration, expansion, change,
rebuilding or resumption of a non-conformity.
   (C)   Oath of office. Pursuant to G.S. § 153A-26, all members appointed to
the Board of Adjustment shall, before entering their duties, qualify by taking
an oath of office as required by G.S. § 153A-26.
   (D)   Minutes. Pursuant to G.S. § 160D-308, the Board of Adjustment shall
keep minutes of its proceedings.
   (E)   Voting. The concurring vote of four-fifths majority shall be required
to grant a variance to an applicant. A majority of the members shall be
required to decide any other quasi-judicial matter or to determine an appeal
made in certiorari. For the purposes of this division, vacant positions on the
Board and members who are disqualified from voting on a quasi-judicial matter
under G.S. § 160D-109(d) shall not be considered members of the Board for
calculation of the requisite majority if there are no qualified alternates
available to take the place of such members. A minimum of five members is
required to constitute a quorum for the purposes of voting on decisions.
   (F)   Conduct of meetings. All meetings of the Board of Adjustment shall be
open to the public. The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings showing the
vote of each member upon each issue and the absence or failure of any member to
vote. Minutes shall clearly reflect presenting witnesses, evidence presented,
findings of fact, and decisions made. Minutes shall be maintained by the County
Clerk and shall be available for public review.
   (G)   Administering oaths and compelling attendance of witnesses. The
Chairperson or, in his or her absence, the acting Chairperson may administer
oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses.
   (H)   Notice. The Board shall not take any action under their powers and
duties until a public hearing is held according to the provisions of §§
154.005 and G.S. Ch. 160D. Notice of evidentiary hearings conducted pursuant to
G.S. § 160D-406 shall be mailed to the person or entity whose appeal,
application, or request is the subject of the hearing; to the owner of the
property that is the subject of the hearing if the owner did not initiate the
hearing; to the owners of all parcels of land abutting the parcel of land that
is the subject of the hearing; and to any other persons entitled to receive
notice as provided by the local development regulation. In the absence of
evidence to the contrary, the county may rely on the county tax listing to
determine owners of property entitled to mailed notice. The notice must be
deposited in the mail at least ten days, but not more than 25 days, prior to
the date of the hearing. Within that same time period, the county shall also
prominently post a notice of the hearing on the site that is the subject of the
hearing or on an adjacent street or highway right-of-way.
   (I)   Conflict of interest. A Board of Adjustment member, when exercising
any quasi-judicial function, shall not participate in or vote on any quasi-
judicial matter in a manner that would violate affected persons’ constitutional
rights to an impartial decision-maker. Impermissible violations of due process
include, but are not limited to, a member having a fixed opinion prior to
hearing the matter that is not susceptible to change, undisclosed ex parte
communications, a close familial, business, or other associational relationship
with an affected person, or a financial interest in the outcome of the matter.
CLOSE FAMILIAL RELATIONSHIP means a spouse, parent, child, brother, sister,
grandparent, or grandchild, as well as the step, half and in-law relationships
of the above (G.S. § 160D-109).
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.004-03 HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION (HPC).
   (A)   Establishment. Pursuant to the authority conferred by G.S. §§ 160D-
940—949 and 160D-951, there shall be and is hereby created a Historic
Preservation Commission appointed by the Board County Commissioners. Pursuant
to G.S. § 160D-303(b), the Surry County Planning Board is designated as the
Surry County Historic Preservation Commission.
   (B)   Procedural provisions and conflict of interest. The HPC shall follow
the conflict of interest and all other procedural provisions of the Planning
Board listed in §
154.004-01.
   (C)   Powers and duties. The Commission shall act to promote, enhance, and
preserve the character and heritage of Surry County. The powers and duties of
the Historic Preservation Commission are limited to properties located within
the boundaries of the Village of Rockford District. The Commission shall have
all powers of an historic preservation commission as provided in G.S. § 160D-
942, including the following duties and responsibilities: to review and advise
the Zoning Administrator on applications for site plan approval for uses that
are permitted in the district and do not require special use permits.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.004-04 TECHNICAL REVIEW COMMITTEE.
   (A)   Establishment. There shall be and is hereby created a Technical Review
Committee appointed by the Board County Commissioners.
   (B)   Powers and duties. The Surry County Technical Review Committee shall
have certain powers and duties to be carried out in accordance with this
chapter which include the following:
      (1)   To review and make recommendations regarding subdivisions, site
plans and development plans before they are approved.
      (2)   To review and advise the Planning Board, for properties subject to
the approval of the Historic Preservation Commission, on requests for special
use permits, petitions for the continuance of non-conforming uses and
certificates of appropriateness meeting the requirements of § 154.006-22.
   (C)   Members may include:
      (1)   The District Highway Engineer as to proposed state streets, state
highways and related drainage systems;
      (2)   The County Health Director or local public utility, as appropriate,
as to proposed water or sewerage systems;
      (3)   The Director, NC Division of Environmental Management as to
Development Standards in the Mitchell River Outstanding Resource Water Area for
subdivisions proposed for that area;
      (4)   The North Carolina Department of Environmental Quality;
      (5)   The Surry County Fire Marshal;
      (6)   The Development Services Director;
      (7)   The Public Works Director;
      (8)   The Chief Building Inspector; and
      (9)   Any other agency or official designated by the Board of
Commissioners.
   (D)   Failure of the members to submit their comments and recommendations
shall not delay action within the prescribed time limits for subdivision or
site plan approval.
   (E)   Minutes. Pursuant to G.S. § 160D-308, the Technical Review Committee
shall keep minutes of its proceedings.
   (F)   Conflicts of interest. No staff member serving on the Technical Review
Committee shall make a final decision on an administrative decision required by
G.S. Ch. 160D if the outcome of that decision would have a direct, substantial,
and readily identifiable financial impact on the staff member or if the
applicant or other person subject to that decision is a person with whom the
staff member has a close familial, business, or other associational
relationship.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.005 ADMINISTRATION, ENFORCEMENT, AND NON-CONFORMITIES.
§ 154.005-01 ZONING ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Zoning Administrator. A Zoning Administrator appointed by the County
Manager, or his or her authorized agent, is hereby authorized, and it shall be
his or her duty, to administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter. This
official shall have the right to enter upon the premises at any reasonable time
necessary to carry out his or her duties. It is the intention of this chapter
that all questions arising in connection with enforcement and interpretation
shall be presented first to the Zoning Administrator. Appeal from his or her
decision shall be made to the Board of Adjustment.
   (B)   Procedures. In administering the provisions of this chapter, the
Zoning Administrator shall:
      (1)   Make and maintain records of all applications for permits and
requests listed herein, and records of all permits issued or denied, with
notations of all special conditions or modifications involved;
      (2)   File and safely keep copies of all plans submitted, and the same
shall form a part of the records of his or her office and shall be available
for inspection at reasonable times by any interested person;
      (3)   Transmit to the appropriate board or commission and the Board of
County Commissioners all applications and plans for which its review and
approval is required;
      (4)   Conduct inspections of the premises and, upon finding that any of
the provisions of this chapter are being violated, notify in writing the person
responsible for such violations, indicating the nature of the violation and
ordering the action necessary to correct it; and
      (5)   Provide written notice to property owners and concerned parties of
all binding interpretations of compliance with this chapter regarding land
development proposals.
   (C)   Zoning permits.
      (1)   A valid zoning permit shall be presented with any application for a
building permit. No building permit shall be issued for any activity in a zoned
area until such zoning permit is presented.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to commence the excavation for, or the
construction of, any building or other structure including accessory
structures; or to commence the moving, alteration or repair of any structures;
or the use of any land or building, including accessory structures, until the
Zoning Administrator has issued a zoning permit for such work or use including
a statement that the plans, specifications and intended use of such land, or
structures, in all respects conforms with the provisions of this chapter.
Application for a zoning permit shall be made in writing to the Zoning
Administrator on forms provided for that purpose. Zoning permits shall be void
after six months from the date of issue unless substantial progress on the
project has been made by that time.
   (D)   Approval of plans. It shall be unlawful for the Zoning Administrator
to approve any site plans or issue a zoning permit for any purpose regulated by
this chapter until he/she has inspected such site plans in detail and found
them in conformity with this chapter. To this end, the Zoning Administrator
shall require that every application for a zoning permit be accompanied by a
site plan or plat meeting the requirements of §§
154.012.
   (E)   Issuance of permits. If the proposed activity, as set forth in the
application, is in conformity with the provisions of this chapter, the Zoning
Administrator, or their assigns, shall issue a zoning permit. If any
application for a zoning permit is not approved, the Zoning Administrator shall
state in writing on the application the cause for such disapproval. Issuance of
a permit shall in no case be construed as waiving any provision of this chapter
or any other ordinance or regulation.
(Ord. passed 9-17-2001; Ord. passed 3-17-2003; Ord. passed 5-5-2003; Ord.
passed 5-29-2003; Ord. passed 12-1-2003; Ord. passed 5-17-2004; Ord. passed 8-
16-2004; Ord. passed 2-21-2005; Ord. passed 4-18-2005; Ord. passed 1-17-2006;
Ord. passed 11-4-2013; Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.005-02 ADMINISTRATIVE DEVELOPMENT APPROVALS AND DETERMINATIONS.
   It shall be the responsibility of the Zoning Administrator to make
determinations under development regulations.
   (A)   Determinations and notice of determination. Determinations shall be
given in writing to the owner of the property that is the subject of the
determination and to the party who sought the determination, if different from
the owner. The written notice shall be delivered by personal delivery,
electronic mail, or by first-class mail. The notice shall be delivered to the
last address listed for the owner of the affected property on the county tax
abstract and to the address provided in the application or request for a
determination if the party seeking the determination is different from the
owner.
   (B)   Duration of development approval. A development approval issued
expires one year after the date of issuance if the work authorized by the
development approval has not been substantially commenced.
   (C)   Changes. After a development approval has been issued, no deviations
from the terms of the application or the development approval shall be made
until written approval of proposed changes or deviations has been obtained.
   (D)   Inspections. Administrative staff may inspect work undertaken pursuant
to a development approval to assure that the work is being done in accordance
with applicable state and local laws and of the terms of the approval. In
exercising this power, staff are authorized to enter any premises within the
jurisdiction of the local government at all reasonable hours for the purposes
of inspection or other enforcement action, upon presentation of proper
credentials; provided, however, that the appropriate consent has been given for
inspection of areas not open to the public or that an appropriate inspection
warrant has been secured.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.005-03 CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Certificate required. No new building or part thereof shall be
occupied, and no addition or enlargement of any existing building shall be
occupied, and no existing building after being altered or moved shall be
occupied, and no change of occupancy shall be made in any existing building or
part thereof, until the Building Inspector or Zoning Administrator has issued a
certificate of occupancy therefor. The change of occupancy provision shall not
apply to rooms intended for transit rental. A temporary certificate of
occupancy may be issued for a portion or portions of a building which may
safely be occupied prior to final completion and occupancy of the entire
building or for other temporary uses.
   (B)   Issuance. The certificate of occupancy shall be issued automatically
by the Building Inspector after all final inspections have been made.
   (C)   Existing buildings. In the case of existing buildings or other uses
not requiring a building permit, after supplying the information and data
necessary to determine compliance with this chapter and appropriate regulatory
codes of Surry County for the occupancy intended, the Zoning Administrator
shall issue a certificate of occupancy when, after examination and inspection,
it is found that the building or use in all respects conforms to the provisions
of this chapter and appropriate regulatory codes of Surry County for the
occupancy intended.
(Ord. passed 9-17-2001; Ord. passed 3-17-2003; Ord. passed 5-5-2003; Ord.
passed 5-29-2003; Ord. passed 12-1-2003; Ord. passed 5-17-2004; Ord. passed 8-
16-2004; Ord. passed 2-21-2005; Ord. passed 4-18-2005; Ord. passed 1-17-2006;
Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.005-04 OTHER PERMITS.
   The Zoning Administrator shall be authorized to issue other permits as
required by this chapter or the Board of County Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 9-17-2001; Ord. passed 3-17-2003; Ord. passed 5-5-2003; Ord.
passed 5-29-2003; Ord. passed 12-1-2003; Ord. passed 5-17-2004; Ord. passed 8-
16-2004; Ord. passed 2-21-2005; Ord. passed 4-18-2005; Ord. passed 1-17-2006;
Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.005-05 PUBLIC HEARINGS; REVOCATION OF PERMITS AND VARIANCES; APPEALS;
FEES.
   (A)   Public hearings.
      (1)   Amendment (rezoning or text). Any case involving a change of zoning
district or other ordinance change requires a public hearing to be held by the
Planning Board, and a public hearing to be held by the Board of Commissioners.
      (2)   Appeal, variance, special use permit. Any case involving an appeal,
variance, or a special use permit outside the VR District requires a public
hearing to be held by the Board of Adjustment.
      (3)   VR District. Any case involving a special use permit for the VR
District requires a public hearing to be held by the Planning Board.
      (4)   Each board shall fix a date for hearing the appeal or request, to
be held within 60 days of the date a complete application was submitted, and
give public notice as required by law, as well as due notice to the parties in
interest. At the hearing, any person or party may appear in person or by agent
or attorney. Each board shall act on a matter within a reasonable time after
the termination of the proceedings.
      (5)   Notice of the hearing shall follow the requirements of G.S. Ch.160D
and meet the provisions for particular approval process listed in this chapter.
   (B)   Revocation of development approvals. In addition to initiation of
enforcement actions under G.S. § 160D-404, development approvals may be revoked
by the authority or board issuing the development approval by notifying the
holder in writing stating the reason for the revocation. The authority or board
shall follow the same development review and approval process required for
issuance of the development approval, including any required notice or hearing,
in the review and approval of any revocation of that approval. Development
approvals shall be revoked for any substantial departure from the approved
application, plans, or specifications; for refusal or failure to comply with
the requirements of any applicable local development regulation or any state
law delegated to the local government for enforcement purposes in lieu of the
state; or for false statements or misrepresentations made in securing the
approval. Any development approval mistakenly issued in violation of an
applicable state or local law may also be revoked. The revocation of a
development approval by a staff member may be appealed pursuant to G.S. § 160D-
405.
   (C)   Appeals.
      (1)   Administrative appeals may be taken to the Board of Adjustment by
any person, firm, or corporation aggrieved, or by any officer, department or
board of the county affected by:
         (a)   Any decision of an administrative official charged with the
enforcement or interpretation of this chapter thought to be in error;
         (b)   Planning Board recommendations are not subject to appeal, as
they are not final actions. Appeals shall be processed according to the
requirements of §§
154.010;
      (2)   Further appeals from the Board of Adjustment, from quasi-judicial
special use permit decisions by the Planning Board in the VR District, and from
any action of the Board of County Commissioners shall be taken directly to the
courts as provided by law.
(Ord. passed 9-17-2001; Ord. passed 3-17-2003; Ord. passed 5-5-2003; Ord.
passed 5-29-2003; Ord. passed 12-1-2003; Ord. passed 5-17-2004; Ord. passed 8-
16-2004; Ord. passed 2-21-2005; Ord. passed 4-18-2005; Ord. passed 1-17-2006;
Ord. passed 12-7-2020; Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.005-06 VESTED RIGHTS.
   Zoning "vested rights" as established under G.S. §§ 160D-102, 160D-108, and
160D-108.1 ensure that a properly issued development approval will protect the
applicant against zoning changes that will affect the allowable type and
intensity of use.
   (A)   Process to claim vested right. A person claiming a statutory or common
law vested right may submit information to substantiate that claim to the
Zoning Administrator. The Zoning Administrator shall determine if a vested
right exists. The Zoning Administrator’s determination may be appealed to the
Board of Adjustment. On appeal the existence of a vested right shall be
reviewed de novo. In lieu of seeking such a determination, a person claiming a
vested right may take an original civil action appeal to the Surry County
Superior Court.
   (B)   Duration and types of statutory vested rights.
      (1)   Six months - building permits. Pursuant to G.S. § 160D-1111, a
building permit expires six months after issuance unless work under the permit
has commenced. If after commencement the work is discontinued for a period of
12 months, the permit shall immediately expire. No work authorized by any
building permit that has expired shall thereafter be performed until a new
permit has been secured.
      (2)   One year - other development approvals. Pursuant to G.S. § 160D-403
(c), unless otherwise specified by statute or local ordinance, all other
development approvals expire one year after issuance unless work has
substantially commenced. Expiration of a development approval shall not affect
the duration of a vested right established under this section or vested rights
established under common law.
      (3)   Two years - site-specific vesting plans. A site-specific vesting
plan shall be vested for two years after it is approved. Amendments shall not
extend the vesting period unless specified at the time of approval.
      (4)   Seven years - multi-phase developments. A multi-phase development
approved containing 25 acres or more and subject to a master development plan
with committed elements including a requirement to offer land for public use as
a condition of its master development plan approval.
      (5)   Exceptions. A vested right, once established as provided for by
this section, precludes any zoning action by the county that would change,
alter, impair, prevent, diminish, or otherwise delay the development or use of
the property as set forth in an approved vested right, except those explicitly
outlined in G.S. § 160D-108(f).
   (C)   Effect of approval.
      (1)   A vested right shall confer upon the landowner the right to
undertake and complete the development and use of said property under the terms
and conditions of the site-specific vesting plan as provided for in this
chapter. Failure to abide by the terms and conditions placed upon such approval
will result in the forfeiture of the vested right previously accorded.
      (2)   A vested right, once established as herein provided, shall preclude
any zoning action by the county which would change, alter, impair, prevent,
diminish, or otherwise delay the development or use of the property as set
forth in the approved site-specific development except under the following
conditions:
         (a)   The affected landowner provides written consent to the county of
his or her desire to terminate the vested right; or
         (b)   The county determines, after having advertised and held a public
hearing, that natural or man-made hazards exist on or in the immediate vicinity
of the property which pose a serious threat to the public health, safety, and
welfare if the project were to proceed as indicated in the sitespecific vesting
plan; or
         (c)   Compensation is made by the county to the landowner for all
costs, expenses, and other losses incurred including, but not limited to, all
fees paid in consideration of financing, and all architectural, planning,
marketing, legal, and any other consultant's fees incurred after approval
together with interest thereon at the legal rate until paid; or
         (d)   The county determines, after having advertised and held a public
hearing, that the landowner or his representative intentionally supplied
inaccurate information or made material misrepresentations which made a
difference in the approval by the county of the site-specific vesting plan; or
         (e)   Upon the enactment or promulgation of a state or federal law or
regulations which precludes development as contemplated in the site specific
vesting plan. In such case the county may (after having advertised and
conducted a public hearing) modify the affected provisions upon a finding that
the change in state or federal law has a fundamental effect on the plan.
      (3)   Once a vested right is granted to a particular site-specific
vesting plan, nothing in this chapter shall preclude the county from conducting
subsequent reviews and approvals to ensure compliance with the terms and
conditions of the original approval, provided such reviews and approvals are
not inconsistent with the original approval.
   (D)   Extension. The Board of Commissioners may extend the vested rights
period from two to five years if it determines the extension is warranted
considering all relevant circumstances including but, not limited to the size
and phasing of the development, the level of investment, the need for
development, economic cycles, and market conditions. If the landowner requests,
the county may conduct a public hearing to extend a vesting period not to
exceed five years from the date of approval. The vesting of any site plan
beyond a two year period shall only be authorized by the county.
   (E)   Required public notice of hearing.
      (1)   Notice shall be mailed to the person or entity whose application,
or request is the subject of the hearing; to the owner of the property that is
the subject of the hearing if the owner did not initiate the hearing; and to
the owners of all parcels of land abutting the parcel of land that is the
subject of the hearing. In the absence of evidence to the contrary, the local
government may rely on the county tax listing to determine owners of property
entitled to mailed notice. The notice must be deposited in the mail at least
ten days, but not more than 25 days, prior to the date of the hearing.
      (2)   Within that same period, the local government shall also
prominently post a notice of the hearing on the site that is the subject of the
hearing or on an adjacent street or highway right-of-way.
   (F)   Expiration, limitations, and revocation.
      (1)   The vested right resulting from the approval of a site-specific
vesting plan may be revoked by the county. In addition, a revocation may occur
if the county determines that the landowner has failed to comply with the terms
and conditions of the approval or with any other applicable portion of this
chapter. The vested right shall otherwise expire at the end of the approval
period established by the county.
      (2)   A valid development approval shall not expire if work on the
project has substantially commenced within the initial validity period.
Substantial commencement of work shall be determined by the Zoning
Administrator based on any of the following:
         (a)   The development has received and maintained a valid erosion and
sedimentation control permit and conducted grading activity on a continuous
basis and not discontinued it for more than 30 days;
         (b)   The development has installed substantial on-site
infrastructure; or
         (c)   The development has received and maintained a valid building
permit for the construction and approval of a building foundation.
      (3)   Even if work has substantially commenced, a development approval
still expires if development work is intentionally and voluntarily discontinued
for a period of not less than 24 consecutive months, as calculated and tolled
pursuant to G.S. § 160D-108.
      (4)   A building permit issued by Surry County pursuant to G.S. §§ 160D-
403 and 160D-1110 may not be revoked because of the running of time on a piece
of property for which a site-specific vesting plan has been approved and the
vested right period has not otherwise expired.
      (5)   The establishment of a vested right on a piece of property for a
site-specific vesting plan shall not preclude the county from establishing and
enforcing on the property any additional regulations (adopted during the time
the vested right was in effect) which are general in nature and applicable to
all property subject to the regulations of this chapter.
      (6)   Revocation of any site-specific vesting plan designation eliminates
the vested right established by approval of the site-specific vesting plan
designation but does not itself terminate any unexpired development permit or
approval associated with the plan.
   (G)   Permit choice. If an application for development approval has been
made and after the date of that application, a development regulation changes
or is proposed, the development permit applicant may choose the version of the
regulation existing at the time of the application. The applicant may choose
the existing regulation without waiting for final action on the proposed
regulation change.
(Ord. passed 9-17-2001; Ord. passed 3-17-2003; Ord. passed 5-5-2003; Ord.
passed 5-29-2003; Ord. passed 12-1-2003; Ord. passed 5-17-2004; Ord. passed 8-
16-2004; Ord. passed 2-21-2005; Ord. passed 4-18-2005; Ord. passed 1-17-2006;
Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.005-07 SUBDIVISION ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Subdivision Administrator. A Subdivision Administrator, who shall be
appointed by the Surry County Manager, shall administer the subdivision
regulations. The Subdivision Administrator shall be a full-time employee of the
Development Services Department and shall administer and enforce the provisions
of this chapter and have such other specific powers and duties as are set forth
in this subchapter. The Subdivision Administrator may utilize the Surry County
Zoning Ordinance Officer for enforcement assistance. The Development Services
Director shall be available to review any administrative appeal from a decision
by the Subdivision Administrator. Appeals from the decision of the Development
Services Director shall be taken to the Board of Adjustment.
   (B)   Effect upon new territory added to jurisdiction.
      (1)   At any time when new territory is added to the jurisdiction of this
chapter, such new territory shall immediately become subject to the provisions
of this chapter.
      (2)   Any proposed subdivision or any subdivision in progress within such
new territory shall proceed only in accordance with the following.
         (a)   Any subdivision for which a final plat has been recorded in the
Register of Deeds office pursuant to the approval of another local government,
but which is subject to an outstanding guarantee to such local government for
the installation of subdivision improvements, shall remain under the
subdivision control of such local government until such time as such
subdivision shall have been prosecuted to completion.
         (b)   All other subdivisions shall meet all of the requirements of
this chapter and it shall be the responsibility of the subdivider of any
proposed subdivision or subdivision in progress to receive approval as provided
for in this chapter before proceeding with any development. The subdivider
shall arrange a conference with the Subdivision Administrator who shall
determine the level and type of approval required and provides the subdivider
with an approval track for the particular case.
   (C)   Validity.
      (1)   If any section, division, sentence, clause or phrase of this
chapter is for any reason held to be invalid, such decision shall not affect
the validity of the remaining portions of this chapter.
      (2)   The Board of Commissioners hereby declares that it would have
passed this chapter and each section, division, clause and phrase thereof
irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, divisions, sentences,
clauses or phrases be declared invalid.
   (D)   Subdivision review procedure. See §§
154.011.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.005-08 FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Zoning Administrator, acting as the Floodplain Administrator, is hereby
authorized to administrate the provisions of this chapter. The Floodplain
Administrator shall perform, but not be limited to, the following duties:
   (A)   Review all floodplain development applications and issue permits for
all proposed development within special flood hazard areas to assure that the
requirements of §§
154.017 have been satisfied;
   (B)   Advise permittee that additional federal or state permits (wetlands,
endangered species, erosion and sedimentation control, riparian buffers,
mining, and the like) may be required and require that copies of such permits
be provided and maintained on file with the floodplain development permit;
   (C)   Notify adjacent communities and the North Carolina Department of Crime
Control and Public Safety, Division of Emergency Management, State Coordinator
for the National Flood Insurance Program prior to any alteration or relocation
of a watercourse and submit evidence of such notification to the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA);
   (D)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished;
   (E)   Prevent encroachments into floodways and non-encroachment areas unless
the certification and flood hazard reduction provisions of this chapter are
met;
   (F)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the
reference level (including basement) and all attendant utilities of all new or
substantially improved structures, in accordance with this chapter;
   (G)   Obtain the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which
the new or substantially improved structures and all utilities have been flood-
proofed, in accordance with this chapter;
   (H)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of all public
utilities in accordance with this chapter;
   (I)   When flood-proofing is utilized for a particular structure, obtain
certifications from a registered professional engineer or architect in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter;
   (J)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of boundaries
of the special flood hazard areas (for example, where there appears to be a
conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions), make the
necessary interpretation. The property owner may apply and be approved for a
Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA) by FEMA. The person contesting the location of
the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the
interpretation as provided in this chapter. The Floodplain Administrator shall
maintain a copy of the Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA) issued by FEMA in the
floodplain development permit file;
   (K)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data has not been provided, obtain,
review, and reasonably utilize any base flood elevation (BFE) data, along with
floodway data or non-encroachment area data available from a federal, state or
other source, in order to administer the provisions of this chapter;
   (L)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is provided but no floodway nor
non-encroachment area data has been provided in accordance with this chapter,
obtain, review and reasonably utilize any floodway data or non-encroachment
area data available from a federal, state or other source;
   (M)   When the exact location of boundaries of the special flood hazard
areas conflict with the current, natural topography information at the site,
the property owner may apply and be approved for a Letter of Map Amendment
(LOMA) by FEMA. Maintain a copy of the Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA) issued by
FEMA in the floodplain development permit file;
   (N)   Permanently maintain all records that pertain to the administration of
this chapter and make these records available for public inspection;
   (O)   Make on-site inspections of work in progress;
   (P)   Issue stop-work orders in compliance with §§
154.017 as required;
   (Q)   Revoke floodplain development permits in compliance with §§
154.017 as required;
   (R)   Make periodic inspections throughout all special flood hazard areas
within the jurisdiction of the community. The Floodplain Administrator and each
member of his or her inspections department shall have a right, upon
presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises within the
territorial jurisdiction of the department at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action;
   (S)   Follow through with corrective procedures of this chapter; and
   (T)   Maintain a current map repository to include, but not limited to, the
FIS Report, FIRM and/or other official flood maps/studies adopted under this
chapter, including any revisions thereto including letters of map change),
issued by state and/or FEMA. Notify state and FEMA of mapping needs.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.005-09 WATERSHED PROTECTION ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Zoning Administrator, acting as the Watershed Administrator, is hereby
authorized to administrate the provisions of §§
154.017 and other regulations applicable to watersheds.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.005-10 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Violations. It is unlawful and a violation to establish, create,
expand, alter, occupy, or maintain any use, land development activity or
structure, including, but not limited to, signs and buildings, that violates or
is inconsistent with any provision of this chapter or any order, approval or
authorization issued pursuant to this chapter. Approvals and authorizations
include, but are not limited to, special use permits, building permits, zoning
permits, certificates of occupancy, variances, development plans, planting
plans, site plans, sign plans and conditions of such permits, certificates,
variances, and plans. It is also a violation to engage in any construction,
land development activity or use without all approvals and authorizations
required by this chapter.
   (B)   Each day. Each day of a violation is a separate and distinct
violation.
   (C)   Violators. Violators include any person who owns, leases, occupies,
manages, designs, or builds any structure or land development activity in
violation of this chapter and any person who owns, leases, or occupies a use in
violation of this chapter. A violation may be charged against more than one
violator.
   (D)   Complaints. When a violation of this chapter occurs, or is alleged to
have occurred, any person may file a written or verbal complaint. Such
complaint shall state fully the cause and basis thereof and shall be filed with
the Zoning Administrator, or his or her authorized agent. An investigation
shall be made within ten days. Actions as provided in these regulations shall
be taken. Pursuant to G.S. § 160D-403, staff are authorized to enter any
premises within the county’s jurisdiction at all reasonable hours for the
purposes of enforcement action, upon presentation of proper credentials,
provided the appropriate consent has been given for inspection of areas not
opened to the public or that any appropriate inspection warrant has been
secured.
   (E)   Notice. When a violation is discovered and is not remedied through
informal means, written notice of the violation shall be given. Pursuant to
G.S. § 160D-404, the notice of violation shall be delivered to the holder of
the development approval and to the landowner of the property involved, if the
landowner is not the holder of the development approval, by personal delivery,
electronic delivery, or first-class mail and may be provided by similar means
to the occupant of the property or the person undertaking the work or activity.
The notice of violation may be posted on the property. The Zoning Administrator
or his or her designated Code Enforcement Officer providing the notice of
violation shall certify to the county that the notice was provided, and the
certificate shall be deemed conclusive in the absence of fraud.
      (1)   The notice shall include the following:
         (a)   A description of the violation and its location;
         (b)   The measures necessary to correct it;
         (c)   The possibility of civil penalties and judicial enforcement
action;
         (d)   Notice of right to appeal; and
         (e)   The time period allowed, if any, to correct the violation, which
time period may vary depending on the nature of the violation and knowledge of
the violator.
      (2)   This notice is an administrative determination subject to appeal as
provided below.
   (F)   Appeal to the Board of Adjustment. A violator who has received a
notice of violation may appeal the determination that a violation has occurred
to the Board of Adjustment by making a written request and paying the
appropriate fee within 30 days of receipt of the notice of violation in
accordance with §
154.005-05(C). Citations that follow the original notice of violation may not
be appealed to the Board. The Board shall hear the appeal and may affirm, or
reverse, wholly or partly, or may modify the determination of the violation. If
there is no appeal, the determination of the Zoning Administrator is final.
   (G)   Failure to comply with notice or decision. If the violator does not
comply with a notice of violation, which has not been appealed, or with a final
decision of the Board of Adjustment, the violator shall be subject to civil
enforcement action as prescribed by G.S. § 153A-123(b) and this chapter.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.005-11 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Enforcement authority. This chapter shall be enforceable in accordance
with provisions available in G.S. §§ 153A-123 and 160D-404 and this chapter.
The Zoning Administrator has the authority to enforce development regulations
authorized by this chapter.
   (B)   Penalties. A violation of this chapter will subject the offender to a
civil penalty that will be enforced through the issuance of citations by the
Zoning Enforcement Officer. The county may recover this penalty in a civil
action in the nature of a debt if the offender does not pay the penalty within
15 days. In addition, failure to pay the civil penalty within 15 days may
subject the offender to court-ordered action.
      (1)   The following civil penalties are established for violations under
this section:
         (a)   Warning citation: correct violation within 15 days;
         (b)   First citation: $50;
         (c)   Second citation for same offense: $100; and
         (d)   Third and sequential citations for same offense: $100.
      (2)   Each day such violation continues, however, shall be a separate and
distinct offense, punishable as herein before provided.
      (3)   These civil penalties are in addition to any other penalties that
may be imposed by a court of law from violation of the provisions of this
chapter.
   (C)   Injunctions and orders of abatement.
      (1)   If a building or structure is erected, constructed, reconstructed,
altered, repaired, converted or maintained, or any building, structure or land
is occupied or used in violation of the General Statutes of North Carolina,
this chapter or other regulation made under authority conferred thereby, Surry
County may apply to the District Court, Civil Division, or any other court of
competent jurisdiction, for a mandatory or prohibitory injunction and order of
abatement commanding the defendant to correct the unlawful condition upon, or
cease the unlawful use of, the property.
      (2)   In addition to an injunction, the court may enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case. An order of abatement may
direct that buildings or other structures on the property be closed, and
demolished, or removed; that fixtures, furniture or other movable property be
removed from buildings on the property; that grass and weeds be cut; that
improvements or repairs be made; or that any other action be taken that is
necessary to bring the property into compliance with this subchapter. If the
defendant fails or refuses to comply with an injunction or with an order of
abatement within the time allowed by the court, he or she may be cited for
contempt and the county may execute the order of abatement. The county shall
have a lien on the property for the cost of executing an order of abatement.
   (D)   Equitable relief. Surry County may apply to the District Court, Civil
Division or other court of competent jurisdiction for an appropriate equitable
remedy. It shall not be a defense to the county’s application for equitable
relief that there is an adequate remedy at law.
   (E)   Combination of remedies. The county may choose to enforce this
subchapter by anyone, all or a combination of the above procedures.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.005-12 NONCONFORMITIES.
   (A)   Definition and purpose. A NON-CONFORMITY is any use, building,
structure or lot which fails to comply with one or more of the applicable
regulations or standards established herein. A LEGAL NON-CONFORMITY is a non-
conformity which lawfully existed prior to the adoption of this subchapter. A
legal non-conformity is also any use, building, structure or lot which was
lawfully created, constructed, and the like, under this subchapter. but which
was subsequently rendered non-conforming due to circumstances that were not
self-created.
   (B)   Continuation, maintenance and repair allowed without permit. Except as
provided in division (H) below, the continuation of any legal non-conformity
and the normal maintenance and repair thereof is allowed without a general or
special use approval. Normal maintenance and repair means that which is
necessary to maintain and to correct any damage or deterioration to the
structural soundness or to the exterior or interior appearance of a building or
structure. The continuation of a legal non-conformity other than normal
maintenance and repair shall be classified as an alteration, expansion, change,
rebuilding, or resumption as defined in division (F) below.
   (C)   Bringing non-conformity into compliance.
      (1)   The owner of a non-conformity may bring it into compliance by
securing any permit or approval which would have been required in the first
instance for the intended or resulting use, building, structure or lot under
this subchapter, or any other applicable local law. For example, if the owner
of a building wants to change its use from one which is not allowed under this
subchapter, to one which is allowed pursuant to a general use permit, he or she
may secure a general use permit and thus eliminate the non-conformity.
Likewise, approval may be secured under this jurisdiction’s subdivision
regulations to recombine two lots which do not comply with the minimum area
regulations for building lots into one which does.
      (2)   The provisions in this section are primarily intended to deal with
those situations where a non-conformity may easily be brought into compliance.
In contrast, the procedures and standards in division (F) below are primarily
intended to deal with those situations where it may be difficult or expensive
to bring a non-conformity into compliance, but the owner nevertheless wants
permission to alter, expand, change, rebuild or resume it.
   (D)   Failure to bring illegal non-conformity into compliance. Failure to
bring an illegal nonconformity into compliance will subject the property owner
to enforcement under the provisions of G.S. § 160D-404 and §
154.005-11. If an illegal non-conformity has not been brought into compliance
within 90 days after enforcement remedies are exhausted, the county is
authorized to petition the courts for an injunction and/or order of abatement
as described below.
   (E)   Reservation of authority of deal with non-conformities under other
powers.
      (1)   Notwithstanding the policies and provisions of this subchapter,
with respect to non-conformities, the governing body expressly reserves its
authority to initiate court-ordered action against unlawful uses, buildings,
structures and lots, including those which unlawfully existed prior to the
adoption of this subchapter, and to control or abate noxious uses, to require
the repair or demolition of unsafe buildings or structures, or to control or
eliminate unsafe or hazardous conditions through the exercise of any powers
other than the ones exercised under this subchapter.
      (2)   Where for any reason a non-conforming use is determined to be
subject to enforcement action due to termination of its grandfathered status,
such action shall be brought within ten years after the termination.
   (F)   Special use permit required for any proposed alteration, expansion,
change, rebuilding, or resumption of a non-conformity. The altering, expanding,
changing, rebuilding or resuming of a non-conformity is only allowed pursuant
to a special use permit under §§
154.010 . Special use permits for these types of non-conformities are issued by
the Planning Board for proposals located in the VR District, and the Board of
Adjustment for proposals located in all other districts. A petition for a
special use permit shall be filed with the Surry County Zoning Administrator.
The Planning Board or Board of Adjustment shall fix a time and place for the
hearing, give notice thereof to the interested parties and the public, and
render and give notice of its decision.
      (1)   The terms altering, expanding and changing shall be strictly
construed.
      (2)   Rebuilding means the rebuilding, reconstruction or restoration of
any nonconforming building or structure which was damaged or partially
destroyed by an exercise of the power of eminent domain or by fire, flood,
wind, explosion or other calamity or act of God, if the cost of the rebuilding,
reconstruction or restoration will be 50% or more of the replacement cost of
such building or structure at the time such damage or destruction occurred. If
the cost will be less than 50% of the replacement cost, a special use permit
must, nevertheless, be obtained from the Board of Adjustment under the
procedures of §§
154.010, but the Board of Adjustment is only required to find that the nature
and degree of the non-conformity will not be changed or increased from that
which existed prior to the damage or destruction.
      (3)   Resuming means the reusing or reoccupying of a non-conforming
building or structure which was unused or unoccupied for a continuous period of
365 days or more, or the resuming of a non-conforming use which was ceased for
a continuous period of 120 days or more. If a non-conforming building or
structure is reused or reoccupied or a previously ceased use is resumed within
a lesser period of time, no permit is required under this subchapter as long as
the nature and degree of the non-conformity will not be changed or increased
from that which existed before the non-conformity became unused, unoccupied or
ceased.
      (4)   Ceased means that a use or occupation has ended and activity has
been discontinued. For purposes of this subchapter, the ending, cessation, or
abandonment of a use or occupation shall not be interpreted to require the
intent to do so permanently or for any given period of time.
      (5)   The Zoning Administrator shall be permitted to approve minor
alterations and additions, for loading, office or storage area expansions only,
to a non-conformity so long as the addition or alteration does not exceed 25%
of the existing square footage, not to exceed 3,000 square feet, of the
structure. This exception shall only be permitted once every three years per
non-conformity.
      (6)   In acting upon a petition for a special use permit, the Board of
Adjustment cannot order the discontinuance or termination of a non-conformity,
refuse to allow the development of a vacant lot, or refuse to allow the
alteration, expansion, change, rebuilding or resumption of a non-conformity
which cannot comply with the yard and height regulations. If a petition is
denied, the continuation of a non-conformity and the normal maintenance and
repair thereof will still be allowed under this chapter without a general or
special use permit. This policy is adopted to encourage owners of non-
conformities to apply for permits to improve and bring them into conformance to
the extent possible without imposing any unreasonable sanctions if total
conformance is not possible under the regulations of this chapter.
   (G)   Grandfathered non-conforming automobile salvage yards and junkyards.
      (1)   Yards eligible for grandfathered status. In order to be eligible to
be grandfathered as a non-conformity under this chapter, an automobile salvage
yard or junkyard must meet the following criteria:
         (a)   The yard was permitted and registered prior to September 17,
2001 under the Automobile Salvage Yard and Junkyard Ordinance adopted on August
1, 1992; and
         (b)   The yard was permitted and registered under the Grandfathered
Salvage Yards and Junkyards Amendment passed by the Surry County Board of
County Commissioners on September 18, 2006 (hereinafter the "2006 GF
Amendment”);
         (c)   The yard must be on the list of active yards as of January 1,
2007 maintained by the Planning and Development Office; and
         (d)   The grandfathered status of the yard must not have been lost by
abandonment, cessation, or discontinuation, by administrative action of Surry
County, or otherwise.
      (2)   Level of yard usage grandfathered. Unless a special use permit is
obtained, the level of usage of a grandfathered yard may not exceed the highest
level of use which occurred on the property during the seven years prior to the
enactment of this chapter.
      (3)   Reregistration and application for interim operating permit. All
grandfathered yards remaining in operation after the date this chapter is
enacted are required to reregister with Development Services and apply for an
interim permit to operate a grandfathered yard within six months of the date
this chapter is enacted. Failure to do so within the six month period will mean
that the grandfathered use has been discontinued. The application shall be
accompanied by a $200 administrative fee. Within 90 days after said application
has been submitted, Development Services shall inspect the subject property. If
Development Services determines that the yard meets the eligibility
requirements set forth above, Development Services shall issue an interim
operating permit. If Development Services finds that the yard is not eligible
for grandfathered status, Development Services shall deny the application for
an interim operating permit. A denial will constitute a final agency action and
be appealable as such. A yard operating without an interim operating permit
shall be in violation of this chapter and subject to zoning enforcement actions
under §
154.005-11. Development Services shall maintain a list of yards that have
complied with this section.
      (4)   Submission of sketch plan and compliance with grandfathered yard
requirements previously mandated under the 2006 GF Amendment. Within one year
of the date this chapter is enacted, all non-conforming junkyards and
automobile salvage yards shall submit a sketch plan as set forth below and
comply with the requirements previously mandated under the 2006 GF Amendment as
set forth below, or be discontinued with all salvage material and junk moved
from the property to an approved location. The sketch plan shall be accompanied
by a $300 administrative fee. Failure to comply or discontinue use will
constitute a violation of this chapter and be subject to the zoning enforcement
provisions of §
154.005-11. Failure to submit the sketch plan and comply with the requirements
set for the below or obtain a special use permit before three years of the date
this chapter is adopted will mean that the property owner has chosen to
discontinue the use.
         (a)   Submission of sketch plan. Within one year of the date this
chapter is enacted, all non-conforming junkyards and automobile salvage yards
shall submit a sketch plan of the yard to Development Services, to include a
tax map with orthophotography and additional sheets, as determined sufficient
by the Zoning Ordinance Officer, showing and listing:
            1.   The shape and dimensions of the property/properties on which
the automobile salvage yard and/or junkyard and any building(s) are located
along with the north reference and graphic scale;
            2.   Tax parcel identification number and total acreage;
            3.   Owner and operator’s name(s), address, property address, and
telephone number; the location of all buildings, out buildings, loading areas,
places of assembly, outdoor display areas, storage areas (indoor and outdoor)
and other facilities associated with the use; existing and proposed, and
required setbacks;
            4.   The location of all buildings, out-buildings, loading areas,
places of assembly, outdoor display areas, storage areas (indoor and outdoor)
and other facilities associated with the use; existing and proposed, and
required setbacks;
            5.   The existing use of all buildings and lands, including the
extent and location of the yard;
            6.   The location of off-street parking and loading areas and the
means of ingress and egress;
            7.   The location and type of all required buffers and screening;
and
            8.   Any other information which the Zoning Enforcement Officer may
deem necessary for consideration in enforcing all provisions of this chapter.
         (b)   Compliance with requirements previously mandated under the 2006
GF Amendment. Within one year of the date this chapter is enacted, all non-
conforming junkyards and automobile salvage yards shall comply with the
following requirements:
            1.   All activities associated with the grandfathered automobile
salvage yard/junkyard, including storage areas for automobiles and junk,
buildings/structures, parking areas, off-street loading and unloading areas,
shall conform with the minimum yard setbacks for the applicable zoning district
as found in §§
154.006.
            2.   Screening devices shall comply with the requirements found in
§§
154.015; the screening device shall completely, to the extent reasonably
possible, screen all activities associated with the yard which abut a state
maintained road, right-of-way, and/or easement, and any portion of the yard
visible from a residential or non-residential structure. If a vegetive buffer
is installed, a security fence may be installed inside of the vegetive buffer
at the discretion of the owner/operator. In this situation, the security fence
will not be considered part of the required screening device.
            3.   Designated parking, off-street loading, and off-street
unloading areas shall be provided within the buildable area of the property in
question. Only off-street loading/unloading is permitted;
            4.   All yards shall comply with the definitions of an automobile
salvage yard and junkyard as found in §
154.003-02.
            5.   When constructed, all buildings or structures utilized on the
property shall comply with the North Carolina Building Code, as amended.
            6.   If the ownership of a grandfathered automobile salvage yard or
junkyard is transferred to another individual, group, or entity, the new owner
(s) shall complete and file a "change of ownership" form with Development
Services.
      (5)   Scrap tire storage. No scrap tires shall be stored at the yard
longer than 30 days.
      (6)   Issuance of yearly operating permits. Following the approval of a
sketch plan and verification by Development Services that the yard is in
compliance with the requirements set forth above, the operator/owner of the
yard will be issued an operating permit by the Zoning Enforcement Officer.
Thereafter, the owner/operator of the yard shall submit a yearly reapplication
for an operating permit. The application shall be accompanied by a $200
administrative fee and shall contain the owner/operator’s certification that
the yard is in compliance with the sketch plan and all aspects of this chapter.
An inspection of the automobile salvage yard/junkyard will be performed
annually by the Zoning Enforcement Officer for continued compliance with the
requirements listed above. The operating permit for each yard will be
automatically renewed annually following the receipt of a complete
reapplication and after each inspection by the Zoning Enforcement Officer
unless any of the listed requirements are discovered to not be in compliance,
and/or if there are any violations found from complaints between annual
inspections. If the Zoning Enforcement Officer finds the yard is not in
compliance, or the yard has had violations of the requirements, the renewal of
the automobile salvage yard/junkyard's operating permit will be subject to
revocation by Development Services. If Development Services fails to renew or
revokes the operating permit, Development Services shall notify the owner of
the yard of the same. Revocation will be considered a final agency action and
may be appealed as such by filing a written appeal with the Board of Adjustment
within 30 days of notice thereof. A yard operating without a permit shall be in
violation of this chapter and subject to zoning enforcement actions under §
154.005-011. Development Services shall maintain a list of all yards which are
issued a permit and the status of the same.
      (7)   Repeal of the 2006 GF Amendment. The Grandfathered Salvage Yards
and Junkyards Amendment passed by the Surry County Board of County
Commissioners on September 18, 2006 is hereby repealed.
   (H)   Exceptions and modifications.
      (1)   Kennels. An existing kennel in any district other than MI for which
a conditional use permit has not been granted may continue as a non-conforming
use only if the owner has held a boarding kennel license from the NC Department
of Agriculture continuously since before original adoption of this section on
9-17-2001; or otherwise shall be brought into compliance with this section,
either by discontinuing the use, or by the granting of a conditional use permit
as provided in §§
154.010, if applicable.
      (2)   Other exceptions. The following exceptions and modifications shall
be allowed without the issuance of a conditional use permit by the Board of
Adjustment.
         (a)   Lots not meeting minimum lot size requirements. In any district
in which single-family dwellings are permitted, any lot of record which existed
before the enactment of this section, which has dimensions which are less than
required by these regulations, may be used as a building site for a single-
family dwelling provided:
         (b)   Where the adjacent lot is in the same recorded ownership it must
be combined with the adjacent lot so as to create a new lot of record that as
nearly as possible meets the minimum lot size of that zoning district; and
         (c)   All setback dimensional requirements of that zoning district are
met. If the lot does not meet the setback dimensional requirements of that
zoning district, a variance may be requested of the Board of Adjustment.
      (3)   Yard requirements modifications. Where a lot has width or depth
less than that required in the district in which it is located, the Zoning
Administrator shall be authorized to reduce the yard and setback requirements
for such lot of record by not more than 30%. Additional or other forms of yard
modification may be permitted with a variance granted by the Board of
Adjustment.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.006 ZONING.
§ 154.006-01 ZONING AFFECTS ALL LAND AND EVERY BUILDING AND USE.
   No building or land shall hereafter be used, and no building or part thereof
shall be erected, moved or altered, except in conformity with the regulations
herein specified for the district in which it is located.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.006-02 APPLICABILITY TO INCORPORATED AND EXTRATERRITORIAL AREAS.
   The provisions of this subchapter are not applicable in the incorporated
areas of Dobson, Elkin, Mount Airy or Pilot Mountain or in the established
extraterritorial jurisdictions of these municipalities; except for §
154.008 provision on wireless communication towers which is applicable within
the planning jurisdiction of the Town of Elkin.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.006-03 SUBDIVISIONS IN THE RURAL AGRICULTURAL (RA, RA-C) DISTRICT.
   In order to allow the development of small-scale developments that are
compatible with the rural parts of the county and to better manage the
proliferation of large-scale developments which could alter these parts of the
county and potentially threaten existing agricultural operations, the
subdivision of land in the RA District shall be limited to minor subdivisions
(five separate parcels or less) and shall be limited to one minor subdivision
every 18 months. The further division of previously subdivided parcels in the
RA District before that time may constitute a major subdivision. A person may
apply to have their land rezoned to a district such as RPD (Rural Preservation
District) if they wish to subdivide into six lots or more. This section does
not apply to lands outside of the Rural Agricultural (RA, RA-C) District nor
does this apply to subdivisions which are exempt from §§
154.013.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.006-04 STREET ACCESS.
   No building shall be erected on a lot which does not abut a street or
private street, or have access to a street or private street, provided that in
a business district or in a planned project in a residential district, a
building may be erected adjoining a parking area or other dedicated open space
which has access to a street used in common with other lots.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.006-05 REQUIRED YARDS NOT TO BE USED BY BUILDING.
   The minimum yards or other open spaces required by this subchapter for every
building shall not be encroached upon or considered as meeting the yard and
open space requirements of any other building.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.006-06 RELATIONSHIP OF BUILDING TO LOT.
   Every building hereafter erected, moved, or structurally altered shall be
located on a lot and in no case shall there be more than one principal building
and its customary accessory buildings on the lot, except in the case of a
specially designed complex of institutional, residential, commercial, or
industrial buildings in an appropriate zoning district.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.006-07 REDUCTION OF LOT AND YARD AREAS PROHIBITED.
   No yard or lot existing at the time of passage of this subchapter shall be
reduced in size or area below the minimum requirements set forth herein, except
for street widening. Yards or lots created after the effective date of this
subchapter shall meet at least the minimum requirements established by this
subchapter.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.006-08 BUSINESS USES OF MODULAR HOMES.
   No modular home shall be used in any manner for business or commercial
purposes, except when used for a sales office on a mobile home sales lot or for
temporary use approved by the Zoning Administrator.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.006-09 ZERO LOT LINES.
   Zero lot line lots may be used if the required yards are maintained around
the building where individual dwelling units in a duplex or multi-family
building or individual units in a commercial or industrial development, which
are to be sold, and it is desired to deed the land under the unit to the
purchaser, such as in the case of town houses or patio homes. In such case, the
individual lots are not required to meet the above stated dimensional
requirements, but the development becomes a subdivision and must be approved as
such under §§
154.013 as well as this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.006-10 RECREATIONAL VEHICLES PROHIBITED AS A DWELLING TYPE.
   Recreational vehicles are prohibited to be used as a dwelling on any lot,
lot of record or zoning lot. Recreational vehicles are only allowed as a
temporary use within permitted or grandfathered recreational vehicle parks,
recreation clubs or campgrounds, for the recreational use of large tracts of
private land, or for use during construction. Such temporary use is subject to
the issuance of a permit according to the requirements of §
154.007-02.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.006-11 ZONING DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the County of Surry is hereby dividing
the county zoning jurisdiction into general use and overlay zoning districts
with the designations as listed below:
Agricultural District
RA    Rural Agricultural District
Residential Districts
RR    Restricted Residential District
RE    Residential Exclusive District
RG    Residential General District
RL    Residential Limited District
MR    Multi-Family Residential District
MHP   Manufactured Home Park District
PR-CD Planned Residential Conditional District
RPD   Rural Preservation District
 
Commercial Districts
CB   Community Business District
HB   Highway Business District
RB   Rural Business District
Industrial Districts
MI   Manufacturing Industrial District
Special Districts
VR   Village of Rockford District
CP   Conservation Protected District
Overlay Zoning Districts
TO   Thoroughfare Overlay District
WO   Watershed Overlay District
SBO  Scenic Byway Overlay
AO-1 Elkin Municipal Airport Overlay District
AO-2 Mount Airy/Surry County Airport Overlay District
 
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.006-12 DISTRICT BOUNDARIES SHOWN ON ZONING MAP.
   The boundaries of the districts are shown and made a part of the map
accompanying this chapter, entitled “Zoning Map of Surry County, North
Carolina”. The zoning map and all the notations, references, and amendments
thereto, and other information shown thereon are hereby made part of this
chapter the same as if such information set forth on the map were fully
described and set out herein. The zoning map, properly attested, is posted in
the County Development Services Department in Dobson and is available for
inspection and review by the public.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.006-13 RULES GOVERNING INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of any of the aforesaid
districts as shown on the zoning map, the following rules shall apply:
   (A)   Where such district boundaries are indicated as approximately
following street or highway lines, such lines shall be construed to be the
centerline of such boundaries.
   (B)   Where district boundaries are so indicated that they approximately
follow lot lines, such lot lines shall be construed to be said boundaries.
   (C)   Where district boundaries are so indicated that they are approximately
parallel to the centerline of streets or highways, or the rights-of-way of same
such district boundaries shall be construed as being parallel thereto and at
such distance therefrom as indicated on the zoning map.
   (D)   Where such district boundaries are indicated as approximately
following rivers, creeks or streams, such lines shall be construed to be the
centerline of such watercourses.
   (E)   In case any further uncertainty exists, the Board of Adjustment shall
interpret the intent of the map as to location of such boundaries.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.006-14 INTENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS.
   Listed below is the intent of each general use and overlay zoning district.
Each district was formulated using goals and recommendations from the Surry
County Land Use Plan.
   (A)   RA, Rural Agricultural District. The purpose of this district is to
maintain a rural development pattern where single-family housing is
intermingled with agricultural and appropriate non-residential uses, as
described in the Table of Uses in §
154.007-01, and may not have access to public water and sewer systems. This
district is also designed to protect rural areas from the intrusion of non-
agricultural land uses that could create a nuisance, detract from the quality
of life and/or present a danger to the natural environment.
   (B)   RE, Residential Exclusive District. The purpose of this district is to
stabilize established and planned residential neighborhoods by providing a
place for medium density on-site stick-built homes, provided that adequate
water and sewer systems are available.
   (C)   RR, Restricted Residential District. The purpose of this district is
to stabilize established and planned residential neighborhoods by providing a
place for medium density on-site stick-built and modular homes, provided that
adequate water and sewer systems are available.
   (D)   RL, Residential Limited District. The purpose of this district is to
stabilize established and planned residential neighborhoods by providing a
place for medium density on-site stick-built, modular and Class A manufactured
homes, provided that adequate water and sewer systems are available.
   (E)   RG, Residential General District. The purpose of this district is to
provide a place for medium density residential uses of all types, on-site
stick-built, modular and Class A and B manufactured homes, provided that
adequate water and sewer systems are available.
   (F)   PR-CD, Planned Residential Conditional District. The purpose of the
Planned Residential Conditional District (PR-CD) is to encourage the
development of environments which provide certain development privileges in
exchange for preplanning and design considerations. The PR-CD provides an
alternative to conventional subdivision design by promoting the conservation
and creation of viable, connected open space and more flexible lot design
options while minimizing development costs. The Planned Residential Conditional
District (PR-CD) provides flexibility in utilizing new development concepts,
including the incorporation of a limited number of non-residential uses. In
return for development flexibility, additional site plan information and
development conditions may be required of the developer to assist in evaluating
the suitability of a proposed PR-CD. While maximum open space preservation and
high-quality residential development is the primary goal of PR-CDs, open space
within PR-CDs must balance the need for open space preservation with an
increased need for integration with surrounding developments through street
connectivity and compatibility with adjacent and internal land uses. Minimum
acreage, lot dimensions, setbacks and building height requirements are
described in §
154.006-19.
   (G)   RPD, Rural Preservation Conditional District.
      (1)   The purpose of this district is to preserve the rural community
character sometimes lost in conventional development approaches by allowing
greater flexibility and creativity in the design of the development with
clustering lots and preserving open space. Specific objectives of the RPD
district are as follows: the intent is to maintain density similar to
surrounding districts but provide flexibility to maintain open spaces with lot
sizes not less than 10,000 sq ft.
         (a)   To preserve areas of the county with productive soils for
continued agricultural uses. Therefore if a parcel abuts RA the overall density
shall not exceed one lot/acre;
         (b)   To minimize site disturbance and erosion through retention of
existing vegetation and avoiding development on steep slopes;
         (c)   To preserve open land, including those areas containing unique
and sensitive features such as natural areas and wildlife habitats, steep
slopes, streams, wetlands, and floodplains;
         (d)   To preserve scenic views and elements of the county’s rural
character, and to minimize perceived density by minimizing views of new
development from existing roads and existing development;
         (e)   To provide for the active and passive recreational needs of the
residents;
         (f)   To provide greater efficiency in the siting of services and
infrastructure by reducing road length, utility extensions and the amount of
impervious surface for development; and
         (g)   To create compact neighborhoods accessible to open space
amenities and with a strong identity.
      (2)   Minimum acreage, lot dimensions, setbacks and building height
requirements are described in §
154.006-20.
   (H)   MR, Multi-Family Residential District. The purpose of this district is
to provide a place for high-density residential development where the principal
use will be multi-family development, provided that adequate water and sewer
systems are available.
   (I)   MHP, Manufactured Home Park District. The purpose of this district is
to provide a place for high-density development of manufactured homes in a park
like setting that is subject to the requirements of §§
154.019 and requires conditional zoning to be requested and approved for new
manufactured home parks proposed after the date of adoption of this chapter.
   (J)   RB, Rural Business District. The purpose of this district is to
accommodate existing business and commercial establishments that may be
isolated from similar land uses. The rural business district is intended for
such establishments located in rural areas where residential and/or
agricultural operations are predominant land uses.
   (K)   CB, Community Business District. The purpose of this district is to
accommodate retail, service and related businesses that are usually clustered
together and cater to the immediate community. Community Business Districts
should typically be located at the intersection of collector and arterial
roads. These sites shall have direct access to collector and arterial roads,
provided that adequate water and sewer systems are available.
   (L)   HB, Highway Business District. The purpose of this district is to
accommodate the development of retail, service and related businesses which are
located along, and have direct access to, major roadways throughout the county
which cater to the traveling public; and these sites should have access to
public water and sewer systems.
   (M)   MI, Manufacturing Industrial District. The purpose of this district is
to provide locations for intensive industrial and/or manufacturing, processing
and assembly uses and to protect adjacent rural/residential areas from such
land uses; and these sites should have access to public water and sewer
systems.
   (N)   VR, Village of Rockford District. The purpose of this district is to
allow a mixture of appropriate residential and non-residential uses in the
Rockford National Register Historic District. This district allows this village
area to continue development patterns initiated in the 1790s. This district is
a zoning district with both conventional and form-based and design features, as
authorized by G.S. §§ 160D-703(a) and 160D-702(b)(2).
   (O)   CP, Conservation Protected District. The purpose of this district is
to preserve and limit development within certain land and/or water areas which
serve as wildlife refuges, possess natural beauty, are utilized for outdoor
recreational purposes, provide needed open space and are environmentally
sensitive.
   (P)   TO, Thoroughfare Overlay District. The purpose of this overlay
district is to guide the development of off-premises signs to preserve the
county’s natural features for the traveling public, as governed by this
subchapter.
   (Q)   SBO, Scenic Byway Overlay. The purpose of this overlay district is to
guide the physical appearance of new and expanded land use for the traveling
public, as governed by this subchapter.
   (R)   WO, Watershed Overlay District. The purpose of this overlay district
is to identify the areas of the county which can regulate lot sizes, built upon
areas and non-residential development, as governed by §§
154.017.
   (S)   AO-1, Elkin Municipal Airport Overlay District. The purpose of this
overlay district is to regulate possible obstructions to flight navigation in
the vicinity of the Elkin Municipal Airport, as governed by this subchapter.
   (T)   AO-2 Mount Airy/Surry County Airport Overlay District (AO-2). The
purpose of this overlay district is to regulate possible obstructions to flight
navigation in the vicinity of the Mount Airy/Surry County Airport, as governed
by this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.006-15 DIMENSIONAL TABLE.
   (A)   The lot sizes and dimensions of the zoning districts above are
summarized in the following table.
                                                                  Max Building
District Minimum Lot Sizes         Minimum Yard Setbacks          Height
                                                                  (feet)
         Area (sq ft Width  Depth  Front  Side feet) Rear (feet )
         per acre)   (feet) (feet) (feet)
                                                                   Max Building
District    Minimum Lot Sizes         Minimum Yard Setbacks        Height
                                                                   (feet)
            Area (sq ft Width  Depth  Front  Side feet) Rear (feet
            per acre)   (feet) (feet) (feet)            )
RA, RA-C    1 acre      75     110    40     12         25         50
Corner lots
abutting                           25                          
side street
Accessory                                12         15          
structures
RE, RE-C    1 acre      75     110    40     12         25         50
Corner lots
abutting                                 25                    
side street
Accessory                                12         15          
structures
RR, RR-C    1 acre      75     110    40     12         25         50
Corner lots
abutting                                 25                    
side street
Accessory                                12                    
structures
RL, RL-C    1 acre      75     110    40     12         25         50
Corner lots
abutting                                 25                    
side street
Accessory                                12                    
structures
RG, RG-C    1 acre      75     110    40     12         25         50
Corner lots
abutting                                 25                    
side street
Accessory                                12                    
structures
MR, MR-C    2 units     75     110    60     25         35         50
Single-
family
(SF),                                                         
30,000 sq.
ft.
SF water
and sewer,                                                    
20,000 sq.
ft.
Corner lots
abutting                                 40                    
side street
Accessory                                25         25          
structures
MHP, MHP-C  1 acre      75     110    40     12         25         35
Water and   1 acre      75     110                               
sewer
Corner lots
abutting                                 25                    
side street
Accessory                                12         25          
structures
CP, CP-C    25 acres    150    300    100    50         100        50
Single-
family                                                        
(SF), 1
acre
Corner lots
abutting                                 100                   
side street
Accessory                                50         50          
structures
Corner lots
abutting                                 20                    
side street
Accessory                                12         15          
structures
RB, RB-C    1 acre      75     110    40     12         25         50
Corner lots
abutting                                 25                    
side street
Accessory                                12         15          
structures
CB, CB-C    1 acre      75     110    40     20         25         50
Corner lots
abutting                                 25                    
side street
Abutting
property                                 25                    
zoned
residential
Accessory                                15         15          
structures
HB, HB-C    1 acre      75     110    40     20         25         60
Corner lots
abutting                                 25                    
side street
Abutting
property                                 25                    
zoned
residential
Accessory                                15         15          
structures
MI, MI-C    1 acre      100    150    65     25         30         60
Corner lots
abutting                                 50                    
side street
Abutting
property                                 35         50          
zoned
residential
Accessory                                20         20          
structures
 
   (B)   Notes to the Dimensional Table.
      (1)   Accessory structures do not include walls or fences. Minimum
dimensional requirements for private swimming pools/tennis courts shall be
equal to those for accessory structures.
      (2)   Minimum lot sizes are contingent upon approval of the Environmental
Health Department in areas which do not have access to both municipal water and
sewer systems. Larger lot sizes may be required based on site evaluations.
      (3)   Any lot abutting a state-maintained road shall have at least 75
feet of road frontage; lots abutting a state-maintained road in a cul-de-sac
shall have at least 45 feet of road frontage. Exception given to flag lots as
provided in §§ 154.013.
      (4)   Lot width shall be measured at the actual front setback line.
Maximum building height shall be measured at the roof deck or the highest point
of a pitched roof.
      (5)   Minimum dimensional requirements are subject to more stringent
requirements to any property within an overlay zoning district. In those cases,
the most restrictive requirements shall apply.
      (6)   Zero lot line developments are permitted as described in this
subchapter.
      (7)   Lot sizes and dimensions for the PR-CD and RPD districts are listed
in §
154.006-19 and §
154.006-20 respectively.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.006-16 CONDITIONAL ZONING.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   Pursuant to G.S. § 160D-703(b), conditional zoning districts are
zoning districts in which the development and the use of the property is
subject to specific conditions proposed by the petitioner or the county, but
only those conditions mutually approved by both the petitioner and the Board of
Commissioners may be incorporated into the zoning regulations. Conditions and
site-specific standards imposed in a conditional zoning district shall be
limited to those that address the conformance of the development and use of the
site to county ordinances, adopted plans, or the impacts reasonably expected to
be generated by the development or use of the site. Conditional zoning is
considered as a legislative decision creating the district and applying it to
the parcel or parcels.
      (2)   Each conditional zoning district corresponds to each of the general
districts authorized in this chapter and listed in §
154.006-11. It is recognized that certain types of zoning districts would be
inappropriate at locations in the absence of special conditions. Conditional
zoning districts are a means by which special conditions can be imposed in the
furtherance of the purpose of this chapter. Conditional zoning districts are
intended to support firm plans for development. As a result, the conditional
zoning district classification will be considered for rezoning only upon
request of a property owner with the presentation of one or more of the
following: limitations on allowed uses from those normally permitted in the
requested zoning district; written conditions limiting how the property or
buildings proposed are developed; and a major site plan.
      (3)   Within a conditional zoning district, only those uses authorized as
permitted or special uses in the zoning district with which the district
corresponds shall be permitted, and all other requirements of the corresponding
district shall be met as minimum standards unless the County Commissioners
explicitly approve conditions reducing minimum standards. Additional
limitations on use and other requirements may be added as conditions as agreed
to mutually by the petitioner and by the County Commissioners.
   (B)   Standards and conditions. A conditional zoning district allows uses to
be established only in accordance with specific standards and conditions
pertaining to each individual development project. Some land uses are of such a
nature and scale that they have significant impacts on both the immediate area
and on the entire community, which cannot be predetermined and controlled by
the standards of a general use district. In addition, this process will ensure
compatibility with the land use plan and other adopted district plans, corridor
plans and area plans. The review process established in §§
154.009 provides for a specific review process subject to specific conditions
which mitigate concerns with the proposed development and ensure compatibility
of the use with the surrounding community.
   (C)   Compliance with general use district provisions. Any petition to amend
district boundaries to create a conditional zoning shall comply with procedures
and provisions for general use district amendments set out in this chapter
especially §§
154.009.
   (D)   Conditions on development activities.
      (1)   A landowner petitioning to rezone land to a conditional zoning
district may propose conditions to be placed on the property should a rezoning
to a conditional zoning district be approved by the Board of Commissioners. The
petition shall specify any proposed conditions on the petition and the
development plan, if included. These conditions shall be in addition to the
limitation on uses as provided in this subchapter.
      (2)   Any proposed conditions shall impose requirements that are more
restrictive than those generally applicable in the corresponding general use
district. For example, conditions might propose to limit the number of
permitted uses to one or more specified uses. They might also propose to limit
the number, size, location, and design of structures, exterior building
materials, the location and extent of supporting facilities, the location and
extent of special purpose areas, the location and extent of parking areas and
ingress/egress points, location and extent of buffer areas, the hours of
business operation or the timing of development.
      (3)   The Board of Commissioners may request conditions, in addition to
those self-imposed by the petitioner, if the conditions directly relate to the
protection of the health, safety and general welfare of the surrounding
community and the public. Only those conditions approved by the Board of
Commissioners and consented to by the petitioner in writing may be incorporated
into the zoning regulations.
      (4)   No condition, however, may restrict the race, religion, ownership
status or character of district occupants, or contain any other exclusionary
restrictions. Nor may any condition purport to abridge or affect any other
applicable federal, state or local law.
      (5)   A landowner must submit a development plan according to the
requirements of §§
154.009 and §§
154.012, as a condition to regulate future development of the land.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.006-17 CONDITIONAL ZONING DISTRICTS SUPPLEMENT FOR ZONING PERMITS.
   In the event a petition to conditional zoning is approved, no zoning permit
shall be issued until the Zoning Administrator has stamped a development plan
and the approved rezoning petition with conditions.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.006-18 EFFECT OF APPROVAL.
   (A)   If a petition for conditional zoning is approved, the development and
use of the parcel or parcels shall be governed by the predetermined ordinance
requirements applicable to the district’s category, the approved site plan for
the district, and any additional approved rules, regulations and conditions,
all of which shall constitute the zoning regulations for the approved district
and are binding on the property as an amendment to these regulations and to the
zoning maps.
   (B)   The approval of any use or uses in any conditional zoning district
which would otherwise require a special use permit in the corresponding general
use zoning district shall preclude any requirements for obtaining a special use
permit.
   (C)   If a petition is approved, the petitioner shall comply with all
requirements established in §§
154.004 for obtaining a building permit and certificate of occupancy. Only
those uses and structures indicated in the approved petition and site plan
shall be allowed on the subject parcel or parcels.
   (D)   Following the approval of the petition for a conditional zoning
district, the subject property shall be identified on the zoning maps by the
appropriate district designation. A corresponding conditional zoning district
shall be identified by the same designation as the underlying general use
district followed by the letter “C” (ex. RA-C). If the county uses a color
scheme identifying zoning districts on the zoning map, then the conditional
zoning district shall use the same color as the corresponding general use
district.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.006-19 PLANNED RESIDENTIAL CONDITIONAL DISTRICT (PR-CD).
   (A)   Minimum size. A PR-CD shall be located on a site containing at least
five contiguous acres.
   (B)   PR-CDs do not have any inherent permitted or special uses and
development activities are only allowed through specific conditions approved by
the Board of Commissioners; however, PR-CDs are primarily intended for single-
family developments. A maximum of 10% of the total land of the development may
be utilized for multi-family or non-residential uses, with the exception that
15% of the land may be utilized for a combination of lodging and other non-
residential uses. The compatibility, location, and appropriateness of any
multi-family or non-residential uses proposed shall be carefully considered.
Those uses permitted and conditions approved by the Board of Commissioners
shall be reflected on the conditional zoning district supplement issued by the
Zoning Administrator.
   (C)   Relationship to other applicable regulations. A PR-CD shall be subject
to all applicable standards, procedures and regulations of this chapter unless
otherwise set forth in this section.
   (D)   Maximum density. Proposed maximum residential density shall be
indicated in the PR-CD application and the required site plan which is to be
submitted. The proposed density shall compliment the adopted land use plan and
predominant density of the zoning districts abutting the subject property. All
land proposed for non-residential development shall be excluded from density
calculations. If all the PR-CD or a portion of the PR-CD is unable to be served
by public water and sewer, minimum lot sizes and maximum density shall be
determined in consultation with the Surry County Health Department.
   (E)   Development standards. A PR-CD shall meet the following standards:
      (1)   Outside perimeter lot setback requirements. Any lot which adjoins
the outside boundary of the PR-CD shall be considered an outside perimeter lot.
Internal streets are those contained within the boundary of the PR-CD.
Adjoining streets are those not located within the PR-CD but are adjacent to
the outside boundary of the PR-CD. The following setbacks shall be required for
outside perimeter lots.
         (a)   Lots with access on an internal street. The rear yard setback
requirement of the existing zoning district in which the PR-CD is proposed
shall be required.
         (b)   Lots with access on an adjoining street. The front yard setback
requirements of the existing zoning district in which the PR-CD is proposed
shall be required.
         (c)   Corner lots with access either on an internal or adjoining
street. The front yard setback requirements of the existing zoning district in
which the PR-CD is proposed shall be required on the adjoining street and the
front yard setback requirements allowed in the PR-CD shall be permitted on the
internal street.
         (d)   Access drives. No loading space, parking space or access drive
to a parking space shall be permitted within any required buffer yard.
      (2)   Required parking.
         (a)   Off-street parking.
            1.   Off-street parking shall be provided in compliance with §§
154.014; except that, the parking requirements may be met through group parking
located on commonly owned land.
            2.   Additionally, any required parking spaces located between the
fronts of residential buildings and public rights-of-way or private access
easements shall be at least 20 feet in depth and shown on the PR-CD site plan.
In no instances shall off-street parking spaces extend into public rights-of-
way or private access easements. All off-street parking shall be on an improved
surface constructed of concrete or asphalt.
         (b)   Special accommodations. Special accommodations for recreational
vehicles, including boats, may be provided in group parking areas. Such special
parking areas shall be designated and screened from adjacent residential uses.
      (3)   Private streets. Private streets are permitted in PR-CDs at the
discretion of the Board of Commissioners. Where permitted, private streets
shall be built in accordance with the requirements of the North Carolina
Department of Transportation, Division of Highways, Minimum Construction
Standards for Subdivision Roads or Traditional Neighborhood Development (TND)
Guidelines, August 2000, as amended, shall serve as minimum guidelines for
design. However, public streets may be required to ensure adequate street
connectivity.
      (4)   Pedestrian access. Pedestrian and other modes of non-vehicular
movement shall be provided in accordance with §§
154.013.
      (5)   Lot dimensional requirements and spacing of structures. Lot and
setback dimensional requirements for individual lots within a PR-CD are
flexible, except for a minimum ten-foot building setback from public rights-of-
way and private access easements. Minimum distances between single-family,
duplex and twin home structures shall be as follows:
         (a)   Front or rear facing front. The minimum distance between the
front wall of one structure and the rear wall of another structure, or the
front walls of structures oriented to face each other, shall be not less than
30 feet from one another.
         (b)   Rear facing rear. Dwellings oriented back-to-back shall be
subject to the following provisions:
            1.   The minimum distance between rear walls of the dwellings shall
be no less than 30 feet.
            2.   Accessory structures shall only be permitted in the
intervening space between principal dwellings oriented back-to-back or to the
rear yard of the principal dwelling.
            3.   Front facing side. The minimum distance between the front wall
of the structure and the side wall of another structure shall not be less than
16 feet to allow for fire lanes.
            4.   Side or rear facing side. The minimum distance between the
rear of a structure and side of another structure, or the minimum distance
between the side walls of structures, shall not be less than 16 feet to allow
for fire lanes.
            5.   Front loaded garages. All front-loaded garages shall be set
back no less than 20 feet from public rights-of-way or private access
easements.
            6.   Perimeter buffer. Where perimeter lots in PR-CDs do not meet
the minimum lot area and dimensional requirements of the surrounding zoning
district(s), a minimum 30-foot buffer is required between these lots and the
adjacent single family zoning district. The buffer shall contain a minimum of
four canopy trees, ten understory trees and 33 shrubs per 100 linear feet. The
planting material comprising the buffer shall be spread across the width of
buffer and not just planted in rows. The intent of this section is to soften
the appearance of the development and not necessarily screen it from view.
Shrubs shall be expected to reach a minimum height of 36 inches, and a minimum
spread of 30 inches within three years of planting. Understory trees shall be a
minimum of four feet high with a minimum caliper of one inch, measured six
inches above grade when planted. Canopy trees shall be a minimum of eight feet
in height and two inches in caliper, measured six inches above grade, when
planted. When mature, a canopy tree should be at least 40 feet high and have a
crown width of 30 feet or greater. A minimum of 25% of the understory trees and
75% of the shrubs shall be evergreens. The preservation of existing stands of
trees and shrubs is strongly encouraged and can be credited toward meeting this
requirement if sufficiently demonstrated on the site plan and accompanied by
pictures. This buffer shall be located on commonly owned land and shall be
considered open space as described in division (E)(6) below. Where any
individual lot in the PR-CD does not meet the dimensional and area requirements
of an abutting single-family zoning district, the buffer shall be required
along the entire length of the PR-CD that abuts the existing development.
      (6)   Common open space.
         (a)   Area. Common open space shall not be less than 25% of the total
development area. Open space shall be held in common ownership by a homeowner’s
association or accepted by the county as public open space.
         (b)   Limitations on flood hazard land as open space. Land within a
floodway or floodway fringe, as defined by FEMA, may be used to provide not
more than 50% of the required open space.
         (c)   Qualification. To qualify as open space, land shall be usable
for recreation purposes or shall provide visual, aesthetic or environmental
amenities and may not be occupied by streets, drives, parking areas, or
structures other than recreational structures. At least 30% of the gross area
(unless otherwise allowed by the Board of Commissioners) dedicated (for open
space) must be suitable for and designed to be used as active recreation space
(for example, walking trails, ball fields, playgrounds and the like).
         (d)   Letter of credit for maintenance of open space required.
Following inspection and approval of the construction and/or installation of
all required recreational areas in each phase of the development, the developer
shall submit a letter of credit issued in the county’s favor, for 100% of the
annual maintenance cost of these facilities as agreed upon and approved by the
Zoning Administrator. Such letter of credit shall be renewed every 12 months
until such time as the developer ceases to have the controlling vote in the
homeowner’s association, as recorded in the articles of incorporation of the
homeowner’s association, and the county has received written notice thereof
along with a copy of the names, addresses and phone numbers of all duly elected
members of the homeowner’s association board of directors.
         (e)   Access to open space. All property owners within the development
shall have access to open space by means of a public street or improved walkway
located in an easement at least 15 feet in width.
         (f)   Open space connectivity requirements. Where practicable, areas
of open space within a PR-CD shall be connected. Separate areas of active open
space on site shall be connected by a sidewalk or pedestrian path consisting of
an all-weather surface. Open space in PR-CDs shall adjoin open space in
neighboring parcels where practicable. If public parks or greenways are present
on adjacent sites, a pedestrian connection to these resources shall be made
from the PR-CD.
         (g)   Maintenance of open space. Maintenance of the open space, as
shown on the approved plan, shall be required in perpetuity and shall be the
responsibility of the homeowner’s association.
      (7)   Alternative compliance. Alternative compliance measures may be
proposed which vary from the strict application of the above requirements in
order to accommodate the unique character of the site or to utilize innovative
design. Alternative compliance may be granted by the Board of Commissioners
upon a finding that the proposed alternative fulfills the intent of this
chapter as well as, or better than would strict compliance with the
requirements of this subchapter.
      (8)   Front yard canopy trees required. The front yard of each lot shall
contain at least two trees, suitable for healthy growth in our climate. Each
tree shall have a minimum caliper of one and one-half inches measured at a
height of six inches above grade.
      (9)   Architectural standards for residential dwellings. In order to
improve and maintain the quality of residential neighborhoods, protect the
investments of residents and promote the interests of the community as outlined
in the county’s adopted land use plan, the developer may submit a list of
minimum architectural standards to be incorporated throughout the PR-CD to
Development Services staff during the pre-application conference. Standards
submitted are encouraged to address the following issues: roof pitch, building
materials, foundation type and facing materials, fences (front and rear),
pools, accessory buildings, porches, decks, articulation, garages and number
and frequency of dwelling design.
      (10)   Platting requirements. All PR-CDs shall meet the requirements of
§§
154.013. In addition, prior to a permit being issued for the construction of
any building, there shall have been recorded in the office of the Surry County
Register of Deeds, a plat of the property or section thereof, showing easement
and right-of-way widths, street widths, the actual or approximate location of
single-family lots, commonly owned tracts, and lots and buildings to be
occupied by other uses.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.006-20 RURAL PRESERVATION DISTRICT (RPD).
   (A)   This district shall be allowed as a conditional zoning district.
   (B)   Minimum size. An RPD shall be located on a site containing at least
five contiguous acres.
   (C)   Septic system and repair areas and water systems may be in common
areas, provided that appropriate measures are taken to ensure maintenance
through a homeowner’s association. System designs must be obtained and approved
from the Surry County Environmental Health Department.
   (D)   Design, lot, and density requirements.
      (1)   Notwithstanding the development standards set out in this
subchapter, RDP districts shall be exempt from the minimum lot size
requirements and side property line setbacks of this subchapter except for
those within a watershed area and outstanding resource watershed area, provided
the developmental standards and other requirements herein are met. The minimum
lot size requirements of RPD shall be not less than 10,000 square feet provided
that, the overall density of dwelling units shall not exceed one lot/acre and
provided that, 25% of the total project remains in open space.
      (2)   Lots in an RPD district shall either front upon a public street or
a private street as described and conditioned in above, or common open space
which adjoins either a public or private street as provided for above.
      (3)   Subdivisions within RPD shall be subject to the provisions and
declarations of the North Carolina Unit Ownership Act, if applicable, and such
documents shall be submitted as part of the plat review process.
      (4)   Applications for an RPD shall include an acceptable open space
preservation plan delineating areas to remain in open space.
   (E)   Lot requirements. Each lot or space shall be subject to the lot sizes
and overall density limits listed above. The following criteria shall be used
to determine the location of each lot.
      (1)   Development should be buffered from direct view by a vegetative
buffer, or an earth berm constructed to reflect the topography of the
surrounding area or located out of sight on slopes below existing ridge lines.
      (2)   Each lot shall be located to minimize the visual impact of the
development.
      (3)   Each lot shall not include wetlands, transition areas and
floodplains.
      (4)   Each lot shall not include areas with excessive slopes of greater
than 20%.
      (5)   Roadways shall follow existing contours to minimize the extent of
cuts and fills.
      (6)   The minimum common open space shall be contiguous, with allowed
breaks at roads/streets.
   (F)   On-site inspection. Prior to the submission of a request for RPD, the
developer shall schedule a mutually convenient time to walk the property with
the Subdivision Administrator, Local Ordinance Officer, and Health Department
representative.
      (1)   The purpose of this visit is to familiarize staff with the
property’s special features, and to provide them an informal opportunity to
offer guidance to the applicant regarding the tentative location of the
building lots, open space areas, buffering requirements and street locations.
      (2)   Prior to scheduling the on-site visit, the applicant shall have
prepared a preliminary site or sketch plan that shall show the basic concept of
meeting the clustering and open space preservation section and other
requirements set forth herein.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.006-21 OVERLAY DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Thoroughfare Overlay District (TO). To protect the rural character and
natural environment of the area and to provide attractive highway corridors and
gateways to our communities, the Thoroughfare Overlay District is created. It
is the goal of this district to enhance the attractiveness of the area to
visitors and residents alike. In all instances, coordination with the N.C.
Department of Transportation will be encouraged and policies and
recommendations of NCDOT will be taken into consideration when administering
this section.
      (1)   Thoroughfare corridor designation and underlying zoning.
         (a)   The Thoroughfare Overlay District is hereby established as a
district which overlays the zoning in every district along and on either side
of U.S. Highway 52/Interstate 74 from the northern point of the Town of Pilot
Mountain’s extraterritorial jurisdiction (ETJ), south to the Stokes County
line.
         (b)   The development of any new off-premises sign and/or billboard
within a designated Thoroughfare Overlay District shall be prohibited after the
adoption of this chapter.
      (2)   The Thoroughfare Overlay District shall be measured beginning from
the edge of the public right-of-way on both sides of the thoroughfare. The type
of thoroughfare will determine the size of the district:
         (a)   Interstates: 660 feet;
         (b)   United States highways: 500 feet;
         (c)   North Carolina highways: 400 feet; and
         (d)   Other state-maintained roads: 300 feet.
   (B)   Scenic Byway Overlay (SBO). To protect the rural character and natural
environment of the area and to provide attractive highway corridors and
gateways to our communities, the Scenic Byway Overlay is created pursuant to
G.S. § 160D-703(a)4. It is the goal of this district to establish physical
design as an important factor in the approval of non-residential uses along the
roadway to assure compatibility with neighboring properties; to provide
recreational experiences; and to preserve the exceptional intrinsic qualities
of the route as described in the Sauratown Mountains Scenic Byway Corridor
Management Plan. In all instances, coordination with the N.C. Department of
Transportation will be encouraged and policies and recommendations of NCDOT
will be taken into consideration when administering this section.
      (1)   Overlay designation and underlying zoning.
         (a)   The Scenic Byway Overlay is hereby established as a district
which overlays the zoning in every district along and on either side of the
Sauratown Mountains Scenic Byway within the jurisdiction of Surry County.
         (b)   The Scenic Byway Overlay District extends 600 feet on both sides
of the centerline of the Byway.
         (c)   The boundary of the district is delineated on the official
zoning map of Surry County.
      (2)   Land use and development.
         (a)   All non-residential land uses proposed for the Overlay after the
effective date of this chapter require the approval of a special use permit. In
addition to the site plan requirements of §§ 154.012, applications shall
include proposed building elevations, building materials, and landscaping. Site
plans shall be prepared in a way to respect and protect as much as possible the
intrinsic qualities of the Byway in the area of the proposed land use.
         (b)   Principal and accessory residential uses are exempt from the
requirements of this section.
         (c)   When there is a conflict between the underlying zoning and the
requirements of the Scenic Byway Overlay the stricter shall apply.
      (3)   Design and development standards. Design and development standards
shall be consistent with the Sauratown Mountains Scenic Byway Corridor
Management Plan.
   (C)   Watershed Overlay District (WO). The Watershed Overlay District is
hereby established to identify on the zoning map those areas of the county that
are in the district. Any parcel or lot that falls within a Watershed Overlay
District shall be required to adhere to the requirements of §§ 154.017 and this
code of ordinances, as amended. The following watersheds (which include their
critical and protected areas, as well as the balance of the watershed areas) in
Surry County are included in the Watershed Overlay District: The watershed
areas are established and described in §§ 154.017.
      (1)   Fisher River: WS-II.
      (2)   Elkin Creek: WS-II.
      (3)   Tom’s Creek: WS-II.
      (4)   Stewart’s Creek: WS-IV.
      (5)   Lovill’s Creek: WS-IV.
      (6)   Ararat River: WS-IV; and
      (7)   Yadkin River-King: WS-IV.
   (D)   Elkin Municipal Airport Overlay District (AO-1). The Elkin Municipal
Airport Overlay District (AO-1) is hereby established to identify on the zoning
map areas in the vicinity of the Elkin Municipal Airport that are critical to
air navigation. This section is adopted pursuant to the authority conferred by
G.S. Ch. 63, Art. 4. It is hereby found that an obstruction has the potential
for endangering the lives and property of users of the Elkin Municipal Airport,
and property or occupants of land in its vicinity; that an obstruction may
affect existing and future instrument approach minimums of the Elkin Municipal
Airport; and that an obstruction may in effect reduce the size of areas
available for the landing, takeoff and maneuvering of aircraft, thus tending to
destroy or impair the utility of the Elkin Municipal Airport and the public
investment therein, and is therefore not in the interest of the public safety
or general welfare chapter, there are hereby created and established certain
zones which include all the land lying beneath the approach surfaces,
transitional surfaces, horizontal surfaces and conical surfaces as they apply
to the Elkin Municipal Airport. Such zones are shown on the Elkin Municipal
Airport height restriction zones map consisting of one sheet representing the
current version on file in the Surry County Development Services Department and
made a part hereof. An area located in more than one of the following zones is
only in the zone with the more restrictive height limitation.
      (1)   The various zones are hereby established and defined as follows:
         (a)   Runways larger than utility with a visibility minimum greater
than three-fourths mile non-precision instrument approach zone. The inner edge
of this approach zone coincides with the width of the primary surface and is
500 feet wide. The approach zone expands outward uniformly to a width of 3,500
feet at a horizontal distance of 10,000 feet from the primary surface. Its
centerline is the continuation of the centerline of the runway.
         (b)   Transitional zones. The transitional zones are the areas beneath
the transitional surfaces.
         (c)   Horizontal zone. The horizontal zone is established by swinging
arcs of 10,000 feet radii from the center of each end of the primary surface of
each runway and connecting the adjacent arcs by drawing lines tangent to those
arcs. The horizontal zone does not include the approach and transitional zones.
         (d)   Conical zone. The conical zone is established as the area that
commences at the periphery of the horizontal zone and extends outward therefrom
a horizontal distance of 4,000 feet. The conical zone does not include the
transitional zone.
      (2)   Airport zone height limitations. Except as otherwise provided in
this chapter, no structure shall be erected, altered, or maintained, and no
tree shall be allowed to grow in any zone created by this chapter to a height
in excess of the applicable height limit herein established for such zone. Such
applicable height limitations are hereby established for each of the zones in
question as follows:
         (a)   Runway larger than utility with a visibility minimum greater
than a mile non-precision instrument approach zone: slopes 34 feet outward for
each foot upward beginning at the end of and at the same elevation as the
primary surface and extending to a horizontal distance of 10,000 feet along the
extended runway centerline.
         (b)   Transitional zones: slope seven feet outward for each foot
upward beginning at the sides of and at the same elevation as the primary
surface and the approach surface and extending to a height of 100 feet above
the airport elevation, or at an elevation of 1,168 feet above mean sea level.
         (c)   Horizontal zone: established at 100 feet above the airport
elevation, or at an elevation of 1,168 feet above mean sea level.
         (d)   Conical zone: slopes 20 feet outward for each foot upward
beginning at the periphery of the horizontal zone and at 100 feet above the
airport elevation and extending to a height of 300 feet above the airport
elevation.
         (e)   Excepted height limitations. Nothing in this section shall be
construed as prohibiting the construction or maintenance of any structure, or
growth of any tree to a height up to 50 feet above the surface of the land.
Height shall be measured from the highest point on the ground along the
periphery of the structure or tree to the highest point on the structure or
tree.
      (3)   Use restriction. No use may be made of land or water within any
zone established by this chapter in such a manner as to create electrical
interference with navigational signals or radio communication between the
airport and aircraft, make it difficult for pilots to distinguish between
airport lights and others, result in glare in the eyes of pilots using the
airport, impair visibility in the vicinity of the airport, create bird strike
hazards or otherwise in any way endanger or interfere with the landing, takeoff
or maneuvering of aircraft intending to use the airport.
      (4)   Non-conforming uses.
         (a)   Regulations not retroactive. The regulations prescribed by this
chapter shall not be construed to require the removal, lowering or other change
or alteration of any structure or tree not conforming to the regulations as of
the effective date of this chapter or any amendment thereto, or otherwise
interfere with the continuance of a non-conforming use. Nothing contained
herein shall require any change in the construction, alteration or intended use
of any structure, the construction or alteration of which was begun prior to
the effective date of this chapter and is diligently prosecuted.
         (b)   Marking and lighting. Notwithstanding the preceding provisions
above, the owner of any existing non-conforming structure or tree is hereby
required to permit the installation, operation, and maintenance thereon of such
markers and lights as shall be deemed necessary by the Zoning Administrator to
indicate to the operators of aircraft in the vicinity of the airport the
presence of such airport obstructions. Such markers and lights shall be
installed, operated, and maintained at the expense of the Town of Elkin.
      (5)   Permits. Except as specifically provided in divisions (a), (b) and
(c) below, no material change shall be made in the use of land, and no
structure or tree shall be erected, altered, planted or otherwise established
in any zone hereby created unless a permit therefor shall have been applied for
and granted. Each application for a permit shall indicate the purpose for which
the permit is desired, with sufficient particularity to permit it to be
determined whether the resulting use, structure or tree would conform to the
regulations herein prescribed. If such determination is in the affirmative, the
permit shall be granted. No permit for a use inconsistent with the provisions
of this chapter shall be granted unless a variance has been approved in
accordance with §§
154.010.
         (a)   In the area lying within the limits of the horizontal zone and
conical zone, no permit shall be required for any tree or structure less than
70 feet of vertical height above the ground, except when, because of terrain,
land contour or topographic features, such tree or structure would extend above
the height limits prescribed for such zones.
         (b)   In areas lying within the limits of the approach zones, but at a
horizontal distance of not less than 4,200 feet from each end of the runway, no
permit shall be required for any tree or structure less than 70 feet of
vertical height above the ground, except when such tree or structure would
extend above the height limit prescribed for such approach zones.
         (c)   In the areas lying within the limits of the transition zones
beyond the perimeter of the horizontal zone, no permit shall be required for
any tree or structure less than 70 feet of vertical height above the ground,
except when such tree or structure, because of terrain, land contour or
topographic features, would extend above the height limit prescribed for such
transition zones.
         (d)   Nothing contained in any of the foregoing exceptions shall be
construed as permitting or intending to permit any construction, or alteration
of any structure, or growth of any tree in excess of any of the height limits
established by this subchapter, except as set forth in divisions (C)(2), (C)(3)
and (C)(4) above. In the event a tree is allowed to grow in excess of the
height limits established by this subchapter, except as set forth in divisions
(C)(2), (C)(3) and (C)(4) above, said tree shall be removed, topped, trimmed or
otherwise modified to bring into compliance with this subchapter. If the Zoning
Administrator or his or her designee determines that the tree adversely affects
the safe use of the airport, the Town of Elkin will pay for the direct cost to
remove, top, trim or otherwise modify said tree to bring into compliance with
this subchapter.
      (6)   Existing uses. No permit shall be granted that would allow the
establishment or creation of an airport obstruction that is a hazard to air
navigation or permit a nonconforming use, structure, or tree to become a
greater hazard to air navigation than it was on the effective date of this
chapter or any amendments thereto or that it is when the application for a
permit is made. Except as indicated, all applications for such a permit shall
be granted.
      (7)   Non-conforming uses abandoned or destroyed. Whenever the Surry
County Zoning Administrator determines that a non-conforming tree or structure
has been abandoned or more than 80% torn down, physically deteriorated or
decayed, no permit shall be granted that would allow such structure or tree to
exceed the applicable height limit or otherwise deviate from the zoning
regulations.
      (8)   Variances. Any person desiring to erect or increase the height of
any structure, or permit the growth of any tree, or use property, not in
accordance with the regulations prescribed in this section, may apply to the
Board of Adjustment for a variance from such regulations. The application for
variance shall be accompanied by a determination from the Federal Aviation
Administration as to the effect of the proposal on the operation of air
navigation facilities and the safe, efficient use of navigable airspace. Such
variances shall be allowed where it is duly found that a literal application or
enforcement of the regulations will result in unnecessary hardship and relief
granted, will not be contrary to the public interest, will not create a hazard
to air navigation, will do substantial justice, and will be in accordance with
the spirit of this section. Additionally, no application for variance to the
requirements of this section may be considered by the Board of Adjustment
unless a copy of the application has been furnished to the Zoning Administrator
or his or her designee for advice as to the aeronautical effects of the
variance. If the Zoning Administrator or his or her designee does not respond
to the application within 15 days after receipt, the Board of Adjustment may
act on its own to deny said application. Where there exists a conflict between
any of the regulations or limitations prescribed in this section and any other
regulations or subchapters of this chapter applicable to the same area, whether
the conflict be with respect to the height of structures or trees, and the use
of land, or any other matter, the more stringent limitation or requirement
shall govern and prevail. The divisions (D)(4) and (E)(3), pertaining to
variances that apply to all lands within the AO-1 overlay zoning district,
shall not interfere or supersede those requirements found in §§ 154.010 but
shall serve as an extension of those requirements.
      (9)   Obstruction marking and lighting. Any permit or variance granted
may, if such action is deemed advisable to effectuate the purpose of this
chapter and be reasonable in the circumstances, be so conditioned as to require
the owner of the structure or tree in question to permit the Town of Elkin at
its own expense, to install, operate and maintain thereon such marking and
lights as may be necessary.
      (10)   Permits. The Zoning Administrator shall review all applications
for development to ensure compliance with all regulations of this chapter. All
applications shall be complete prior to review by the Administrator. The
Administrator, at his or her discretion, may request that additional
information be submitted as necessary to ensure a thorough and complete review
of the application. All applications shall be submitted with a non-refundable
fee in accordance with a fee schedule adopted by the Surry County Board of
Commissioners.
   (E)   Mount Airy/Surry County Airport Overlay District (AO-2). The AO-
2 District is established as an overlay district in the vicinity of the Mount
Airy/Surry County Airport. The purpose of this district is to protect the
airport environs from encroachment of incompatible land uses which present
hazards to users of the airport as well as to persons residing or working in
the airport vicinity. The regulations imposed in the AO-2 District are designed
to place height restrictions on buildings, structures, and trees. It is the
intent of this section to restrain influences which are adverse to the property
and safe conduct of aircraft in the vicinity of the Mount Airy/Surry County
Airport, to prevent creation of conditions hazardous to aircraft operation, to
prevent conflict with land development which may result in a loss of life and
property and to encourage development which is compatible with airport use
characteristics.
      (1)   Airport zones. Except as otherwise provided in this section, no
structure shall be erected, altered or maintained, and no trees shall be
allowed to grow in any zone created by this section to a height in excess of
the applicable height limitations herein established for each zone in question
as follows:
         (a)   Approach zone. AHD-A:
            1.   Runway 18: slopes 20 feet outward for each one foot upward
beginning at the end of and at the same elevation as the primary surface and
extending to a horizontal distance of 5,000 feet along the extended runway
centerline.
            2.   Runway 36: slopes 34 feet outward for each foot upward
beginning at the end of and at the same elevation as the primary surface and
extending to a horizontal distance of 10,000 feet along the extended runway
centerline.
         (b)   Transitional zones. AHD-T: slopes seven feet outward for each
foot upward beginning at the side of and at the same elevation as the primary
surface and the approach surface and extending to a height of 150 feet above
the airport elevation or 1,398 feet above mean sea level. In addition to the
foregoing, there are established height limits sloping seven feet outward for
each foot upward beginning at the sides and at the same elevation as the
approach surface and extending to where they intersect the horizontal surface.
         (c)   Horizontal zone. AHD-H: established at 150 feet above the
airport or at an elevation of 1,398 feet above mean sea level.
         (d)   Conical zones. AHD-C: slopes 20 feet outward for each foot
upward beginning at the periphery of the horizontal zone and at 150 feet above
the airport elevation and extending to an elevation of 1,598 feet above mean
sea level. There are four conical zones (AHD-C-A, AHD-C-B, AHD-C-C, and AHD-C-
D), 1,000 feet horizontally each and rise 50 feet in elevation. The maximum
height of any structure within the conical zone are as follows:
            1.   AHD-C-A: 1,398 feet MSL.
            2.   AHD-C-B: 1,448 feet MSL.
            3.   AHD-C-C: 1,498 feet MSL; and iv.AHD-C-D: 1,548 feet MSL.
         (e)   Hazardous terrain zone. AHD-Z: any area in which the existing
terrain encroaches into any of the previously described surfaces.
      (2)   Use restrictions. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this
section, no use may be made of land or water within any district established by
this section in such a manner as to create electrical interference with
navigational signals or radio communications between the airport and aircraft,
make it difficult for pilots to distinguish between airport lights and others,
resulting in glare in the eyes of pilots using the airport, impair visibility
in the vicinity of the airport, create bird strike hazards or otherwise in any
way endanger or interfere with the landing, takeoff or maneuvering of aircraft
intending to use the airport.
      (3)   Non-conforming uses.
         (a)   Regulations not retroactive. The regulations prescribed by this
section shall not be construed to require the removal, lowering or other change
or alteration of any structure or tree not conforming to the regulations as of
the effective date of this section, or otherwise interfere with the continuance
of a non-conforming use.
         (b)   Markings and lighting. Notwithstanding the preceding provision
of this section, the owner of any existing non-conforming structure or tree is
hereby required to permit the installation, operation and maintenance thereon
of such markers and lights as shall be deemed necessary by the Mount Airy-Surry
County Airport Authority to indicate to the operators of aircraft in the
vicinity of the airport the presence of such airport obstruction.
      (4)   Issuance of a building permit. The Development Services Department
shall not issue a building permit within an AHD-A, AHD-T, AHD-H, AHD-C or AHD-
Z area, or within the AWOS Critical Area, along with the surrounding area up to
1,000 feet from the AWOS, until it has been determined that the proposal upon
which they are requested to act follows the terms of these regulations by the
Zoning Administrator.
         (a)   Except as specifically provided in divisions (D)(4)(a)1., (D)(4)
(a)2., and (D)(4)(a)3. below, no material change shall be made in the use of
land, no structure shall be erected or otherwise established, and no trees
shall be planted in any district hereby created unless a permit has been
applied for and granted. Each application for a permit shall indicate the
purpose for which the permit is desired, with sufficient information
particularly to determine whether the resulting use, structure or tree would
conform to the regulations herein prescribed. If such determination is in the
affirmative, the permit shall be granted.
            1.   In the area lying within the limits of horizontal zone and
conical zone, no permit shall be required for any tree or structure less than
100 feet of vertical height above the ground, except when, because of terrain,
land contour or topographic features, such tree or structure would extend above
the height limits prescribed for such zones.
            2.   In areas lying within the limits of the approach zones, but at
a horizontal distance of not less than 4,200 feet from each end of the runway,
no permit shall be required for any tree or structure less than 100 feet of
vertical height above the ground, except when, because of terrain, land contour
or topographic features, such tree or structure would extend above the height
limits prescribed for such zones.
            3.   In the areas lying within the limits of the transition zones,
no permit shall be required for any tree or structures less than 100 feet above
the ground, except when such tree or structure because of terrain, land contour
or topographic features, would extend above the height limit prescribed for
such transition zones.
            4.   Amateur radio operators must comply with part 97 of FCC
regulations.
            5.   The AWOS critical area, along with the surrounding area up to
1,000 feet from the AWOS shall be kept free of obstruction consistent with the
following FAA standards (Siting Criteria for Automated Weather Observing
Systems, Order JO6560.20C, effective 09/06/2017): "All obstructions (e.g.,
vegetation, buildings, and the like) must be at least 15 feet lower than the
height of the sensor within the 500-foot radius and be at least ten feet lower
than the height of the sensor from 500 to 1000 feet."
         (b)   Nothing contained in any of the foregoing exceptions shall be
construed as permitting or intending to permit any construction, alteration of
any structure or growth of any tree in excess of any height limits established
by this chapter, except as set forth in this subchapter.
         (c)   Existing uses. No permit shall be granted that would allow the
establishment or creation of an obstruction, or permit a non-conforming use,
structure, or tree to become a greater hazard to air navigation than it was on
the effective date of this chapter, or any amendments thereto, or than it is
when the application for a permit is made. Except as indicated all applications
for such a permit shall be granted.
      (5)   Non-conforming uses abandoned or destroyed. Whenever the Zoning
Administrator determines that a non-conforming tree or structure has been
abandoned for 180 days, or more than 60% has been torn down, physically
deteriorated or decayed, said structure or tree shall lose its non-conforming
status and at such time shall be brought into compliance with this subchapter.
      (6)   Variances. Variances shall be administered in the AO-2 Overlay
District as provided for the AO-1 Overlay District, herein.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.006-22 VILLAGE OF ROCKFORD ZONING DISTRICT.
   (A)   Village of Rockford (VR) Zoning District. The Village of Rockford (VR)
District is a mixed-use historic district which will allow those properties
within the district boundary to continue the pattern of development established
upon the village’s creation in 1789. This district is strictly designed for
properties in the Rockford National Register Historic District. It is the
intent of this District to accomplish the following tasks:
      (1)   To safeguard the integrity of the Village of Rockford by preserving
those areas and individual properties therein.
      (2)   To stabilize and improve property values within the district
boundary.
      (3)   To foster civic beauty; and
      (4)   To promote the use and conservation of the Village of Rockford for
the education, pleasure, and enrichment of county and state residents.
      (5)   The Planning Board shall act as a Historic Preservation Commission
as authorized by G.S. § 160D-303B for the purposes of making decisions. The
boundary of the Village of Rockford Zoning District is based on the boundaries
established by the National Register Historic District.
   (B)   Table of Uses. All uses within the VR District are designated as
special uses, as shown in §
154.007-01, and shall comply with regulations applicable to those uses found in
§
154.008. Additionally, uses that qualify under divisions (B)(1) - (3) as found
below, may be considered under special use procedures.
      (1)   Any use found by the Planning Board to have existed on the
particular property before 1956 is permitted following a quasi-judicial hearing
by the Planning Board;
      (2)   A religious institution, college or university, or operation of an
historic preservation organization with purposes related to the district; and
      (3)   Uses normally accessory to the principal uses listed above.
   (C)   Site plan review for permitted uses. For those uses designated as
permitted uses in the VR District, as found in §
154.007-01, the applicant shall prepare an application for review by the Zoning
Administrator that complies with this section. The site plan shall show the
following:
      (1)   Boundaries of tract to be developed shown with bearings and
distances as established by the boundary survey;
      (2)   Proposed rights-of-ways or easements, location, widths, and
purposes;
      (3)   Proposed setback lines from property boundaries;
      (4)   Title, date, north arrow, and graphic scale;
      (5)   Watershed designation, if applicable;
      (6)   Proof of ownership of the proposed site or authorization to utilize
it;
      (7)   Copies of the architectural renderings of the proposed building or
structure; and
      (8)   List of all building materials to be utilized in the construction
of the building’s façade.
   (D)   Special use permit application and review.
      (1)   For those uses designated as special uses in the VR District, as
found in §
154.007-01, the applicant for a use change shall prepare an application for
review by the Planning Board and other applicable government agencies that
complies with division (A). Special uses within the VR District are subject to
the requirements of this division, rather than those found in §§
154.010.
      (2)   Land uses that were considered permitted uses prior to being
included within the initial VR District in 2006, and are now considered special
uses, will be permitted to expand up to two times their size without receiving
a special use permit to expand; however, applicants will follow the
requirements of division (C) above and are required to obtain a certificate of
appropriateness from the Planning Board. The existing size used in this
calculation shall be determined as the size of the land use when the initial VR
District was adopted.
      (3)   Area map. The application for a special use permit shall contain an
area map showing the property to be developed. The area map shall show the
following:
         (a)   The boundary of the property to be developed;
         (b)   The names and addresses of adjoining property owners;
         (c)   The location of existing streets, buildings, railroads,
transmission lines, sewers, bridges, culverts, drainpipes, and easements, to
the extent that these may be ascertained from a field inspection by the county;
         (d)   Municipal boundaries and extraterritorial jurisdictions,
township lines, zoning district classifications, and other applicable
boundaries;
         (e)   Name of the applicable fire district; and
         (f)   Topography, proximity to streams, susceptibility to flooding as
determined from available flood maps, and other natural features which may
impose restrictions on the development of the site.
      (4)   Detailed development plan. The application shall contain a detailed
development plan showing the following information on a sheet or sheets (not
less than 18 inches by 24 inches) drawn at a scale of sufficient size to
accurately and clearly show all required information including additional
information as required with the area map. The detailed development plan shall
be recorded, with, or part of, the boundary survey in the Office of Register of
Deeds. Approved detailed development plans shall be recorded before issuance of
a zoning permit. The detailed development plan shall include:
         (a)   Name and address of owner and surveyor, engineer, land planner
and/or architect;
         (b)   Scaled vicinity map inset showing the location of the property
in relationship to nearby towns, communities, and roads;
         (c)   Boundaries of tract to be developed shown with bearings and
distances as established by the boundary survey;
         (d)   Site data table, including impervious surfaces calculations and
total acreage;
         (e)   Proposed rights-of-ways or easements, location, widths, and
purposes;
         (f)   Proposed setback lines from property boundaries;
         (g)   Title, date, north arrow, and graphic scale;
         (h)   Watershed designation, if applicable;
         (i)   A letter from the N.C. Division of Highway Engineers, if
applicable, indicating that their office has reviewed the area map and site
plan and specifying any problems such as highway access or right-of-way
encroachments, which need to be resolved prior to approval of the application;
         (j)   A letter stating approval of a Sedimentation and Erosion Control
Plan from NCDEQ, if applicable;
         (k)   Proof of ownership of the proposed site or authorization to
utilize it; and
         (l)   The existing use of the site and the proposed use of the site.
      (5)   Additional requirements.
         (a)   Copies of the architectural drawings and renderings of the
proposed building or structure; and
         (b)   List of all proposed building materials to be utilized in the
construction of the building facade.
      (6)   Planning Board action.
         (a)   The applicant shall file 14 copies of the complete application
45 days before the next regularly scheduled Planning Board meeting. The Zoning
Administrator shall set and advertise a date and time for a public hearing
before the Planning Board. Notice of such hearing shall be published in a
newspaper of general local circulation at least 15 days before the date set for
the public hearing. At the public hearing all interested parties shall be
permitted to testify in sworn testimony. Prior to the hearing all property
owners within the Village of Rockford (VR) District shall be mailed a notice of
the hearing, via certified mail. The person mailing notices shall certify that
such notices have been mailed. Cost of postage shall be reimbursed by the
applicant through fees set by the Board of County Commissioners. In addition,
the property for which the special use permit is proposed shall be posted at
least one week before the public hearing.
         (b)   The Planning Board shall consider the application and comments
at the public hearing and may grant or deny the special use permit. If the
special use permit is granted, the Planning Board shall use as a guide, the
specific conditions outlined in this section for each use proposed. In
addition, the Planning Board shall find:
            1.   That the use will not materially endanger the public health or
safety, if located according to the plan submitted and approved;
            2.   That the use meets all required conditions and specifications;
            3.   That the use will not substantially injure the value of
adjoining or abutting property, or that the use is a public necessity; and
            4.   That the location and character of the use, if developed
according to the plan as submitted and approved, will be in harmony with the
area in which it is to be located and in general conformity with the Surry
County Land Use Plan.
         (c)   In granting the special use permit, the Planning Board may
designate only those conditions, in addition to those stated herein, which, in
its opinion, assure that the use and its proposed location will be harmonious
with the area and with the spirit of this section and clearly in keeping with
the public welfare. All such additional conditions shall be entered in the
minutes of the meeting, at which the special use permit is granted, on the
special use permit itself, and on the approved plans submitted therewith. All
specific conditions shall run with the land and shall be binding on the
original applications for the special use permit, their heirs, successors, and
assigns.
         (d)   When deciding special use permits, the Planning Board shall
follow quasi-judicial procedures. No vote greater than a majority vote of the
entire Board membership shall be required for the Planning Board to issue a
special use permit. Vacant positions on the Board and members of the Board who
are disqualified from voting on a quasi-judicial matter shall not be considered
members of the Board' for calculation of the requisite majority.
      (7)   Denial and appeal.
         (a)   If the Planning Board denies the special use permit it shall
enter the reason for its action in the minutes of the meeting at which the
action is taken.
         (b)   No appeal may be taken from the action of the Planning Board in
granting or denying a special use permit except through the Surry County
Superior Court within 30 days of the decision or forever be barred.
      (8)   Failure to comply with plans/notifications of adjacent property
owners. In the event of failure to comply with the plans approved by the
Planning Board, or with any other conditions imposed upon the special use
permit, the permit shall thereupon immediately become void and of no effect
following a quasi-judicial hearing by the Planning Board. No building permits
for further construction or certificates of occupancy under this special use
permit shall be issued, and all completed structures shall be regarded as non-
conforming uses subject to the provisions of this chapter. In such cases,
owners of adjoining property shall be notified that the special use permit is
no longer in effect.
      (9)   Modification of permits and site plans. Where plans are required to
be submitted and approved as part of the application for a special use permit,
modifications of the originally approved plans may be authorized by the
Planning Board. Modifications of the site plan, which is a part of the permit,
are permitted following a quasi-judicial hearing consistent with §§
154.010.
   (E)   Dimensional requirements.
      (1)   As provided below, the following exceptions shall apply to the
dimensional requirements found in this subchapter for the VR District. All
buildings and structures in the VR District shall comply with §
154.006-15 as well as the following yard and height provisions:
         (a)   Front yard. No building or part of a building, other than steps,
open porches, overhanging eaves, and cornices, shall extend closer to a front
street line than the average distance of the setbacks of the principal
buildings on the same block and on the same side of the street within 1,000
feet from the zoning lot in either direction. Provided, however, that in no
case shall the front setback be less than eight feet, and no building shall be
required to set back more than 40 feet from the front street line.
         (b)   Rear yard. There shall be a rear yard with a depth of not less
than 25 feet. When a building extends through from street to street, the front
yard restrictions shall be observed on both streets.
      (2)   In the event that the Development Services Department finds that an
application for a building permit covers activity constituting an authentic
restoration or reconstruction of a building or structure that existed at the
same location, said building or structure may be restored or reconstructed at
the same location where the original building or structure was located,
following the approval of a certificate of appropriateness, as described in
division (H) below.
      (3)   Any items restored, reconstructed, or maintained over, on, or
within a public right-of-way shall be responsibility of the property owner if
they have received approval from the proper state or local agency responsible
for maintaining the right-of-way. The owner’s restoration, reconstruction, or
maintenance of any such item shall constitute the owner’s agreement to protect
and hold the county blameless against any liability, cost, damage, or expense
suffered or sustained by the county as a result of or growing out of the
restoration, reconstruction, or maintenance. Such items, if approved, may be
lawfully restored, reconstructed, or maintained.
   (F)   Non-conforming uses. Alterations, expansions, changes, rebuilds, or
resuming of a non-conforming use in this district are subject to the same
requirements as other districts in §
154.008. The Planning Board shall hear and decide petitions for the continuance
of non-conforming uses. The Planning Board may include conditions of approval
for compliance to the design and development standards below.
   (G)   Design and development standards. In addition to development standards
required elsewhere in this chapter, permitted and special uses in the VR
District shall be subject to the following site design and development
criteria. These standards will ensure that new development and additions are
compatible with the character of the village and protect the integrity of the
village.
      (1)   Residential development.
         (a)   Design of new buildings /structures using exterior materials
typical of historic buildings in the VR District including brick, stone, log,
wood clapboard, finished concrete block (surface textures and/or exterior
appearance should be compatible with those of surrounding structures) or a
masonry product designed to appear like wood clapboard. Materials shall not
comprise metal siding, vinyl siding, or concrete block. However, on a case-by-
case basis, the Planning Board may authorize an alternative material if it is
in keeping with the intent of this division.
         (b)   Building or structure design must be consistent with
architecture found in the Rockford National Register Historic District, such as
Colonial, Greek Revival, Gothic Revival, Federal, and Victorian. Elements such
as windows, doors, siding pattern, and the like will be reviewed.
         (c)   Materials for the trim and siding must be installed in a fashion
that is appropriate to buildings/structures in the Rockford National Register
Historic District.
         (d)   Any dwelling built on a slab foundation shall have a minimum
six-course brick masonry veneer skirt (of standard brick size) extending up the
face of the slab.
         (e)   The majority of roof areas shall have a minimum 8:12 pitch.
         (f)   Chain link fencing (with or without any type of inserts), razor
wire, and barbed wire shall not be permitted. This requirement does not apply
to agricultural operations as defined under the bona fide farm provision.
         (g)   Accessory structures shall be constructed with like building
materials of the primary dwelling/structure on the same property.
         (h)   Existing structures/buildings located in the VR District which
do not initially meet the minimum design and development standards for
residential development as stated above in divisions (a) through (g) shall be
permitted to expand in size utilizing materials that are consistent with the
exterior materials of the existing structure/building. The design of the
expansion shall be consistent with the existing architecture of the structure/
building.
      (2)   Non-residential development.
         (a)   Design of new buildings/structures shall utilize exterior
materials typical of historic buildings in the VR District including brick,
stone, log, wood clapboard, finished concrete block (surface textures and/or
exterior appearance shall be compatible with those of surrounding structures),
or a masonry product designed to appear like wood clapboard. Materials shall
not comprise metal siding, vinyl siding, or concrete block. However, on a case-
by-case basis, the Planning Board may authorize an alternative material if it
is in keeping with the intent of this division.
         (b)   Building or structure design must be consistent with
architecture found in the Rockford National Register Historic District, such as
Colonial, Greek Revival, Gothic Revival, Federal, and Victorian. Elements such
as windows, doors, siding pattern and the like will be reviewed.
         (c)   Materials for the trim and siding must be installed in a fashion
that is appropriate to structures/buildings found in the Rockford National
Register Historic District.
         (d)   Any building/structure built on a slab foundation shall have a
minimum six-course brick masonry veneer skirt (of standard brick size)
extending up the face of the slab.
         (e)   The majority of roof areas shall have a minimum 8:12 pitch.
         (f)   Accessory structures shall be constructed with like building
materials of the primary building/structure on the same property.
         (g)   Parking areas shall be designed in such a manner that minimizes
any adverse impact on the historic integrity of any buildings and/or structures
on the property in question or adjoining properties. Parking areas shall not
impede the flow of traffic along any state-maintained roads. Remote parking
areas can be utilized if sufficient space is not available on the property that
the non-residential land use is located (§§
154.014).
         (h)   Buildings shall not be stylized or designed as advertising
signage or corporate symbols.
         (i)   Service areas and loading docks shall not be sited on the major
pedestrian side of a building and must be screened from pedestrian view by
landscaping or with architectural elements.
         (j)   Chain link fencing (with or without any type of inserts), razor
wire, and barbed wire shall not be permitted. This requirement does not apply
to agricultural operations as defined under the bona fide farm provision.
         (k)   Refuse enclosures shall be screened from view on all sides with
an eight-foot-high opaque screen of coordinated building materials and
landscaping.
         (l)   Existing structures/buildings located in the VR District which
do not initially meet the minimum design and development standards for non-
residential development as stated above in through (a) through (k) shall be
permitted to expand in size utilizing materials that are consistent with the
exterior materials of the existing structure/building. The design of the
expansion shall be consistent with the existing architecture of the structure/
building.
   (H)   Certificate of appropriateness requirements. No exterior feature of
any building or other structure, landscape or natural feature, above-ground
utility structure or any type of on-premises sign shall be erected, altered,
restored, moved, or demolished within the Village of Rockford District until
and after an application for a certificate of appropriateness has been
submitted to and approved by the Planning Board. “Exterior features” include
the architectural style, general design, color and general arrangement of the
exterior of the building or other structure, including the kind and texture of
the building materials, the size and scale of the building, and the type and
style of all windows, doors, light fixtures, signs, and other appurtenant
fixtures. In the case of outdoor advertising signs, exterior features refer to
the style, material, size, color, size, and location of all such signs. A
certificate of appropriateness shall be required whether or not a building or
other permit is required.
      (1)   Authority. Certificates of appropriateness may be issued by the
Planning Board as permitted by G.S. §§ 160D-303(b)(ii) and 160D-947.
      (2)   Time for review. The Planning Board shall hold a quasi-judicial
evidentiary hearing and act upon all applications for certificates of
appropriateness within a reasonable time, not to exceed 180 days from the date
the complete application for a certificate of appropriateness is filed. Review
and consideration of a certificate of appropriateness by the Planning Board may
also run concurrently with consideration of a special use permit for the same
property. As part of its review process, the Board may view the premises and
seek the advice of the N.C. Division of Archives and History or other such
expert advice as it may deem necessary under the circumstances.
      (3)   Required procedures.
         (a)   Applications. All applications for a certificate of
appropriateness shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator and shall be
accompanied with the following documents and information:
            1.   A site plan drawn to scale showing the location of existing
and proposed structures and property lines of such structures, parking,
driveways, and landscaping;
            2.   Scaled drawings showing all exterior architectural detailing
for the proposed project;
            3.   Building materials and color samples to be used;
            4.   Photographs of the existing structure(s) and property;
            5.   Any other information specifically required showing adherence
to the design guidelines established by the Commission;
            6.   Application fee (as set by the fee schedule adopted by the
Board of Commissioners); and
            7.   The Planning Board may require additional information in order
to evaluate the impact of the proposed development. The Planning Board may
waive a particular requirement if in its opinion the inclusion is not essential
to a proper decision of the project.
         (b)   Public notice. The Zoning Administrator shall cause to be
mailed, to all property owners within the Village of Rockford (VR) District, a
notice of the hearing, via certified mail. The person mailing notices shall
certify that such notices have been mailed. Cost of postage shall be reimbursed
by the applicant through fees set by the Board of County Commissioners. The
notice shall be mailed at least ten days but not more than 25 days before the
evidentiary hearing. Within that same time period, the Zoning Administrator or
designee shall also prominently post a notice of the evidentiary hearing on the
site that is the subject of the hearing or on an abutting street or highway
right-of-way, and also in the county Development Services Department. All
notices shall indicate the nature of the evidentiary hearing and the date, time
and place at which it is to occur. The Board may continue an evidentiary
hearing that has been convened without further advertisement. If an evidentiary
hearing is set for a given date and a quorum of the Board is not then present,
the hearing shall be continued until the next regular Board meeting without
further advertisement.
         (c)   Administrative materials. The Zoning Administrator shall
transmit to the Board all applications, reports, and written materials relevant
to the matter being considered. The administrative materials may be provided to
the Board prior to the hearing, if at the same time they are distributed to the
Board, a copy is also provided to the applicant and to the landowner if that
person is not the applicant. The administrative materials shall become a part
of the hearing record. The administrative materials may be provided in
electronic form. Objections to inclusion or exclusion of administrative
materials may be made before or during the hearing. Rulings on unsolved
objections shall be made by the Board at the hearing.
         (d)   Action by the Planning Board. The Planning Board shall not take
any action upon an application for a certificate of appropriateness until an
evidentiary hearing has been held. The Board shall follow quasi-judicial
procedures pursuant to G.S. § 160D-406.
         (e)   1.   The applicant, the county, and any person who would have
standing shall have the right to fully participate including presenting
competent, material, and substantial evidence relevant to the case at the
evidentiary hearing, cross-examining witnesses, objecting to evidence, and
making legal arguments. Other witnesses may present competent, material, and
substantial evidence that is not repetitive as allowed by the Board.
            2.   Opinion testimony from a lay witness shall not be considered
evidence for technical matters such as property values and traffic impacts.
         (f)   Pursuant to G.S. § 160D-406, the Planning Board through the
Chairperson or, in the Chairperson's absence, anyone acting as Chairperson may
subpoena witnesses and compel the production of evidence. To request issuance
of a subpoena, the applicant, the local government, and any person withstanding
under G.S. § 160D-1402(c) may make a written request to the Chairperson
explaining why it is necessary for certain witnesses or evidence to be
compelled. The Chairperson shall issue requested subpoenas he or she determines
to be relevant, reasonable in nature and scope, and not oppressive. The
Chairperson shall rule on any motion to quash or modify a subpoena. Decisions
regarding subpoenas made by the Chairperson may be immediately appealed to the
full Board. If a person fails or refuses to obey a subpoena issued pursuant to
this division, the Board or the party seeking the subpoena may apply to the
General Court of Justice for an order requiring that its subpoena be obeyed,
and the court shall have jurisdiction to issue these orders after notice to all
proper parties.
         (g)   The Planning Board shall consider the application and competent,
material, and substantial evidence presented at the evidentiary hearing and may
grant or deny the certificate of appropriateness requested within a reasonable
time.
         (h)   No vote greater than a majority vote shall be required for the
Planning Board to issue such certificates of appropriateness. For the purpose
of this section, vacant positions on the Board and members who are disqualified
from voting on a quasi-judicial matter shall not be considered "members of the
Board" for calculation of the requisite majority. When deciding on a
certificate of appropriateness, the Commission shall follow quasi-judicial
procedures. The Chairperson, Zoning Administrator or Clerk to the Board shall
be authorized to administer the required oath prior to receiving testimony.
         (i)   Decisions. The Planning Board’s decision shall be reduced to
writing, reflect the Board’s determination of the facts and their application
to the applicable standards and be approved by the Board and signed by the
Chairperson of the Board. The quasi-judicial decision shall be effective upon
filing the written decision with the Clerk to the Board. The decision of the
Planning Board shall be delivered within a reasonable time by personal deliver,
electronic mail, or by first-class mail to the applicant, landowner, and to any
person who has submitted a written request for a copy prior to the date the
decision become effective. The Zoning Administrator or Clerk to the Board shall
certify that proper notice has been made.
      (4)   Minor works. The Zoning Administrator or designee shall have the
authority to issue a certificate of appropriateness for the following types of
minor works for pivotal and contributing structures, in accordance with design
and review standards developed and adopted by the Planning Board, to include
the following:
         (a)   Storm windows, storm doors, and replacement windows;
         (b)   Fences for rear yards;
         (c)   Shutters and blinds;
         (d)   Installation of temporary handicapped facilities (including hand
railing);
         (e)   Paint color (including main structure, roof, porch, decking, and
porch ceiling);
         (f)   Signage and awnings;
         (g)   Minor landscaping changes (including tree removal, tree
planting, and screening of mechanical equipment) and minor exterior alterations
(including underpinning);
         (h)   Rear yard decks; and
         (i)   Paths, walkways, and driveways.
         (j)   However, no application for a certificate of appropriateness may
be denied without formal action by the Planning Board.
      (5)   Appeals.
         (a)   All appeals to decisions of the Planning Board in granting or
denying a certificate of appropriateness may be made to the Board of Adjustment
in the nature of certiorari within times prescribed for appeals of
administrative decisions in G.S. § 160D-405(c) and § 154.010-04. To the extent
applicable, the provisions of G.S. § 160D-1402 shall apply to appeals in the
nature of certiorari to the Board of Adjustment.
         (b)   Appeals from the Board of Adjustment may be made pursuant to
G.S. § 160D-1402.
         (c)   Petitions for judicial review shall be taken within times
prescribed for appeal of quasi-judicial decisions in G.S. § 160D-1404. Appeals
in any such case shall be heard by the Superior Court of Surry County.
   (I)   Demolition within the Village of Rockford District. An application for
a certificate of appropriateness authorizing the demolition of a building or
structure within the Village of Rockford District may not be denied. The
effective date of such a certificate may be delayed for a period up to 365 days
from the date of approval. The maximum period shall be reduced by the Planning
Board where it finds that the owner would suffer extreme hardship or be
permanently deprived of all beneficial use or return from such property by
virtue of delay. During the period of delay, the Board may negotiate with the
owner, county departments and any other parties involved in an effort to find a
means of preserving the building. In the event that the Board finds that the
building has no significance or value toward maintaining the character of the
district, it shall waive all or part of such period and authorize earlier
demolition or removal.
   (J)   Preservation of historic features in public rights-of-way. In order to
prevent destroying or seriously damaging the historic, architectural, or
aesthetic values of the physical features lying within public rights-of-way,
all public utility companies shall be required to obtain a certificate of
appropriateness prior to initiating any changes to the character of
streetscapes, paving materials, and sidewalks.
   (K)   Additional zoning amendment petition criteria.
      (1)   In addition to the requirements of §§
154.009, all landowners in the VR District shall be notified by certified mail
of petitions submitted to the county for zoning amendments pursuant to this
chapter.
      (2)   In addition to the requirements of §§
154.009, petitions for zoning amendments for properties within the VR District,
or for properties proposed to be rezoned to the VR District, shall be filed no
later than 45 days prior to the Planning Board meeting at which the petition or
application is to be considered.
   (L)   Applicability and conflict. Development activities within the VR
zoning district are subject to all applicable requirements in this chapter, as
well as those found in division (A). If the provisions found in this division
conflict with any other provisions of this chapter, the provisions of this
division shall govern.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.007 TABLE OF USES.
§ 154.007-01 TABLE OF PERMITTED USES.
   The Table of Permitted Uses describes those land uses that are allowed in
each of Surry County’s zoning districts.
   (A)   Explanation of Table of Uses. Uses are identified according to the
level of approval required before a zoning permit may be initiated. Letters
within the appropriate columns of the table have the following meaning:
      (1)   P = use permitted by right.
      (2)   S = use permitted with the issuance of a special use permit
approved by the Board of Adjustment, or in the VR District by the Planning
Board.
      (3)   All uses allowed in the VR District are also subject to the
requirements of §§
154.006.
      (4)   The PR-CD (Planned Residential Conditional Development) is not
listed in this table. Uses allowed in PR-CDs are not inherent to the district
but are allowed through specific conditions approved by the Board of
Commissioners. Uses are generally limited to residential uses with an allowable
percentage of non-residential specified in §§
154.006.
   (B)   Formulation of Table of Uses. The North American Industry
Classification System (NAICS) - 2022 revision was utilized in the preparation
of this table and shall be referred to as a guide for purposes of
interpretation by the Surry County Planning Board. NAICS codes are used to
refer to NAICS Classifications.
      (1)   If a land use does not appear in the Table then it is prohibited;
      (2)   Uses with no entry in the NAICS Code column do not correspond to
any classification in the NAICS;
      (3)   If a building or property involves two (or more) uses with
different NAICS codes on the same zone lot, the uses shall be permitted only in
those zoning districts where the more restricted activity is permitted.
   (C)   Uses restricted or prohibited within zoning overlay areas. Regardless
of whether a particular use is identified in the table as a permitted use,
permitted as a special use, or otherwise, the use type may be restricted or
prohibited, or subject to more restrictive additional requirements, in
accordance with applicable overlay area provisions in §§
154.006.
      (1)   Watershed overlays. All uses other than those listed are prohibited
within the watershed overlay districts:
         (a)   Agriculture subject to the provisions of the Food Security Act
of 1985 and the Food, Agriculture, Conservation and Trade Act of 1990 and the
rules and regulations of the Soil and Water Conservation Commission.
         (b)   Silviculture, subject to the provisions of the Forest Practices
Guidelines Related to Water Quality (15 NCAC 1I.6101-.0209).
         (c)   Residential development.
         (d)   Non-residential development in WS-IV-PA watersheds. Non-
residential development in other watersheds is restricted by §§
154.017.
      (2)   Airport overlays. No use may be made of land or water within the
AO-1 or AO-2 zone in such a manner as to create electrical interference with
navigational signals or radio communication between the airport and aircraft,
make it difficult for pilots to distinguish between airport lights and others,
result in glare in the eyes of pilots using the airport, impair visibility in
the vicinity of the airport, create bird strike hazards or otherwise in any way
endanger or interfere with the landing, takeoff or maneuvering of aircraft
intending to use the airport.
   (D)   Special requirements for permitted uses. Any permitted use listed in
the table below that has a section reference in the “Special Requirements”
column (far right column) shall comply with the standards listed in their
applicable section of §
154.008 in addition to the other requirements of this chapter. If the
provisions of this division conflict with any other requirements of this
section, these provisions shall prevail. This division provides for certain
permitted uses that are distinct and unique which require additional
considerations.
   (E)   Uses located on farms. These regulations do not affect property used
for bona fide farm purposes per §
154.008. These regulations do apply to the use of farm property for nonfarm
purposes.
   (F)   Table of Permitted Uses.
2017 NAICS Code Use Residential       Non-residential       Special
                                                            Requirements
                    RA RE RR RL RG MR CP MHP VR RB CB HB MI
2017
NAICS  Use                Residential       Non-residential       Special Requirements
Code
                          RA RE RR RL RG MR CP MHP VR RB CB HB MI
      RESIDENTIAL
       Single-family
      dwelling site      P  P  P  P  P    P  P   S           
       built
       Modular home,
      conventional (off- P    P  P  P    P  P              
       frame)
      Modular home, on-  P    P  P  P    P  P              
       frame
       Manufactured home,
      Class A on         P      P  P      P             §§ 154.019.
       individual lots
       Manufactured home,
      Class B on         P        P      P             §§ 154.019
       individual lots
      Manufactured home                S             §§ 154.019
       park
      Duplex             P          P    P              
       Family care home
      (6 residents or    P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P       P  P    § 154.008(C)(30)
       less)
      Mixed residential              S                
       development
       Multi-family
      (townhouses,                 P                 § 154.008(C)(49)
       condos,
       apartments)
      RESIDENTIAL ACCESSORY USES
       Accessory
      dwellings located                   S  P  P  P     
       above ground-floor
       businesses
       Accessory
      dwellings on same  P  P  P  P  P    P  S   S          § 154.008(C)(1)
       lot as principal
       dwelling
      Accessory          P  P  P  P  P  P  P  S   S  P  P  P  P   
       structures
       Personal storage
      building as        P            P               § 154.008(C)(51)
       principal use
       Home occupation of
      a residential      P  P  P  P  P    S                
       nature
       Home occupation of
      a commercial       S                           § 154.008(C)(39)
       nature
       Residential
      development sales  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  S     P  P  P  P   
       office
       Rural family
      (commercial)       S                           § 154.008(C)(60)
       occupation
      Swimming pool as   P  P  P  P  P  P  P  S   S  P  P  P  P  §§ 154.019
       accessory use
      Tennis courts      P  P  P  P  P  P  P  S              
      Yard sales         P  P  P  P  P  P  P  S              
11     AGRICULTURE, FORESTRY, FISHING AND HUNTING (bona fide farm)
111    Crop production    P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P   S  P  P  P  P   
11234  Poultry hatcheries                          P   
11291  Bee keeping        P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P   S  P  P  P  P   
113    Forestry and       P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P   S  P  P  P  P   
       logging
       Greenhouse,
1114   nursery, and       S                 S  S  P  P  P  § 154.008(C)(21)
       floriculture
       production
      Agriculture        S            S     S    P  P  P  § 154.008(C)(3)
       culture center
      Agritainment       S            S     S    P  P  P  § 154.008(C)(4)
      Farm-based tourism S            S     S  P  P  P  P   
      Produce roadside   P            S     S  P  P  P    § 154.008(C)(58)
       stands
       Livestock
      production and     S            S       P    P    § 154.008(C)(42)
       sales non-farm
      Livestock sale     S                   P         
       barns
      Stable             P                   P  P  P  P   
212    MINING AND QUARRYING
      Mining and                                  P  § 154.008(C)(46)
       quarrying
22     UTILITIES
       Electric power
2211   transmission,      P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P   S  P  P  P  P   
       control, and
       distribution
       Small wireless
      communication                                  
       facilities
       Fossil fuel
221112 electric power                              P  § 154.008(C)(54)
       generation
       Solar electric
221114 generation <6,000  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P     P  P  P  P  § 154.008(C)(62)
       sf accessory use
       only
       Solar electric
221114 generation >6,000  S                   S  S  S  S  § 154.008(C)(62)
       sf
221115 Wind electric      S  S  S  S  S  S  S  S   S  S  S  S  S  § 154.008(C)(66)
       power generation
221117 Biomass electric                            S  § 154.008(C)(54)
       power generation
2212   Natural gas        P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P   S  P  P  P  P   
       distribution
2213   Water, sewer and   P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P   S  P  P  P  P   
       other systems
23     GENERAL CONSTRUCTION (Offices and Facilities)
      With outside                            P  P  P   
       storage
      Without outside                       P  P  P  P   
       storage
       Plumbing, heating
23822  and air                                 P  P  P   
       conditioning
       contractors
238    Specialty trade                       P  P  P  P   
       contractors
31-33  MANUFACTURING
311    Food manufacturing                          P   
31121  Flour and feed                          P  P  P   
       mills
       Animal
3116   slaughtering and                          S  P  § 154.008(C)(15)
       processing
       Seafood product
3117   preparation and                           S  P  § 154.008(C)(61)
       packaging
3118   Bakeries                            S  P  P  P  P   
       Beverage and
312    tobacco                                     P   
       manufacturing
313    Textile mills                               P   
31491  Textile bag and                             P   
       canvas mills
315    Apparel                                     P   
       manufacturing
       Leather and allied
316    product                                     P   
       manufacturing
       including luggage
321    Wood product                              S  P  § 154.008(C)(11)
       manufacturing
321113 Sawmills                                  S  S  § 154.008(C)(11)
      Woodworking plant                         S  P  § 154.008(C)(15)
       Manufactured home
321991 (mobile home)                               P  § 154.008(C)(11)
       manufacturing
       Prefabricated wood
       building
321992 manufacturing                         S      P  § 154.008(C)(11)
       including log
       homes
       Converted paper
3222   produce                                     P   
       manufacturing
       Paperboard
32221  container                                   P   
       manufacturing
324    Petroleum products                          S  § 154.008(C)(11)
       manufacturing
       Asphalt paving,
       roofing, and
32412  saturated                                   S  § 154.008(C)(11)
       materials
       manufacturing
325    Chemical                                    S  § 154.008(C)(11)
       manufacturing
       Paints and
32551  varnishes                                   S  § 154.008(C)(11)
       manufacturing
32592  Explosives                                  S  § 154.008(C)(11)
       manufacturing
       Plastics and
326    rubber products                             P   
       manufacturing
326212 Tire retreading                           P  P   
       Nonmetallic
327    mineral product                             P   
       manufacturing
       Clay product and
3271   refractory                                P  P   
       manufacturing
       Pottery, ceramics
32711  and plumbing                          P  P  P  P   
       fixture
       manufacturing
       Cement and
3273   concrete product                            P   
       manufacturing
       Cut stone and
       stone products
327991 manufacturing                             P  P   
       including
       monuments
331    Primary metal                               P   
       manufacturing
       Fabricated metal
332    product                                   P  P   
       manufacturing
333111 Farm machinery                              P  § 154.008(C)(11)
       manufacturing
       Computer and
334    electronic product                          P   
       manufacturing
333517 Machine tool                                P   
       manufacturing
       Household
3352   appliance                                      
       manufacturing
       Electrical
3353   equipment                                   P   
       manufacturing
       Transportation
336    equipment                                   P   
       manufacturing
3366   Boat manufacturing                          P   
       Furniture and
337    related product                             P   
       manufacturing
3371   Cabinet shop,                       S  P  P  P  P   
       woodworking shop
       Medical equipment
3391   and supplies                                P   
       manufacturing
33995  Sign painting and                       P  P  P   
       manufacturing
42     WHOLESALE TRADE
       Motor vehicle and
4231   motor vehicle                               P  § 154.008(C)(15)
       parts and supplies
       wholesalers
       Furniture and home
4232   furnishing                                P  P  § 154.008(C)(15)
       wholesalers
       Lumber and other
4233   construction                              P  P  § 154.008(C)(15)
       materials
       wholesalers
       Household
       appliances,
4236   electrical and                        P  P  P  P  § 154.008(C)(15)
       electronic goods
       wholesalers
       Hardware, and
       plumbing and
4237   heating equipment                         P  P  § 154.008(C)(15)
       and supplies
       wholesalers
       Construction and
42381  mining machinery                          P  P  § 154.008(C)(15)
       and equipment
       wholesalers
       Farm and garden
42382  machinery and                         S  S  P  P  § 154.008(C)(15)
       equipment
       wholesalers
       Industrial
42383  machinery and                           P  P  P  § 154.008(C)(15)
       equipment
       wholesalers
       Sporting and
42391  recreational goods                      P  P  P  § 154.008(C)(15)
       and supplies
       wholesalers
       Recyclable
42393  material                                  S  S  § 154.008(C)(15)
       wholesalers
4235   Metal and mineral                         P  P  § 154.008(C)(15)
       wholesalers
       Junkyard, scrap
      processor, auto                             S  § 154.008(C)(12)
       wrecking salvage
       yard
       Paper and paper
4241   product                                   P  P  § 154.008(C)(15)
       wholesalers
       Apparel, piece
4243   goods, and notions                        P  P  § 154.008(C)(15)
       wholesalers
       Grocery and
4244   related product                           P  P  § 154.008(C)(15)
       wholesalers
42452  Livestock                                 P  P   
       (wholesale)
       Chemical and
4246   allied products                             S  § 154.008(C)(15)
       wholesalers
       Petroleum and
4247   petroleum products                          S  § 154.008(C)(15)
       wholesalers
       Beer, wine, and
4248   distilled                                 P  P  § 154.008(C)(15)
       alcoholic beverage
       wholesalers
       Farm supplies
42491  wholesalers (seed,                    S  P  P  P  § 154.008(C)(15)
       fertilizer,
       chemicals)
       Flower, nursery
42493  stock, and                                P  P  § 154.008(C)(15)
       florists' supplies
       wholesalers
       Tobacco and
42494  tobacco product                           P  P  § 154.008(C)(15)
       wholesalers
       Paint, varnish,
42495  and supplies                              P  P  § 154.008(C)(15)
       wholesalers
44-45  RETAIL TRADE
4411   Automobile dealers                    P  P  P  P   
44121  Recreational                          P  P  P  P  § 154.008(C)(43)
       vehicle dealers
       Motorcycle, boat,
44122  and other motor                       P  P  P  P  § 154.008(C)(43)
       vehicle dealers
       Automotive parts,
4413   accessories, and                        P  P  P   
       tire stores
442    Furniture and home                    P  P  P     
       furnishings stores
      Pottery store                       S  P  P  P  P   
4442   Lawn and garden                       P  P  P  P   
       stores
44221  Floor covering                        P  P  P     
       stores
443    Electronics and                       P  P  P  P   
       appliance stores
       Building material
444    and garden                            P  S  P  P  § 154.008(C)(15)
       equipment and
       supplies dealers
44412  Paint and                               P       
       wallpaper stores
44413  Hardware stores                     S  P  P  P     
       Supermarkets and
       other grocery
44511  (except                                 P  P    § 154.008(C)(64)
       convenience)
       stores
4452   Specialty food                      S  P  P  P     
       stores
4453   Beer, wine, and                         P  P    § 154.008(C)(26)
       liquor stores
       Health (drug) and
446    personal care                                  
       stores
44613  Opticians and                           P  P     
       optical good
       Gasoline stations
447    with or without                       S  P  P  P  § 154.008(C)(10)
       convenience stores
       Clothing, shoes
448    and accessories                       S  P  P     
       stores
       Jewelry, luggage,
4483   and leather goods,                    S  P  P  P   
       including furriers
       Sporting goods,
451    hobby, musical                      S  P  P  P     
       instrument, and
       book stores
       Sporting goods
4511   including guns and                      S  S    § 154.008(C)(26)
       ammunition
4512   Book stores and                     S  P  P  P  P   
       news dealers
4522   Department stores                         P     
4522   Shopping centers                        P  P    § 154.008(C)(63)
       Farmers markets
      (large)/flea       P                 S  P  P  P  P   
       markets
      Pawn shop                               P  P     
      Antiques store                      S  P  P  P     
       General
       merchandise
4523   stores, including                       P  P    § 154.008(C)(64)
       warehouse clubs
       and supercenters
4531   Florists                            S  P  P  P     
      Fabric stores                           P  P     
       Office supplies,
       stationery, and
4532   gift stores,                        S  P  P  P     
       including
       photocopying
       services
       Used merchandise
4533   stores (flea                        S    P  P  P   
       market)
      Auction sales                       S  S  P  P    § 154.008(C)(10)
       business
45391  Pet and pet                         S  P  P  P     
       supplies stores
       Manufactured
45393  (mobile) home                    S             § 154.008(C)(43)
       dealers
4542   Vending machine                           S  P  § 154.008(C)(15)
       operators
48-49  TRANSPORTATION AND WAREHOUSING
484    Truck                                   S  S  P  § 154.008(C)(15)
       transportation
4853   Taxi and limousine                      S  P  P  § 154.008(C)(15)
       service
       School, employee,
4854   charter and                               S  P  § 154.008(C)(15)
       special needs bus
       transportation
4812   Heliport, helistop                      S  S  P  § 154.008(C)(38)
48811  Airport operations                          P  § 154.008(C)(5)
       (public)
48811  Airport operations S                         S  § 154.008(C)(6)
       (private)
       Support activities
4882   for rail                                    P   
       transportation
48841  Motor vehicle                             P  P   
       towing
488991 Packing and                           S  S  P  P  § 154.008(C)(15)
       crating
      Parking lot,                        S  P  P  P  P   
       commercial
491    Postal service     S                 S  P  P  P  P  § 154.008(C)(22)
      Postal processing                           P   
       center
       Couriers and
       express delivery
4921   services (other                         S  S  P  § 154.008(C)(15)
       than home
       occupation)
493    Warehousing and                           S  P  § 154.008(C)(15)
       storage
      Mini-warehouses                       S  P  P  P  § 154.008(C)(45)
51     COMMUNICATIONS
       Newspaper,
5111   periodical, book,                         P  P   
       and directory
       publishers
       Motion picture
512131 theaters (except                        P  P     
       drive-ins)
512132 Drive-in motion                           S  P  § 154.008(C)(48)
       picture theaters
       Radio, television
5151   and cable                               P  P  P   
       broadcasting
       Wired and wireless
5173   telecommunications S                     S  S  S  § 154.008(C)(68)
       carriers (towers)
51912  Libraries and      S                 S  P  P  P    § 154.008(C)(22)
       archives
52     FINANCE AND INSURANCE
      Finance and                           P  P  P     
       insurance offices
53     REAL ESTATE, RENTAL AND LEASING
5312   Real estate agent                     P  P  P     
       offices
       Automotive, truck,
5321   RV and trailer                          P  P  P   
       rental and leasing
5322   Consumer goods                          P  P     
       rental
       Commercial and
       industrial
5324   machinery and                           P  P  P  § 154.008(C)(43)
       equipment rental
       and leasing
       Commercial and
       industrial
53249  equipment rental                          P  P  § 154.008(C)(43)
       and leasing,
       including sales
54     PROFESSIONAL, SCIENTIFIC AND TECHNICAL SERVICES
       Legal, accounting,
       architectural,
541    design, and                         S  P  P  P  P   
       management
       services
54133  Engineering                           P  P  P     
       services
      Detective agency                        P  P     
       Management
54161  consulting                            S  P  P     
       services
       Scientific
5417   research and       S                       S  P  § 154.008(C)(15)
       development
       services
5418   Advertising agency                      P  P     
       Photographic
54192  services and                        S  P  P  P     
       studios
       Veterinary
54194  services with                           P  P    § 154.008(C)(53)
       outside runs
       Veterinary
54194  services with no                        P  P    § 154.008(C)(52)
       outside runs
       All other
54199  professional,                         P  P  P     
       scientific and
       technical services
561    ADMINISTRATIVE AND SUPPORT SERVICES
5613   Employment                              P  P     
       agencies
56143  Private mail                            P  P     
       centers
56151  Travel agencies                       P  P  P     
56152  Tour operators                          P  P     
561591 Convention and                          P  P     
       visitors bureaus
561622 Locksmiths                            P  P  P     
       Exterminating and
56171  pest control                            P  P  P   
       services
56172  Janitorial                              P  P  P   
       services
56173  Landscaping                           P  P  P  P   
       services
       Other services to
56179  buildings and                           P  P  P   
       dwellings
562    WASTE MANAGEMENT AND REMEDIATION SERVICES
       Hazardous waste
562211 treatment and                               S  § 154.008(C)(41)
       disposal
562212 Solid waste                                 S  § 154.008(C)(41)
       landfill (MSW)
562991 Septic tank and                           S  P  § 154.008(C)(15)
       related services
       Construction and
      demolition debris                           S  § 154.008(C)(41)
       landfill (C&D)
       Land clearing and
      inert debris                                S  § 154.008(C)(41)
       landfill (LCID)
      Scrap processing                            S   
61     EDUCATIONAL FACILITIES
6111   Elementary and     P                     P  P     
       secondary schools
       Colleges,
6113   universities,      S                     P  P  P   
       professional and
       business schools
6115   Technical and                           P  P  P   
       trade schools
611692 Automobile driving                      P  P  P   
       schools
611699 Yoga instruction                        P  P  P   
       studios
      Tutoring services                       P  P     
62     HEALTH CARE AND PERSONAL SERVICES
       Offices of
       physicians,
6211   dentists,                             P  P  P     
       outpatient care
       and home health
       care
       Medical and
6215   diagnostic                                S  P   
       laboratories
62191  Ambulance services S          P         S  P  P  P  § 154.008(C)(8)
622    Hospitals                                 P     
       Nursing and
623    residential care   S                   P  P  P    § 154.008(C)(50)
       facilities
623    Professional                            S  S    § 154.008(C)(56)
       recovery facility
       Community food and
       housing, and
6242   emergency and                         P  P  P     
       other relief
       services
      Children’s home  S                   P  P  P    § 154.008(C)(20)
6244   Child day care                                 
       services
      Child care center  P  P  P  P  P    P               § 154.008(C)(19)
       in home
      Child care center  S                     P  P    § 154.008(C)(18)
71     ARTS, ENTERTAINMENT, AND RECREATION
      Adult                                       S  § 154.008(C)(2)
       establishments
71112  Dance companies                         P  P     
711212 Racetracks                            S  S  S  S  § 154.008(C)(25)
      Go-cart track                         S  S  S  S  § 154.008(C)(33)
      Motocross track                       S  S  S  S  § 154.008(C)(47)
       Museums,
712    historical sites,                   S  S  P  P    § 154.008(C)(22)
       and similar
       institutions
71212  Historical sites   S  S  S  S  S  S  S  S   S  P  P  P  P  § 154.008(C)(37)
       (ventures)
      Ecotourism         S            S     S  P  P  P  P  § 154.008(C)(27)
71213  Botanical gardens  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P   S  P  P  P  P   
      Aquarium                                P  P     
7131   Amusement parks                           S  S  § 154.008(C)(9)
       and arcades
      Golf driving       S                     P  P    § 154.008(C)(35)
       ranges
      Firing range,                             P  P  § 154.008(C)(31)
       indoor
7131   Firing range,      S                           § 154.008(C)(31)
       outdoor
       Executive or
      institutional      S            S     S    P  P  S  § 154.008(C)(29)
       retreat
71391  Golf courses and   P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P     P  P  P    § 154.008(C)(34)
       country clubs
       Fitness and
71394  recreational       S                   P  P  P    § 154.008(C)(22)
       sports centers
       (indoors)
       Parks, athletic
      fields and public  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P   S  P  P  P    § 154.008(C)(22)
       pools
      Greenways          P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P   P  P  P  P  P   
71395  Bowling centers                           P     
      Electronic gaming                             § 154.008(C)(28)
       establishments
      Event center                            P  P  P   
      Rodeo              S                     P  P  P  § 154.008(C)(59)
      Wedding chapel     S                     P  P  P  § 154.008(C)(65)
72     ACCOMMODATION AND FOOD SERVICES
72111  Hotels and motels                         P    § 154.008(C)(57)
       Bed-and-breakfast
721191 inns (9 guests or  S            S     S  S  P  P    § 154.008(C)(13)
       more)
       Bed-and-breakfast
721199 homes (8 guests or S  S  S  S  S  S  S     S  S  P  P    § 154.008(C)(13)
       less)
      Country inn        S            S     S  S  P  P    § 154.008(C)(24)
       RV (recreational
7212   vehicle) parks and S            S           P    § 154.008(C)(16)
       recreational camps
       Rooming and
7213   boarding houses,   S                            
       dormitories, and
       workers' camps
72232  Caterers                              P  P  P  P   
       Drinking places
7224   (alcoholic                          S      P  P  § 154.008(C)(26)
       beverages)
       Craft distilleries
       producing less
7224   than 15,000                         S    S  P  P  § 154.008(C)(67)
       gallons of craft
       spirits per year
       Micro-breweries
       producing less
7224   than 15,000                         S    S  P  P  § 154.008(C)(67)
       barrels of malt
       beverages/year
7224   Wineries           S                 S    S  P  P  § 154.008(C)(67)
      Ice cream parlor                    S  P  P  P     
7225   Restaurants with                          P    § 154.008(C)(10)
       drive-through
       Restaurants
7225   without drive-                      S  P  P  P  P  § 154.008(C)(10)
       through
811    REPAIR SERVICES
8111   Automotive repair                     S  P  P  P  § 154.008(C)(10)
       and maintenance
811192 Car washes                            S  P  P  P  § 154.008(C)(10)
       Electronic and
8112   precision                             P  P  P  P   
       equipment repair
       and maintenance
       Commercial and
8113   industrial                            S  P  P  P  § 154.008(C)(10)
       machinery repair
       and maintenance
      Gunsmith                                P  P     
       Personal and
8114   household goods                       P  P  P  P   
       repair and
       maintenance
81142  Reupholstery and                    S  P  P  P  P   
       furniture repair
812    PERSONAL SERVICES
81211  Hair, nail, and                     S  P  P  P     
       skin care services
812191 Diet and weight                     S  P  P  P     
       reducing centers
       Funeral homes,
       funeral services,
81221  and crematories,                      S  P  P  P  § 154.008(C)(32)
       including monument
       sales
81222  Cemeteries         P                 S  P  P  P  P  § 154.008(C)(17)
       (primary use)
       Cemeteries
81222  (accessory use     P  P  P  P  P    P     S          § 154.008(C)(17)
       only)
8123   Dry-cleaning and                        P  P  P   
       laundry services
       Pet care (except
81291  veterinary)        S                     S  S  P  § 154.008(C)(52)
       services without
       outdoor kennels
       Pet care (except
81291  veterinary)        S                     S  S  P  § 154.008(C)(53)
       services with
       outdoor kennels
813    RELIGIOUS, CIVIC AND PROFESSIONAL ORGANIZATIONS
      Churches and house P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P   S  P  P  P  P   
       of worship
      Civic/professional S                   P  P  P  P   
       organizations
921    GENERAL GOVERNMENT
92211  Courts                                  P  P     
       (courthouses)
       Other general
       government support                                         § 154.008(C)(15); maintenance facilities
92119  including          S                     S  S  P  only
       maintenance
       facilities
92212  Police protection  S          P                 § 154.008(C)(8)
       (police stations)
       Correctional
92214  institutions                                S  § 154.008(C)(23)
       (jails and
       prisons)
92216  Fire protection    S          P         P  P  P  P  § 154.008(C)(8)
       (fire stations)
       Government
92314  administrative                          P  P     
       offices
      Recycling          S                   P  P  P  P  § 154.008(C)(55)
       collection center
 
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.007-02 TEMPORARY USES.
   (A)   Modular offices.
      (1)   Modular offices may be used on a temporary basis in districts where
they are not listed as a permitted or conditional use for such purposes as
construction offices, bloodmobiles, bookmobiles and traveling museums. However,
such uses must obtain a temporary occupancy permit from the Zoning
Administrator if the use is to last more than 48 hours at one site.
      (2)   Modular offices may also be used for other office or business
purposes in cases where the permanent structure has been destroyed through no
fault of the owner or tenant. A temporary occupancy permit must be obtained
before the use of the mobile office is initiated. This occupancy permit shall
be valid for a specified period of time while reconstruction takes place, not
to exceed six months, and may be renewed no more than once.
      (3)   Temporary construction equipment may be located on a construction
or development site. However, a temporary occupancy permit must be obtained
before locating such equipment. This occupancy permit shall be valid for a
specified period of time while reconstruction takes place, not to exceed six
months, and may be renewed.
   (B)   Mobile homes as temporary principal residence. Temporary use of a
mobile home as a residence shall be permitted in any residential district in
cases where the permanent home has been destroyed through no fault of the
owner. A temporary occupancy permit must be obtained from the Zoning
Administrator before the use of the mobile home is initiated or at the same
time as the building permit is applied for in the case of construction of a new
permanent home on the same lot. This temporary occupancy permit shall be valid
for a specified period of time, not to exceed six months, while reconstruction
or construction takes place and may be renewed once for an additional six-month
period by the Zoning Administrator. Applicable certifications from the
Development Services Department must be obtained for new home construction at
the same time a temporary occupancy permit is granted.
   (C)   Mobile homes as temporary accessory dwelling in the case of a
hardship. In a zoning district where manufactured homes are permitted, an
individual may petition the Planning Board to place a manufactured home as a
temporary second dwelling on a single parcel that does not meet minimum lot
size requirements under conditions of hardship. However, prior to issuance of a
mobile home permit for hardship, the Environmental Health Department must
approve the additional septic system on the parcel in question. Permits must be
renewed annually by the Zoning Administrator. If, for any reason, the
conditions of the hardship cease to exist, the mobile home permit shall become
null and void. Mobile home permits issued for hardship are for temporary
situations only.
   (D)   Yard sales. Yard sales are permitted on a temporary basis in any
residential district for a duration of no more than three days. Property owners
shall be permitted no more than five yard sales per year.
   (E)   Temporary occupancy of recreational vehicles for recreational purposes
on private land located in an RA District. Recreational uses located in an RA
district may use a single recreational vehicle (“RV”) as their personal
temporary living quarters for recreational purposes on said parcel when the
following conditions are met:
      (1)   A permit allowing temporary recreational placement of the RV on the
parcel must be applied for, paid for, and issued prior to locating and
occupying the RV. The permit fee is $500.
      (2)   The parcel must be at least ten acres in size, must be zoned RA,
and must not have any stick-built homes, modular homes, mobile homes or any
other type of temporary or permanent dwelling located thereon. The parcel may
not be used for any business purpose while an RV is occupied or under a permit
issued under this chapter or located on the parcel.
      (3)   A permit under this section may only be issued to the owner of the
parcel. It may not be issued to a person renting or leasing the parcel. The
permit is only for personal use as temporary occupation for recreational
purposes by the owner of the parcel. The RV may not be rented out or leased to
any person. The owner may not charge or receive renumeration for the use of the
RV on the parcel. The RV may not be used for any business use.
      (4)   Only one permit may be issued for the parcel of land. No other RVs
may be located on the parcel of land.
      (5)   The RV must be screened by a natural vegetative buffer so that no
part of the RV is visible from any public street or road and so that it is not
visible from any adjoining or adjacent land.
      (6)   Placement of the RV must conform to double (two times) the normal
set back requirements for an RA District. Placement of the RV must not
interfere with location or placement of any septic or water.
      (7)   Placement of the driveway for the parcel must comply with all DOT
requirements and the owner must obtain all DOT required permits and approvals.
      (8)   The owner must obtain an address in compliance with the Road
Addressing Ordinance of Surry County.
      (9)   The RV must be in compliance with registration requirements of the
North Carolina Department of Transportation. The applicant for the permit must
demonstrate that they own the RV or have sole possession of the RV under a
valid written lease or rental agreement for the period the permit is requested.
      (10)   The owner must submit a sketch plan showing that placement of the
RV complies with all requirements of this section.
      (11)   The placement of the RV will require Environmental Health
Department’s approval that septic disposal is provided by one of the following
methods:
         (a)   Hooked into an inspected and approved septic tank and leach
field;
         (b)   Emptied as needed by a professional service with receipts
provided to the Environmental Health Department each month; or
         (c)   Drained into external holding tank and emptied as needed by a
professional service with receipts provided with receipts provided to the
Environmental Health Department each month.
      (12)   Electrical service will be permitted and inspected by Surry County
Inspections Department. The electrical service may be pulled if any requirement
of this section is not met.
      (13)   The RV must have a functioning kitchen and bathroom facilities.
      (14)   The RV will be required to be anchored on all corners with an
approved anchoring system that meets Surry County inspection requirements.
      (15)   The parcel must be kept clear of trash, junk and scrap.
      (16)   No project or junk vehicles may be located on this parcel.
      (17)   A permit under this section may not be used to temporarily occupy
an RV during construction of a home.
      (18)   Placement of the RV must comply with all floodplain, watershed and
other restrictions of all Surry County ordinances. In the event of a conflict
with another chapter, the stricter requirement shall control.
      (19)   Occupancy of the unit shall at no time exceed the manufacturer’s
listed capacity. In the event of a dispute over whether occupancy exceeds the
manufacturer’s listed capacity, the burden shall be on the owner to demonstrate
that occupancy is within the manufacture’s listed capacity.
      (20)   A permit for temporary recreational occupancy for the RV shall not
be issued until the above requirements are met.
      (21)   The RV will be allowed for no more than one period of no more than
three months during the calendar year in which the permit is issued. The RV
must be removed from the parcel immediately upon expiration of the permit.
      (22)   The permit may be renewed for another three month period in a
subsequent calendar year by applying for a renewal permit, payment of an
additional $500 fee and evidence of compliance with the requirements of this
chapter.
      (23)   Failure to comply with any requirement of this section shall
constitute a violation of this chapter and be subject to zoning enforcement
actions under §
154.005-11, including but not limited to revocation of the permit.
      (24)   Development Services shall maintain a list of parcels which are
issued a permit or renewal permit under this section and maintain a copy of the
sketch plan submitted by the owner and the permits issued under this chapter.
   (F)   Temporary occupancy of a recreational vehicle during construction of a
new single family dwelling. A single recreational vehicle (“RV”) will be
allowed as temporary living quarters in all low and medium density residential
zoning districts during construction of a new single-family stick-built or
modular dwelling providing the following conditions are met:
      (1)   A permit allowing placement of the RV on the parcel must be applied
for, paid for, and issued prior to installation. The permit fee is $500. The
permit may only be issued to the owner of record of the parcel.
      (2)   A permit for the construction of a new home on the site must be
issued and paid for prior to issuing the RV permit.
      (3)   The RV must be in compliance with registration requirements of the
North Carolina Department of Transportation. The applicant for the permit must
demonstrate that they own the RV or have sole possession of the RV under a
valid written lease or rental agreement for the period to which the permit
applies.
      (4)   The owner must submit a sketch plan showing that placement of the
RV conforms to all setback and buffer requirements for the parcel which are
required by the zoning district on which the RV is to be placed and does not
interfere with the placement of septic and water.
      (5)   Placement of the RV must comply with all floodplain, watershed and
other restrictions of all Surry County ordinances. In the event of a conflict
with another chapter, the stricter requirement shall control.
      (6)   The placement of the RV will require Environmental Health
Department’s approval that septic disposal is provided by one of the following
methods:
         (a)   Connected into an inspected and approved septic tank and leach
field;
         (b)   Emptied as needed by a professional service with receipts
provided to the Environmental Health Department each month; or
         (c)   Drained into an external holding tank and emptied as needed by a
professional service with receipts provided with receipts provided to the
Environmental Health Department each month.
      (7)   Electrical service will be permitted and inspected by Surry County
Inspections Department. The electrical service may be pulled if any requirement
during construction is not met.
      (8)   The RV must have a functioning kitchen and bathroom facilities.
      (9)   The RV will be required to be anchored on all corners with an
approved anchoring system that meets Surry County inspection requirements.
      (10)   While an RV is being temporarily occupied on a parcel under a
permit issued under this chapter, no other RVs may be occupied, stored, parked
or otherwise located on the parcel.
      (11)   The parcel must be kept clear of trash, junk and scrap.
      (12)   No project or junk vehicles may be located on this parcel during
the period in which the RV is temporarily occupied.
      (13)   Occupancy of the unit shall at no time exceed the manufacturer’s
listed capacity. In the event of a dispute over whether occupancy exceeds the
manufacturer’s listed capacity, the burden shall be on owner to demonstrate by
that occupancy is within the manufacture’s listed capacity.
      (14)   During the temporary occupancy, reasonable progress shall be
demonstrated in the construction of the permanent structure. Reasonable
progress shall be defined as visible evidence that construction work is not
interrupted for any period of more than 60 days, unless the interruption is
beyond the owner’s control. Lack of financial resources of owner shall not
qualify as an interruption beyond the owner’s control.
      (15)   A permit for the temporary occupancy of the RV shall not be issued
until the above requirements are met.
      (16)   The permit shall permit temporary occupancy of a single RV for a
period of 18 months during construction of the new home. If a longer period is
needed, and the applicant can show good cause for an extension, the permit may
only be renewed two times for three months each time, by way of a new
application and fee of $200 for each three-month period.
      (17)   The certificate of occupancy for the new home will not be released
until all fees associated with the project are paid, the RV has ceased being
occupied, the RV is disconnected from all electric and septic connections and
the RV is then stored as normally allowed under applicable Surry County
ordinances.
      (18)   Failure to comply with any requirement of this section shall
constitute a violation of this chapter and be subject to zoning enforcement
actions under §
154.005-11. Development Services shall maintain a list of parcels construction
sites that have complied with this section and maintain a copy of the permit
and certificate of temporary occupancy.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.008 SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR INDIVIDUAL USES.
   (A)   Purpose and applicability. This subchapter provides for several uses
to be located by right in each general zoning district, subject to meeting
certain area, height, yard, and off-street parking and loading requirements.
Uses shown with references in the far-right column in the Table of Uses of §
154.007-01 shall also be subject to the requirements and review process in this
section. Some of those uses are also subject to the issuance of a special use
permit by the Board of Adjustment or Planning Board (for uses in the VR
District) to ensure compatibility with surrounding development and in keeping
with the purposes of the general zoning district in which they are located.
Those uses that require a special use permit are shown with an "S" in the Table
of Uses. These development standards are supplementary to the general
requirements of this chapter. They are designed to allow development of uses
that may need extra buffering or attention to layout to make them compatible
with surrounding uses.
   (B)   Conditions imposed. For uses that require a special use permit, the
Board of Adjustment or, for the VR District, the Planning Board, may impose
reasonable conditions in addition to those given in this section and elsewhere
in this chapter. To do this, the approval body must determine that additional
conditions are necessary to protect the welfare and safety of the public and of
property, or to meet the tests given elsewhere in this chapter.
   (C)   Requirements. Below are specific requirements for specific uses by
name. They are as follows:
      (1)   Accessory dwelling units on same lot as principal dwelling.
         (a)   Accessory dwellings in non-residential districts: in zoning
districts not otherwise permitting residential buildings. A watchman or
caretaker may occupy a residential dwelling on the same premises where he or
she is employed. The residential dwelling must clearly be incidental to the
non-residential operation on the zoning lot.
         (b)   Exemptions for mobile homes. In a zoning district where
manufactured homes are permitted, an individual may petition the Planning Board
to place a manufactured home as a temporary second dwelling on a single parcel
that does not meet minimum lot size requirements. However, prior to issuance of
a conditional use for hardship, the Environmental Health Department must
approve the additional septic system on the parcel in question. Conditional
uses for hardship must be renewed annually by the Planning Board. If, for any
reason, the conditions of the hardship cease to exist, the conditional use
shall become null and void. Conditional uses for hardship are for temporary
situations only.
      (2)   Adult entertainment. See Permitted Use Table NAICS Classification
Number 71.
         (a)   It is and shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or
corporation, as hereafter defined, to operate or allow to be operated adult
live entertainment or an adult live entertainment business within the
boundaries of Surry County outside the corporate limits of any city or town
within the boundary of Surry County, except as otherwise permitted by this
chapter.
         (b)   Adult live entertainment which permits less than completely or
opaquely covered human genitals or pubic region of either males or females is
expressly prohibited.
         (c)   For definitions of adult entertainment and establishments see §
154.003-02.
         (d)   Locations.
            1.   Adult live entertainment involving the display of less than
completely or opaquely covered female breasts has been recognized by the State
of North Carolina as a protected display of free speech which is subject to
reasonable local regulation as to geographic location to serve a substantial
governmental interest if such regulation allows for reasonable alternative
areas for the regulated activity. Accordingly, adult live entertainment which
includes the display of less than completely or opaquely covered female
breasts, uncovered below a point immediately at the top of the areola, is
permitted only in an enclosed building, premises or structure where the
activity is not visible from outside of the enclosed building or structure.
Such enclosed building or structure must be located at least 2,000 feet from an
area of interest. Furthermore, such adult live entertainment conducted within
said enclosed building shall be conducted in such manner so that viewing,
display, or sound from within the building cannot be experienced outside the
walls of the building. Any building containing an adult live entertainment
business must be 100 feet from the right-of-way of a publicly owned road and 50
feet from the neighboring side or rear property boundary. An adult live
entertainment business shall be screened along all property lines with an
opaque fence not less than seven feet in height or a solid landscaped area at
least 15 feet in width and seven feet in height at time of initial planting.
Landscaping shall always be maintained. Notwithstanding the foregoing, adult
live entertainment businesses shall not be required to screen the Department of
Transportation (DOT) minimum driveway requirement, the purpose of which is to
provide safe and suitable access from adult entertainment premises to and from
a state-maintained road.
            2.   AREA OF INTEREST shall include all of the following: churches
and other places of public organized worship; schools and educational
facilities; parks; child care and day care facilities; retirement, rest or
nursing homes; inns and bed and breakfasts; hotels or motels; cemeteries;
public libraries; residential subdivisions; approved mobile home parks; public
recreational facilities; residentially zoned districts (by county or
municipality) and buildings included in the National Register of Historic
Places. Surry County has substantial interests in protecting the public health,
safety and morals of those areas, activities and individuals defined within
area of interest.
            3.   However, should an activity, individual or use defined as an
area of interest be located within 2,000 feet of an existing enclosed adult
live entertainment business, as defined by this chapter, the prescribed minimum
separation requirement shall not apply. Should an adult live entertainment
business cease operation for a period of 60 consecutive days, it shall not
constitute an existing adult live entertainment business as defined by this
chapter.
         (e)   For penalty, see §§
154.005.
      (3)   Agricultural culture center. See Permitted Use Table NAICS
Classification Number 11.
         (a)   Site standards.
            1.   The minimum lot area for an agricultural cultural center shall
be ten acres.
            2.   Structures, storage areas and parking areas associated with
the agritainment enterprise shall be set back at least 75 feet from all
property lines and public rights-of-way. The Planning Board may require greater
setbacks on a case-by-case basis.
            3.   All storage areas associated with the enterprise shall not be
visible from adjoining or nearby properties or any public rights-of-way.
         (b)   Screening and fencing. The portion of the property utilized for
the cultural center and its associated activities shall be screened from
adjacent properties used or zoned for residential or agricultural purposes.
These buffers must meet the requirements of §§
154.015. However, if the cultural center is in a state or federally designated
historic structure, then screening and fencing devices shall not be required if
it will injure the structure's historic integrity as it relates to the
property.
         (c)   Lighting. Outdoor lighting shall be designed to minimize light
from directly hitting adjacent property or any public right-of-way.
         (d)   Additional requirements.
            1.   Retail goods may be sold as an incidental option so that the
items sold are related to the cultural center. This includes a gift shop, snack
bar, and the like.
            2.   Any activities associated with the cultural center shall be
subject to the Surry County Noise Ordinance.
            3.   Festivals related to the cultural center may be held no more
than four times per year on-site. Intent to convene festivals on-site shall be
disclosed on the site plan and the owner shall submit documentation that
complies with the Surry County Mass Gathering Ordinance with the application
for a special use permit.
      (4)   Agritainment. See Permitted Use Table NAICS Classification Number
11.
         (a)   Site standards.
            1.   The minimum lot size for this type of use shall be ten acres.
            2.   Structures associated with the agritainment enterprise shall
be set back at least 75 feet from all property lines and public rights-of-way.
The Planning Board may require greater setbacks on a case-by-case basis.
            3.   Shall only be permitted in conjunction with agriculture
support and services directly associated with on-going agricultural activity
on-site.
            4.   The agritainment enterprise shall be operated and maintained
by the owner, operator, or occupant of the farm on which it is located.
Multiple properties in common ownership are acceptable for agritainment if they
are considered a single farm entity.
            5.   The total square footage of all structures associated with the
agritainment enterprise shall not exceed 2,000 square feet for lot sizes up to
50 acres. The total square footage of all structures associated with the
agritainment enterprise shall not exceed 4,000 square feet for lot sizes over
50 acres. Use of an historic structure may be permitted in conjunction with the
enterprise and may be exempt from the minimum square footage requirements. The
structure must be listed as historically significant in the county's historic
properties inventory, on file in the county Development Services Department.
            6.   All storage areas associated with the enterprise shall not be
visible from adjoining or nearby properties or any public rights-of-way.
         (b)   Screening and fencing. The portion of the property utilized for
the enterprise and its associated activities shall be screened from adjacent
properties used or zoned for residential or agricultural purposes. These
buffers must meet the requirements of §§ 154.015.
         (c)   Lighting. Outdoor lighting shall be designed to minimize light
from directly hitting adjacent property or any public right-of-way.
         (d)   Additional requirements.
            1.   Retail goods may be sold as an incidental option so that the
items sold are related to the agritainment enterprise. This includes a gift
shop, snack bar, and the like.
            2.   Any activities associated with the agritainment enterprise
shall be subject to the Surry County Noise Ordinance.
      (5)   Airport, public. See Permitted Use Table NAICS Classification
Number 48811.
         (a)   Site standards.
            1.   Airport size and layout shall conform to current FAA design
standards.
            2.   There shall be a minimum of 300 feet between any runway or
taxiway to the nearest property used or zoned for residential purposes.
         (b)   Screening and fencing. When located within 100 feet of the
property line or street rights-of-way and abutting property used or zoned for
residential uses, hangars, storage buildings, terminals, loading docks, parking
lots and any other associated structure, shall be screened in accordance with
§§
154.015.
         (c)   Required plan.
            1.   Scaled drawings of location and size of landing strips and the
location of landing lights.
            2.   Map of all property within 500 feet of proposed airfield
property line and within 1,500 feet of each end of the runway, including names
and addresses of property owners and type of land use for each property, as
given in the tax listings.
            3.   A map depicting the location, type, and height of any
structure, including towers, over 200 feet in height and within a five-mile
radius.
            4.   A copy of the current FAA design, approach, and airspace
obstruction standards.
            5.   Documentation showing FAA permits and design approval.
      (6)   Airstrip, private. See Permitted Use Table NAICS Classification
Number 48811.
         (a)   Site standards.
            1.   There shall be a minimum of 300 feet between any runway or
taxiway to the nearest property used or zoned for residential purposes, except
that a residence may be located on the same property as the airstrip.
            2.   Airstrip shall be constructed of a natural vegetative material
(i.e., grass).
            3.   Scaled drawings of location and size of landing strips.
            4.   Location of landing lights, if applicable.
            5.   No signage shall be allowed in conjunction with an airstrip.
         (b)   Screening and fencing. Hangars, storage buildings and any other
associated structure shall be buffered from any property used or zoned for
residential purposes, in accordance with §§
154.015.
         (c)   Lighting. Outdoor lighting shall be designed to minimize light
from directly hitting adjacent property or any public right-of-way.
         (d)   Additional requirements.
            1.   Required plan: documentation showing applicable FAA permits
and design approval.
            2.   Airstrip shall only be used by the property owner and members
of their immediate family.
            3.   Operations related to the airstrip shall comply with the Surry
County Noise Ordinance.
      (7)   Alteration, expansion, change, rebuilding or resumption of a non-
conformity. Refer to state and local guidelines.
      (8)   Ambulance service/rescue squad, police and fire station operations.
See Permitted Use Table NAICS Classification Number 62191.
         (a)   Site standards. All structures and accessory structures
associated with the use must be set back from all property lines a minimum of
twice the applicable side and rear setbacks of the corresponding zoning
districts, from all properties used or zoned for residential or agricultural
purposes.
         (b)   Lighting. Outdoor lighting shall be designed to minimize light
from directly hitting adjacent property or any public right-of-way.
         (c)   Screening and fencing. Buffers shall be installed which meet the
requirements of §§
154.015 along all property lines abutting property used or zoned for
residential or agricultural purposes.
      (9)   Amusement park; arcade; circus, carnival, or fair. See Permitted
Use Table NAICS Classification Number 7131.
         (a)   Site standards.
            1.   The site must be located on a major roadway that can handle
the anticipated traffic volume when the fairground is in use.
            2.   All buildings, arenas, stadiums, exhibit areas, barns, and
similar activity areas, shall be set back from all property lines and street
rights-of-way a minimum of 100 feet.
            3.   In addition to the requirements of §§
154.014, parking lots must be set back at least 20 feet from any property line
or street right-of-way.
         (b)   Screening and fencing. A fence shall be at least eight feet in
height and shall enclose activity areas and buildings that will stay locked
when the fairground is not in use. Additional buffering may be required by the
Planning Board in the case of facilities for outdoor functions, such as outdoor
arenas, to protect adjacent properties from noise, light and glare.
         (c)   Lighting. Outdoor lighting shall be shielded to prevent light
from directly hitting adjacent property or any public right-of-way.
      (10)   Auction house; car wash; farm supplies; gas or service station;
machine and welding shops; monument sales; motor vehicle body and paint shop;
motor vehicle repair; commercial and industrial machinery repair and
maintenance; restaurant (walk-in); tree service; parts packaging. See Permitted
Use Table NAICS Classification Numbers 811192, 447, 8113, 327991, 8111, 7225,
113, and 42491.
         (a)   Site standards.
            1.   Minimum setbacks of twice what is required by this chapter.
            2.   Site shall not create a greater nuisance than the existing or
previous commercial use.
            3.   Noise created by the proposed use shall not be any greater
than that which was created by the existing or proposed commercial use.
            4.   Traffic flow and conditions created by the proposed use shall
not be any greater than those created by the existing or previous commercial
use.
            5.   Applicant shall present evidence and support materials to the
Planning Board that demonstrate compliance with above requirements.
            6.   Operations with drive-through service must be reviewed by
NCDOT for a determination of the required number of stacking spaces.
         (b)   Lighting. Outdoor lighting shall be so designed to minimize
light from directly hitting adjacent property or any public right-of-way.
         (c)   Screening and fencing. Buffers shall be installed which meet the
requirements of §§
154.015.
      (11)   Manufacturing of asphalt products; petroleum products; explosives;
chemicals; explosives including storage; fertilizers including storage;
manufactured and prefabricated homes including lot homes; varnishes, finishes;
oil and gasoline bulk storage; paints processing plants; recycling plants;
refineries; and sawmills. See Permitted Use Table NAICS Classification Numbers
32113, 32412, 325, and 32551.
         (a)   Site standards.
            1.   The boundary of the property shall be a minimum of 200 feet
from any residential use, hospital, nursing or convalescent home, retirement
home, life care community, school, or church. However, the Planning Board shall
be authorized to increase this setback if the situation warrants, based on the
specific substances that are to be manufactured or stored and in what specific
quantities.
            2.   All structures (except fences and walls), buildings, storage
areas, and the like used in the operation shall be a minimum of 100 feet from
all property lines or street rights-of-way.
            3.   Buildings must meet all requirements for hazardous occupancy
under the NC Building Code.
         (b)   Lighting. Outdoor lighting shall be designed to minimize light
from directly hitting adjacent property or any public right-of-way.
         (c)   Screening and fencing. The use shall be totally enclosed by a
security fence or wall at least eight feet high or enclosed within a locked
fire-proof building. A vegetative screen, either planted or natural wooded
area, shall be provided along any street right-of-way and any property line
within 400 feet of property used or zoned for residential purposes.
         (d)   Operational requirements.
            1.   The site shall be utilized in a manner that shall not pose a
hazard off-site.
            2.   All unpaved storage areas shall be maintained in a manner that
prevents dust from adversely impacting adjacent properties.
            3.   Buildings must be maintained to meet all requirements for
hazardous occupancy under NC Building Code.
            4.   The County Fire Marshal and local fire department shall be
kept notified of the types of materials used, manufactured, or stored on-site.
      (12)   Automobile salvage yards. See also §
154.005-12(G) and Permitted Use Table NAICS Classification Number 42393.
         (a)   Site standards.
            1.   Minimum setback of twice what is required by §§
154.006.
            2.   No automobile salvage yard or junkyard shall be permitted to
locate or expand within one-half mile radius of any property used or zoned for
residential purposes, and any property used as a hospital, nursing or
convalescent home, retirement home, life care community, school, or church.
            3.   Yards shall comply with Ch. 40 of the North Carolina Fire
Prevention Code.
            4.   All parking and designated loading and unloading areas shall
be provided within the buildable portion of the property in question. Loading
and unloading shall be prohibited in any other location.
            5.   Yards shall not be permitted to locate or expand within the
100-year floodplain as shown on the latest Federal Emergency Management Agency
maps of Surry County.
            6.   Yards shall not locate or expand within 500 feet of any
watercourse such as a stream, river, reservoir, pond, or lake.
            7.   Yards shall not locate or expand within 1,000 feet of any
water course such as a stream, river, reservoir, pond, or lake that is in any
water supply watershed (WS-I through WS-IV) or any outstanding resource
watershed.
            8.   Yards shall have their own deeded direct access to a state-
maintained road, not to be shared with any other use.
            9.   Bona fide garages, repair shops and service stations where the
short-term storage of not more than two junked vehicles is incidental to the
business shall not apply to these requirements.
         (b)   Lighting. Outdoor lighting shall be so designed to minimize
light from directly hitting adjacent property or any public right-of-way.
         (c)   Screening and fencing. The use shall be totally enclosed by an
opaque wood fence. In addition, a 50 foot vegetative buffer shall be planted
along all property lines, leaving space for an ingress and egress location.
Yards shall not be visible from any adjacent property or public right-of-way.
The buffer shall be included as part of the required setbacks and shall meet
the planting requirements of §§
154.015.
         (d)   Additional requirements. If the ownership of an approved auto
salvage yard or junkyard is transferred to another individual, group, or
entity, the new owner(s) shall complete a "change of ownership" form with the
Zoning Ordinance Officer.
         (e)   Non-conforming automobile salvage yards. All non-conforming
automobile salvage yards are subject to §
154.005-12(G).
      (13)   Bed and breakfast. See Permitted Use Table NAICS Classification
Numbers 721191 and 721199.
         (a)   Site standards.
            1.   Guestrooms or guesthouses shall not be equipped with kitchen
or cooking facilities.
            2.   If operation utilizes guesthouses, then maximum density
requirements shall be two units per acre; however, the Surry County Health
Department may revise minimum lot size requirements through site evaluations on
a case-by-case basis.
            3.   There shall be no less than one bathroom, consisting of a bath
or shower, water closet and lavatory, for every two guestrooms.
            4.   Parking shall not be allowed in any front yard unless facility
utilizes guest houses.
         (b)   Lighting. Outdoor lighting shall be designed to minimize light
from directly hitting adjacent property or any public right-of-way.
         (c)   Screening and fencing. Parking areas and outdoor areas used for
storage of equipment or supplies must be screened from adjacent properties.
These buffers must meet the requirements of §§
154.015.
      (14)   Billboards. See §§
154.016 and Permitted Use Table NAICS Classification Number 51.
      (15)   Blacksmith; building supply and materials; bus terminal; taxi and
limousine services; couriers and express delivery services; dry-cleaning
plants; governmental maintenance facility; lumber and building materials sales;
research activities; slaughterhouse; septic services; transfer companies;
packing and crating companies; truck/freight terminal, utility company
operation center; vending companies; warehousing; wholesale distribution;
woodworking plant. See Permitted Use Table NAICS Classification Numbers 3116,
848, 4542, 493, 444, and 3371.
         (a)   Site standards.
            1.   All structures and associated uses, parking areas, loading
areas, storage areas and outdoor assembly areas shall be set back a minimum of
twice the applicable setbacks of the corresponding zoning districts, from all
properties used or zoned for residential purposes.
            2.   Considerations shall be made for additional traffic flow from
a state-maintained road into the site in question to reduce the possibility of
traffic congestion and hazards, if necessary.
         (b)   Lighting. Outdoor lighting shall be so designed to minimize
light from directly hitting adjacent property or any public right-of-way.
         (c)   Screening and fencing. Buffers shall be installed which meet the
requirements of §§
154.015.
            1.   The site shall be utilized in a manner that prevents noise and
dust from adversely impacting adjacent properties.
            2.   All unpaved storage areas shall be maintained in a manner that
prevents dust from adversely impacting adjacent properties.
      (16)   Campgrounds and recreational vehicle parks. See Permitted Use
Table NAICS Classification Number 7212.
         (a)   Site standards.
            1.   Minimum campground or RV park size is ten acres.
            2.   Minimum lot space of 25 feet by 40 feet is required; however,
the Surry County Health Department may revise minimum lot size or site
requirements through site evaluations on a case-by-case basis.
            3.   Maximum development density not to exceed 45% of total gross
land area (excluding roads).
            4.   No more than one recreational vehicle per lot site.
            5.   Minimum 10% total gross land area dedication for recreational
uses excluding maximum density development.
            6.   Property owner may dedicate a minimum of 5% total gross land
area for the use of tent camping, excluding the use of recreational vehicles.
            7.   No more than two vehicles per site allowed for parking.
            8.   No site or lot shall have direct access to a public road.
            9.   Minimum interior street widths of 20 feet of gravel with a
six-inch gravel base within the park or campground. Interior streets developed
to only be open to one-way traffic shall be a minimum of 12 feet in width with
a six-inch gravel base.
            10.   The park and/or campground shall be set back 50 feet from all
public or private rights-of-way and side and rear property lines.
            11.   Minimum interior side setbacks of 20 feet and rear setbacks
of ten feet between sites.
            12.   Minimum 45 feet deeded, platted easement to a state-
maintained road.
            13.   All utilities must be provided through underground access,
which may include water, sewer, power, phone, cable, natural gas, and the like.
            14.   Adequate lighting shall be provided for all common areas,
including the interior lighting of any building open after dusk.
            15.   Owner shall provide a refuse disposal plan satisfactory to
the Zoning Ordinance Officer. The approved plan shall be noted on the site
plan.
            16.   Separate sanitary facilities for both sexes (including
showers), as well as drinking water, shall be available within 400 feet of each
campsite.
            17.   Existing recreational vehicle parks and campgrounds shall
have one year from the effective date of this chapter to comply with these
requirements. Consideration will be given to those parks and campgrounds that
do not meet the minimum acreage requirements.
            18.   Campgrounds and recreational vehicle parks shall not be in a
floodplain.
         (b)   Lighting. Outdoor lighting shall be designed to minimize light
from directly lighting adjacent property or any public right-of-way.
         (c)   Screening and fencing. A vegetative buffer shall be planted
along all side and rear property lines or around the boundary of the campground
and recreational vehicle park. The buffer shall be included as part of the
required setbacks and shall meet the requirements of §§ 154.015.
         (d)   Required plan. Proposed layout of the campground, including
individual sites, cabins, recreation areas, drinking water outlets, sanitary
disposal facilities, and other service buildings.
         (e)   Operational requirements.
            1.   No recreational vehicle shall be used as a permanent dwelling
within a recreational vehicle park.
            2.   There shall be no removal of wheels or axles from any
recreational vehicle to keep the residence temporary.
            3.   Surry County, at any time, can request the owner to display
vehicular mobility of any vehicle on the premises.
            4.   All porches, decks and other attachments shall not be attached
permanently to accommodate any request of mobility by the County of Surry.
            5.   There shall be no manufactured homes or mobile homes allowed
in any recreational vehicle park or campground other than the residence of the
owner or caretaker of the facility.
            6.   A fire extinguisher shall be available at each service
building and at the office.
            7.   Campgrounds and parks shall be maintained free of
accumulations of debris, which may contribute to rodent harborage or distinct
breeding grounds for flies, mosquitoes, insects, or other pests. The growth of
brush, weeds, shrubbery, and grass shall be controlled to prevent harborage of
ticks, chiggers and other noxious insects. Open areas shall be maintained free
of heavy undergrowth and maintained to promote a pleasing aesthetic appearance.
      (17)   Cemeteries/mausoleums. Site standards.
         (a)   Tombstones, crypts, monuments, and mausoleums shall be located a
minimum of 20 feet from any side or rear lot line and at least 30 feet from a
street right-of-way.
         (b)   Adequate off-street parking/circulation facilities for funeral
processions shall be provided.
         (c)   Cemeteries shall have direct access to a major or minor
thoroughfare.
      (18)   Childcare center. See Permitted Use Table NAICS Classification
Number 6244.
         (a)   Site standards.
            1.   Indoor activity areas shall be provided equivalent to at least
25 square feet per attendee.
            2.   Access to the facility shall not create traffic flow problems
on nearby streets. Road improvements may be required to ease traffic flow
concerns.
         (b)   Screening or fencing. Play areas shall be enclosed by a chain
link or solid fence or wall at least four feet high. Side and rear property
lines must be screened from adjoining properties in accordance with §§
154.015.
         (c)   Operational requirements. The construction and operation shall
comply with the provisions of the North Carolina General Statutes and any other
applicable federal, state, or local standards.
      (19)   Child care center in home. A child day care center in a home is an
accessory use permitted for 12 or fewer attendees, including after school
attendees (see G.S. § 110-86). See Permitted Use Table NAICS Classification
Number 48811.
         (a)   Site standards.
            1.   The operator of the day care center shall reside in the
facility.
            2.   Outdoor activity areas, play space and open space requirements
for a child daycare shall be provided in accordance with the regulations of the
North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS), Child
Development Division.
         (b)   Screening and fencing. Shall comply with the requirements in §§
154.015 and shall be located outside the street setback.
         (c)   Additional requirements.
            1.   No more than one program, including after school care, may be
operated at the same location during a 24-hour period.
            2.   After school care is separate from childcare.
            3.   After school care is up to four hours of care per day on
school days.
      (20)   Children's home.
         (a)   Site standards.
            1.   The following minimum site sizes shall apply:
               a.   Five acres for 25- to 75-child capacity.
               b.   Ten acres for 76- to 125-child capacity.
               c.   Fifteen acres for 126- to 175-child capacity; or
               d.   Twenty acres for 176 or more children.
            2.   Buildings, structures, recreation areas, places of assembly,
dumpsters, and the like shall be set back at least 75 feet from any property
line or right-of-way.
            3.   Parking areas shall be placed completely within the minimum
building area as required by the applicable zoning district.
         (b)   Screening or fencing. Parking areas shall be screened from
adjoining properties used or zoned for agricultural or residential purposes in
accordance with §§
154.015. On a case-by-case basis, the Planning Board may require that the
property be completely enclosed by a wall or fence for the protection of the
home occupants and the surrounding community.
         (c)   Lighting. Outdoor lighting shall be so designed to minimize
light from directly hitting adjacent property or any public right-of-way.
         (d)   Operational requirements.
            1.   The construction and operation shall comply with the
provisions of the North Carolina General Statutes and any other applicable
federal, state, or local standards.
            2.   Proper licensing by federal, state, and local agencies shall
be required by time of application.
            3.   Activities associated with the home shall comply with the
Surry County Noise Ordinance.
      (21)   Commercial greenhouses and nurseries. See Permitted Use Table
NAICS Classification Number 1114.
         (a)   Site standards. All commercial buildings, greenhouses, storage
sheds, and similar structures and parking or storage areas for vehicles,
equipment, or supplies shall be set back from all property lines and street
rights-of-way a minimum of twice the required setbacks for the principal
building in the zoning district in which the property is located.
         (b)   Screening and fencing. Parking areas and outdoor areas used for
storage of equipment or supplies must be screened from adjacent properties.
These buffers must meet the requirements of §§
154.015.
      (22)   Clubs and lodges; community centers; libraries; museums; outdoor
recreation; post office; private recreation clubs; public swimming pools. See
Permitted Use Table NAICS Classification Numbers 491, 51912, 712, and 71394.
         (a)   Site standards. All commercial buildings, greenhouses, storage
sheds and similar structures or uses shall meet twice the required setbacks for
the applicable zoning district in which the proposed use is located.
         (b)   Lighting. Outdoor lighting shall be designed to minimize light
from directly hitting adjacent property or any public right-of-way.
         (c)   Screening and fencing. A vegetative buffer must be provided
which will screen adjacent properties used or zoned for residential purposes
from the effects of light and noise generated on the site, as well as parking
areas and all structures, outbuildings, loading areas, places of assembly,
outdoor display areas and other facilities associated with the use. The buffer
shall comply with §§
154.015. The Planning Board may require a solid fence or wall constructed of
wood, stone, or masonry, up to eight feet in height, in addition to the
required screening if the conditions on the site and adjacent properties
warrant it.
      (23)   Correctional facilities. See Permitted Use Table NAICS
Classification Number 92214.
         (a)   Site standards.
            1.   No correctional facility shall be permitted to locate or
expand within a one-mile radius of any property used or zoned for residential
purposes and any property used as a hospital, nursing or convalescent home,
retirement home, life care community, school or church.
            2.   All structures, recreation areas, work areas, parking and
loading areas and common areas associated with the correctional facility shall
be required to maintain five times the applicable setbacks of the corresponding
zoning district.
         (b)   Lighting. Outdoor lighting shall be so designed to minimize
light from directly hitting adjacent property or any public right-of-way.
         (c)   Screening and fencing. As a part of the required setbacks, a
buffer twice what is required in accordance with §§
154.015 shall be installed.
      (24)   Country inn. See Permitted Use Table NAICS Classification Number
721191.
         (a)   Site standards.
            1.   Minimum lot sizes are as follows:
               A.   Five acres: 15 guest rooms or less.
               B.   Ten acres: 16 to 30 guest rooms.
               C.   Twenty acres: 31 to 60 guest rooms; and
               D.   Forty acres: 61 or more guest rooms.
            2.   The structure, storage areas and parking areas shall be set
back at least 75 feet from all property lines and rights-of-way.
            3.   The owner or manager shall always provide full-time management
of the premises when guests occupy the establishment.
            4.   The establishment may contain a full-service restaurant, in
addition to guestrooms, that provide meal service to guests and the public. The
restaurant may not exceed 25% of the total floor area of the country inn.
            5.   Development of a country inn shall architecturally reflect the
character of its surroundings; development should mesh well with surrounding
properties.
            6.   There shall be no less than one bathroom, consisting of a bath
or shower, water closet and lavatory, for every two guestrooms.
         (b)   Screening and fencing. The portion of the property utilized for
the country inn and its associated activities shall be screened from adjacent
properties used or zoned for residential or agricultural purposes. These
buffers must meet the requirements of §§ 154.015. However, if the country inn
is in a local, state or federally designated historic structure, then screening
and fencing devices shall not be required if it will injure the structure's
historic integrity as it relates to the property.
         (c)   Lighting. Outdoor lighting shall be designed to minimize light
from directly hitting adjacent property or any public right-of-way.
         (d)   Additional requirements.
            1.   If the country inn is proposed to be new construction, floor
plans and renderings of the proposed façade shall be submitted with the
application. If the country inn is proposed to locate in an existing structure,
floor plans, pictures of the structure and renderings of any proposed façade
improvements shall be submitted with the application.
            2.   Any activities associated with the country inn shall be
subject to the Surry County Noise Ordinance.
      (25)   Dragstrip or racetrack. See Permitted Use Table NAICS
Classification Number 711212.
         (a)   Site standards.
            1.   Minimum lot size of 40 acres.
            2.   The lot shall have its own direct access to a state-maintained
road. The access shall serve only the drag strip or racetrack.
         (b)   Lighting. Outdoor lighting shall be designed to minimize light
from directly hitting adjacent property or any public right-of-way.
         (c)   Screening and fencing. A vegetative buffer must be provided
which will screen adjacent properties used or zoned for residential purposes
from the effects of light and noise generated on the site, as well as parking
areas and all structures, outbuildings, loading areas, places of assembly,
outdoor display areas and other facilities associated with the use. The buffer
shall comply with §§
154.015. The Planning Board may require a solid fence or wall, made of wood,
stone or masonry, up to eight feet in height, in addition to the required
screening, if the conditions on the site and adjacent properties warrant it.
      (26)   Drinking establishments; gun and ammunition sales; night clubs and
places of entertainment. See Permitted Use Table NAICS Classification Numbers
7224, and 4511.
         (a)   Site standards.
            1.   No night club or place of entertainment shall be permitted to
locate or expand within a 500-foot radius of any property used as a nursing or
convalescent home, retirement home, life care community, school, or church.
            2.   All structures shall be set back from all property lines a
minimum of twice the applicable setbacks of the corresponding zoning district
from all properties used or zoned for residential purposes.
         (b)   Screening and fencing. Buffers shall be installed which meet the
requirements of §§
154.015.
         (c)   Lighting. Outdoor lighting shall be so designed to minimize
light from directly hitting adjacent property or any public right-of-way.
         (d)   Operational requirements.
            1.   The site shall be utilized in a manner that prevents noise
from adversely impacting properties in the vicinity.
            2.   All unpaved storage areas shall be maintained in a manner that
prevents dust from adversely impacting adjacent properties.
      (27)   Eco-tourism enterprise. See Permitted Use Table NAICS
Classification Number 71.
         (a)   Site standards.
            1.   All structures, accessory structures, assembly areas, parking
areas, recreation areas, trails, and the like shall be setback 75 feet from all
property lines and rights-of-way.
            2.   Any outdoor storage areas shall be hidden from view from any
adjoining or nearby properties and any public rights-of-way.
            3.   Enterprise development site shall be near the natural feature
or ecosystem to which it provides access.
            4.   Enterprise development shall be designed to aesthetically
compliment the natural feature/ecosystem it serves so that the impact on the
natural feature/ecosystem is minimal.
         (b)   Screening and fencing. The portion of the property utilized for
the enterprise and its associated activities shall be screened from adjacent
properties used or zoned for residential or agricultural purposes. These
buffers must meet the requirements of §§
154.015.
         (c)   Lighting. Outdoor lighting shall be designed to minimize light
from directly hitting adjacent property or any public right-of-way.
         (d)   Additional requirements.
            1.   Retail goods may be sold as an incidental option so that the
items sold are related to the eco-tourism enterprise. This includes a gift
shop, snack bar, and the like.
            2.   Any activities associated with the eco-tourism enterprise,
whether on-site or off-site, shall be subject to the Surry County Noise
Ordinance.
      (28)   Electronic gaming operations. See Permitted Use Table NAICS
Classification Number 71312.
         (a)   Site standards.
            1.   Gaming operations shall be located at a minimum distance of
500 feet, measured in a straight line in any direction from the structure of
the proposed electronic gaming operation to the structure of any of the
following:
               A.   A place of worship or other religious institution;
               B.   A day care center or facility;
               C.   A public or private school;
               D.   A public park, playground, library, community pool or any
area where large numbers of minors regularly travel or congregate including,
but not limited to, public swimming pools;
               E.   A fire station, police station or other public safety
facility;
               F.   A nursing home or assisted living facility or medical
facility;
               G.   A funeral home; or
               H.   Another electronic gaming operation.
            2.   All structures shall be set back from all property lines a
minimum of twice the applicable setbacks of the corresponding zoning district
from all properties used or zoned for residential purposes.
         (b)   Screening and fencing. Buffers shall be installed which meet the
requirements of this chapter.
         (c)   Lighting. Outdoor lighting shall be so designed to minimize
light from directly hitting adjacent property or any public right-of-way.
         (d)   Operational requirements.
            1.   The site shall be utilized in a manner that prevents noise
from adversely impacting properties in the vicinity.
            2.   All unpaved storage areas shall be maintained in a manner that
prevents dust from adversely impacting adjacent properties.
            3.   Electronic gaming operations are not allowed as an accessory
use.
      (29)   Executive or institutional retreat. See Permitted Use Table NAICS
Classification Number 7131.
         (a)   Site standards.
            1.   All structures, accessory structures, assembly areas, parking
areas, recreation areas, and the like, shall be set back twice the applicable
setbacks for the corresponding zoning district.
            2.   Facility may consist of lodging, recreation facilities,
assembly areas, dining facilities and meeting facilities.
            3.   Kitchen and dining facilities shall be in a single, centrally
located building or buildings, and not located within individual lodging units.
            4.   Facility may be located on one parcel, or multiple parcels in
the same ownership.
            5.   Institutional retreats that plan to utilize tent camping or
open-air sleeping quarters shall also comply with the special use requirements
for "campgrounds" found in this section.
         (b)   Lighting. Outdoor lighting shall be designed to minimize light
from directly hitting adjacent property or any public right-of-way.
         (c)   Screening and fencing. The portion of the property/properties
utilized for the retreat and its associated activities shall be screened from
adjacent properties. These buffers must meet the requirements of §§
154.015.
         (d)   Operational requirements.
            1.   Executive or institutional retreat activities shall comply
with the Surry County Noise Ordinance.
            2.   Lodging facilities and kitchen and dining facilities shall not
be open to the public.
            3.   Retreats shall only be utilized for professional, educational,
or religious conclaves, meetings, conferences, seminars, or training.
      (30)   Family care home. Site standards.
         (a)   Shall not provide room and board to more than six individuals at
one time.
         (b)   Parking shall be in the rear of the home.
         (c)   Principal structure, accessory structures, and the property
itself shall be maintained as a residential property.
      (31)   Firing range. See Permitted Use Table NAICS Classification Number
7131.
         (a)   Site standards.
            1.   Shall not be located within 3,000 feet of any residential use,
hospital, nursing or convalescent home, retirement home, life care community,
school, or church.
            2.   A projectile-proof backstop, consisting of concrete, steel,
earth, or a combination thereof, at least 20 feet high, shall be erected and
maintained behind all target areas.
         (b)   Screening and fencing. A vegetative buffer must be provided
which will screen adjoining residential uses from the effects of light and
noise generated on the site, as well as parking areas and all structures,
outbuildings, loading areas, places of assembly, outdoor display areas and
other facilities associated with the use. The buffer shall comply with §§
154.015. The Planning Board may require a solid fence or wall, made of wood,
stone or masonry, up to eight feet in height, in addition to the required
screening, if the conditions on the site and adjacent properties warrant it.
         (c)   Operational requirements.
            1.   Shall not be open between the hours of 7:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.
(applies to outdoor ranges only).
            2.   Shall comply with the Surry County Noise Ordinance, as
amended, in addition to the above requirements.
      (32)   Funeral homes/crematories.
         (a)   Site standards. Separation from residential uses must be
maximized to the greatest possible extent.
         (b)   Screening and fencing. Type A vegetation must separate the site
and specific features, such as the smoke stack, from adjoining residential
areas, whether existing or zoned.
         (c)   Additional requirements. Stacking lanes must be shown on site
plan, and should be distinct from employee and visitor parking.
      (33)   Go-cart track. See Permitted Use Table NAICS Classification Number
711212.
         (a)   Site standards. All structures and track areas must be set back
from all property lines of all properties used or zoned for residential
purposes a minimum of twice the applicable setbacks of the corresponding zoning
districts.
         (b)   Lighting. Outdoor lighting shall be designed to minimize light
from directly hitting adjacent property or any public right-of-way.
         (c)   Screening and fencing. Buffers shall be installed which meet the
requirements of §§
154.015 along all property lines abutting property used or zoned for
residential or agricultural purposes.
      (34)   Golf courses; par 3 golf courses; miniature golf. See Permitted
Use Table NAICS Classification Numbers 71391, and 7131.
         (a)   Site standards.
            1.   No maintenance building, outbuilding, storage building, or
clubhouse shall be closer than 100 feet from any property line.
            2.   These uses shall be located so that adjoining properties are
not adversely affected by the activity due to noise, glare, traffic, or other
factors.
         (b)   Screening and fencing. Fencing, netting, trees, earth berms or
other approved control measures shall be provided around the perimeter of the
golf course to prevent golf balls from leaving the property.
         (c)   Lighting. Outdoor lighting shall be designed to minimize light
from directly hitting adjacent property or any public right-of-way.
         (d)   Operational requirements. The volume of any outdoor speakers or
public address system must be kept low enough to not be heard off the premises.
      (35)   Golf driving ranges - independent. See Permitted Use Table NAICS
Classification Number 7131.
         (a)   Site standards.
            1.   No maintenance building or clubhouse shall be closer than 100
feet from any property line.
            2.   Driving ranges shall be located so that adjoining properties
are not adversely affected by the activity due to noise, glare, traffic, or
other factors.
            3.   Driving ranges shall have a minimum depth of 1,000 feet from
the tees to the end of the driving area or the end shall be controlled with
netting and/or earth berms to prevent golf balls from leaving the property.
         (b)   Screening and fencing. Fencing, netting, trees, earth berms or
other approved control measures shall be provided around the perimeter of the
driving area to prevent golf balls from leaving the property. Driving ranges
shall be screened from adjacent properties used or zoned for residential
purposes. These buffers must meet the requirements of §§
154.015.
         (c)   Lighting. Outdoor lighting shall be designed to minimize light
from directly hitting adjacent property or any public right-of-way.
         (d)   Operational requirements. The volume of any outdoors speakers or
public address system must be kept low enough to not be heard off the premises.
      (36)   Group development. See Permitted Use Table NAICS Classification
Number 4522. Development where two or more structures are to be constructed on
a single parcel, which is not intended to be subdivided. These include, but are
not limited to, manufactured home parks, mini-warehousing, multi-family
developments and shopping centers. Processes for the approval of group
developments are in §§
154.011.
      (37)   Historic property ventures. See Permitted Use Table NAICS
Classification Number 71212.
         (a)   Site standards.
            1.   Structure or property shall be designated a historic property
or located in a designated historic district by the State of North Carolina
State Historic Preservation Office or the United States Department of the
Interior.
            2.   All parking areas and new structures shall be located within
the principal building setback area for the corresponding zoning district.
            3.   Gift shops located outside the confines of any historic
structure shall be allowed if they minimize negative visual and noise impacts
on adjoining properties used or zoned for residential or agricultural uses.
         (b)   Lighting. Outdoor lighting shall be designed to minimize light
from directly hitting adjacent property or any public right-of-way.
         (c)   Screening and fencing. The Planning Board may require buffers to
be installed that will screen new structures and/or parking areas which meet
the requirements of §§
154.015 along all property lines abutting property used or zoned for
residential or agricultural purposes. Historic structures shall not be required
to be screened from adjoining properties.
         (d)   Operational requirements. An associated small-scale restaurant
or like use, which may enhance the overall property in relation to tourism, may
be permitted on a case-by-case basis by the Planning Board. Associated uses are
subject to the above requirements as well.
      (38)   Heliport/helistop. See Permitted Use Table NAICS Classification
Number 48811.
         (a)   Site standards.
            1.   Heliports/helistops shall be so located and designed as to
minimize disturbance of residential areas.
            2.   There shall be a minimum 500 feet between the helipad and the
nearest existing residence.
            3.   No structures, runways, taxiways, tiedown areas, parking lots,
towers, beacons, and the like, shall be located within 50 feet of any property
line.
            4.   No petroleum storage tanks or refueling facilities shall be
located within 100 feet of any property line.
         (b)   Lighting. All outdoor lighting except navigational, safety, and
other lighting related to aircraft operations, shall be so designed as to not
disturb adjoining properties.
         (c)   Additional requirements.
            1.   The design and construction of heliport/helistops shall follow
FAA guidelines.
            2.   In addition to site plans required, a full master plan
including plans or information detailing flight approach patterns and noise
cones shall be presented.
            3.   All plans shall be drawn by a registered professional
qualified to design airports.
      (39)   Home occupation of a commercial nature.
         (a)   Site standards.
            1.   Unlike the usual home occupation, accessory buildings or
structures may be used in connection with the home occupation of a commercial
nature, with a minimum setback of twice what is required by this chapter.
            2.   All uses associated with the home occupation of a commercial
nature must be in the side or rear yard of the property.
            3.   All storage associated with the home occupation of a
commercial nature must be stored indoors; outdoor storage shall not be
permitted.
            4.   The Planning Board will determine if the proposed use fits the
definition of home occupation of a commercial nature.
         (b)   Screening. All structures associated with the home occupation of
a commercial nature shall be buffered from adjacent property used or zoned for
residential purposes by fencing or vegetation meeting the requirements of §§
154.015.
         (c)   Operational requirements.
            1.   The owner of the business must reside on the property on which
the business is located.
            2.   The business use shall not create any noxious fumes, odors,
traffic congestion, noise, or other nuisance factors.
      (40)   Kennel (as a principal use). See Permitted Use Table NAICS
Classification Number 54194.
         (a)   Site standards.
            1.   The Planning Board shall determine case-by-case the minimum
lot size and total facility capacity, defined as the maximum number of animals
that may be housed or kept on the property; provided that, if a lesser capacity
is required by state or federal licensing requirements existing or as amended,
the lesser capacity shall apply.
            2.   All buildings or other structures pertaining to the operation,
including outdoor runs and pens, shall maintain required setbacks from all
property lines the same as required for the principal structure on the
property.
            3.   No accessory building, outdoor run, or other animal holding or
exercising facility shall be in the front or side yard.
         (b)   Lighting. Outdoor lighting shall be designed to minimize light
from directly hitting adjacent property or any public right-of-way.
         (c)   Screening. All kennel buildings, runs, pens or other facilities
shall be buffered from adjacent property used or zoned for residential purposes
by fencing or vegetation meeting the requirements of §§
154.015.
      (41)   Landfill, sanitary and demolition, including hazardous and
nonhazardous waste. See Permitted Use Table NAICS Classification Number 562212.
         (a)   Site standards. No landfill, whether sanitary or demolition,
shall be permitted to locate within one-half mile radius of any property used
or zoned for residential purposes and any property used as a hospital, nursing
or convalescent home, retirement home, life care community, school, or church.
         (b)   Screening and fencing. The entire property, or portion of it
being used for the landfill and all supporting functions, shall be fenced with
a security fence at least eight feet high and screened meeting the requirements
of §§
154.015.
         (c)   Additional requirements. All landfill uses are subject to the
requirements of the State of North Carolina and Surry County.
      (42)   Livestock production and sales, livestock sale barns (non-bona
fide farm). See Permitted Use Table NAICS Classification Number 1114.
         (a)   Site standards.
            1.   All structures and associated uses, parking areas, loading
areas, storage areas, and outdoor assembly areas shall be set back a minimum of
75-feet from all properties used or zoned for residential or agricultural
purposes.
            2.   Livestock waste shall be managed to prevent from spreading to
adjacent properties.
            3.   In the area where animals are kept, 80% of the existing
vegetation must be maintained.
            4.   Considerations shall be made for additional traffic flow from
state-maintained roads into the site in question to reduce the possibility of
traffic congestion and hazards, if necessary.
         (b)   Lighting. Outdoor lighting shall be designed so as to minimize
light from directly hitting adjacent property or any public right-of-way.
         (c)   Screening and fencing.
            1.   Buffers shall be installed which meet the requirements of §§
154.015.
            2.   The portion of the property being used to keep the livestock
shall be fenced with a security fence at least five feet high, as to keep
livestock confined and off adjoining properties.
         (d)   Operational requirements.
            1.   The site shall be utilized in a manner that prevents noise and
dust from adversely impacting adjacent properties.
            2.   All unpaved storage areas shall be maintained in a manner that
prevents dust from adversely impacting adjacent properties.
      (43)   Manufactured home and recreational vehicle sales; farm/heavy
equipment sales. See Permitted Use Table NAICS Classification Numbers 45393,
and 42382.
         (a)   Site standards.
            1.   Minimum lot size of two acres.
            2.   Minimum setbacks of two times the applicable setbacks of the
corresponding zoning district.
            3.   Site shall not create a greater nuisance than the existing or
previous commercial use.
            4.   Noise created by proposed use shall not be any greater than
that which was created by the existing or proposed commercial use.
            5.   Traffic flow and conditions created by the proposed use shall
not be any greater than that created by the existing or previous commercial
use.
            6.   Applicant shall present evidence and support materials to the
Planning Board that demonstrate compliance with above requirements.
         (b)   Screening and fencing. Buffers shall be installed which meet the
requirements of §§
154.015.
         (c)   Lighting. Outdoor lighting shall be so designed to minimize
light from directly hitting adjacent property or any public right-of-way.
      (44)   Manufactured home parks. Refer to §§
154.019.
      (45)   Mini-warehousing. See Permitted Use Table NAICS Classification
Number 493.
         (a)   Buildings and accessory structures shall be located a minimum of
50 feet from any street right-of-way and 30 feet from any side or rear property
lines.
         (b)   Buildings and accessory structures shall be located no closer
than 20 feet from one another, providing adequate access for loading,
unloading, ingress and egress.
         (c)   The total ground cover of all principal buildings and all
accessory structures shall not exceed 70% of the total site.
      (46)   Mining and quarrying. See Permitted Use Table NAICS Classification
Number 212.
         (a)   Site standards.
            1.   Submit a copy of a completed application as required by the
State of North Carolina for a mining permit.
            2.   A letter or other certification of approval must be submitted
from the NCDOT, as to the safety and design of the access or entrance on to a
state-maintained road from the mine.
            3.   Access to a mine or mining operation must be from a state-
maintained road. The access leading from the state-maintained road to said
operation must be 45 feet in width, with a cleared drivable area of not less
than 20 feet. All interior access roads on the said property must also have a
right-of-way of 45 feet with a cleared drivable area of not less than 20 feet.
All accesses shall always be maintained to ensure smooth traffic flow.
            4.   The boundary of the property shall be located at least 500
feet from any residential use, hospital, nursing or convalescent home,
retirement home, life care community, school, or church.
         (b)   Screening and fencing. An area of land, which shall not be less
than 50 feet in width, shall be provided along all boundaries of the affected
land. This buffer area must be always left in a natural vegetative state or
planted with trees, shrubs, or plants that create a visual screen. Trees and
plants must be native to the area and trees shall not be less than six feet in
height in three years.
      (47)   Motocross track. See Permitted Use Table NAICS Classification
Number 711212.
         (a)   Site standards.
            1.   Minimum lot size of 40 acres.
            2.   The lot shall have its own direct access to a state-maintained
road. The access shall serve only the motocross track.
            3.   All structures and accessory structures shall be located at
least 100 feet from any adjoining property lines.
            4.   No portion of the riding course shall be located within 200
feet of any adjoining property line.
            5.   Hours of operation shall be no earlier than 9:00 a.m. and no
later than 30 minutes before dusk.
            6.   Ancillary support activities, such as the provision of food,
beverages, and other concessions or vending operations may be permitted on a
temporary basis and only during the operation of the use; and shall meet all
applicable state health codes.
         (b)   Screening and fencing. A vegetative buffer must be provided
which will screen adjacent properties used or zoned for residential purposes
from the effects of light and noise generated on the site, as well as parking
areas and all structures, outbuildings, loading areas, places of assembly,
outdoor display areas and other facilities associated with the use. The buffer
shall comply with §§
154.015. The Planning Board may require a solid fence or wall as deemed
necessary to screen from noise, in addition to the required buffer.
         (c)   Lighting. Outdoor lighting shall be designed to minimize light
from directly hitting adjacent property or any public right-of-way.
      (48)   Movie drive-in; stadium; coliseum; exhibition building. See
Permitted Use Table NAICS Classification Number 512132.
         (a)   Site standards.
            1.   All buildings and structures, accessory structures and places
of assembly shall be set back at least 75 feet from all property lines.
            2.   All parking areas shall be set back 25 feet from all
properties used or zoned for residential or agricultural purposes.
         (b)   Lighting. Outdoor lighting shall be designed to minimize light
from directly hitting adjacent property or any public right-of-way.
         (c)   Screening and fencing. A vegetative buffer must be provided
which will screen adjacent properties used or zoned for residential purposes
from the effects of light and noise generated on the site, as well as parking
areas and all structures, outbuildings, loading areas, places of assembly,
outdoor display areas and other facilities associated with the use. The buffer
shall comply with §§
154.015. The Planning Board may require a fence or wall made of wood, stone or
masonry, up to eight feet in height, in addition to the required screening, if
the conditions on the site and adjacent properties warrant it.
      (49)   Multi-family development.
         (a)   Minimum density requirements shall be two units per acre;
however, the Environmental Health Department may increase lot size requirements
through site evaluations on a case-by-case basis. A developer shall be
permitted to develop up to 16 units per acre if access to public water and
sewer systems is available.
         (b)   A minimum of 15% of the gross acreage shall be preserved as open
space.
         (c)   Parking spaces and internal streets shall not be located closer
than 25 feet from the front, side, or rear of any building.
      (50)   Nursing, convalescent, assisted living facility. See Permitted Use
Table NAICS Classification Number 623.
         (a)   Site standards.
            1.   Minimum lot size of two acres.
            2.   Minimum setback from any street right-of-way shall be at least
25 feet greater than is required for the district said use is located.
            3.   Minimum side and rear setbacks shall be 50 feet.
            4.   Service facilities, such as gift shops, snack bars and
personal service shops may be provided if the facilities are completely within
the building and designed to serve patrons of the facility and their visitors
only.
         (b)   Lighting. Outdoor lighting shall be designed to minimize light
from directly hitting adjacent property or any public right-of-way.
         (c)   Screening and fencing. Any parking area, common space or outdoor
gathering place shall be screened from adjacent properties used or zoned for
residential purposes. This buffer must meet the requirements of §§
154.015.
      (51)   Personal storage buildings in the Rural Agricultural (RA) and
Conservation Protected (CP) Districts. A personal storage building shall be
permitted as a principle or stand-alone use in the Rural Agricultural District
or Conservation Protected District, under the following conditions:
         (a)   The permit shall certify, and the owner shall ensure while such
permit is valid, that the structure is to be used only for non-commercial
storage purposes.
         (b)   Intermittent garage sales may be held; however, permanent
outdoor storage area shall at no time exceed 20% of the floor area of the
structure.
         (c)   Hazardous materials as defined by OSHA, 29 Code of Federal
Regulations (CFR) 1910.1200 shall not be stored in a personal storage building
as permitted by this chapter.
         (d)   The floor area of the structure shall be limited to 1,000 square
feet for any zoning lot less than or equal to one acre, and 1,000 square feet
per acre, prorated, for any zoning lot greater than one acre.
      (52)   Pet care without kennels. Site standards. No outdoor containment
of animals shall be located less than 250 feet from any residentially zoned
property and 50 feet from any other adjacent property line.
      (53)   Pet care with kennels.
         (a)   Site standards. No outdoor containment of animals shall be
located less than 250 feet from any residentially zoned property and 50 feet
from any other adjacent property line.
         (b)   Screening and fencing. Kennel areas must be surrounded by an
opaque fence not less than six feet in height and enclosed as to prevent
escape.
         (c)   Additional requirements.
            1.   Kennels shall be designed to effectively buffer all noise
audible to surrounding properties.
            2.   The kennel and surrounding area shall be cleaned of pet waste,
uneaten feed, and other waste, and shall be always kept in a neat and sanitary
condition to preclude odors and aesthetic nuisances.
            3.   One on-premises sign shall be permitted. The sign shall be no
larger than nine sq. ft. unless approved by the Zoning Administrator.
      (54)   Public utility facility (large-scale). See Permitted Use Table
NAICS Classification Number 2211.
         (a)   Site standards.
            1.   The following uses and structures shall be set back at a
minimum, as follows, from all property lines and public rights-of-way:
               A.   Power plants: 100 feet.
               B.   Large-scale buildings/structures: 75 feet.
               C.   Small-scale buildings/structures: 40 feet.
               D.   Telephone exchanges: 15 feet.
               E.   Switching boxes, pump stations, collectors: may be located
in the public right-of-way.
               F.   Any equipment producing noise or sound shall be set back
100 feet from any property line.
            2.   All storage must be located indoors; no outdoor storage shall
be allowed.
         (b)   Screening and fencing. Utility facilities and all associated
structures and equipment shall be enclosed with a security fence with a minimum
height of eight feet and screened with either a minimum three-foot wide strip
planted with dense evergreen vegetation or a 20-foot-wide strip of a natural
wooded area. The vegetative buffer shall be located adjacent to the property
line and between the property line and fence. Transmission line rights-of-way
shall be exempt from the buffer requirements. Large-scale buildings/structures,
small-scale buildings /structures, and telephone exchanges shall comply with
the screening requirements found in §§
154.015.
         (c)   Exemptions.
            1.   Exemptions to the dimensional standards, §§
154.006, do not apply to any proposed appurtenances or other structures.
Proposed appurtenances or other structures that exceed the maximum allowed
height of the applicable zoning district must be issued a special use permit,
as described in §§
154.010, prior to construction.
            2.   Lines for the transportation, transmission, and distribution
of utility commodities are exempt from the provisions of this division (C).
This category includes, but is not limited to, electricity, telephone sewer,
water, oil, steam, gas, and railroad track.
      (55)   Recycling collection center. See Permitted Use Table NAICS
Classification Number 921.
         (a)   Site standards.
            1.   All structures associated with collection centers shall
maintain standard setbacks applicable in the zoning district from street
rights-of-way and twice the standard setbacks from any other property line.
            2.   All equipment producing noise or sound and waste or recyclable
material containers shall be set back 100 feet from any property line.
            3.   All storage must be located indoors; no outdoor storage shall
be allowed, other than waste containers.
         (b)   Screening and fencing. Collection centers and all associated
structures and equipment shall be enclosed and screened in accordance with §§
154.015. The buffer shall be located adjacent to the property line and between
the property line and fence.
      (56)   Rehabilitation facility; sanitarium and mental institutions. See
Permitted Use Table NAICS Classification Number 623.
         (a)   Site standards.
            1.   No facility or institution shall be permitted to locate or
expand within one-half mile radius of any property used or zoned for
residential purposes and any property used as a hospital, nursing or
convalescent home, retirement home, life care community, school, or church.
            2.   Minimum lot size of five acres.
            3.   Minimum setbacks of two times the applicable setbacks of the
corresponding zoning district.
         (b)   Screening and fencing. The use shall be totally enclosed by an
opaque fence along all side and rear property lines. In addition, a vegetative
buffer shall be planted along all side and rear property lines, leaving space
for an ingress and egress location. The buffer shall be included as part of the
required setbacks and shall meet the requirements of §§
154.015.
      (57)   Resort; hotel; motel. See Permitted Use Table NAICS Classification
Number 72.
         (a)   Site standards.
            1.   All structures, accessory structures, parking areas,
recreation areas, and the like shall be set back twice the applicable setbacks
for the corresponding zoning district.
            2.   Facility may consist of lodging, recreation facilities,
assembly areas, convention areas and restaurants, which all contribute to the
resort facility.
            3.   Facility may be located on one parcel, or multiple parcels in
the same ownership.
            4.   If a resort is developed within a RE, RR, RL or RG District,
the resort must be developed concurrently with a residential subdivision.
Intermingling a resort with an established/existing residential subdivision is
not desirable.
         (b)   Lighting. Outdoor lighting shall be designed to minimize light
from directly hitting adjacent property or any public right-of-way.
         (c)   Screening and fencing. The portion of the property/properties
utilized for the resort and its associated activities shall be screened from
adjacent properties. These buffers must meet the requirements of §§
154.015.
         (d)   Operational requirements. Resort activities shall comply with
the Surry County Noise Ordinance.
      (58)   Roadside stands.
         (a)   Site standards. Adequate off-street parking shall be provided.
         (b)   Additional requirements.
            1.   Roadside stands require a zoning permit signed by the operator
and by the owner of the property.
            2.   Produce and/or flowers shall be sold directly to consumers on
a temporary and/or seasonal basis.
            3.   The sale of items other than fresh produce or flowers shall be
limited to items associated with the products and shall not be allowed as a
principal use.
            4.   Roadside stands may be permitted for a maximum of six months
but may be re-permitted upon submission of a new application.
      (59)   Rodeo. See Permitted Use Table NAICS Classification Number 71.
         (a)   Site standards.
            1.   All structures, accessory structures, parking areas,
bleachers, stables, arenas, and like uses shall be set back at least 75 feet
from all property lines.
            2.   There shall be one parking space for every three seats in the
largest arena area associated with the rodeo.
         (b)   Lighting. Outdoor lighting shall be so designed to minimize
light from directly hitting adjacent property or any public right-of-way.
         (c)   Screening and fencing. All parking areas, structures, accessory
structures, bleachers, stables, arenas, storage areas and like uses associated
with the rodeo shall be screened from adjoining properties used or zoned for
residential or agricultural purposes. If existing topography and natural
vegetation does not provide an existing visual barrier, selective screening may
be required. Screening shall meet the requirements of §§
154.015.
         (d)   Operational requirements.
            1.   Rodeo shall only hold events on Saturdays and Sundays.
            2.   Events shall be held between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 11:00
p.m.
      (60)   Reserved for future use.
      (61)   Seafood product preparation and packaging.
         (a)   Site standards. The area surrounding the facility shall be kept
clean of waste, and shall be always kept in a neat and sanitary condition to
preclude odors and aesthetic nuisances.
         (b)   Additional requirements. The Zoning Administrator must receive
proof of approval from the Environmental Health Division of the Surry County
Health and Nutrition Center prior to permitting.
      (62)   Solar energy system, Level 2. See Permitted Use Table NAICS
Classification Number 221114.
         (a)   Site standards.
            1.   The minimum lot size for this type of use shall be five acres.
            2.   Structures and fixed equipment shall be setback at least 50
feet from all property lines and public rights-of-way. The Planning Board may
require greater setbacks on a case-by-case basis.
            3.   Height. Structures, including mounted solar collection
systems, shall not exceed a height of 25 feet (excludes utility poles and
antenna constructed for project). The Planning Board may lower the maximum
height on a case-by-case basis as site conditions warrant.
            4.   Electric solar collection system components must have a UL
listing.
            5.   All solar collection systems shall meet state building code
requirements and the National Electric Code and shall be inspected by a county
building inspector.
            6.   If proposed SES is within one mile of an existing airport, the
FAA must be notified using FAA Form 7460-1. This can be sent to their regional
ADO in Memphis, Tennessee.
            7.   Placement is not allowed in historical districts, such as the
Village of Rockford.
         (b)   Screening. The portion of the property utilized for the facility
shall be screened from adjacent properties and from road rights-of-way. These
buffers must meet the requirements of §§
154.015. Additionally, the Planning Board may require more extensive buffering
and/or screening on a case-by-case basis.
         (c)   Lighting. Outdoor lighting shall be designed to minimize light
from directly hitting adjacent property or any public right-of-way.
         (d)   Additional requirements: decommissioning. A decommissioning plan
should be recorded with Register of Deeds and signed by party responsible for
SES addressing:
            1.   Conditions leading to decommissioning (i.e., lease ends, no
power produced in 12 months, and the like).
            2.   Removal of non-utility owned equipment, conduit, structures,
fencing, and foundations.
            3.   Restoration of property to condition prior to installation of
SES.
            4.   Name or address of person responsible for decommissioning.
      (63)   Shopping centers. See Permitted Use Table NAICS Classification
Number 4522.
         (a)   Minimum lot size of two acres.
         (b)   Buildings and accessory structures shall be located a minimum of
50 feet from any street right-of-way and 30 feet from any side or rear property
lines.
         (c)   Buffers shall be installed meeting the requirements of §§
154.015.
         (d)   A plan for solid waste storage, collection and disposal shall be
approved by the Zoning Ordinance Officer.
         (e)   The total ground cover of all principal buildings and all
accessory structures shall not exceed 30% of the total site.
         (f)   Ten percent of all parking areas shall be comprised of
landscaped medians.
      (64)   Supermarkets. See Permitted Use Table NAICS Classification Number
44511.
         (a)   Site standards.
            1.   All structures and accessory structures shall be set back
twice the applicable side and rear setbacks for the corresponding zoning
district.
            2.   The proposed structures shall be designed to complement the
community in which it is located, with an emphasis on blending with the
surrounding rural framework.
         (b)   Lighting. Outdoor lighting shall be designed to minimize light
from directly hitting adjacent property or any public right-of-way.
         (c)   Screening and fencing. Buffers must meet the requirements of §§
154.015.
      (65)   Wedding chapel. See Permitted Use Table NAICS Classification
Number 813.
         (a)   Site standards.
            1.   All structures, accessory structures, parking areas, assembly
areas, and the like, shall be set back twice the applicable setbacks for the
corresponding zoning district.
            2.   Facility may consist of the wedding chapel and banquet rooms
for receptions only.
         (b)   Lighting. Outdoor lighting shall be designed to minimize light
from directly hitting adjacent property or any public right-of-way.
         (c)   Screening and fencing. The property utilized for the wedding
chapel and its associated activities shall be screened from adjacent
properties. These buffers must meet the requirements of §§
154.015.
         (d)   Operational requirements.
            1.   Outdoor assembly areas shall be designed to soften noise
related to on-site activities from negatively affecting adjoining or nearby
properties.
            2.   Receptions such as wedding/baby showers, church-related
events, and the like shall also be permitted within the facility. Owner should
consult with the Zoning Administrator on proposed events not associated with a
wedding for compliance with this chapter before holding said event.
      (66)   Wind energy facilities. See Permitted Use Table NAICS
Classification Number 221115.
         (a)   Compliance with other county ordinances. Proposed wind energy
facilities and additions of wind turbines to existing wind energy facilities
reaching a total height from ground level of 40 feet or higher shall be
considered as tall buildings or structures as defined in §§
154.018; and shall not be construed as any one of the provided exceptions
listed in that definition, if such development is proposed to be located on a
protected mountain ridge as defined in §§
154.018.
         (b)   Additional site plan requirements.
            1.   Engineer's certification that the facility as proposed will
meet all industry standards for safety and durability.
            2.   A narrative describing the proposed wind energy facility,
including an overview of the project.
            3.   The proposed total rated capacity of the wind energy facility.
            4.   The proposed number, representative types and height or range
of heights of wind turbines to be constructed, including their generating
capacity, dimensions and respective manufacturers, and a description of
ancillary facilities.
            5.   Identification and location of the properties on which the
proposed wind energy facility will be located and of all adjacent properties,
including information regarding owners and any leases or other agreements
pertaining to the proposed wind energy facility.
            6.   A site plan showing the planned location of all wind turbines,
property lines, setback lines, access roads and turnout locations, substation
(s), electrical cabling from the wind energy facility to the substation(s),
ancillary equipment, building(s), and transmission and distribution lines. The
site plan must also include the location of all structures and properties,
demonstration of compliance with the setbacks, and location of all electrical
metering points and associated equipment.
            7.   Certification of compliance with applicable local, state, and
federal regulations, such as FAA and FCC regulations.
            8.   An environmental assessment for large wind energy facilities,
which shall be provided for review by the applicant to the Zoning Administrator
and to NCDEQ. The applicant must also present a certification of distribution
of the environmental assessment.
            9.   Other relevant information as may be reasonably requested by
Surry County to ensure compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
            10.   Decommissioning plans that describe the anticipated life of
the wind power project, the estimated decommissioning costs in current dollars,
the method for ensuring that funds will be available for decommissioning and
restoration, and the anticipated way the wind power project will be
decommissioned and the site restored.
            11.   Throughout the permit process, the applicant shall promptly
notify the Zoning Administrator of any proposed changes to the information
contained in the permit application that would alter the impact of the project.
            12.   Changes to the approved application that do not materially
alter the initial site plan in the estimation of the Zoning Administrator may
be adopted administratively. The Zoning Administrator may waive this provision
at his or her discretion.
         (c)   Height and setback requirements. Maximum height of a wind energy
facility shall be determined by application of the setback standards below. The
following setback requirements shall apply for wind energy facilities in any
proposal where such a setback would exceed the general district requirements of
§§
154.006:
            1.   Small wind energy systems shall be set back a minimum distance
of twice the wind turbine height as measured from the center of the proposed
facility base to all property lines.
            2.   Large wind energy systems shall be set back a minimum distance
of three times the wind turbine height as measured from the center of the
proposed facility base to all property lines.
         (d)   Noise and shadow flicker. This provision shall only apply to
large wind energy facilities.
            1.   Audible sound from a wind energy facility shall not exceed 55
dBA, as measured at any property line.
            2.   Shadow flicker at any building on surrounding property caused
by a wind energy facility located within 2,500 feet of the building shall not
exceed 30 hours per year.
         (e)   Installation and design.
            1.   The installation and design of the wind energy facility shall
conform to applicable industry standards, including those of the American
National Standards Institute, and take into consideration local conditions.
            2.   All structural, electrical, and mechanical components of the
wind energy facility shall conform to relevant and applicable local, state, and
national codes.
            3.   Any on-site collector system shall be placed underground.
            4.   The visual appearance of wind energy facilities shall at a
minimum:
               A.   Be a non-obtrusive color such as white, off-white, or gray;
               B.   Not be artificially lighted, except to the extent required
by the Federal Aviation Administration or other applicable authority that
regulates air safety; and
               C.   Not display advertising (including flags, streamers, or
decorative items), except for identification of the turbine manufacturer,
facility owner and operator.
            5.   The blade tip of any wind turbine shall, at its lowest point,
have ground clearance of no less than two-thirds the height of the tower to the
center of the turbine; or 15 feet, whichever is greater.
         (f)   Decommissioning.
            1.   The wind energy facility owner shall have six months to
complete decommissioning of the facility if no electricity is generated for a
continuous period of 12 months.
            2.   Decommissioning shall include removal of wind turbines,
buildings, cabling, electrical components, roads, and any other associated
facilities down to 36 inches below grade.
            3.   Disturbed earth shall be graded and re-seeded unless the
landowner requests in writing that the access roads or other land surface areas
not be restored.
      (67)   Winery; craft distillery including tasting rooms (less than 15,000
gallons of craft spirits per year); micro-brewery (less than 15,000 gallons of
malt beverages per year). See Permitted Use Table NAICS Classification Number
7224.
         (a)   Site standards.
            1.   Facility must be located in such a manner that visual impact
to adjoining properties used or zoned for residential or agricultural purposes
is minimal.
            2.   All structures, buildings, storage areas, and the like (except
fences or walls) associated with the operation must be set back a minimum of 75
feet from all property lines or street rights-of-way. The Planning Board may
require greater setbacks on a case-by-case basis for large- scale wineries.
            3.   A facility serving as an established cooperative winery may be
permitted without the presence of an on-site vineyard, if in the Board's
estimation, the facility will benefit, cater to, and serve the independent
vineyards of Surry County and surrounding areas. Cooperative wineries shall be
allowed in commercial zoning districts regardless of the existence of an on-
site vineyard.
         (b)   Lighting. Outdoor lighting shall be so designed to minimize
light from directly hitting adjacent property or any public right-of-way.
         (c)   Screening and fencing. All parking and storage areas, as well as
the operation itself, shall be screened from adjoining properties used or zoned
for residential or agricultural purposes. If existing topography and natural
vegetation does not provide an existing visual barrier, selective screening may
be required. Screening shall meet the requirements of §§
154.015.
         (d)   Additional requirements.
            1.   Festivals to be held in conjunction with the operation may
occur no more than four times per year on-site. Intent to convene festivals on-
site shall be disclosed on the site plan and the owner shall submit
documentation that complies with §§
154.010 with the application for a special use permit. Maximum occupancy for
any on-site festival shall also be disclosed.
            2.   The maximum number of bottles to be produced and/or total
volume of wine, beer or spirits to be produced on-site shall be disclosed on
the site plan.
      (68)   Wireless communication towers. See Permitted Use Table NAICS
Classification Number 5173. These requirements are intended to promote and
protect the public health, welfare, and safety by regulating existing and
proposed wireless communication towers. They are intended to protect property
values, create a more attractive economic and business climate and to enhance
and protect the scenic and natural beauty of designated areas.
         (a)   Development application. Before developing a tower, the tower
owner must apply for and receive a special use permit, unless otherwise stated
in this subchapter. The tower owner shall prepare an application for review by
the Planning Board and other applicable government agencies.
            1.   Area map. The application shall contain an area map prepared
by a registered land surveyor on a full sheet or full sheets of the Surry
County tax maps showing property to be developed. The area map shall show the
following:
               A.   The boundary of the property to be developed;
               B.   The names and addresses of adjoining property owners;
               C.   The location of existing streets, buildings, railroads,
transmission lines, sewers, bridges, culverts, drainpipes, and easements, to
the extent that these may be ascertained from a field inspection by the county;
               D.   Municipal boundaries and extraterritorial jurisdictions,
township lines, and zoning district classifications;
               E.   Name of the applicable fire district;
               F.   Topography, proximity to streams, susceptibility to
flooding as determined from available flood maps, soil characteristics and
other natural features which may impose restrictions on the development of the
site; and
               G.   Distance to airports in Elkin and Mount Airy.
            2.   Detailed development plan. The application shall contain a
detailed development plan showing the following information on a sheet not less
than 18 inches by 24 inches drawn at a scale of sufficient size to show all
required information, including additional information accurately and clearly
as required with the area map. The detailed development plan shall be recorded
with, or as part of, the boundary survey in the Office of Register of Deeds.
Approved detailed development plans shall be recorded before issuance of a
zoning permit.
               A.   Name and address of owner and surveyor, engineer, and land
planner;
               B.   Scaled vicinity map inset showing the location of the tower
in relationship to nearby towns, communities, and roads;
               C.   Boundaries of tract to be developed shown with bearings and
distances as established by the boundary survey;
               D.   Site data table, including total square footage of lease or
purchase site, impervious surfaces calculations and total acreage;
               E.   Proposed rights-of-ways or easements, location, widths, and
purposes;
               F.   Proposed setback lines from property boundaries;
               G.   Title, date, north arrow, and graphic scale; and
               H.   Watershed designation, if applicable.
            3.   Additional information. In addition to the detailed
development plan, the application shall contain the following:
               A.   A letter from the N.C. Division of Highway Engineers
indicating that his or her office has reviewed the area map and site plan and
specifying any problems such as highway access or right-of-way encroachments,
which need to be resolved prior to approval of the application;
               B.   A letter stating approval of a sedimentation and erosion
control plan from NCDEQ;
               C.   Identification of the intended wireless user(s) of the
tower. A statement indicating the owner's intent to allow shared use of the
tower and how many other users can be accommodated;
               D.   Documentation provided by a registered engineer that the
tower has sufficient structural integrity to accommodate more than one user;
               E.   Documentation by the applicant that no suitable existing
facilities within the coverage area are available to the applicant;
               F.   Proof of ownership of the proposed site or authorization to
utilize it;
               G.   Landscape and lighting plan; and
               H.   FAA certification that the tower is not a hazard to air
navigation.
            4.   Additional requirements. The application shall also be
accompanied by the following items:
               A.   Written indemnity document from the property owner and the
applicant; and
               B.   Certificate of insurance to the county showing applicant's
liability arrangements.
         (b)   Development standards. Towers and associated equipment shall be
subject to the following development standards:
            1.   Towers shall not interfere with normal radio and television
reception in the vicinity. Commercial messages or signage shall not be
displayed on any tower. Violations shall be corrected under the enforcement
provisions of this chapter.
            2.   All towers regardless of height must be registered with the
FAA to ensure that such towers are appropriately constructed, marked, painted
and lighted so that they do not create a hazard to air navigation. Lighting
shall meet the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) minimum lighting
requirements. The lights shall be oriented so as not to project directly onto
surrounding residential property, consistent with FAA requirements.
            3.   Towers shall be constructed and maintained in conformance with
all applicable Building Code requirements.
            4.   In order to protect the public from unnecessary exposure to
radio frequency emissions, the tower owner shall provide accurate documentation
certifying that the power output levels do not exceed FCC federally approved
levels.
            5.   Towers may be constructed to a height of 199 feet. If the
Board of Adjustment grants a variance, it shall not permit a tower to exceed a
height of 300 feet.
            6.   All towers shall be self-supporting, of either monopole or
lattice construction.
            7.   No new tower shall be located within two miles of an existing
tower. The Planning Board may allow a tower to be placed within two miles of an
existing tower upon being presented written documentation that supports one of
the following:
               A.   Appropriate space on the tower is not available;
               B.   The new sponsor has made good faith efforts to negotiate an
agreement with the owner of the current tower and submit documents outlining
those negotiations;
               C.   Equipment currently on the tower is not compatible with the
proposed equipment; or
               D.   The coverage objective cannot be met at that location with
the provisions set forth herein.
            8.   All new towers shall be engineered and constructed in such a
manner as to be able to accommodate at least two or more antennas so that
future co-location may be possible. In addition, reasonable accommodation for
public service uses such as, but not limited to, local or state government
wireless communications systems, is suggested.
            9.   No outdoor storage yards shall be permitted on tower sites.
            10.   Towers must comply with the requirements of the National
Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) which addresses such things as wilderness
areas, wildfire preserves, endangered species, historical sites, Indian
religious sites, floodplain, wetlands, high intensity white lights in
residential neighborhoods, and excess radio frequency emissions. Prior to final
application, the applicant shall be required to submit documentation that all
the requirements of the NEPA have been met.
            11.   Towers must meet the ANSI/EIA/TIA-222.E standards and the
North Carolina Department of Insurance, Building Code Standards.
            12.   Towers that are located within the viewshed of Pilot Mountain
State Park, Raven Knob Scout Reservation, and Cumberland Knob Recreation Area
must not detract from surrounding said viewsheds. Applicants shall provide a
viewshed visibility analysis depicting how the tower will appear from multiple
given points within Pilot Mountain State Park, Raven Knob Scout Reservation,
and Cumberland Knob Recreation Area, as applicable. The applicant shall
determine these points with the Zoning Administrator prior to submission of the
viewshed visibility analysis. The Zoning Administrator shall consult with the
appropriate staff at Pilot Mountain State Park, Raven Knob Scout Reservation,
and Cumberland Knob Recreation Area for their comments regarding viewshed
impacts. The Planning Board shall consider the impact of the tower on the
applicable viewshed when determining its suitability.
            13.   Towers shall comply with §§
154.018.
         (c)   Dimensional requirements. Towers shall conform to the following
dimensional requirements:
            1.   Towers shall be set back two and one-half times the height of
the tower from any residential or non-residential structure on the same parcel
or on parcels in the vicinity of the tower site.
            2.   Towers shall be set back the height of the tower from all
property lines.
         (d)   Buffers. To prevent a clear view of the base of the tower, the
setback area shall contain an established forested area with a depth of at
least 100 feet. When the 100-foot forested area requirement cannot be met
because of the lack of the sufficient natural vegetation, a planted buffer
shall be planted as required below:
            1.   The base of the tower, and any associated structures, walls or
fences shall be surrounded by a landscaped buffer. The developer shall:
               A.   Provide the landscape buffer around the tower base; or
               B.   Provide a buffer around the perimeter of the entire site.
            2.   For safety purposes, all towers shall be screened in the form
of a wall or fence, such wall or fence shall be opaque and shall be composed of
materials such as wood, brick, or metal with a height of no less than eight
feet.
            3.   The planting shall consist of deciduous or evergreen trees and
evergreen shrubs. Trees shall be planted along the full length of the buffer
strip in a triangular pattern with a maximum spacing of 25 feet on centers. The
minimum height at planting for trees shall be six feet, and they shall have an
expected minimum maturity height of 35 feet under normal growing conditions.
There shall also be one row of dense shrubs, spaced not more than eight feet on
centers. Shrubs shall be a minimum of two feet in height at planting and shall
have a minimum expected maturity height of eight feet under normal growing
conditions. It is the intent of this section to encourage the use of existing
vegetation, in whole or in part, to substantially meet this requirement. The
tower owner is responsible for maintaining the buffer at all times.
         (e)   Road requirements. Access to the tower site shall be provided by
a deeded easement of no less than 30 feet in width. The road base shall be no
less than eight feet in width with a three-inch gravel base. Unless the
easement is a common use easement, it shall be gated for security purposes.
Each site shall have two signs composed of night reflective material, two
inches by two inches, which state the name of the owner and an emergency
contact number. Each sign shall be in a conspicuous place.
         (f)   Co-location. To further encourage co-location, additional users,
and associated equipment, which do not add to the tower height, may be added
without additional approval from the respective county boards; all zoning
approvals for co-locations as provided in this section shall be finalized
within 45 days after the date of application. However, additional Building Code
regulations may apply, and a site plan in accordance with this subchapter must
be submitted to the Zoning Administrator. The Zoning Administrator shall review
and approve or disapprove the application based on the provisions provided
herein.
         (g)   Removal of towers. Towers which are not used for transmission or
relay for a period of six months or more shall be removed by the owner within
180 days after receiving notice from the county to remove said tower. The tower
users shall notify the Zoning Administrator within 30 days after discontinuing
the tower use and submit its removal plans. Furthermore, a form of surety equal
to 100% of the cost of decommissioning under the plan, as estimated by a North
Carolina licensed engineer (under seal), and approved by the Zoning
Administrator and County Attorney, either through cash, a surety performance
bond, irrevocable letter of credit or other instrument readily convertible into
cash at face value, shall be provided at the time of application approval,
either with the county or in escrow with a financial institution designated as
an official depository of the county. This surety shall be retained by the
county to cover all cost of the decommissioning requirements.
         (h)   Modification of permits and site plans. Where plans are required
to be submitted and approved as part of the application for a special use
permit, modifications of the originally approved plans may be authorized by the
appropriate approval authority for major or minor modifications. Major
modifications of the site plan, which is a part of the permit, are permitted
following a quasi-judicial hearing consistent with §§
154.010. Minor modifications, defined as those involving addition of no more
than ten feet to the tower height, no more than one additional antenna,
addition of no more than 20 feet to the width of the support structure, or
addition of no more than 2,500 square feet to the existing equipment compound,
may be permitted without additional approval from the respective county boards;
all zoning approvals for minor modifications as provided in this section shall
be finalized within 45 days after the date of application. Additional building
code regulations may apply.
         (i)   Low cover stealth wireless systems.
            1.   This provision is designed to assist the development of
wireless coverage in rural areas that will not benefit from the construction of
a wireless communication tower. Wireless communication antennae and supporting
equipment that are developed in a small-scale, stealth manner to be located on
existing structures (i.e., utility poles or rooftops) that were constructed for
purposes other than supporting wireless communication equipment, shall be
permitted administratively.
            2.   Application shall be made to the Zoning Administrator meeting
the following requirements:
               A.   Maximum height of the wireless antennae shall be determined
by the height of the existing structure, not to exceed 100 feet above ground
level. The existing structure shall only be replaced if the structural
integrity will not support the proposed wireless system. The height of the new
structure shall not exceed the height of the existing structure. If the
wireless antenna is placed on a rooftop, the height of the antenna shall not
exceed six feet above the rooftop.
               B.   Minimum distance between two structures with antennas shall
be 2,000 feet.
               C.   Antenna size shall be no greater than six square feet; no
more than three antennas per structure.
               D.   Equipment cabinet/shelter shall be no larger than 12 square
feet and shall be guarded from tampering by the public.
               E.   Application shall comply with division (C)(68)(a) above as
well as other sections of this chapter as the Zoning Administrator deems
necessary. However, the following sections of this code shall not apply to low
coverage stealth wireless systems: divisions (C)(68) (c) through (68)(e) above.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.009 AMENDMENTS.
§ 154.009-01 IN GENERAL.
   The Surry County Board of Commissioners may, on their own motion or upon
petition, initiate the process to amend, change, modify or repeal this chapter,
including the zoning maps, subject to the procedures and rules established by
law and in this chapter.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.009-02 AMENDMENT PROCEDURES FOR MAP AND TEXT AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Initiation of request.
      (1)   Except in the case of a conditional zoning request, any property
owner or his/her agent, or citizen or his/her agent may initiate the process to
amend this chapter, including the zoning maps, by submitting an application at
least 30 days prior to the regularly scheduled meeting.
      (2)   A petition for any map change or amendment shall contain a
description of the property as recorded with the Surry County Register of
Deeds, or a metes and bounds description of a portion of the property
identified on the petition, a statement of the present and proposed zoning
regulation or district boundary, and the names and addresses of the owner or
owners of the property involved. Such petition shall be filed no later than 21
days prior to the Planning Board meeting at which the petition is to be
considered. There must be a separate petition prepared for each parcel of land
that has different ownership.
      (3)   The petitioner shall schedule a meeting with the planning staff
prior to submittal of the petition. This meeting will allow the petitioner and
the planning staff to familiarize themselves with the proposal, land use plan
development principles and any applicable regulations.
      (4)   A statement of reasonableness of the proposed request shall be
prepared for each application for a rezoning. Pursuant to G.S. § 160D-601, no
amendment to zoning regulations or a zoning map that down-zones property shall
be initiated nor is it enforceable without the written consent of all property
owners whose property is the subject of the down-zoning amendment, unless the
down-zoning amendment is initiated by the local government. For purposes of
this section, DOWN-ZONING means a zoning ordinance that affects an area of land
in one of the following ways:
         (a)   By decreasing the development density of the land to be less
dense than was allowed under its previous usage.
         (b)   By reducing the permitted uses of the land that are specified in
a zoning ordinance or land development regulation to fewer uses than were
allowed under its previous usage.
      (5)   There shall be a fee payable to Surry County for each application
for rezoning. The amount of said fee shall be fixed by the Commissioners and
shall be sufficient to defray all administrative costs incurred in processing
the application, notifying abutting property owners, obtaining technical
assistance, and publishing the notice of public hearing.
      (6)   If the applicant believes that development of his property in a
specific manner will lessen adverse effects upon surrounding properties or
otherwise make the rezoning more in accordance with principles underlying the
Surry County Land Use Plan, he/she shall apply for rezoning to the appropriate
conditional zoning district specifying the nature of his proposed development.
Procedures for amendments to conditional zoning districts are found in this
subchapter.
   (B)   Public notice.
      (1)   No amendments may be adopted to this chapter until a public hearing
has been held on such an ordinance by both the Planning Board and by the Board
of Commissioners.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall publish a notice of each public
hearing on any amendments to this chapter once a week for two successive weeks
in a newspaper having general circulation in the area. The notice shall be
published for the first time not less than ten days nor more than 25 days
before the date fixed for the hearing. In computing such period, the day of
publication is not to be included but the day of hearing shall be included.
      (3)   In addition to the public notice above, where the proposed
amendment involves a change in the designation of any parcel of land, the
Zoning Administrator shall, by first class mail, give notice of the public
hearing to the owner(s) of parcel(s) involved in the proposed amendment, if the
owner(s) are different from the applicant(s), as well as the owners, as shown
on the tax rolls of Surry County, of all land abutting the parcel(s) involved
in the proposed amendment. For this section, properties are "abutting" even if
separated by a street, railroad, or other transportation corridor. This notice
shall be mailed at least ten but not more than 25 days prior to the public
hearing. The person mailing such notice shall certify that such notices have
been mailed. Certification shall be included in the report prepared by the
Zoning Administrator that such notice has been made.
      (4)   When a zoning map amendment is proposed, the county shall
prominently post a notice of the public hearing on the site proposed for
rezoning or on an abutting public street right-of-way. This notice shall be
posted continuously no more than 25 days and not less than ten days prior to
the hearing date. Such notice shall be readable to passerby and able to
withstand rain and light wind. In computing such period, the day the notice is
posted is not to be included but the day of hearing shall be included. When
multiple parcels are included within a proposed zoning map amendment, a posting
on each individual parcel is not required, but the county shall post sufficient
notices to provide reasonable notice to interested persons.
   (C)   Planning Board consideration of proposed amendments.
      (1)   Every proposed amendment (text and map), supplement, change,
modification, or repeal of this chapter shall be referred to the Planning Board
for its recommendation and report. The Planning Board shall hold a public
hearing, at which the Board of County Commissioners may sit concurrently with
the Planning Board if the Board of Commissioners so desires.
      (2)   The Planning Board shall advise and comment on whether the proposed
amendment is consistent with any officially adopted comprehensive plan, land
use plan, small area plan, community plan, community development plan, corridor
plan, thoroughfare or transportation plan, and capital improvements plan. The
Planning Board shall provide a written recommendation to the Board of
Commissioners that addresses plan consistency and other matters as deemed
appropriate by the Planning Board.
      (3)   The following policy guidelines shall be followed by the Planning
Board concerning zoning amendments and no proposed zoning amendment will
receive favorable recommendation unless:
         (a)   The proposal will place all property similarly situated in the
area in the same category or in appropriate complementary categories;
         (b)   There is convincing demonstration that all uses permitted under
the proposed district classification would be in the public interest and not
merely in the interest of an individual or small group;
         (c)   There is convincing demonstration that all uses permitted under
the proposed zoning district classification would be appropriate in the area
included in the proposed change since under a new district designation, any use
permitted in the district is allowable so long as it meets district
requirements;
         (d)   There is convincing demonstration that the character of the
neighborhood will not be materially or adversely affected by any use permitted
in the proposed change; and
         (e)   The proposed change is in accord with the land use plan and
sound planning principles, and in the opinion of the Planning Board the request
is reasonable and in the public interest.
      (4)   The Planning Board shall be prohibited from allowing any testimony
or evidence concerning the specific manner an applicant/property owner intends
to use or develop the property, except in the case of a request for a
conditional zoning district.
      (5)   The Planning Board shall render its decision on any properly filed
application within 30 days after the introduction of such application. The
Planning Board and the petitioner may agree to a continuance to a date certain
to allow time for the petitioner to address issues that arose during the public
hearing.
      (6)   Determination of consistency and statement of reasonableness. The
Planning Board shall adopt one of the following statements in their
recommendation to the Board of Commissioners:
         (a)   A statement recommending approval of the zoning amendment and
describing its consistency with the Surry County Land Use Plan and explaining
why the action taken is reasonable and in the public interest.
         (b)   A statement recommending rejection of the zoning amendment and
describing its inconsistency with the adopted plan and explaining why the
action taken is or is not reasonable and in the public interest.
   (D)   Board of Commissioners consideration of proposed amendments.
      (1)   Following Planning Board consideration, the Board of Commissioners
shall call a public hearing for the next available regular evening meeting
date, allowing time for advertising.
      (2)   Before taking such lawful action as it may deem advisable, the
Board of County Commissioners shall consider the Planning Board's
recommendations on each proposed zoning amendment. If no written report is
received from the Planning Board within 30 days of referral of the amendment to
that Board, the Board of Commissioners may proceed in its consideration of the
amendment without the Planning Board's report. The Board of Commissioners is
not bound by the recommendations, if any, of the Planning Board.
      (3)   The Board of Commissioners shall be prohibited from allowing any
testimony or evidence concerning the specific manner an applicant/property
owner intends to use or develop the property, except in the case of a request
for a conditional zoning district.
      (4)   A report from the Planning Board that a proposed amendment is
inconsistent with an officially adopted plan shall not preclude consideration
or approval of the proposed amendment by the Board of Commissioners.
      (5)   At the conclusion of the public hearing on a proposed amendment,
the Board of Commissioners may proceed to vote on the proposed amendment, refer
it for further study or take any other action consistent with its usual rules
of procedure.
      (6)   Determination of consistency and statement of reasonableness.
         (a)   As required by G.S. § 160D-605(a), prior to adopting or
rejecting any zoning amendment, the Board of Commissioners shall adopt one of
the following statements which shall not be subject to judicial review:
            1.   A statement approving the zoning amendment and describing its
consistency with the Surry County Land Use Plan and explaining why the action
taken is reasonable and in the public interest.
            2.   A statement rejecting the zoning amendment and describing its
inconsistency with the adopted plan and explaining why the action taken is or
is not reasonable and in the public interest.
         (b)   If the amendment is adopted and the action is deemed
inconsistent with the adopted plan, the zoning amendment shall have the effect
of also amending the future land use map in the approved plan and no additional
request or application for a plan amendment shall be required. A plan amendment
and a zoning amendment shall be considered concurrently.
      (7)   The Board of Commissioners is not required to take final action on
a proposed amendment within any specific period of time.
      (8)   The applicant, the Planning Board and the Zoning Administrator
shall be given written copies of the Board of County Commissioners' decision
and the reasons therefor.
   (E)   Resubmittal of a zoning change request. With the exception of requests
originating with the Planning Board, Board of Adjustment or county
administration, a petition for any rezoning of the same property or any
petition for the same amendment to this chapter's text shall be permitted only
once within any one-year period. The Board of County Commissioners, by 80%
affirmative vote of its total membership, may waive this restriction if it
finds any emergency or hardship exists.
   (F)   Withdrawal of an application. Any application submitted in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter for the purpose of amending the regulations
or district boundaries established by this chapter may be withdrawn at any
time, but fees are non-refundable.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.009-03 ADDITIONAL AMENDMENT PROCEDURES FOR CONDITIONAL ZONING.
   This section applies to petitions for a conditional zoning districts
including Planned Residential Conditional District (PR-CD) or PD. Conditional
zoning district decisions are a legislative process subject to the same
procedures and standards of review as apply to general use district zoning
decisions as required by this subchapter, with the additional requirements of
this section.
   (A)   Initiation of request.
      (1)   Property may be placed in a conditional district only in response
to a petition by the owners of all the property to be included. Specific
conditions applicable to these districts may be proposed by the petitioner or
the county, but only those conditions mutually approved by the county and the
petitioner may be incorporated into approval and permit requirements.
Conditions and site-specific standards imposed in a conditional district shall
be limited to those that address the conformance of the development, use of the
site to county ordinances and any officially adopted plans, and compatibility
with neighboring properties. A statement analyzing the reasonableness of the
proposed rezoning shall be prepared for each petition to a conditional
district. If the petitioner believes that development of their property in a
specific manner will lessen the adverse effects upon surrounding properties or
otherwise make the rezoning more in accordance with development principles
found in the Surry County Land Use Plan, they may apply for a rezoning to the
appropriate conditional zoning district, as found in §§
154.006. Conditional zoning districts do not have any inherent permitted or
conditional uses; development activities are only allowed through specific
conditions approved by the Board of Commissioners. Those uses permitted and
conditions approved by the Board of Commissioners shall be reflected on the
conditional zoning district supplement issued by the Zoning Administrator.
Proposed development activities shall be consistent with the established
permitted and conditional uses of the corresponding general use zoning
district. The petitioner shall meet all the requirements of the corresponding
general use zoning district.
      (2)   Petition to include site-specific development plan. The purpose of
a site-specific development plan for conditional zoning is to illustrate the
uses and layout of the site, as well as other aspects of a proposal describing
with reasonable certainty the type and intensity of use for a specific parcel
or parcels of property pursuant to G.S. § 160D-108.1. An approved site-specific
development plan submitted as part of a conditional zoning request will become
a part of the approval for the district and will run with the land.
      (3)   Petitions for conditional zoning districts must be submitted at
least 21 days before the next regularly scheduled Planning Board meeting and
shall include one or more of the following:
         (a)   A site-specific development plan meeting the requirements of §§
154.012. A major site plan meeting the requirements of §§
154.012 is required for any petition for rezoning to PR-CD (Planned Residential
Conditional District)
         (b)   The actual use or uses intended for the entire tract or any part
or parts thereof, for the parcel or parcels specified in the petition. The uses
specified must be selected from among those allowed in the corresponding
general use zoning district.
         (c)   If desired, any written conditions beyond the requirements of
the corresponding general use zoning district which further limit how the
property may be developed, such as additional setbacks, buffers, landscaping,
building height, building materials, roof type, ingress, or egress points.
      (4)   In addition, if the district does not otherwise require it, the
petitioner may elect to request vested rights as referenced in § 154.005-06. In
the event of an approval, the site-specific development plan shall be binding
as to the location and extent of all proposed development activities on the
parcel.
   (B)   Planning Board review of conditional zoning petitions. Following the
review and consideration of the petition for conditional zoning during a public
hearing according to the provisions of this subchapter, the Planning Board
shall take one of the following actions in making its recommendation:
      (1)   Recommend approval. Recommend approval of the petition to the Board
of Commissioners as submitted; or
      (2)   Recommend approval with conditions. Recommend approval of the
petition to the Board of Commissioners with the petitioner's proposed
conditions and additional reasonable conditions agreed upon by the Board that
promote the health, safety and general welfare of the surrounding community and
the general public. The Planning Board may consider the following types of
conditions:
         (a)   Reduction or limitation in the uses requested;
         (b)   Location and extent of proposed buildings supporting facilities
such as parking lots, driveways, and access streets;
         (c)   Preservation of unique natural or constructed features,
including retention of existing vegetation; and
         (d)   Other reasonable requirements to ensure public health, safety
and general welfare.
      (3)   Recommend denial. Recommend denial to the Board of Commissioners of
the petition.
      (4)   The Planning Board shall make a determination of consistency and
statement of reasonableness according to this subchapter. The statement shall
include the conditions proposed by the petitioner as well as conditions
recommended by the Planning Board.
   (C)   Board of Commissioners review of conditional zoning petitions. After
receiving the Planning Board's recommendation and reviewing the petition for
conditional zoning the Board of Commissioners shall conduct a hearing according
to the provisions of this subchapter. Following the hearing, the Board of
Commissioners shall take one of the following actions:
      (1)   Approve. Approve the petition as submitted.
      (2)   Approve with conditions. Approve the petition with the proposed
conditions and additional reasonable conditions as agreed upon in writing by
both the Board and the petitioner. The Board of Commissioners may, with mutual
agreement of the petitioner, impose such additional reasonable and appropriate
safeguards upon such petition as it may deem necessary in order that the
purpose and intent of this chapter is served and the health, safety and general
welfare of the surrounding community and the public is protected. The Board of
Commissioners may amend or delete those conditions recommended by the Planning
Board. The Board of Commissioners may consider the following types of revisions
to conditions or the site plan:
         (a)   Reduction or limitation in the uses requested;
         (b)   Location and extent of supporting facilities such as buildings,
parking lots, driveways, and access streets;
         (c)   Preservation of unique natural or constructed features,
including retention of existing vegetation; and
         (d)   Other reasonable requirements to ensure public health, safety,
and general welfare. Specific conditions may be proposed by the petitioner
county agencies or the Planning Board, but only those conditions approved by
the Board of Commissioners and consented to by the petitioner in writing may be
incorporated into the zoning regulations.
      (3)   Deny. Deny the petition, with reasons stated.
      (4)   The Board of Commissioners shall approve a determination of
consistency and statement of reasonableness according to this subchapter. The
statement shall include all conditions agreed upon by the petitioner. Following
the approval of a petition, the Board of Commissioners shall order the Zoning
Administrator to issue a conditional zoning district supplement that shall
reflect the approved petition describing the nature of development approved for
the parcel or parcels in question.
   (D)   Effect of approval. If the petition for rezoning to a conditional
zoning district is approved, the conditions submitted by the applicant and
approved by the Board of Commissioners and the development plan shall be
binding as a part of the approval. All development activities in the
conditional zoning district shall be consistent with the approved plan.
   (E)   Site plan required. A major site plan meeting the requirements of §§
154.012 and consistent with the approved development plan shall be reviewed and
approved prior to the issuance of any building permits.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.010 SPECIAL USE PERMITS, VARIANCES AND APPEALS.
§ 154.010-01 SPECIAL USE PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Purpose and applicability. This chapter provides for several uses to
be located by right in each general zoning district subject to the use meeting
certain area, height, yard, and off-street parking and loading requirements. In
addition to these uses, this chapter allows some uses in districts subject to
the issuance of a special use permit by the Board of Adjustment. In the VR
District, all special use permits are assigned to the Planning Board to
consider and decide upon. The purpose of having such uses being "special" is to
ensure that they would be compatible with surrounding development and in
keeping with the purposes of the general zoning district in which they are
located. Those uses shown as special in the Permitted Uses Table in §
154.007-01 shall be subject the requirements and review process of in this
section.
   (B)   Approval process. Special use permits considered by either the Board
of Adjustment or the Planning Board shall follow the Board of Adjustment
process as described in both §
154.004-02 and in this subchapter, conducting an evidentiary hearing in
accordance with all relevant provisions of G.S. § 160D-406. An application
shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator and shall be accompanied by a plan
meeting the requirements of a major site plan in §§
154.011. The Zoning Administrator shall submit the site plan to the Technical
Review Committee for review. The Technical Review Committee may, in its review,
suggest reasonable conditions to the location, nature, and extent of the
proposed use and its relationship to surrounding properties, parking areas,
driveways, pedestrian and vehicular circulation systems, screening and
landscaping, timing of development, and any other appropriate conditions. Such
conditions may include dedication of any rights-of-way or easements for
streets, water, sewer, or other public utilities necessary to serve the
proposed development. Conditions and safeguards imposed under this division
shall not include requirements for which the county does not have authority
under statute to regulate; nor requirements for which the courts have held to
be unenforceable if imposed directly by the county, including, without
limitation, taxes, impact fees, building design elements within the scope of
G.S. § 160D-702(b), driveway-related improvements in excess of those allowed in
G.S. § 136-18(29) and G.S. § 160A-307, or other unauthorized limitations on the
development or use of land. Following Technical Review Committee review and
recommendation, the Board of Adjustment shall hold an evidentiary hearing and
consider the application in accordance with the findings-of-fact in division
(D) below.
   (C)   Notice of hearing. Notice of evidentiary hearings conducted pursuant
to this section shall be mailed to the person or entity whose application is
the subject of the hearing; to the owner of the property that is the subject of
the hearing if the owner did not initiate the hearing; and to the owners of all
parcels of land abutting the parcel of land that is the subject of the hearing.
In the absence of evidence to the contrary, the county may rely on the county
tax listing to determine owners of property entitled to mailed notice. The
notice must be deposited in the mail at least ten days, but not more than 25
days, prior to the date of the hearing. Within that same time, the county shall
also prominently post a notice of the hearing on the site that is the subject
of the hearing or on an adjacent street or highway right-of-way. Such notice
shall be readable to passersby and able to withstand rain and light wind. The
Board of Adjustment may continue an evidentiary hearing that has been convened
without further advertisement. If an evidentiary hearing is set for a given
date and a quorum of the Board is not then present, the hearing shall be
continued until the next regular Board meeting without further advertisement.
   (D)   Conditions, evidence, and findings-of-fact.
      (1)   In approving an application for a special use permit, the Board of
Adjustment may attach fair and reasonable conditions to the approval. The
petitioner will have a reasonable opportunity to consider and respond to any
additional requirements prior to approval or denial by the Board of Adjustment.
In no instance shall any of these conditions be less restrictive than any
requirements which would pertain to that development found elsewhere in a
similar zoning district. The applicant shall provide consent in writing to the
conditions before the special use permit will be issued. The applicant has the
burden of producing competent, material, and substantial evidence to establish
the facts and conditions.
      (2)   The Board of Adjustment shall issue a special use permit if it has
evaluated an application and determined that:
         (a)   The use will not materially endanger the public health or safety
if located where proposed and developed according to plan; and
         (b)   The use meets all required conditions and specifications; and
         (c)   The use will not substantially injure the value of adjoining or
abutting property unless the use is a public necessity; and
         (d)   The location and character of the use, if developed according to
the plan as submitted and approved, will be in harmony with the area in which
it is to be located and will be in general conformity with the adopted land use
plans and other plans for physical development of Surry County as adopted by
the Board of Commissioners.
   (E)   Effect of approval and expiration of approval. If an application for a
special use permit is approved by the Board of Adjustment, the owner of the
property shall have the ability to develop the use in accordance with the
stipulations contained in the special use permit or develop any other use
listed as a "permitted use" for the general zoning district in which it is
located. Any special use permit so authorized shall be perpetually binding to
the property included in such permit unless subsequently changed or amended by
the Board of Adjustment. Unless the Board of Adjustment issues a special use
permit which either is specifically exempt from any time constraints or has
some other specified time period for implementation, the applicant must secure
a valid building permit within a two years period from date of issuance of the
special use permit. In addition, if the project for which a special use permit
was issued is not complete and a valid building permit is not in place at the
end of said two year period, the Zoning Administrator shall notify the
applicant of either such finding, and within 60 days of said notification,
shall make a recommendation concerning the rescission of the special use
permit. The Board of Adjustment, after having conducted a public hearing to
consider the rescission, may then rescind the special use permit, or extend the
life of the special use permit for a specified period.
   (F)   Alterations to site and amendments to special use permit. Amendments
to special use permits shall follow the process used to consider the special
use permit.
   (G)   Reapplication following denial. If a request for special use permit is
denied by the Board of Adjustment, a similar application for the same property
or any portion thereof shall be barred by res judicata unless there has been a
material change in the facts or circumstances. When used herein, the phrase
MATERIAL CHANGE shall mean a change of sufficient materiality that a decision
on the new petition would not be barred by application of North Carolina law on
res judicata. See, for example, Mount Ulla Historical Pres. Soc., Inc. v. Rowan
Cnty., 232 N.C. App. 436, 444 (2014).
   (H)   Denial and appeal of special use permits.
      (1)   Denial. If the Planning Board or Board of Adjustment denies the
special use permit, it shall enter the reason for its action in the minutes of
the meeting at which the action is taken.
      (2)   Appeal. No appeal may be taken from the action of the Planning
Board or Board of Adjustment in granting or denying a special use permit,
except through the Surry County Superior Court within 30 days of the decision
or forever be barred.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.010-02 STANDARDS FOR GRANTING A SPECIAL USE PERMIT FOR ANY PROPOSED
ALTERATION, EXPANSION, CHANGE, REBUILDING OR RESUMPTION OF A NON-CONFORMITY.
   Procedures for the granting of a special use permit for the alteration,
expansion, change, rebuilding or resumption of a non-conformity are the same as
for other special use permits above.
   (A)   Decision authority. The Board of Adjustment shall be the decision
authority for all such petitions regarding property in Surry County with the
exception that the Planning Board shall hear and decide such petitions for
property located within the VR District.
   (B)   Evidence and testimony.
      (1)   After taking evidence and testimony, the Planning Board or Board of
Adjustment shall find whether the proposed alteration, expansion, change,
rebuilding or resumption of the non-conformity will have a substantial adverse
impact upon adjacent properties, the neighborhood, or the public. The Planning
Board or Board of Adjustment may consider any relevant factor, but no petition
shall be granted unless it complies with the criteria of divisions (B)(2)(a)
through (B)(2)(g) below. If it finds that a petition will not have a
substantial adverse impact, the Planning Board or Board of Adjustment shall
grant a special use permit and may impose reasonable conditions and safeguards
on the issuance of such permit.
      (2)   Adequate provision and arrangement have been made or will be made
concerning the following, where applicable:
         (a)   Access roads or entrance or exit drives with respect to such
matters as automotive and pedestrian safety and convenience, traffic flow and
control and access in case of fire and other emergency;
         (b)   Off-street parking and loading areas where required and refuse
and other service areas with respect to their impact upon the considerations in
division (B)(2)(a) above and their economic, noise, glare, odor and other
impacts on adjoining properties and properties in the general neighborhood;
         (c)   Utilities, water, sewerage, schools, fire and police protection
and other necessary public and private services and facilities with respect to
their location, availability, and compatibility;
         (d)   Landscaping, screening, and fencing with respect to the
effectiveness of their type, dimensions, and character in minimizing the
economic, noise, glare, odor and other impacts on and harmonizing the
conditional use with adjoining properties and properties in the general
neighborhood;
         (e)   Signs, if any, with proposed exterior lighting with reference to
glare, traffic safety, economic effect compatibility and harmony with adjoining
properties and properties in the general neighborhood;
         (f)   The type, size, and intensity of the proposed special use,
including such consideration as the size of the site, the location of the use
upon it, the hours of operation, and numbers of people who are likely to
utilize or be attached to the use, with respect to the impact upon adjoining
properties or properties within the general neighborhood, and the purposes of
the use district; and
         (g)   Changes in surface drainage characteristics with respect to
erosion, siltation, pollution, flooding, or other detrimental effects both on
the site and other properties.
   (C)   Substantial adverse impact. If the Planning Board or Board of
Adjustment finds that a petition will have a substantial adverse impact, it
shall consider:
      (1)   The possible detriment or benefit to the owner of the non-
conformity from refusing to issue the permit; from issuing it but requiring,
either wholly or partially, that the non-conformity be brought into compliance;
or from issuing it as requested.
      (2)   The possible detriment or benefit to the owners of adjacent or
neighboring properties from refusing to issue the permit; from issuing it, but
requiring, either wholly or partially, that the non-conformity be brought into
compliance; or from issuing it as requested; and
      (3)   The possible detriment or benefit to the public:
         (a)   From refusing to issue the permit; from issuing it but
requiring; either wholly or partially, that the non-conformity be brought into
compliance; or from issuing it as requested; and
         (b)   From allowing and/or refusing to allow other non-conformities of
the same type or within the same neighborhood to continue as is, to be altered,
expanded, changed, rebuilt, or resumed, or to be brought into compliance.
   (D)   Standard of reasonableness. The Planning Board or Board of Adjustment
shall not approve a petition which fails to comply with the criteria in
divisions (B)(2)(a) through (B)(2)(g) above or any other relevant factor unless
it finds that the detriment to the owner from denying the permit will be so
great as to prohibit any reasonable opportunity to recoup his or her investment
in the non-conformity while the benefit to adjacent and neighboring owners and
the public from denying the permit will be minimal. The Planning Board or Board
of Adjustment may deny the petition or approve it in whole or in part. If the
Planning Board or Board of Adjustment grants a special use permit, it may
impose reasonable conditions and safeguards to mitigate any potential hazards
or problems or to bring the non-conformity into compliance to the extent
necessary to protect the rights and interests of adjacent and neighboring
owners and the public.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.010-03 ZONING VARIANCES.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment may authorize a variance from the zoning
regulations of this chapter, such as setbacks and lot dimensions, when, in its
opinion, undue hardship may result upon a showing of all of the following:
      (1)   Unnecessary hardship would result from the strict application of
the regulation. It is not necessary to demonstrate that, in the absence of the
variance, no reasonable use can be made of the property;
      (2)   The hardship results from conditions that are peculiar to the
property, such as location, size, or topography. Hardships resulting from
personal circumstances, as well as hardships resulting from conditions that are
common to the neighborhood or the general public, may not be the basis for
granting a variance. A variance may be granted when necessary and appropriate
to make a reasonable accommodation under the federal Fair Housing Act for a
person with a disability;
      (3)   The hardship did not result from actions taken by the applicant or
the property owner. The act of purchasing property with knowledge that
circumstances exist that may justify the granting of a variance is not a self-
created hardship; and
      (4)   The requested variance is consistent with the spirit, purpose, and
intent of the regulation, such that public safety is secured and substantial
justice is achieved.
      (5)   No change in permitted uses may be authorized by variance.
Appropriate conditions may be imposed on any variance, provided that the
conditions are reasonably related to the variance. Any other development
regulation that regulates land use or development may provide for variances
from the provisions of those ordinances consistent with the provisions of this
division.
   (B)   In considering and granting any request for a variance, the Board of
Adjustment shall make findings (A)(1) through (4) stated above as required by
G.S. § 160D-705(d), and shall likewise follow all quasi-judicial procedures
required in G.S. § 160D-406 concerning notice, materials, presentation of
evidence, the conduct of hearings, and voting.
   (C)   Additional variance requirements. Additional requirements and
stipulations for variances may be found in other subchapters of this chapter.
It will be the responsibility of the Zoning Administrator to ensure that all
variance requirements found in this chapter are strictly followed. Examples
include:
      (1)   Variances to subdivision standards, §§
154.013;
      (2)   Variances to floodplain regulations and watershed protection
regulations, §§
154.017; and
      (3)   Variances for property located within the VR District.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.010-04 APPEALS.
   All appeals shall be filed with the county by notice specifying the grounds
for appeal. Appeals shall be effective upon receipt.
   (A)   Schedule. Appeals shall be filed within 30 days from the date of the
action being appealed.
   (B)   Process of appeal.
      (1)   An administrative appeal is taken by filing a written notice of
appeal with the Development Services Director or the Board of Adjustment which
specifies the grounds for the appeal. A notice of appeal shall be considered
filed when delivered to the Zoning Administrator or Development Services
Director. The Zoning Administrator or Development Services Director shall
transmit to the Board of Adjustment all applications, reports, and written
materials relevant to the matter being considered. The administrative materials
may be distributed to the members of the Board prior to the hearing, if at the
same time they are distributed to the Board, a copy is also provided to the
applicant and to the landowner if that person is not the applicant. The
administrative materials shall become a part of the hearing record. The
administrative materials may be provided in written or electronic form.
Objections to inclusion or exclusion of administrative materials may be made
before or during the hearing. Rulings on unresolved objections shall be made by
the Board at the hearing. The Board shall follow quasi-judicial procedures
pursuant to G.S. § 160D-406 in determining appeals of administrative decisions.
The Board of Adjustment may, after a public hearing, so long as such action is
in conformity with the terms of this chapter, reverse or affirm, wholly or in
part, or may modify any order, requirement, decision, or determination as ought
to be made and, to that end, shall have the powers of the administrative
official from whom the appeal is taken.
      (2)   The official who made the decision or the person currently
occupying that position, if the decision maker is no longer employed by the
local government, shall be present at the evidentiary hearing as a witness.
      (3)   An appeal stays all actions by the Zoning Administrator or
Development Services Director enforcing the requirements of this chapter unless
the Zoning Administrator or Development Services Director certifies to the
Board reason of facts that a stay would in their opinion cause imminent peril
to life or property, or because the violation charged is transitory in nature
and a stay would interfere with enforcement of the chapter. In such case,
proceedings shall not be stayed except by a restraining order which may be
granted by the Board or by a court of record on application, on notice to the
Zoning Administrator or Development Services Director and on due cause shown.
   (C)   Further appeals from the Board of Adjustment, quasi-judicial decisions
of the Planning Board, or from any action of the Board of County Commissioners
shall be taken directly to the courts as provided by law.
   (D)   Fees. Each applicant for an appeal shall pay a fee, according to the
fee schedule available in the Development Services Department, to Surry County
to cover the costs of advertising and administration. A receipt for this fee
shall be issued by the county. However, this fee shall not apply to requests
originating with any Surry County department, board or agency.
   (E)   County appeals. In all cases, the Board of County Commissioners
reserves the right to appeal any decision of the Zoning Administrator to the
Board of Adjustment and any decision of the Board of Adjustment to the courts.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.011 DEVELOPMENT REVIEW PROCESS.
§ 154.011-01 DEVELOPMENT REVIEW RESPONSIBILITIES.
   This chart identifies the advisory or decision-making responsibilities of
the various bodies that have specific review and approval roles under this
chapter. Certain decisions require approvals by more than one decision-making
body. This subchapter describes procedures for subdivisions and site plans. §§
154.009 describes procedures for map and text amendments. §§
154.010 describes procedures for special use permits, variances and appeals.
The submittal requirements for all plan types is in §§
154.012.
REVIEW AND APPROVAL RESPONSIBILITIES
SR= STAFF REPORT        R=RECOMMENDATION D=DECISION             A=APPEAL
<PUBLIC HEARING>        <<QUASI-JUDICIAL PUBLIC   [PUBLIC MEETING]
                        HEARING>>
          Review and Decision-Making Bodies
Permit or               Development      Planning County        Board of
Procedure Administrator Services    TRC  Board    Commissioners Adjustment Courts
                        Director
REVIEW AND APPROVAL RESPONSIBILITIES
SR= STAFF REPORT                                                      R=RECOMMENDATION D=DECISION             A=APPEAL
<PUBLIC HEARING>                                                      <<QUASI-JUDICIAL PUBLIC   [PUBLIC MEETING]
                                                                      HEARING>>
                                                        Review and Decision-Making Bodies
                                                                      Development      Planning County        Board of
Permit or Procedure                                     Administrator Services    TRC  Board    Commissioners Adjustment Courts
                                                                      Director
Administrative determination or development approval    D                                                     <<A>>      A
Zoning permit                                           D                                                     <<A>>      A
Minor or exempt subdivision                             D                                                     <<A>>      A
Major subdivision                                       SR                        [R]  [D]                    <<A>>      A
Minor site plan                                         D                                                     <<A>>      A
Minor deviations to site plans and subdivisions per §  D                                                     <<A>>      A
154.011-05
Group development; non-residenti al over 2,500 sf with  SR                        [R]  [D]                    <<A>>      A
major site plan
General zoning and text amendments                      SR                             <R>      <D>                      A
Conditional zoning with development plan                SR                        [R]  <R>      <D>                      A
Special use permit with major site plan (all but VR     SR                        [R]                         <<D>>      A
Districts)
Special use permit with major site plan (VR District)   SR                        [R]  <<D>>                             A
Certificate of appropriateness (VR Districts)           SR                        [R]  <<D>>                             A
Zoning variance                                         SR                                                    <<D>>      A
 
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.011-02 FEES.
   The Board of Commissioners shall set a fee schedule for the administration
of this chapter. The Subdivision Administrator shall be responsible for
collecting such fees. All fees relating to recording of documents shall be
borne directly by the subdivider and be paid directly to the Register of Deeds.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.011-03 SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Plan and plat requirements.
      (1)   Plans, plats, supporting documents and material for the levels of
subdivision approval shall be submitted as provided for by G.S. §§ 160D-801
through 808, as amended, and this chapter.
      (2)   This subchapter shall require that a plat be prepared, approved,
and recorded pursuant to the provisions of this chapter whenever any
subdivision of land takes place within the jurisdiction of Surry County. This
chapter may include requirements that the final plat show sufficient data to
determine readily and reproduce accurately on the ground the location, bearing
and length of every street and alley line, lot line, easement boundary line and
other property boundaries, including the radius and other data for curved
property lines, to an appropriate accuracy and in conformity with good
surveying practice.
      (3)   Although not required, it is recommended that the subdivider hold a
pre-submittal conference with the Subdivision Administrator to determine the
subdivision approval track and supporting document requirements for the case.
   (B)   Subdivision general requirements. All plans, plats and supporting
documents to be submitted in connection with the procedures set forth in this
subchapter shall be submitted first to the Subdivision Administrator. A
preliminary plat shall be required before the final plat can be approved.
Preliminary plats may include construction drawing approvals prior to
submission of the final plat. The submittal schedule and approval authority for
subdivisions depends on the classification as minor, major, or exempt and can
be found in division (C) below. All subdivisions shall meet the standards
provided in §§
154.013. The decision to approve or deny a subdivision shall be based upon
whether the application complies with the regulations of the zoning district
and the standards provided in §§
154.013.
      (1)   Standards of submittal. The application shall include a completed
application form, two copies of the plat, and supporting documentation deemed
necessary by the Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   Watershed review. The applicant for a subdivision shall submit a
vicinity map to the Zoning Administrator to determine whether the property is
located within the designated public water supply watershed, as established in
§§
154.006. Subdivisions located within a Watershed Overlay shall meet the
requirements of §§
154.017 in addition to those of this subchapter.
      (3)   Erosion and sedimentation control. The application shall, where
required, be accompanied by a written statement that a sedimentation and
erosion control plan has been submitted to and approved by the North Carolina
Department of Environmental Quality (NCDEQ).
      (4)   Final plats. After all required improvements of a subdivision are
complete, the final plat/plan shall be submitted to the Subdivision
Administrator for final review and approval for recording. Final plats shall be
submitted within one year (12 months) of the preliminary plat approval unless
an extension is requested and approved by the Subdivision Administrator. The
plat shall be recorded within 14 days of approval. The subdivider shall provide
the Zoning Administrator with evidence the plat has been recorded with the
Register of Deeds within five working days. All subdivision plats shall comply
with the requirements for recording of the Surry County Register of Deeds.
   (C)   Subdivision review procedure. Subdivisions in Surry County shall
consist of three types of subdivisions: minor subdivisions, major subdivisions,
and exempt subdivisions. The approval schedule and authority for the levels and
types of subdivision approvals shall be as follows:
      (1)   Minor subdivision. A minor subdivision is a subdivision which
contains five or fewer lots, each lot fronting with access on a state-
maintained street or road.
         (a)   The Subdivision Administrator shall review and approve all minor
subdivisions. (If the Subdivision Administrator and/or the owner- developer-
surveyor cannot resolve all issues, any final plat shall be taken to the
Development Services Director for review and approval or disapproval.)
         (b)   The Subdivision Administrator may, at their discretion, allow
agency members of the Technical Review Committee (TRC) an opportunity to make
recommendations concerning an individual subdivision before the plat is
approved.
         (c)   Minor subdivisions may be submitted at any time. The Subdivision
Administrator shall approve, approve conditionally, or deny the approval of the
preliminary plans within 15 days of receipt and authorize submittal to the
Surry County Environmental Health Department for water and septic evaluations.
Approval, conditional approval, or denial shall be in written and/or drawn form
and dated.
      (2)   Major subdivision. A major subdivision is any subdivision that is
not a minor or exempt subdivision.
         (a)   All major subdivisions shall be reviewed by the Technical Review
Committee (TRC), as established in §
154.004-04.
         (b)   Major subdivisions require a preliminary and final plat meeting
the requirements of §§
154.012.
         (c)   The Planning Board shall review and approve the preliminary
plats for all major subdivisions.
         (d)   Preliminary plats for major subdivisions may be submitted at any
time provided; however, to be eligible to be placed on an agenda of a Planning
Board meeting, such submittal shall have been filed by noon with the
Subdivision Administrator at least 30 calendar days, or by noon of the previous
business day (if the date falls on a weekend or holiday) prior to that meeting.
The schedule shall allow time for consideration by the TRC.
         (e)   The Planning Board shall approve, approve conditionally, or deny
the approval of the preliminary plans within 15 days of receipt. The
recommendation shall be in written and/or drawn form and dated.
      (3)   Exempt subdivision. Divisions of land that meet one or more of the
following criteria are not subject to the subdivision regulations of this
chapter, but are required to comply with the zoning regulations of the
district.
         (a)   The combination or recombination of portions of previously
subdivided and recorded lots where the total number of lots is not increased
and the resultant lots are equal to or exceed the standards of this chapter.
         (b)   The division of land into parcels greater than ten acres where
no street right-of-way dedication is involved.
         (c)   The public acquisition by purchase of strips of land for the
widening or opening of the streets or for public transportation system
corridors.
         (d)   The division of a tract in single ownership whose entire area is
no greater than two acres into not more than three lots or tracts, where no
street right-of-way dedication is involved or proposed, and where the resultant
lots are equal to or exceed the standards of this chapter.
         (e)   The division of a tract into parcels in accordance with the
terms of a probated will or in accordance with intestate succession under G.S.
Ch. 29.
         (f)   Exempt subdivisions may be submitted at any time to the
Subdivision Administrator who shall determine their eligibility for recording.
      (4)   The Subdivision Administrator may require only a plat of
recordation for the division of a tract or parcel of land in single ownership
if all the following criteria are met:
         (a)   The tract or parcel to be divided is in not exempted in
divisions (C)(3)(a) through (e) above.
         (b)   No part of the tract or parcel to be divided has been divided
under this division in the ten years prior to this division.
         (c)   The entire area of the tract or parcel to be divided is greater
than five acres.
         (d)   After division, no more than three lots result from the
division.
         (e)   After division, all resultant lots comply with the following:
            1.   All lot dimension size requirements of the applicable land-use
regulation, if any.
            2.   The use of the lots is in conformity with the applicable
zoning requirements, if any.
            3.   A permanent means of ingress and egress is recorded for each
lot.
   (D)   Appeals. An aggrieved person may appeal any decision of the
Subdivision Administrator to the Development Services Director by filing
written notice with the Development Services Director within 30 days of the
Subdivision Administrator's action, or the Administrator's failure to act, if
the Administrator failed to act within the allotted time. If said person is
unsatisfied with the decision of the Development Services Director, the appeal
shall be taken to the Board of Adjustment by filing written notice according to
§
154.010-04 and shall have the same authority as the Subdivision Administrator
regarding the subject level of subdivision review and approval.
   (E)   Effects of approvals; prerequisites.
      (1)   Preliminary plat. This approval shall constitute tentative approval
of the subdivision plat/plan if the final subdivision plat/plan is in
substantive agreement with the preliminary plat/plan and shall entitle the
subdivider to proceed to prepare street, storm drainage, flood control, erosion
control and utility construction plans, if applicable, and/or to proceed to
prepare the final plat/plan. Approval of construction plans shall entitle the
subdivider to proceed with construction of subdivision improvements for the
preliminary plat/plan. Preliminary plats/plans for proposed subdivisions that
will utilize public water and/or sewer shall include detailed construction
plans from a certified engineer.
      (2)   Final plat. This approval shall entitle the subdivider to record
the final subdivision plat. A final subdivision plat must be recorded in the
office of the Register of Deeds within 14 working days of its approval. Three
recorded copies must be submitted to the Development Services Department by the
owner, developer, surveyor or representative, before any building permits are
issued. No final subdivision plat shall be regarded as finally approved until
such plat has been signed and dated by the Subdivision Administrator and the
plat meets the requirements for recording as defined in G.S. § 47-30, as
amended. The subdivider shall pay all recording costs.
      (3)   No final subdivision plat shall be approved for recording until all
required subdivision improvements have been installed, inspected, and approved
by the Subdivision Administrator and the Local Ordinance Officer unless a
performance guarantee has been furnished to the county in compliance with §§
154.013. In addition, no final subdivision plat shall be approved for recording
unless such plat is in substantial agreement, as determined by the Subdivision
Administrator, with the approved preliminary plan. Final subdivision plats not
in substantial agreement shall be resubmitted as preliminary plans as provided
for herein.
      (4)   After the final subdivision plat is recorded and recorded copies
returned to the Surry County Development Services Department, lots, as shown on
the plat, may be sold or otherwise conveyed by reference to the recorded plat.
      (5)   Approval and recording of the final subdivision plat shall
constitute dedication by the subdivider of the right-of-way of each public
street, and utility and drainage easement shown on such plat. Such dedication,
however, does not constitute acceptance by the public of such right-of-way, nor
does it constitute acceptance for maintenance, or for other purposes of the
improvements within such rights-of-way and easements such as pavements,
sidewalk, drainage facilities and other utility lines. In addition, land
designated on an approved and recorded final plat as public open space and
similar public purposes shall be offered for dedication until Surry County has
by resolution accepted such dedication, and such land is deeded to Surry
County. Until such dedication has been accepted, land so offered may be used
for open space purposes by its owner or their designees, and Surry County shall
be held harmless of any liability involving such land. Land so offered for
dedication shall not be used for any purpose inconsistent with the proposed
public use without the express approval of the Board of Commissioners of Surry
County.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.011-04 SITE PLAN PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Plan requirements. This subchapter shall require that a site plan be
prepared and approved pursuant to the provisions of this chapter whenever any
development of land takes place within the jurisdiction of Surry County. This
chapter may include requirements that the final site plan show sufficient data
to determine readily and reproduce accurately on the ground the relationship
between lot lines and the existing or proposed uses, buildings, or structures
on the lot. The site plan may include site-specific details such as building
areas, building height and floor area, setbacks from lot lines and street
rights-of-way, intensities, densities, utility lines and locations, parking,
access points, roads, and stormwater control facilities that are depicted to
show compliance with all legally required development regulations that are
applicable to the project and the site plan review.
   (B)   Submittal standards. The application shall include a completed
application form, two copies of the site plan meeting the requirements of §§
154.012, and supporting documentation described for each type of site plan
approval below. However, it is recognized that each development is unique, and
therefore the Zoning Administrator may exercise judgment in requiring less or
more information and submittals according to the needs of the case.
   (C)   Administrative fee. The Board of Commissioners shall set a fee
schedule for the administration of this chapter. The Zoning Administrator shall
be responsible for collecting such fees.
   (D)   Site plan review procedures. All plans and supporting documents to be
submitted in connection with the procedures set forth in this chapter shall be
submitted first to the Zoning Administrator in accordance with §§
154.012. The approval authority for site plans depends on the classification as
minor or major and can be found in division (E) below. All sites shall meet the
standards provided in the appropriate subchapters of this chapter. Although not
required, it is recommended that the applicant hold a pre-submittal conference
with the Zoning Administrator to determine the development approval track and
supporting document requirements for the case.
      (1)   Preapplication conference. It is highly recommended that an
applicant schedule a pre-application meeting with the Zoning Administrator with
a sketch plan of the proposed site and information about the intended
development. The sketch plan and/or information should show the tax map number
(s) and boundary of the property, the total acreage, general layout and use of
proposed buildings and roads, density and intensity of proposed uses,
connections with existing roads, and the location of utility connections. The
Zoning Administrator will advise the applicant of all applicable county
regulations and policies, suggest development alternatives, application
procedures, and fees. The preapplication meeting is an opportunity for the
applicant to receive an informal review of a development proposal prior to the
submittal of a complete application.
      (2)   TRC review. The Zoning Administrator shall present plans and
drawing to the Technical Review Committee. The plans and drawings will be
reviewed for compliance with this chapter and all related planning documents
and county policies.
      (3)   Watershed review. The applicant for a site plan shall submit a
vicinity map to the Zoning Administrator to determine whether the property is
located within the designated public water supply watershed, as established in
§§
154.006. Sites located within a Watershed Overlay shall meet the requirements
of §§
154.017 in addition to those of this subchapter.
      (4)   Certifications. The applicant shall submit to the Zoning
Administrator, where required, certifications from the following staff and
agencies prior to final approval.
         (a)   A North Carolina Department of Environmental Quality (NCDEQ)
approved sedimentation and erosion control plan.
         (b)   A driveway permit approved by the local NCDOT district engineer.
         (c)   Approvals from the NC Department of Health or municipal utility
provider that adequate water and sewer utilities to serve the site are
available or have been installed.
         (d)   Watershed permit from the Watershed Administrator if required.
         (e)   Floodplain permit from the Floodplain Administrator if required.
      (5)   Other plans and permits. All required plans and permits shall be
submitted and approved, or conditionally approved, by the Zoning Administrator
prior to final site plan approval. Examples include floodplain and watershed
permits, landscaping plans, lighting plans, signage plans, and other plans as
required for the type of development.
      (6)   Building permits for development according to an approved site plan
shall be submitted within one year of final site plan approval unless vesting
rights have been established in accordance with §
154.005-06.
   (E)   Site plan types distinguished. Site plans in Surry County shall be
classified as residential site plans, minor site plans or major site plans.
      (1)   Residential site plan. A residential site plan meeting the
requirements of §§
154.012 shall be required for any residential development that adds new
structures or changes the footprint of existing structures.
      (2)   Minor site plan. A minor site plan meeting the requirements of §§
154.012 shall be required for new single-building, non-residential development,
or additions of less than 2,500 square feet in gross floor area, and new multi-
family development.
         (a)   The Zoning Administrator shall review and approve all minor site
plans.
         (b)   Minor subdivisions may be submitted at any time. The Zoning
Administrator shall approve, approve conditionally, or deny the approval of
plans within 15 days of receipt and authorize submittal to appropriate review
staff and agencies for evaluation. Approval, conditional approval, or denial
shall be in written and/or drawn form and dated.
         (c)   The Zoning Administrator shall determine the detail and breadth
of plans and drawings required with an application, based on the size and
complexity of the site and its impact to neighboring properties. The Zoning
Administrator may also request review of individual minor site plans or minor
subdivisions by members of the TRC, if desired.
      (3)   Major site plan. A major site plan meeting the requirements of §§
154.012 shall be required for the approval of development that does not qualify
for minor site plan approval. A major site plan is also required for the
approval of group development.
         (a)   A pre-application conference with the Development Services
Department is highly recommended with a preliminary sketch to be reviewed for
feasibility
         (b)   All major site plans shall be reviewed by the TRC and approved
by the Planning Board.
         (c)   Major site plans may be submitted at any time provided; however,
to be eligible to be placed on an agenda of a Planning Board meeting, such
submittal shall have been filed by noon with the Zoning Administrator at least
30 calendar days, or by noon of the previous business day (if the date falls on
a weekend or holiday) prior to that meeting. The schedule shall allow time for
consideration by the Technical Review Committee. The Planning Board shall
approve, approve with conditions, or deny the site plan within 60 days of its
first consideration. The recommendation shall be in written and/or drawn form
and dated.
         (d)   Applications for the approval of major site plans must include a
set of drawings that include:
            1.   Site plan according to the requirements of §§
154.012.
            2.   Existing conditions.
            3.   Grading plan.
            4.   Soil and erosion control plan.
            5.   Landscaping and lighting plan.
            6.   Street details.
            7.   Infrastructure details.
   (F)   Appeals. An aggrieved person may appeal a decision of the Zoning
Administrator to the Board of Adjustment by filing written notice according to
§
154.010-04.
   (G)   No building permit shall be issued for development approved by a site
plan until all required improvements have been installed, inspected, and
approved by the appropriate agency as well as the Subdivision Administrator and
the Local Ordinance Officer, unless provisions are made with the Development
Services Department.
   (H)   The following certifications shall be received by the Zoning
Administrator unless provisions are made with the Development Services
Department prior to building permitting:
      (1)   Approvals from the Environmental Health Department and the Fire
Marshal.
      (2)   Approved NCDOT driveway permit.
      (3)   Evidence of coordination with the NCDOT about the proposed
development and any arrangements to handle added traffic volume at the proposed
site.
      (4)   Plans for waste and refuse disposal equipment and method of
disposal such as compactors, or dumpsters.
      (5)   Construction plans for infrastructure (public and private) approved
by the appropriate agency.
      (6)   Certification of completion of all improvements including utilities
drainage, curbing, stone base and street signs.
      (7)   Infrastructure record drawings "as constructed" approved by the
applicable service provider.
      (8)   Certification that private water or septic systems are installed in
conformance with the standards of the Public Health Department.
      (9)   The dedication of streets or roads offered for public use.
      (10)   Street traffic signs (e.g., stop signs, and the like) and street
name signs must be installed in accordance with the specifications of either
the Public Works Department or the North Carolina Department of Transportation,
or provisions made with Planning Staff for the installation.
      (11)   The site plan shall represent the full plan of development, or the
site plan may be developed in phases or sections. If developed in phases or
sections, each site plan shall denote phase or section numbers in numerical
order as the site is developed.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.011-05 MINOR DEVIATIONS FROM SUBDIVISION AND SITE PLANS.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator shall have the authority to approve certain
minor deviations to site plans associated with development approvals to include
special use permits, certificate of appropriateness, conditional zoning, and
other like development plans. Plans and permits for development under an
approved site plan may include minor deviations from the site plan or its
conditions, provided such deviations are limited to changes addressing
technical considerations that could not reasonably be anticipated during the
site plan approval process or any other change that has no material effect on
the character of the approved site plan or any of its approved conditions. The
following are examples of minor deviations:
      (1)   Minor shifts in parking, building size or location;
      (2)   Minor facility design modifications for amenities and the like; and
      (3)   Minor changes in ingress and egress but shall not include changes
that move ingress or egress closer to a neighboring property.
   (B)   Changes that materially affect the basic concept of the site plan or
basic parameters set by the site plan conditions are not considered minor
deviations, and shall only be changed as amendments to the site plan according
to the original approval.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.012 DEVELOPMENT PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
§ 154.012-01 DEVELOPMENT PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Zoning amendments and development approval processes require the
submittal of a development plan to facilitate the review of a proposal for
conformity with the provisions of this chapter and to promote orderly
development in the county.
   (B)   The requirements for each type of development plan are described in
this subchapter. These requirements are established to address the level of
intensity and complexity of various types of development approvals.
   (C)   Plans for development proposals may be/should be submitted digitally
for initial review.
   (D)   It is recognized that each development is unique, and therefore, the
Zoning Administrator may exercise judgment in requiring less or more
information, and submittals according to the needs of the case.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.012-02 SUBDIVISION.
   (A)   Subdivision, exempt plat. Exempt subdivisions must include sufficient
detail to enable the Zoning Administrator to ascertain whether the proposal
meets the definition for an exempt subdivision and meets the mapping
requirements of G.S. § 47-30.
   (B)   Subdivision, preliminary plat. Preliminary subdivision plats must
include the following in sufficient detail to enable the Zoning Administrator
to ascertain whether the proposed activity is in conformance with this chapter:
      (1)   Tax map number(s) of the property proposed for subdivision;
      (2)   Scale not smaller than (1 inch =100 feet) unless approved by
Development Services staff;
      (3)   North arrow;
      (4)   Location map with north arrow indicating the location of the site
and showing the intersection of at least two public streets nearest to the
property;
      (5)   Title block with:
         (a)   Development name;
         (b)   Name and address of owner and petitioner; and
         (c)   Name, address, and seal of the licensed professional land
surveyor or engineer who prepared the preliminary plat;
      (6)   Existing zoning;
      (7)   Total acreage;
      (8)   Number of lots;
      (9)   Acreage of each proposed lot in acres, or square feet if less than
an acre;
      (10)   Lot lines, dimensions, and lot numbers with lot lines to be
vacated clearly marked;
      (11)   Property boundaries of resulting lots with bearings and distances;
      (12)   Adjacent property ownership;
      (13)   Natural and cultural features including streams, lakes, ponds,
drainage ways, floodway fringe boundaries and elevations, watershed boundaries
and labels, rocky outcrops, wooded areas, marshes, floodplains, areas
delineated by the United States Army Corps of Engineers as wetlands, historic
sites and cemeteries, and any other site of interest;
      (14)   Existing structures with setbacks from proposed property lines;
      (15)   Proposed open space;
      (16)   Proposed access for all lots to include existing and proposed
rights-of-way with widths and centerlines indicating private or public, and
State Road (SR) number if public;
      (17)   Proposed subdivision name and street names;
      (18)   Method of water and sewer provision;
      (19)   All major public utility lines visible on the site including
water, sewer, power, telephone, gas, cable, or any other public utility; and
      (20)   Road construction plans and/or utility construction plans if
required by the Subdivision Administrator.
      (21)   Development Services staff may require any other information
concerning the lot or adjoining lots as may be essential for determining
whether the provisions of the subdivision regulations are being observed; and
information of sufficient detail to review a proposal for compliance with an
overlay zoning district, general or conditional zoning district.
   (C)   Subdivision, final plat. Final plats will not be signed by the
Subdivision Administrator until all of the following information or
certifications are received, if applicable:
      (1)   Construction plans for infrastructure (public and private) approved
by the appropriate agency;
      (2)   Completion of all improvements as required by §§
154.013, such as utilities drainage, curbing, stone base and street signs to be
in place and functioning;
      (3)   Certification of complete utilities;
      (4)   Surety for incomplete improvements as required by §§
154.013;
      (5)   Infrastructure record drawings "as constructed" approved by
                     ;
      (6)   Certification that private water or septic systems are installed in
conformance with the standards of the Public Health Department;
      (7)   The dedication of streets or roads offered for public use;
      (8)   All public or private easements with bearings and distances for
utilities, drainage, sight distance, and sign easements for subdivision
markers;
      (9)   Street traffic signs (e.g., stop signs and the like) and street
name signs must be installed in accordance with the specifications of either
the Public Works Department or the North Carolina Department of Transportation,
or provisions made with Development Services Staff for the installation;
      (10)   Approved street names and addresses;
      (11)   Zoning conditions if applicable;
      (12)   Required certifications;
      (13)   The final plat shall represent the full plan of development for
the subdivision, or the subdivision may be developed in phases or sections. If
developed in phases or sections, each plat shall denote phase or section
numbers in numerical order as the subdivision is developed; and
      (14)   All information included in division (B) above.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.012-03 SITE PLANS.
   (A)   Site plan, residential. A residential site plan processed according to
this subchapter is required for any residential development that adds new
structures or changes the footprint of existing structures.
   (B)   Residential site plans must include the following in sufficient detail
to enable the Zoning Administrator to ascertain whether the proposed activity
is in conformance with this chapter:
      (1)   An approximate scale and orientation indicated on the plan;
      (2)   The shape, location, and dimensions of the lot;
      (3)   The shape, size and location of all buildings or other structures
to be erected, altered, or moved and of any building or other structures
already on the lot;
      (4)   For new homes only: location and certification of availability of
public water and sewer utilities, or location and Public Health approval of
private water and sewer. The permit applicant is responsible for the location
of existing above ground and underground infrastructure and ensuring new
development does not violate water or sewer regulations;
      (5)   Zoning and total acreage of the site; and
      (6)   Such other information concerning the lot or adjoining lots as may
be essential for determining whether the provisions of this chapter are being
observed.
   (C)   Site plan, minor. A minor site plan processed in accordance with this
subchapter is required for new single-building, non-residential development, or
additions of less than 2,500 square feet in gross floor area, and new multi-
family development. Minor site plans must include the following in sufficient
detail to enable the Zoning Administrator to ascertain whether the proposed
activity is in conformance with this chapter:
      (1)   The plan must be drawn to scale. The Zoning Administrator may
require some plans to be certified by a professional surveyor and/or design
engineer as required for subsequent permits;
      (2)   The actual shape, location, and dimensions of the lot;
      (3)   The existing and intended use(s) of the property and adjacent
properties;
      (4)   The shape, size and location of all buildings or other structures
to be erected, altered, or moved and of any building or other structures
already on the lot;
      (5)   Location and certification of availability of public water and
sewer utilities, or location and Public Health approval of private water and
sewer;
      (6)   Zoning and total acreage of the site;
      (7)   Information required by the provisions of an overlay zoning
district, general or conditional zoning district or other development
guidelines dictated within this chapter;
      (8)   Source of property boundaries (plat or deed reference);
      (9)   Landscaping buffers identified, and planting plan, if appropriate;
      (10)   Locations of existing and proposed parking areas with numbers of
spaces required and proposed;
      (11)   Such other information concerning the lot or adjoining lots as may
be essential for determining whether the provisions of this chapter are being
observed; and
      (12)   Proposed ingress/egress for the site with approved driveway
permits from NCDOT.
   (D)   Site plan, major. A major site plan processed in accordance with this
subchapter is required for the approval of development that does not qualify
for minor site plan approval. A major site plan is also required for the
approval of group development. Major site plans shall be prepared by a
registered surveyor, architect, landscape architect, draftsman or engineer. In
addition to the submittal requirements of a minor site plan, major site plans
must include the following in sufficient detail to enable the Zoning
Administrator to ascertain whether the proposed activity is in conformance with
this chapter:
      (1)   Title block with:
         (a)   Development name;
         (b)   Name and address of owner and petitioner; and
         (c)   Name, address, and seal of architect, landscape architect, land
planner, engineer, or land surveyor;
      (2)   Adjacent property owner names, parcel numbers, and zoning;
      (3)   Zoning conditions if appropriate;
      (4)   Density per acre;
      (5)   Building setbacks in table format and building envelopes shown on
lots;
      (6)   Location, arrangement, and dimensions of loading and unloading
areas;
      (7)   The shape, dimensions, height, use, and location of all buildings,
outbuildings, loading areas, places of assembly, outdoor display areas, storage
areas (indoors and outdoors) and other facilities associated with the use,
existing and proposed;
      (8)   Location and dimensions of outdoor activity areas including outdoor
storage, location, and type of outdoor lighting;
      (9)   General drainage systems;
      (10)   Location and material of fences and walls;
      (11)   Location of proposed sanitary sewers, storm sewers, wells or water
distribution lines and utilities (items must be flagged on property for
inspection);
      (12)   Topography of the site (contour line intervals no greater than 20
feet), ground cover, slopes, banks, and ditches;
      (13)   Natural and cultural features including streams, lakes, ponds,
drainage ways, floodway fringe boundaries and elevations, watershed boundaries
and labels, rocky outcrops, wooded areas, marshes, floodplains, areas
delineated by the United States Army Corps of Engineers as wetlands, historic
sites and cemeteries, and any other site of interest;
      (14)   Streams, drainage ways, floodway and floodway fringe boundaries
and elevations, and watershed boundaries;
      (15)   The square feet and percentage of site as built upon area if the
site is located in a watershed;
      (16)   The location and type of all required buffers;
      (17)   Sedimentation and erosion control plan to be approved by NCDEQ;
      (18)   Delineation of areas to be constructed in phases and sequential
order;
      (19)   Boundaries of floodplains and watersheds or note stating that
property is not within one;
      (20)   All public or private easements with bearings and distances for
utilities, drainage, sight distance, sign easements for subdivision markers;
      (21)   Approved street names and addresses; and
      (22)   Zoning conditions if applicable.
   (E)   Site specific development plan for conditional zoning and special use
permit applications. A site-specific development plan (with 25 copies)
submitted with a petition for conditional zoning or a special use permit must
be received by the Zoning Administrator at least 21 days before the next
regularly scheduled Planning Board meeting and shall show at least the
following:
      (1)   Tax parcel identification number(s) and total acreage;
      (2)   Vicinity map and township;
      (3)   Owner's name, address and telephone number, adjoining properties
and owners, as well as the location of structures on adjoining properties; and
the name, address, contact information, and seal of the professional who
prepared the development plan;
      (4)   The shape and dimensions of the lot proposed for conditional zoning
along with north reference and graphic scale;
      (5)   The location of said lot with respect to adjacent rights-of-way;
      (6)   Proposed extent of development expressed by (this information must
be given for each area of a mixed-use development);
         (a)   Proposed use(s) of the building(s) or land, including the extent
and location of the use;
         (b)   Maximum and minimum lot dimensions and standards;
         (c)   Max building heights;
         (d)   Max building coverage for residential;
         (e)   Max building size and height for non-residential; and
         (f)   Max number of dwelling types and units, or gross floor area;
      (7)   The location of proposed roadways, building areas, common area,
utility connections, and open space designated as private or public;
      (8)   Natural and cultural features including streams, lakes, floodplain
boundaries, watershed boundaries and labels, areas delineated by the United
States Army Corps of Engineers as wetlands, historic sites and cemeteries, and
any other site of interest. The petitioner is encouraged to identify and
protect other resources such as rocky outcrops, wooded areas, marshes,
farmland, and other representations of the character of the area;
      (9)   The petitioner's proposed conditions stated on the plan and/or
included as an attachment with the physical locations of said conditions (if
applicable) drawn on the plan; and
      (10)   Any other information which the Development Services staff may
deem necessary for consideration in enforcing all provisions of this chapter.
The petitioner will need to submit conditions providing the reasons for any
proposed deviations from this chapter for conditional zoning requests.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.012-04 DETAILED DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   A detailed development plan prepared by a registered surveyor, architect,
landscape architect, draftsman or engineer is required when seeking a special
use permit for wireless communication towers and manufactured home parks.
Submittal requirements for detailed development plans are listed within the
standards for wireless communication towers (§
154.008(C)) and manufactured home parks (§§
154.019).
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.013 SUBDIVISIONS.
§ 154.013-01 GENERALLY.
   (A)   Interpretation, conflict and applicability. All proposed minor and
major subdivisions shall comply with this subchapter. The Planning Board shall
deny approval of any subdivision which the Board finds does not meet one or
more of the stated provisions of this chapter, and shall approve any
subdivision which the Board finds meets all the stated purposes and provisions
of this chapter. Provisions shall be held to be the minimum requirements for
the promotion of the public safety, health, convenience, prosperity and general
welfare. It is not intended by this subchapter to interfere with or abrogate or
annul any easements, covenants or other agreements between parties; provided,
however, that, where this subchapter imposes a greater restriction or imposes
higher standards than those required by other ordinances, rules, regulations or
by easements, covenants or agreements, the provisions of this subchapter shall
govern so that, in all cases, the most restrictive limitation or requirement,
or the requirement causing the highest standard of improvement, shall govern.
   (B)   Repeal and reenactment of existing ordinance. The rewriting of this
subchapter in part carries forth by reenactment some of the provisions of the
existing Subdivision Ordinance of Surry County and it is not intended to
repeal, but rather to reenact and continue in force such existing provisions so
that all rights and liabilities that have been accrued are preserved and may be
enforced. All provisions of the Subdivision Ordinance adopted on 11-1-1999, as
amended, which are not reenacted herein, are hereby repealed. All suits at law
or in equity and/or all prosecutions resulting from the violation of the
Subdivision Ordinance in effect, which are now pending in any of the courts of
this state or of the United States, shall not be abated or abandoned by reason
of the adoption of this subchapter, but shall be prosecuted to their finality
the same as if this subchapter had not been adopted; and any and all violations
of the existing ordinance, prosecutions for which have not been instituted, may
be filed and prosecuted; and nothing in this subchapter shall be so construed
as to abandon, abate or dismiss any litigation or prosecution now pending and/
or which may have been instituted or prosecuted.
   (C)   The general design of the subdivision shall take advantage of and be
adjusted to the contour of the land to produce usable building sites and
streets of reasonable gradients. Subdivision plans shall be drawn in
consideration of the suitability of the land and its capability to support and
maintain the proposed development. Due consideration shall be given to such
factors as water supply watershed requirements, outstanding resource waters,
topography, rock outcrops, flood damage prevention, erosion control, wetland
preservation, stormwater management, solar energy, tree preservation, noise and
pollution control, habitat for endangered species, areas of historical,
archaeological or architectural significance, (including cemeteries as
referenced in G.S. §§ 14-148, 14-149, 70-27, 70-29, 70-30 and other such
statutes that may relate as amended) and land use relationships in addition to
other factors including those prescribed by this chapter.
   (D)   The subdivider shall be required to reference the North Carolina State
Environmental Policy Act, found in the North Carolina Administrative Codes
through the Department of Administration for any development which deals with
an environmental analysis. This document can be referenced through the office
of the North Carolina Department of Environmental Quality (NCDEQ) when the
development pertains to land use, water quality, wastewater disposal and/or any
other environmental issues as dealt with through this state agency.
   (E)   (1)   G.S. § 136-102.6, "Compliance of Subdivision Streets with
Minimum Standards of the Board of Transportation Required of Developers",
requires that new public streets outside of city limits be in accordance with
the minimum right-of-way and construction standards established by the Board of
Transportation for acceptance on the state highway system.
      (2)   It is the intent of this subchapter to complement, and not to
conflict with the requirements of NCDOT as stated in G.S. § 136-102.6. In all
cases, the most restrictive limitation or requirement or the requirement
causing the highest standard of improvement shall govern.
   (F)   This chapter provides that a developer may provide funds to the county
whereby the county may acquire recreational land or areas to serve the
development or subdivision, including the purchase of land that may be used to
serve more than one subdivision or development within the immediate area.
   (G)   This chapter provides for the more orderly development of subdivisions
by requiring the construction of community service facilities in accordance
with county plans, policies, and standards.
   (H)   Effect upon new territory added to jurisdiction.
      (1)   At any time when new territory is added to the jurisdiction of this
chapter, such new territory shall immediately become subject to the provisions
of this subchapter.
      (2)   Any proposed subdivision or any subdivision in progress within such
new territory shall proceed only in accordance with the following:
         (a)   Any subdivision for which a final plat has been recorded in the
Register of Deeds office pursuant to the approval of another local government,
but which is subject to an outstanding guarantee to such local government for
the installation of subdivision improvements, shall remain under the
subdivision control of such local government until such time as such
subdivision shall have been prosecuted to completion.
         (b)   All other subdivisions shall meet all of the requirements of
this chapter and it shall be the responsibility of the subdivider of any
proposed subdivision or subdivision in progress to receive approval as provided
for in this chapter before proceeding with any development. The subdivider
shall arrange a conference with the Subdivision Administrator, who shall
determine the level and type of approval required and provide the subdivider
with an approval track for the particular case.
   (I)   Validity.
      (1)   If any section, division, sentence, clause or phrase of this
subchapter is for any reason held to be invalid, such decision shall not affect
the validity of the remaining portions of this subchapter.
      (2)   The Board of Commissioners hereby declares that it would have
passed this subchapter and each section, division, clause and phrase thereof
irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, divisions, sentences,
clauses or phrases be declared invalid.
   (J)   Appeals of the Subdivision Administrator. An aggrieved person may
appeal any decision of the Subdivision Administrator to the Development
Services Director by filing written notice with the Development Services
Director within 30 days of the Subdivision Administrator's action, or the
Administrator's failure to act, if the Administrator failed to act within the
allotted time. If said person is unsatisfied with the decision of the
Development Services Director, the appeal shall be taken to the Board of
Adjustment by filing written notice according to §
154.010-04 and shall have the same authority as the Subdivision Administrator
regarding the subject level of subdivision review and approval.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.013-02 SUBDIVISION NAMES, STREET NAMES AND ADDRESSING.
   (A)   In no case shall the name of a proposed subdivision duplicate or be
phonetically like an existing subdivision name within the jurisdiction unless
the proposed subdivision lies adjacent to or is near the existing subdivision.
   (B)   Proposed streets, which are obviously in alignment with others already
existing or proposed and named, shall bear the names of the existing or
proposed ones. In no case shall the names of proposed streets duplicate or be
phonetically like other existing street names in the jurisdiction irrespective
of the addition of a prefix, suffix, or word such as street, avenue, place,
drive, or court. Private streets or drives shall use the suffixes of lane, way,
or trail. All proposed street names shall be reviewed and approved by the Surry
County Tax Office.
   (C)   Road/street signs costs shall be the responsibility of the subdivider
who must contact the Surry County Public Works Department on road/street sign
issues. Installation of road signs shall be the responsibility of the Surry
County Public Works Department.
   (D)   Upon receiving a building permit the subdivision lot number and future
E-911 addressing number shall be posted and visible.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.013-03 STREETS.
   The proposed street system shall extend existing and projected streets at
not less than the required minimum width and shall be in conformance with the
following criteria.
   (A)   Conformance with thoroughfare and transportation plans. The location
and design of streets shall be in conformance with any applicable thoroughfare
or transportation plans. Where conditions warrant, right-of-way width and
pavement width more than the minimum street standards may be required. In any
case where any part of a subdivision lies within the corridor of a thoroughfare
shown on a NCDOT Roadway Corridor Official Map adopted pursuant to G.S. Ch.
136, Art. 2E, no subdivision approval shall be granted with respect to the
property in the roadway corridor; provided, however, no subdivision plat
approval shall be delayed by the provision of the Roadway Corridor Official Map
procedure for more than three years from the date of its original submittal.
   (B)   Street classification. The final determination of the classification
of streets in a proposed subdivision shall be made by the NCDOT. All streets
shall be planned, designed, and dedicated as public streets unless otherwise
specifically provided for in this subchapter.
   (C)   Conformance with adjoining street system. The planned street layout of
a proposed subdivision shall be compatible with existing or proposed streets
and their classifications on adjoining or nearby tracts.
   (D)   Reserve strips and half streets. Reserve strips adjoining street
rights-of-ways for the purpose of preventing access to or from adjacent
property (except those required to prevent access to major thoroughfares) and
half-streets shall not be permitted under any condition.
   (E)   Intersections. Streets shall be designed to intersect as nearly as
possible at right angles, and no street shall intersect any other street at an
angle of less than 75 degrees. Streets crossing natural areas or streams shall
cross at or near to right angles as possible within limits of topographic
conditions. Offset intersections must be avoided.
   (F)   Cul-de-sacs.
      (1)   Cul-de-sacs shall be provided with a turn-around meeting NCDOT
standards. Cul-de-sacs may be designed to utilize circular, T, L and Y shapes
by following the diagrams in the appendix or to meet NCDOT standards. A
temporary cul-de-sac maybe installed within 18 months as part of the plat
approval if the subdivider intends to phase the development.
      (2)   Cul-de-sacs should not be used to avoid connection with an existing
street, to avoid the extension of a thoroughfare or collector street, or to
avoid connection to adjoining property.
   (G)   Marginal access streets. Where a tract of land to be subdivided
adjoins a thoroughfare, the subdivider may be required to provide a marginal
access street parallel to the thoroughfare or provide for through lots on a
local street for the lots to be developed adjacent to the thoroughfare. Where
through lots are established, such lots may be prevented from having direct
access to the thoroughfare by driveways.
   (H)   Utilities, streetlights, and storm drainage. Street utilities,
streetlights, sidewalks, storm drainage and other such facilities are to be
placed within the street right-of-way and shall be placed in accordance with
NCDOT Standards for Construction in public rights-of-way. This section is also
applicable to private streets.
   (I)   Pavement, curb, and gutter pavement. Curbs and gutters to be placed in
public streets shall be placed in accordance with NCDOT Standards for
Construction in public rights-of-way. This section is also applicable to
private streets.
   (J)   Street design criteria. All street designs and construction, whether
public or private, shall conform to the following standards.
      (1)   All roads declared public or private shall conform to the minimum
standards set forth in the most recent edition of "Minimum Construction
Standards for Subdivision Roads", as published by the N.C. Department of
Transportation, Division of Highways.
      (2)   As an option, private driveways may be constructed meeting the
design and construction criteria as follows:
         (a)   Private driveway. A private drive serving up to four lots, with
a deeded 45-foot right-of-way, which will be maintained by the property owner,
and not intended for public ingress and egress. Each private driveway shall
have access to a state-maintained road. Only one private driveway is allowed
per subdivision.
         (b)   Existing easements less than 45 feet. Legal easements with a
right-of-way of less than 45 feet established before the effective date of this
chapter shall be allowed to serve up to three lots with approval by the
Subdivision Administrator. New easements with less than 45 feet of right-of-way
are prohibited.
         (c)   Easement minimum. A minimum of 20 feet shall be required for all
easements serving private, family cemeteries that do not front along a state-
maintained road.
   (K)   Water and sewer design criteria. All public systems shall be approved
for construction by the appropriate agency of the State of North Carolina. The
Subdivision Administrator shall coordinate review with the appropriate
personnel.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.013-04 LOTS; MINIMUM DIMENSIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   The size, shape, and orientation of lots shall be appropriate
for the location of the proposed subdivision, for the type of development
contemplated and in consideration of the method of providing water and sewer
facilities to the lots. In addition, all lots must meet the dimensional
requirements of the zoning district in which the subdivision is located.
      (2)   The configuration of lots in subdivisions designed for non-
residential purposes may be omitted on plans and plats. The final lot sizes may
be determined and platted on a lot-by-lot basis provided each meet the minimum
requirements.
      (3)   Every lot shall have sufficient area, dimensions, and shape to
permit a principal building to be constructed thereon in conformance with the
applicable provisions. Such buildable area shall comply with §§
154.017. Lots shall be designed to provide positive drainage away from building
sites. Lot boundaries shall be made to coincide with natural and pre-existing
man-made drainage-ways to the extent practicable to avoid the creation of lots
that can be built upon only by altering such drainage-ways. Lotting
arrangements shall be made with due consideration given to not disturbing
wetlands, rock outcrops and other such natural features. Sidelines of lots
should be at or near right angles or radial to street lines. All lots must have
public street access and frontage meeting the requirements set forth in §§
154.006. Parcels created through the subdivision process which are not intended
for building purposes shall be so designated and perpetually bound as "non-
buildable" unless subsequently released through the subdivision process. Lots
shall only be labeled as "non-buildable" if so designated by the Environmental
Health Department.
   (B)   (1)   All required minimum yard setbacks and dimensional requirements
shall comply with §§
154.006.
      (2)   All building lots within a designated watershed area shall comply
with the requirements of this code of ordinances.
      (3)   No lot or building area in an outstanding resource water watershed
(ORW) shall be less than the minimum required lot size or built-upon area for
the watershed.
      (4)   (a)   Lots shall have a minimum area as required by §§
154.006. or as required by Health Department regulations to ensure proper
septic system and water supply maintenance plans are feasible.
         (b)   Lots must meet the cumulative minimum lot requirements for
accessory buildings and dwellings located on the same lot requiring water and
sewage disposal as if they were located on a separate lot.
         (c)   Private and/or family cemeteries do not have minimum lot
requirements.
      (5)   Zero lot line developments are permitted as provided in §§
154.006.
      (6)   Flag lots are permitted subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   The minimum flagpole width shall be 25 feet and the maximum
depth of the flagpole shall be 300 feet;
         (b)   The lot area, lot width, setbacks and other dimensional
requirements of the lot shall be met by the flag portion of the lot;
         (c)   No more than two flag lots will be allowed per subdivision.
Additional lots may be approved if no acceptable alternative is available; and
         (d)   Where the two flag lots are contiguous, a private 45-foot
recorded easement and road shall be shared by each lot. The private street
shall be built according to the standards of this subchapter. A driveway permit
shall be obtained from the NCDOT and submitted as documentation.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.013-05 MODIFICATIONS.
   Based on a recommendation from the Technical Review Committee, the Planning
Board may modify the requirements of this subchapter as applicable to a
proposed subdivision where, because of the size or shape of the tract to be
subdivided, its topography, the condition or nature of adjoining areas, or the
existence of other unusual physical conditions, strict compliance with the
provisions of this subchapter would cause an unusual and unnecessary hardship
on the subdivider, or where in the opinion of the Planning Board, a
modification will result in equal or better performance. In granting
modifications, the Board may require such conditions as will secure, insofar as
practicable, the objectives or requirements modified. In no case, however,
shall the Board, acting pursuant to this section, modify the terms or
requirements of §§
154.006 or any other ordinance. Violation of any condition shall constitute a
violation of this chapter. A modification granted as part of a plan approval is
to be reviewed annually to ensure that the conditions are being met. Each
condition goes with the land.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.013-06 EASEMENTS.
   To provide for electric, telephone, gas service, community antenna
television distribution systems, water and sewer lines and other such
facilities within the subdivision, appropriate utility easements not to exceed
30 feet shall be provided on the final plat. In addition, storm drainage
easements may be required to carry out the storm drainage improvements as
required in this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.013-07 PHASING.
   Subdivisions may be constructed, planned, and platted in phases; provided,
however, that, the Planning Board shall not approve a phasing plan when such
phasing will not provide for adequate public facilities to support any such
phase or phases independent of the overall subdivision plan. In approving
phases, the Planning Board shall require that additional streets, water and
sewer facilities or other required public facilities be platted and sized as
part of the phase or phases to ensure that sufficient public facilities will be
in place to support such phase or phases independent of any future subdivision
development.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.013-08 SUBDIVISION ENTRANCE MARKERS AND LANDSCAPED MEDIANS.
   Subdivision entrance markers and landscaped medians shall be subject to the
approval of NCDOT. Subdivision entrance markers are subject to the requirements
of §§
154.015.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.013-09 CONNECTION TO STATE STREETS.
   An approved NCDOT driveway permit is required to connect a public or private
street to any state-maintained street.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.013-10 REQUIRED DEDICATION OF LANDS.
   Dedication of lands shall be required in the following situations:
   (A)   In coordination with the Surry County Greenway Master Plan,
developments along all streams and rivers located within a designated greenway
corridor shall be required to dedicate a 50-foot area along both sides of
streams and a 100-foot area along both sides of rivers as common areas for the
development of greenway corridors and be available for use by the public.
   (B)   The county may require the reservation of school sites in accordance
with land use plans approved by the Board of Commissioners. For the
authorization to reserve school sites to be effective, the Board of
Commissioners, before approving a land use plan, shall determine jointly with
the Board of Education with jurisdiction over the area the specific location
and size of each school site to be reserved, and this information shall appear
in the plan. Whenever a subdivision that includes part or all of a school site
to be reserved under the plan is submitted for approval, the Planning Board
shall immediately notify the Board of Education. The Board of Education shall
promptly decide whether it still wishes the site to be reserved and shall
notify the Board of Commissioners or Planning Board of its decision. If the
Board of Education does not wish the site to be reserved, no site may be
reserved. If the Board of Education does wish a site to be reserved, the
subdivision may not be approved without the reservation. The Board of Education
must acquire the site within 18 months after the date the site is reserved,
either by purchase or by exercise of the power of eminent domain. If the Board
of Education has not purchased the site or begun proceedings to condemn the
site within the 18 months, the subdivider may treat the land as freed from
reservation.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.013-11 REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   General. The subdivider shall install the following improvements and
such improvements shall be at no cost to Surry County. No improvements shall be
installed until construction plans have been approved by such agency as may be
appropriate or as required by law. The subdivider shall furnish to the
Subdivision Administrator a written statement certifying that all required
improvements have been installed and have been inspected and approved by the
appropriate agency prior to final plat approval. The Subdivision Administrator
shall not approve any final plat for recording without receiving the written
certificate from the subdivider. Written statements from the appropriate
regulatory agency, or a certification from the subdivider's engineer or
professional land surveyor, as appropriate, may serve as the written
certification of required improvements.
   (B)   Street improvements.
      (1)   All subdivision streets to be developed under this chapter shall
meet NCDOT standards for subdivision streets so that they may be accepted into
the state's street system when all conditions of acceptance have been met.
Until such time that the state accepts a subdivision street, the maintenance of
the street shall be the responsibility of the property owners or the developers
and shall not be the responsibility of Surry County. Streets shall be
maintained as provided herein or be subject to penalties set forth in this
chapter.
      (2)   All proposed streets shall be cleared and developed to the full
width of the right-of-way and improved with a pavement width and side ditch
section as required for the classification of street in accordance with NCDOT
standards. All grading and pavement (curb and gutter, if provided) shall be
designed and installed in accordance with NCDOT standards, and the approved
construction plan referenced in the North Carolina Department of Transportation
Division of Highways Subdivision Roads: Minimum Construction Standards, as
amended.
      (3)   In addition, street paving, in accordance with the above
conditions, shall be installed in the following situations:
         (a)   Any existing street segment that has not been accepted for
maintenance by NCDOT, and that is to serve as the required frontage for one or
more lots created pursuant to this chapter shall be improved and dedicated to
the public, as provided for above, in such a way that the street segment meets
the standards of this chapter for the classification of street, including
right-of-way width. Such street segment shall be directly connected to the
existing public street system by way of at least one public street maintained
by the NCDOT. No subdivision shall be permitted on any street that is isolated
by not being connected directly to the public street system.
         (b)   NCDOT or the county may require pavement and widening for
turning lanes along any existing or proposed street that forms a significant
entrance to a proposed subdivision, where in the opinion of the Board such
improvements are necessary for safe vehicular movement into and out of the
proposed subdivision.
         (c)   In cases where a street is stubbed into adjoining property for
future extension and such street serves as the frontage for one or more lots
which are not corner lots, the Planning Board may require the pavement of a
temporary turn-around in a form similar to a cul-de-sac or L, Y and T
intersection turn-around on such street where in their opinion such turn-around
is necessary for the public convenience, safety and service. Temporary
easements for such purposes may be required.
      (4)   The subdivision developer and the NCDOT shall submit a joint
notarized statement to the Planning Board through the Subdivision Administrator
stating the road meets required construction compliance as stated in this
subchapter, in compliance with Subdivision Roads: Minimum Construction
Standards, as amended.
   (C)   Storm drainage improvements.
      (1)   A comprehensive storm drainage system shall be planned and
implemented for each subdivision. The general storm drainage plan shall be
shown on the preliminary plan. Detailed plans where required shall be submitted
as part of the construction plan requirement. Where easements are required,
they shall be noted on the final plat. The Subdivision Administrator shall be
responsible for reviewing the storm drainage plans and referring them to other
county staff members and agencies as required.
      (2)   Storm drainage plans shall be considered on an individual basis
depending upon the situation within a given subdivision. The requirements of §§
154.017 shall apply to storm drainage design where applicable. Generally, the
following standards shall apply:
         (a)   Types of drainage ways requiring treatment;
         (b)   Those draining one acre of land or more;
         (c)   Those carrying stormwater runoff from public streets whether
existing or proposed; and
         (d)   Those carrying stormwater runoff from large impervious surfaces
other than streets.
      (3)   Design storms.
         (a)   Open drainage channel: 25-year storm.
         (b)   Enclosed systems: ten-year storm for collectors and 25-year
storm for street crossing conduits and immediate downstream areas; and
         (c)   One-hundred-year storm where required by §§
154.017.
      (4)   Types of treatment:
         (a)   Enclosed subsurface drains;
         (b)   Open, unimproved channel; and
         (c)   Open, improved channel.
      (5)   Easements. Maintenance easements may be required depending upon the
size of the drainage way and the maintenance responsibility.
   (D)   Drinking water improvements. In any case where a public drinking water
system and/or supply system is proposed to be installed in a subdivision as
part of the plan approval process, such system shall be a "required
improvement" within the context of this subchapter, and such system shall be
required to be installed by the subdivider. This requirement includes both
facilities within the subdivision and off-site facilities, which are essential
to providing the service to the property.
   (E)   Sanitary sewerage improvements. In any case where a public sanitary
sewerage system and/or treatment system is proposed to be installed in a
subdivision as part of the plan approval process, such system shall be a
"required improvement" within the context of this subchapter, and such system
shall be installed by the subdivider. This requirement includes both facilities
within the subdivision and off-site facilities, which are essential to
providing the service to the property.
   (F)   Septic tanks. In any case where septic tanks are proposed to be
installed in a subdivision as part of the plan approval process, such system
shall be a "required improvement" within the context of this subchapter.
Permits must be submitted as a portion of the construction improvement plan
before final plat approval can occur.
   (G)   Utilities. Electric power, telephone, cable television, natural gas
lines and other utilities which are proposed to be installed in the
subdivision, and which are required to be shown on construction plans are not
"required improvements" within the context of this subchapter. Since the
installation of such improvements are by agreement between the subdivider and
the appropriate utility company, the execution of such agreements between the
subdivider and the utility companies are deemed to satisfy the construction and
installation requirements of this subchapter if they are installed in the
public right-of-way or easement in accordance with NCDOT standards for such
installations.
   (H)   Street signs. The subdivider shall purchase street name signs from the
Surry County Public Works Department. The county will install the signs at
appropriate locations in accordance with the standards and specifications of
Surry County and the NCDOT. The subdivider may, however, with the approval of
the Subdivision Administrator of design and material, install a different
street name sign type at no cost to the county. In such case, the subdivider or
his or her successors or assignees shall be responsible for replacing such
signs in instances of loss, damage, or deterioration; otherwise, the county
will replace such signs with its standard sign.
   (I)   Traffic control signs and signals. The subdivider shall install
traffic-control signs and pavement markings in accordance with the standards
and specifications of the North Carolina Department of Transportation.
   (J)   Monuments. The subdivider shall install such monuments and other
property markers as are required by G.S. Ch. 39, Art. 5A, and as are specified
by the "Standards of Practice for Land Surveying" in North Carolina.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.013-12 PERFORMANCE GUARANTEES.
   (A)   Purpose. As provided for under G.S. § 160D-804(g), a performance
guarantee in accordance with the standards of this section shall be furnished
to the county prior to engineering plan approval in the following
circumstances:
      (1)   To ensure completion of public infrastructure improvements (e.g.
streets, alleys, bike lanes, curb and gutter, sidewalks, bike paths,
crosswalks, traffic signs and controls, street lights, fire lanes, bus
shelters, and greenway paths) that are required as part of engineering plan
approval; and
      (2)   To ensure completion of required plantings of replacement trees,
buffer screening, and landscaping.
   (B)   Term of performance guarantee. The term of a performance guarantee
shall reflect any time limit for completing installation of required
improvements that is included in the engineering plan approval in a condition
deemed acceptable by the Zoning Administrator. In any case the term shall not
exceed three years. The Zoning Administrator may, for good cause shown and with
approval of the provider of the guarantee, grant extensions of the term for up
to a total extended period of two years.
   (C)   Form of performance guarantee.
      (1)   Where required, the owner or developer shall furnish a performance
guarantee in any of the following forms with terms and conditions acceptable by
the County Attorney:
         (a)   Surety bond issued by any company authorized to do business in
this state;
         (b)   Letter of credit issued by any financial institution licensed to
do business in this state; or
         (c)   Other form of guarantee that provides equivalent security to a
surety bond or letter of credit.
      (2)   The performance guarantee shall be conditioned on the performance
of all work necessary to complete the installation of the required improvements
within the term of the performance guarantees shall provide that in case of the
owner's or developer's failure to complete the guaranteed improvements, the
town shall be able to immediately obtain the funds necessary to complete
installation of the improvements.
   (D)   Amount of performance guarantee.
      (1)   Performance guarantees for required improvements shall be in an
amount equal to 125% of the estimated full cost of completing the installation
of the required improvements within the term of the guarantee, including the
costs of engineering, labor, materials, and project management.
      (2)   Estimated costs for completing installation of required public
infrastructure improvements shall be itemized by improvement type and certified
by the owner's or developer's licensed professional engineer, and subject to
approval by the Zoning Administrator.
      (3)   Estimated costs for completing installation of replacement trees,
buffer screening, and landscaping shall be itemized and certified by the
owner's or developer's register landscape architect or licensed professional
engineer and are subject to approval by the Zoning Administrator.
      (4)   If the guarantee is renewed, the Zoning Administrator may require
the amount of the guarantee be updated to reflect cost increases overtime.
      (5)   The amount of the performance guarantee may be waived or reduced by
the Town Council where the improvements are being installed with federal funds
or in other circumstances where similar third-party assurances of their
completion.
   (E)   Release or reduction of performance guarantees.
      (1)   Requirements for release or reduction. The Zoning Administrator
shall release or reduce a performance guarantee only after:
         (a)   The owner or developer has submitted to the Zoning Administrator
an application for a release or reduction of the performance guarantee that
includes certification by the owner's or developer's engineer or landscape
architect, as appropriate, that installation of the guaranteed improvements has
been completed in accordance with approved plans and specifications;
         (b)   The Zoning Administrator has performed a final inspection of the
improvements for which a release or reduction is requested and certified in
writing that installation of the guaranteed improvements has been completed in
accordance with approved plans and specifications;
         (c)   The owner or developer has reimbursed the county for all costs
associated with conducting an inspection that finds the guaranteed improvements
for which a release or reduction is requested have not been installed in
accordance with approved plans and specifications;
         (d)   The owner or developer has provided the Zoning Administrator
assurances that liens against guaranteed public infrastructure improvements
will not be filed after their acceptance by the county (e.g., through
affidavits, releases, as waivers of liens from all contractors and
subcontractors); and
         (e)   The owner or developer has provided the Zoning Administrator any
required maintenance guarantee for the same improvements.
      (2)   Limits on reductions.
         (a)   No performance guarantee for public infrastructure improvements
shall be reduced to less than 30% of the full amount of the performance
guarantee until all guaranteed public infrastructure improvements have been
completed by the owner or developer.
         (b)   No performance guarantee for required site improvements such as
replacement trees, buffer screening, and landscaping shall be reduced to less
than 75% of the full amount of the performance guarantee until all guaranteed
site improvements have been completed by the owner or developer.
   (F)   Default and forfeiture of performance guarantee.
      (1)   Notice of failure to install or complete improvements. If the owner
or developer fails to complete installation of the guaranteed improvements
within the term of the performance guarantee (as may be extended), the Zoning
Administrator shall give the owner or developer 30 day written notice of
default by certified mail.
      (2)   County completion of improvements. After the 30-day notice period
expires, the county may:
         (a)   Issue a stop work order; and/or
         (b)   Draw on the security and use the funds to perform work necessary
to complete the installation of the guaranteed improvements. After completing
such work, the county shall provide a complete accounting of the expenditures
to the owner or developer and, as applicable, refund all unused security
deposited without interest.
   (G)   Penalty.
      (1)   As provided for under G.S. § 160D-803(d), from the effective date
of this chapter that is adopted by the county, no subdivision plat of land
within the county's jurisdiction shall be filed or recorded until it has been
submitted to and approved by the appropriate board, administrator, or agency,
as specified in this chapter, and until this approval is entered in writing on
the face of the plat by an authorized representative of the county.
      (2)   The Review Officer, pursuant to G.S. § 160D-803(d), shall not
certify a plat of a subdivision of land located within the territorial
jurisdiction of the County of Surry that has not been approved in accordance
with these provisions, and the Clerk of Superior Court may not order or direct
the recording of a plat if the recording would conflict with this section.
      (3)   If a person who is the owner or agent of the owner of any land
within the territorial jurisdiction of Surry County subdivides their land in
violation of this subchapter or transfers or sells land by reference to,
exhibition of or any other use of a plat showing a subdivision of the land
before the plat has been properly approved under this subchapter and recorded
in the office of the Register of Deeds, this person shall be guilty of a
violation these requirements and subject to civil penalties. The description by
metes and bounds in the instrument of transfer or other document used in the
process of selling or transferring land shall not exempt the transaction from
this penalty.
      (4)   The county may bring an action for injunction of any illegal
subdivision, transfer, conveyance or sale of land, and the court shall, upon
appropriate findings, issue an injunction and order requiring the offending
party to comply with this subchapter. Building permits required pursuant to
G.S. § 160D-1110 shall be denied for lots that have been illegally subdivided.
In addition to other remedies, the county may institute any appropriate action
or proceedings to prevent the unlawful subdivision of land, to restrain,
correct or abate the violation, or to prevent any illegal act or conduct.
      (5)   Additionally, violation of this subchapter subjects offenders to a
civil penalty that may be enforced through the issuance of citations by the
Surry County Local Ordinance Officer. The county may recover this penalty in a
civil action in the nature of a debt if the offender does not pay the penalty
within 72 hours after being cited for a violation.
      (6)   The following civil penalties are established for violations under
this section:
         (a)   Warning citation: correct violation within ten days;
         (b)   First citation: $25;
         (c)   Second citation for same offense: $50; and
         (d)   Third and sequential citations for same offense: $50.
      (7)   All monetary civil penalties must be paid to the Surry County
Development Services Department through the Subdivision Administrator and
forwarded to the Surry County Finance Department.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.014 PARKING AND LOADING DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
§ 154.014-01 OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIRED.
   At the time of the erection of any building, or at the time any principal
building is enlarged or increased in capacity by adding dwelling units,
guestrooms, seats or floor area, or before conversion from one type of use or
occupancy to another, permanent off-street parking space shall be provided in
the amount specified by this subchapter. Such parking space may be provided in
a parking garage or properly guarded open space.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.014-02 CERTIFICATION OF MINIMUM PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   Each application for a zoning permit (except for dwellings) shall include
information as to the location and dimensions of off-street parking and the
means of ingress and egress to such space. This information shall be in
sufficient detail to enable the Zoning Administrator to determine whether the
requirements of this subchapter are met.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.014-03 COMBINATION OF REQUIRED PARKING SPACE.
   The required parking space for any number of separate uses may be combined
in one lot, but the required space assigned to the one use may not be assigned
to another use, with one exception. One-half of the parking space required for
churches whose peak attendance will be at night or on Sundays may be assigned
to a use which will be closed at night and on Sundays.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.014-04 REMOTE PARKING SPACE.
   If the off-street parking space required by this subchapter cannot be
reasonably provided on the same lot on which the principal use is located, such
space may be provided on any land within reasonable distance of the main
entrance to such principal use; provided, such land is in the same ownership as
the principal use and in the same zoning district. Said land shall be used for
no other purposes so long as no other adequate provisions of parking space
meeting the requirements of this subchapter have been made for the principal
use. In such cases, the applicant for a permit for the principal use shall
submit with his or her application for a zoning permit or a certificate of
occupancy an instrument duly executed and acknowledged, which subjects said
land to parking use in connection with the principal use for which it is made
available. Such instrument shall become a permanent record and be attached to
the zoning permit or certificate of occupancy application. In the event such
land is ever used for other than off-street parking space for the principal use
to which it is encumbered and no other off-street parking space meeting the
terms of this subchapter is provided for the principal use, the certificate of
occupancy or zoning permit for such principal use shall become void.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.014-05 REQUIREMENTS FOR PARKING LOTS.
   Where parking lots for more than five cars are permitted or required, the
following provisions shall be complied with in addition to the requirements of
this subchapter.
   (A)   The lot may be used only for parking and not for any type of loading,
sales, dead storage, repair work, dismantling or servicing, but shall not
preclude convention exhibits or parking of rental vehicles.
   (B)   All entrances, exits, barricades at sidewalks and drainage plans shall
be approved and constructed before occupancy.
   (C)   Any parking lot of more than five cars which is adjacent, along the
side or rear property lines, to property used or zoned for residential uses
shall be provided with screening as described in §§
154.015.
   (D)   Only one entrance and one exit sign, no larger than two square feet
prescribing parking regulations, may be erected at each entrance or exit.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.014-06 VEHICLE STORAGE.
   (A)   Rural agricultural, residential, conservation and mixed-use districts.
      (1)   Only motor vehicles intended for personal use shall be parked or
stored on any property zoned for residential use. Licensed personal motor
vehicles in good running condition and project motor vehicles inside permanent
conforming structures, shall not be subject to the provisions of this section.
Project motor vehicles stored outdoors or stored in any way other than inside
permanent conforming structures, shall be treated as equal to junked motor
vehicles as provided below.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall enforce the following to maintain a
pleasant neighborhood appearance, to discourage potential health and safety
hazards, and to mitigate negative impact on property values and quality of life
resulting from excessive or inappropriate motor vehicle storage in these
districts.
         (a)   No storage of commercial inventory whatsoever shall be
permitted. However, commercial trucks or vans driven home from the workplace by
employees shall be allowed to be parked or stored in these districts.
         (b)   No more than one junked motor vehicle per acre, up to a maximum
of five junked motor vehicles on larger properties, may be stored on any lot in
these districts.
         (c)   No junked vehicle may be parked or stored in these districts at
a distance closer to any road than the distance from any dwelling to that road.
         (d)   Junked motor vehicles may be parked or stored in these districts
as limited in divisions (A)(2)(b) and (A)(2)(c) above; provided that, no part
of a junked motor vehicle shall be visible from a publicly maintained road or
right-of-way. In such cases, the vehicles shall be screened year-round from
public view in a manner consistent with the purpose and visual character of
these districts. The following methods of screening may be utilized: existing
structures and appurtenances built or installed for customary residential use;
topographic and other natural features; dense wooded areas; and/or other
naturally occurring dense vegetation, excluding weeds and high grass. The
Zoning Administrator or his or her designee may approve other similar means of
screening the vehicles if it is determined that the intent of this section
would not be violated.
         (e)   On any residential lot in these districts, one unlicensed motor
vehicle in good running condition, per occupied dwelling, may be stored on a
graveled or paved driveway that is provided for customary residential use in
the estimation of the Zoning Administrator or his or her designee. Otherwise,
unlicensed motor vehicles may be stored in these districts only where they
cannot be seen from any publicly maintained road or right-of-way.
   (B)   Public, office and professional, business, and industrial districts.
Customer and employee parking is permitted along with the parking and storing
of governmental or commercial vehicles in any public and conservation, office
and professional, business, or industrial district. Inoperative vehicles shall
only be permitted to be parked or stored:
      (1)   At a commercial garage or automobile service station while the
vehicles are actively undergoing repairs for a customer, for a reasonable time
necessary to effect the repairs; or
      (2)   If stored as permitted in a grandfathered junkyard or auto salvage
yard, or an approved junk or wrecking yard in an industrial district.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.014-07 MINIMUM PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   The number of off-street spaces required by this subchapter shall be
provided on the same lot with the principal use except as provided in this
subchapter and the required number of off-street parking spaces specified for
each use shall be considered as the absolute minimum. In addition, a developer
may determine that the parking needs are greater than the minimum specified by
this subchapter. For purposes of this subchapter, an off-street parking space
shall be no less than 160 square feet in area, plus adequate ingress and egress
provided for each off-street parking space.
Land Use Required Parking
Land Use                                Required Parking
                                        2 parking spaces for each 3 employees,
Air, motor, and rail freight terminals  plus 1 space for each vehicle in the
                                        operation.
                                        1 parking space for each 4 seats for
Airports, railroad passenger stations   waiting passengers, plus 2 spaces for
and bus terminals                       each 3 employees, plus 1 space for each
                                        vehicle used in the operation.
Auditoriums                             1 parking space for each 4 seals in the
                                        largest assembly room.
                                        1 parking space for each 200 square
Banks                                   feet of gross floor space, plus 1 space
                                        for each 2 employees.
                                        1 parking space for each service chair,
Beauty and barber shops                 plus 1 additional parking space for
                                        each employee.
Bed and breakfast operations            1 parking space for each room to be
                                        rented, plus residential requirements.
                                        2 parking spaces for each alley, plus 1
Bowling alleys                          space for each 200 square feet of gross
                                        floor space for affiliated uses such as
                                        restaurants and bars.
Camp or care center                     1 parking space for each employee and
                                        one parking space for each 5 beds.
Cemeteries                              1 parking space for each employee.
Churches                                1 parking space for each 4 seats.
Civic clubs, fraternal lodges, or       1 parking space for each 200 square
community centers                       feet of gross floor space.
Clinics                                 5 parking spaces for each doctor, plus
                                        1 parking space for each employee.
Day care facilities and preschools      1 parking space for each employee, plus
                                        1 parking space for every 5 students.
Dwellings, duplex                       2 parking spaces per dwelling unit.
Dwellings, multi-family                 2 parking spaces per dwelling unit.
Dwellings, single-family                2 parking spaces per dwelling unit.
Fire stations                           1-1/2 parking spaces per employee or
                                        fireman on duty at one time.
Funeral homes                           1 parking space for each 4 seats in the
                                        chapel or parlor.
Golf courses                            4 parking spaces for each hole and 1
                                        space for each employee.
Greenhouse and nursery operations       1 parking space for each employee.
(without retail sales on premises)
Home occupations                        1 parking space per home occupation in
                                        addition to residence requirements.
                                        1 parking space for each employee on
Hospitals and sanitariums               the longest shift, plus 1 parking space
                                        for each 2 beds.
                                        1 parking space for each 2 rooms to be
                                        rented, plus 1 additional parking space
Hotels                                  for each 2 employees, plus additional
                                        parking spaces as may be required for
                                        any commercial or business uses located
                                        in the same building.
Industrial and manufacturing uses       1 parking space per 2 employees.
Libraries                               1 parking space for each 4 seats
                                        provided for patron use.
Motels, tourist homes and guest houses  1 parking space for each room to be
                                        rented, plus 1 space for each employee.
Nursing, retirement, and convalescent   1 parking space for each 5 beds
homes                                   intended for patient use.
Offices                                 1 parking space for each employee.
                                        1 parking space for each 2 seats at
Private clubs and lounges               bars and 1 parking space for each 4
                                        seats at tables.
Public buildings                        1 parking space for each employee, plus
                                        1 space for every 200 square feet.
Public utility buildings                1 parking space for each employee.
Recreational facilities, not otherwise  1 parking space for each employee, plus
listed (without facilities for          1 parking space for every 2
spectators)                             participants at full capacity.
Recreational facilities, not otherwise  Same as recreational facilities without
listed (with facilities for spectators) spectators, plus 1 parking space for
                                        every 4 spectator seats.
                                        1 parking space for each 4 seats at
Restaurants and cafeterias              tables and 1 parking space for each 2
                                        seats at counters or bars, plus 1
                                        parking space for each 2 employees.
Retail uses not otherwise listed        1 parking space for each 400 square
                                        feet of gross floor area.
                                        1 parking space for each employee, plus
                                        1 parking space for every 3 stalls or
Riding stables and academies            horses (whichever is more). Horse
                                        trailers are not to be stored in
                                        required parking spaces.
                                        1 parking space for each room to be
Rooming or boarding houses              rented, plus 1 parking space for each
                                        employee.
                                        1 parking space for each classroom and
Schools, elementary and junior high or  administrative office, plus 1 parking
middle school                           space for each employee and 1 large
                                        space for each bus.
                                        1 parking space for each 15 students
                                        for which the building was designed,
Schools, senior high                    plus 1 parking space for each classroom
                                        and administrative office, plus 1
                                        parking space for each employee, plus 1
                                        large space for each bus.
                                        1 parking space for every 6 students,
                                        based upon the maximum number of
Schools, colleges, technical and trade  students attending classes at any one
                                        time, plus 1 space for each
                                        administrative office, plus 1 space for
                                        each professor or teacher.
Service stations                        5 parking spaces for each service bay.
Services not otherwise listed           1 parking space for every 200 square
                                        feet of floor space.
                                        6 parking spaces for each 1,000 square
Shopping centers                        feet of gross floor space in the
                                        center, plus 1 space per business,
                                        provided collectively.
Stadiums and arenas                     1 parking space for each 4 seats in the
                                        stadium or arena.
Stores, department                      1 parking space for each 150 square
                                        feet of gross floor area.
Stores, retail food                     1 parking space for each 150 square
                                        feet of gross floor area.
                                        1 parking space for each 4 seats up to
Theater, indoor                         400 seats, plus 1 space for each 6
                                        seats above 400.
Wholesale uses                          1 parking space for each employee on
                                        the longest shift.
Services not otherwise listed           1 parking space for each 200 square
                                        feet of gross floor area.
 
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.014-08 DESIGN STANDARDS FOR OFF-STREET PARKING.
   All off-street areas required by this subchapter shall conform with the
following design standards.
   (A)   All parking spaces shall have minimum dimensions of nine feet in width
and 18 feet in length. All access or backup aisles shall conform to the
following minimum dimensions:
 
Parking Angle Aisle Dimension
90 degrees    24 feet
60 degrees    18 feet
45 degrees    14 feet
30 degrees    12 feet
0 degrees     12 feet
 
   (B)   The use of streets, sidewalks, alleys, or other public rights-of-way
for parking or maneuvering to and from off-street parking spaces is prohibited,
except where such maneuvering is necessary in the use of driveways for access
to and from single-family and two-family dwellings. All off-street parking
areas shall be so arranged that ingress and egress is by forward motion of the
vehicle.
   (C)   Off-street parking areas shall have an eight-foot wide landscaped
strip planted along its periphery, which shall be located between the street
right-of-way and/or property lines and the parking area. The area shall be
covered with grass or other ground cover and shall include appropriate trees
and shrubs. At a minimum, the planting shall consist of five trees and ten
shrubs per 100 linear feet. In addition, one landscaped "island" shall be
installed for every 20 parking spaces, within the parking areas themselves.
   (D)   Parking area edges shall be protected by suitable curbing, wheel
guards or other means to prevent vehicular encroachment on a public right-of-
way or on adjacent property, and to protect the public right-of-way and
adjoining properties from the damaging effects from surface drainage from
parking lots.
   (E)   Where parking or loading areas are provided adjacent to the public
street, ingress and egress thereto shall be made only through driveways not
exceeding 25 feet in width at the curb line of said street, except where the
Zoning Administrator finds that a greater width is necessary to accommodate the
vehicles customarily using the driveway.
   (F)   Businesses adjacent to, or integrated in, a shopping center or cluster
of commercial facilities shall use the common access with other business
establishments in the center.
   (G)   No driveway shall be located closer than 25 feet to any street
intersection.
   (H)   Any lighting of parking areas shall be shielded to cast no light upon
adjacent properties and streets.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.014-09 OFF-STREET LOADING; PURPOSE AND GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Off-street loading requirements are established to ensure the proper
and uniform development of loading areas throughout the county, to relieve
traffic congestion in the streets and to minimize any detrimental effects of
off-street loading areas on adjacent properties.
   (B)   Each application for a zoning permit shall include plans and other
information of sufficient detail to enable the Zoning Administrator to
determine whether the requirements of this subchapter have been met. Plans for
off-street loading areas shall include information as to:
      (1)   The location and dimensions of driveway entrances, access aisles
and loading spaces;
      (2)   The provisions for vehicular and pedestrian circulation; and
      (3)   The location of sidewalks and curbs.
   (C)   The zoning permit for the construction or use of any building,
structure, or land where off-street loading space is required shall be withheld
by the Zoning Administrator until the provisions of this section have been met.
If at any time such compliance ceases, any certificate of occupancy which shall
have been issued for the use of the property shall immediately become void and
of no effect.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.014-10 DESIGN STANDARDS FOR OFF-STREET LOADING SPACE.
   The off-street loading space required by this subchapter shall be provided
for standing, loading, and unloading operations either inside or outside a
building, on the same lot with the use served, and shall conform to the
following standards:
   (A)   For uses containing a gross floor area of less than 20,000 square
feet, each off-street loading space shall have minimum dimensions of 15 feet in
width and 30 feet in length.
   (B)   For uses containing a gross floor area of 20,000 square feet or more,
each off-street loading space shall be 15 feet in width and 45 feet in length
as a minimum.
   (C)   All off-street loading spaces shall have a minimum vertical clearance
of 15 feet.
   (D)   Access aisles or apron spaces shall be of sufficient width to allow
for proper backing and/or turning movements.
   (E)   Required off-street loading areas including drives and access aisles
shall be constructed with a hard surface material.
   (F)   Loading spaces and access ways shall be located in such a way that no
truck or service vehicle using such areas shall block or interfere with the
free, normal movement of other vehicles on a service drive or on any off-street
parking area, public street, aisle or pedestrian way used for general
circulation. In addition, the off-street loading facilities shall be designed
and constructed so that all maneuvering of vehicles for loading and unloading
purposes shall take place entirely within the property lines of the premises.
   (G)   Loading area edges shall be protected by suitable curbing to prevent
encroachment on a public right-of-way or on adjacent property, and to protect
the public right-of-way and adjoining properties from the damaging effects of
surface drainage from off-street loading areas.
   (H)   Driveways shall be provided as required herein.
   (I)   Any lighting of loading areas shall be shielded to cast no light upon
adjacent properties and streets.
   (J)   Any off-street loading areas and access ways adjacent along the side
or rear property lines to property used or zoned for residential purposes shall
be provided with screening meeting the standards described in §§
154.015.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.014-11 MINIMUM OFF-STREET LOADING REQUIREMENTS.
   Off-street loading shall be provided and maintained as specified in the
following.
   (A)   Uses which normally handle large quantities of goods, including, but
not limited to, industrial plants, wholesale establishments, storage
warehouses, freight terminals, hospitals or sanitariums, and retail sales
establishments shall provide off-street loading facilities in the following
amounts:
 
Gross Floor Area (Square Feet) Minimum Number of Spaces Required
5,000 - 20,000                 1
20,001 - 80,000                2
80,001 - 170,000               3
170,001 - 260,000              4
For each additional 45,000     1 - additional
 
   (B)   Uses which do not handle large quantities of goods, including, but not
limited to, office buildings, restaurants, funeral homes, hotels, motels,
apartment buildings and places of public assembly, shall provide off-street
loading facilities in the following amounts:
 
Gross Floor Area (Square Feet) Minimum Number of Spaces Required
5,000 - 80,000                 1
80,001 - 200,000               2
200,001 - 320,000              3
320,001 - 500,000              4
For each additional 180,000    1 - additional
 
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.015 BUFFERS AND SCREENING DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
§ 154.015-01 PURPOSE OF BUFFERS.
   Buffers, or screens, are required to protect one class of use from adverse
impacts caused by a use in another class by helping the principle use to blend
into the neighborhood, screen its purely functional aspects from the street and
neighboring properties, and absorb and/or deflect any excessive noise. This
regulation benefits both the developer and the adjoining property owners
because it allows the developer several options from which to choose in
developing the property, while ensuring each neighbor adequate protection
regardless of the developer's choice, thereby protecting the property values of
all properties involved. Buffers are also used to protect waterways and streams
from excess pollution due to unfiltered runoff.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.015-02 BUFFERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   In all districts other than RA, RE, RR, RL, RG, MR and CP, a buffer or
screen is automatically required on the side and rear lot lines that abut a
residential or rural agricultural district. Information shall be submitted to
the Zoning Administrator showing details of the proposed barrier as to the
location and type of buffer. Buffers may also be required under this code of
ordinances, as well as any regulations for buffers by the State of North
Carolina.
   (B)   A 50-foot, undisturbed natural buffer, from each shoreline, is
required along all perennial streams in Surry County except for the Mitchell
River from Kapp's Mill upstream to the county line, where a 75-foot buffer is
required from each shoreline. In addition, a 50-foot, undisturbed natural
buffer is required along all property that adjoins Pilot Mountain State Park,
Raven Knob Scout Reservation and Cumberland Knob National Park. Also, a 50-
foot, undisturbed natural buffer is required along all interior property lines
belonging to Pilot Mountain State Park, Raven Knob Scout Reservation and
Cumberland Knob National Park.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.015-03 BUFFER SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Unless specified elsewhere in this chapter, a buffer shall be one of
the following:
      (1)   An eight-foot-high opaque barrier made of masonry, stone, or solid
wood;
      (2)   A buffer that is eight feet wide, which includes two rows,
staggered, of eight-foot high, dense evergreen trees or large shrubs on ten-
foot centers; or
      (3)   A 20-foot wide natural wooded or planted strip.
      (4)   Approval of the choice by the Zoning Administrator is required.
   (B)   If a buffer is an eight-foot-high attractive opaque barrier, it shall
not permit visibility from one side to the other and it must also dampen noise
where needed. Such barrier may be a decorative masonry wall or wood plank fence
which is planted facing adjoining property. Metal or sheet metal shall not be
utilized in the construction of an opaque barrier.
   (C)   Where evergreens (native trees and shrubs) are used, a species and
size shall be planted which will normally be expected to reach eight feet in
three years' time.
   (D)   A buffer may also be a minimum of 20 feet wide natural vegetative or
planted strip. The natural vegetative or planted strip shall be undisturbed,
natural low brushes, shrubs, and trees. The natural buffer must provide
reasonable screening in the estimation of the Zoning Administrator. If not, the
developer may be required to provide a dense evergreen screen as stated above,
in addition to what natural vegetation exists.
   (E)   Acceptable vegetative screening devices (buffers) shall include the
following: American holly, arborvitae, Burford holly, eastern red cedar, Hetz
juniper, Japanese black pine, Leyland cypress, Nellie Stevens holly, wax
myrtle.
   (F)   Buffer requirements may be greater for uses with special requirements
as specified in § 154.008 or as determined through the special use permit or
conditional zoning processes.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.015-04 LOCATION OF BUFFER.
   The width of the buffer, or screen, shall be included as part of the
required setbacks. A fence may also be installed, in addition to the required
buffer, at the discretion of the property owner. However, vegetative buffers
shall be located adjacent to the property line and between the property line
and any fence.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.015-05 CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   A buffer must be installed or constructed, as appropriate, prior to
the issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
   (B)   Once erected, a buffer shall be properly maintained.
   (C)   The construction and maintenance of a buffer shall be the
responsibility of the landowner or developer, except as provided below in §
154.015-06.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.015-06 DEFERRING REQUIREMENTS.
   The required buffering may be deferred for up to five months after approval
of the deferment by the Zoning Administrator, upon the receipt of a buffering
guarantee security payable to Surry County and meeting the following
requirements.
   (A)   The developer may deposit cash, cashier's check, or an irrevocable
letter of credit, either to Surry County or in escrow with a financial
institution designated as an official depository of Surry County.
   (B)   The developer or property owner shall obtain a landscaping plan and
guaranteed cost estimate (official bid) from a landscaping firm.
   (C)   The bond shall equal one and one-half times the entire cost of
installing all required landscaping, based on the average of three landscaper's
bid.
   (D)   Any bond of $9,999 or less must be in the form of a cashier's check,
or similar bank check, payable to the County of Surry and valid for a minimum
period of six months.
   (E)   Any bond of $10,000 or more may be a cashier's check, cash, or
irrevocable letter of credit.
   (F)   In the case of a failure on the part of the property owner or
developer to complete the landscaping, if any funds are not spent in completing
the work, the county will complete the work and the county shall retain, as a
service charge, 25% of its total cost and return the balance to the property
owner or developer.
   (G)   If cash or other instrument is deposited in escrow with a financial
institution as provided above, then the developer shall file with the
Development Services Director an agreement between the financial institution
and himself or herself guaranteeing the following:
      (1)   Said escrow account shall be held in trust until released by the
Development Services Director and may not be used or pledged by the developer
in any other manner during the term of the escrow; and
      (2)   In the case of a failure on the part of the property owner to
complete said improvements, the financial institution shall, upon notification
by the Development Services Director and submission to the financial
institution of an estimate of the amount needed to complete the improvements,
immediately pay to Surry County the funds estimated to complete the
improvements up to the full balance of the escrow account, or deliver to the
county any other instruments fully endorsed or otherwise made payable in full
to the county.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.015-07 ENCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   In the Residential and Rural Agricultural Districts, all outdoor
storage of governmental, commercial, industrial, or utility inventory or
equipment, or any other use which may represent a public hazard, must be
enclosed with a fence or wall at least eight feet in height.
   (B)   In commercial and industrial districts all outdoor storage related to
business, servicing and processing uses, except off-street parking and loading,
shall be within completely enclosed buildings or enclosed on all sides by a
wall or fence (including gates for ingress and egress) not less than eight feet
in height. (See definition for outdoor storage in §
154.003-02.)
   (C)   These requirements may be increased for a special use as described in
§§
154.010; uses with special requirements as specified in §
154.008; uses as determined through the conditional zoning process; or by the
Planning Board when it deems appropriate, based on the situation at the site in
question and nearby properties.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.016 SIGNS.
§ 154.016-01 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   (A)   Sign regulations are established to restrict private signs and lights
which overload the public's capacity to receive information, which violate
privacy, or which increase the probability of accidents by distracting
attention or obstructing vision.
   (B)   Such regulations are also designed to encourage signing and lighting
and other private communications which aid orientation and identify activities,
and to reduce conflict among private signs.
   (C)   Regarding sign content, non-commercial messages are allowed in
substitution for any commercial message on any sign permitted under these
regulations.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.016-02 SIGNS MUST MEET REQUIREMENTS OF SUBCHAPTER.
   (A)   Administration.
      (1)   It is the duty of the Zoning Administrator to refuse a permit for
the erection or construction of any sign or structure that does not meet the
requirements of this subchapter.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall order the removal of any signs that
are not constructed or maintained in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter.
   (B)   Permit required. To ensure compliance with this section, a zoning
permit must be obtained prior to the construction or erection of all signs
which are not otherwise exempt. Applications for permits shall be submitted on
forms obtained at the County Development Services Department.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.016-03 MORE THAN ONE PRINCIPAL USE PER LOT.
   Where a zoning lot contains more than one principal use or establishment,
the provisions of this subchapter shall apply to the lot as a whole and the
owner(s) of the lot shall be responsible for allocating permitted signs and
display surface area among the individual uses or establishments. The sign plan
submitted for such a zoning lot shall show all signs located or proposed
thereon and shall be designed so that all signs are in harmony and consistent
with each other. Such a sign plan shall be referred to as a unified sign plan
for the zoning lot. A unified sign plan is an overall plan for the placement
and design of multiple signs for a building or group of buildings on a single
lot.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.016-04 PLAN APPROVAL REQUIRED.
   In a case where a freestanding sign is to be installed (including a portable
sign), where multiple signs are expected to be used, or where there are
multiple users or establishments on a single lot, a unified sign plan,
depicting the information indicated in §§
154.016-02 and
154.016-03, is required to be submitted and approved by the Development
Services staff before a certificate of occupancy can be issued.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.016-05 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following types of signs are exempted from the application of the
regulations herein:
   (A)   Unlighted signs bearing only property identification numbers and
names, mailbox numbers, the name of the occupant of the premises or other
identification of premises not of a commercial nature;
   (B)   Signs on private property for non-commercial purposes, such as private
parking signs, signs on newspaper tubes, "no trespassing" signs and signs
warning of animals;
   (C)   Governmental flags and insignia;
   (D)   Holiday decorations;
   (E)   Local notices and warnings and regulatory, informational, or
directional signs;
   (F)   Integral decorative or architectural features of buildings, including
signs which denote only the building name, date of erection or street number;
   (G)   Signs directing and guiding traffic and parking on private property;
   (H)   Signs which cannot be seen from a public street or right-of-way;
   (I)   The act of changing advertising copy of messages or any sign designed
for the use of replaceable copy;
   (J)   Price signs at automobile service stations or other establishments
engaged in the retail sale of gasoline;
   (K)   Signs announcing the location of self-service or full-service gasoline
pumps at any establishment engaged in the retail sale of gasoline;
   (L)   Signs painted on or permanently attached to a currently licensed motor
vehicle;
   (M)   Private "for sale" signs temporarily attached to items or vehicles for
sale;
   (N)   Off- premises identification signs located in the RA and RB Districts
are exempted from the prohibition contained in this subchapter if they meet the
following standards: off-premises signs, not including billboards, that
identify a business or industry (including home occupations) are allowed on a
premises other than the premises a business or industry (including home
occupations) is located on, provided such sign shall not exceed one sign per
lot, shall be located at an intersection of two or more streets or at the
driveway entrance to the business or industry, and shall not exceed six feet in
height and 16 square feet per display surface. These signs shall be
independently freestanding signs (not attached to a tree or other living plant
material, utility pole or building), shall not be in NCDOT or utility rights-
of-way and shall be located so as not to infringe upon proper sight distance
for traffic, E-911 road signs, and NCDOT road signs. An off-premises sign
displaying multiple businesses may be used as the allowed sign(s) per lot if
the sign does not exceed ten feet in height and 35 square feet in total display
area. A multiple business off-premises sign shall not be in NCDOT or utility
rights-of-way nor shall it infringe upon proper sight distance for traffic, 911
road signs and NCDOT road signs. These exemptions shall apply only when the
off-premises sign user holds an ownership interest in the land; or when written
agreement is made for use of the land between the sign user and the owner of
the land, and a notarized copy of said agreement is signed by both parties and
filed with the Zoning Administrator. When such agreement expires or is
invalidated, the off-premises sign shall comply with all other provisions of
this subchapter or shall be removed;
   (O)   Off-premises signs, either in a public right-of-way or on private
easements, that are a part of the regional Yadkin Valley wayfinding program.
Such signs are allowed when a need is determined by county staff in conjunction
with the Tourism Development Authority;
   (P)   On-premises signs that identify bona fide farming operations (up to 48
square feet); and
   (Q)   The repair or replacement of all existing NCDOT-permitted signs,
including billboards, so long as the surface area is not increased.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.016-06 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   Unless otherwise permitted as a temporary or conditional use, the following
signs are prohibited:
   (A)   Banners, posters, pennants, ribbons, streamers, strings of light
bulbs, spinners, or other similar devices.
   (B)   Signs advertising an activity, business, product, or service no longer
conducted on the premises upon which the sign is located.
   (C)   Off-premises advertising signs, not including billboards, except as
specifically exempted in this subchapter.
   (D)   Roof signs; and
   (E)   Projecting signs and freestanding signs located within a public right-
of-way, except when erected by the county, state, or federal government.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.016-07 TEMPORARY SIGNS.
   (A)   The following are permitted temporary signs:
      (1)   Real estate signs;
      (2)   Construction site identification signs;
      (3)   Yard or garage sale signs and off-premises directional signs;
      (4)   Signs announcing the grand opening of new businesses;
      (5)   Campaign signs; and
      (6)   Auction signs, no greater than 24 square feet and five feet in
height.
   (B)   Temporary signs shall be removed within seven days from the day the
use or event the sign was intended for ceases.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.016-08 PORTABLE SIGNS.
   (A)   A portable sign is any which is not permanently attached to the ground
or to a building or other structure and which, because of its relatively light
weight, is meant to be moved from place to place.
   (B)   No more than one lighted portable sign, with or without changeable
copy, shall be allowed on a single premises in any institutional, commercial,
or industrial zoning district and the sign must be placed no closer than ten
feet to any property line or street right-of-way. In no case shall a portable
sign be used to advertise any activity, event service or place other than on
the premises where the sign is located.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.016-09 SHOPPING CENTER SIGNS.
   For shopping centers in single ownership or under unified control, one
freestanding identification sign at each entrance, not counting toward the
total allowable sign area, shall be permitted, subject to the following.
   (A)   Identification. Such signs identify the name and location of such
center and the name and type of business of one or more occupants thereof.
   (B)   Height and location.
      (1)   This freestanding sign shall not project higher than 20 feet above
ground level if it is located less than 50 feet from the street right-of-way,
not higher than 25 feet if it is between 50 and 100 feet from the street and
not higher than 30 feet above ground level if the sign is located more than 100
feet from the street right-of-way.
      (2)   No freestanding sign shall be closer than 20 feet to any street
right-of-way or 30 feet to any other property line.
   (C)   Multiple entrances. If a shopping center has additional entrances, one
freestanding identification sign, meeting the same minimum setbacks, is allowed
per additional street entrance. This sign shall not exceed 32 square feet in
display surface and six feet in height.
   (D)   Individual tenant signs. Individual tenants of a shopping center are
not permitted a freestanding sign of any kind. Wall signs are permitted, based
on the total allowable sign area and on the requirements of the zoning district
the shopping center is located within.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.016-10 BILLBOARDS.
   (A)   Location.
      (1)   Billboards shall only be permitted along the following roadways in
the jurisdiction of Surry County: I-77, I-74, US 52, US 601, US 21, NC 268, NC
89, NC 103, and NC 104, within a permitted zoning district. Billboards are not
permitted in the Thoroughfare Overlay (TO) Zoning District, the Scenic Byway
Overlay (SBO) District, or on any portion of other roadways that are designated
a North Carolina Scenic Byway by the North Carolina Department of
Transportation.
      (2)   No billboard shall be erected in an RA, RE, RR, RG, RL, RI, CP,
MHP, RB or TO zoning district. New billboards are only permitted as a special
use in the CB, HB, and MI zoning districts.
      (3)   In the special use permitting process for billboards, the Board of
Adjustment may deny the installation of an electronic-messaging billboard based
on its required findings per §§
154.010 or may require conditions limiting message brightness, message time
intervals or other factors consistent with the intent of this subchapter.
Applications for a special use permit for an electronic messaging billboard
shall include proposed brightness settings, message change time interval rate,
and adjustment ranges for brightness and message time interval rate if
applicable, along with other required dimensional information. In addition to
proposed new billboard sites, this permitting process is also required in any
case where an electronic messaging billboard is proposed to replace an existing
non-electronic billboard.
      (4)   No billboard shall project closer than 100 feet to any residential
dwelling and no closer than 30 feet to any property line, or to any street
right-of-way. Also, no billboards shall be located within 2,000 feet along the
same road frontage of another billboard as measured from the poles.
   (B)   Size, height, and design.
      (1)   Billboards along I-77, I-74 and US 52 shall not exceed 600 square
feet in gross area. Billboards along US 601, US 21, NC 268, NC 89, NC 103, and
NC 104 shall not exceed 300 square feet in gross area.
      (2)   Billboards shall not exceed 35 feet in height from ground level,
nor exceed 50 feet from street level, whichever is lower. A billboard may have
two display sides, including an acute "V" shaped sign of 45 degrees or less.
      (3)   Required plan.
         (a)   The required site plan shall depict the location of any other
billboards along both sides of the street within 2,000 feet of the proposed
site.
         (b)   The plan must show the location of all dwellings, buildings, and
structures: on the property on which it is to be constructed; on adjacent
properties that are applicable; and across the street for 500 feet in both
directions from the proposed sign.
      (4)   Operational considerations. The sign shall be kept in good repair
and clear of overgrown vegetation.
      (5)   Additional requirements. Approval from NCDOT for any billboard
shall be received prior to submittal of application for a conditional use
permit. Application shall be deemed incomplete unless a copy of said approval
is submitted with application.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.016-11 LOCATION OF SIGNS.
   All signs, including the supports, frames, and embellishments thereto, shall
be located on-premises, on private property and not located within ten feet of
any public right-of-way; nor shall any sign be attached, affixed, or painted on
any light standard or other utility pole, any tree or other natural object.
Signs shall not be located any closer than 15 feet to any property line.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.016-12 NON-CONFORMING SIGNS.
   (A)   All non-conforming signs existing on the effective date of this
chapter may remain in place, subject to the following requirements.
      (1)   No non-conforming sign shall have any changes made in the words or
symbols used or the message displayed on the sign unless the sign is
specifically designed for periodic change or message. However, this chapter
shall not prohibit the normal maintenance of signs to keep them neat.
      (2)   No non-conforming sign shall be structurally altered to change the
shape, size, or type of design of the sign, nor shall any non-conforming sign
be relocated.
      (3)   No non-conforming sign shall be allowed to remain after the
activity, business or use to which it is related has been discontinued.
   (B)   Upon failure to comply with any of the above requirements, the Zoning
Administrator shall cause the removal of any non-conforming signs as hereafter
provided.
   (C)   The Zoning Administrator shall give the owner of the non-conforming
sign notice of the violation by registered or certified mail. Notice to the
owner or the occupant of the premises on which the sign is located shall be
sufficient. These notices shall contain a brief statement of the particulars in
which this subchapter is violated and the way such violation is to be remedied.
   (D)   Failure to correct such violation within 30 days shall constitute a
violation of this chapter and is punishable under the provisions of §§
154.005.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.016-13 MAINTENANCE AND REMOVAL OF UNSAFE OR ABANDONED SIGNS.
   (A)   All signs of any nature shall be maintained in a state of good repair.
No sign shall be allowed to remain which becomes structurally unsafe, hazardous
or endangers the safety of the public or property. Upon determining that a sign
is structurally unsafe, hazardous or endangers the safety of the public or
property, the Building Inspector or his or her designated agent shall order the
sign to be made safe or removed, subject to the following provisions.
      (1)   The owner of the sign, the occupant of the premises on which the
sign or structure is located, or the person or firm maintaining the same shall,
upon written notice by registered or certified mail from the Zoning
Administrator, forthwith in the case of immediate danger and in any case within
ten days, secure or repair the sign or structure in a manner approved by the
Building Inspector or his or her designated agent, or remove the same.
      (2)   If such order is not complied with within ten days, the Building
Inspector or his or her designated agent shall remove the sign at the expense
of the owner or lessee thereof. No sign shall be created or maintained in such
a manner that any portion of its surface or its supports will interfere in any
way with the free use or access to any fire escape, exit or standpipe, or to
obstruct any window so that light or ventilation is reduced below minimum
standards required by any applicable law or building code.
   (B)   Whenever a sign has been abandoned or advertises an activity,
business, product, or service no longer conducted on the premises, such sign,
including all of its attendant supports, frames and hardware, shall be removed
within two months of the cessation or vacation of the use or establishment,
unless such sign is utilized by a new use or establishment on the premises in
conformance with all current regulations of this subchapter. If such sign is
not removed, or a sign is erected in violation of the provisions of this
section, the Building Inspector shall cause such sign to be removed or brought
into compliance in accordance with the method prescribed for non-conforming
signs in this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.016-14 SIGNS PERMITTED IN RA, RE, RR, RL, RG, CP, MHP AND MR DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Permanent freestanding monument identification signs for residential
subdivisions, multi-family and planned developments shall be limited to two
signs at each major entrance(s) to the development not exceeding 32 square feet
in display surface area, located no closer than 15 feet to any property line or
street right-of-way, not exceeding six feet in height above ground level, and
illumination shall be restricted to indirect white lighting.
   (B)   Permanent freestanding identification signs for manufactured home
parks, bed and breakfast inns and campgrounds shall be limited to one sign at
each major entrance to the park or campground not exceeding 24 square feet in
display surface area, located on private property no closer than 15 feet to any
property line or street right-of-way, not exceeding six feet in height above
ground level, and illumination shall be restricted to indirect white lighting.
   (C)   Schools and churches are permitted one freestanding sign, not
exceeding 12 feet in height above ground level and not exceeding 42 square feet
in display surface area. Schools and churches are also allowed one additional
freestanding changeable copy sign, not to exceed 42 square feet in display
surface area and not exceeding 12 feet in height above ground level.
   (D)   Non-residential and/or institutional uses are permitted one permanent
freestanding identification sign provided the sign is located on private
property at least 15 feet from any property line or street right-of-way. The
sign shall not exceed six feet in height above ground level, the display
surface area shall not exceed 42 square feet, and illumination shall be
restricted to indirect white lighting.
   (E)   One identification sign for each home occupation shall be permitted
but shall not be closer than 15 feet to any property line or street right-of-
way, shall not project higher than five feet above ground level, and shall not
exceed eight square feet in area.
   (F)   No other signs are permitted.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.016-15 SIGNS PERMITTED IN RB DISTRICT.
   (A)   One freestanding sign is allowed per lot. On corner lots, businesses
fronting on more than one public street shall be permitted one freestanding
identification sign for each frontage. Freestanding signs shall not exceed 15
feet in height and the display surface shall not exceed 80 square feet per
side. Freestanding signs shall be limited to the name, trademark and service
mark of the establishment located on the lot.
   (B)   Projecting and canopy signs may be placed on all walls with road
frontage. Projecting signs shall not exceed 20 square feet and shall maintain a
clear distance of eight feet from ground level. One projecting sign is
permitted per wall fronting a public street. Projecting or canopy signs shall
be limited to the name, trademark and service mark of the establishment located
on the lot.
   (C)   Wall signs shall not exceed 20% of the exterior building wall on which
it is mounted with a 200 square foot maximum on the display area. Wall signs
shall not protrude more than 12 inches from the wall to which it is attached.
It shall not extend above the eave line of the building to which it is
attached. If the building consists of two or more stories, the top of the sign
shall not extend more than 20 feet above ground level. Wall signs shall be
limited to the name, trademark and service mark of the establishment located on
the lot. One wall sign is permitted per wall fronting a public street.
   (D)   Illumination of signs is permitted. Illumination shall be designed as
to minimize light from directly hitting public rights-of-way and adjacent
properties used or zoned for residential and rural agricultural purposes.
   (E)   No other signs are permitted.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.016-16 SIGNS PERMITTED IN CB DISTRICT.
   (A)   One freestanding sign is allowed per lot. On corner lots, businesses
fronting on more than one public street shall be permitted one freestanding
identification sign for each frontage. Freestanding signs shall not exceed 20
feet in height and the display surface shall not exceed 80 square feet per
side. Freestanding signs shall be limited to the name, trademark and service
mark of the establishment located on the lot.
   (B)   Projecting and canopy signs may be placed on all walls with road
frontage. Projecting signs shall not exceed 20 square feet and shall maintain a
clear distance of eight feet from ground level. One projecting sign is
permitted per wall fronting a public street. Projecting or canopy signs shall
be limited to the name, trademark and service mark of the establishment located
on the lot.
   (C)   Wall signs shall not exceed 20% of the exterior building wall on which
it is mounted with a 200 square foot maximum on the display area. Wall signs
shall not protrude more than 12 inches from the wall to which it is attached.
It shall not extend above the eave line of the building to which it is
attached. If the building consists of two or more stories, the top of the sign
shall not extend more than 20 feet above ground level. Wall signs shall be
limited to the name, trademark and service mark of the establishment located on
the lot. One wall sign is permitted per wall fronting a public street.
   (D)   Illumination of signs is permitted. Illumination shall be designed as
to minimize light from directly hitting public rights-of-way and adjacent
properties used or zoned for residential and rural agricultural purposes.
   (E)   No other signs are permitted.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.016-17 SIGNS PERMITTED IN HB AND MI DISTRICTS.
   (A)   One freestanding sign is allowed per lot. On corner lots, businesses
fronting on more than one public street shall be permitted one freestanding
identification sign for each frontage. Freestanding signs shall not exceed 30
feet in height, the display surface shall not exceed 120 square feet per side.
Freestanding signs shall be limited to the name, trademark and service mark of
the establishment located on the lot.
   (B)   Projecting and canopy signs may be placed on all walls with road
frontage. Projecting signs shall not exceed 30 square feet and shall maintain a
clear distance of eight feet from ground level. One projecting sign is
permitted per wall fronting a public street. Projecting or canopy signs shall
be limited to the name, trademark and service mark of the establishment located
on the lot.
   (C)   Wall signs shall not exceed 20% of the exterior building wall on which
it is mounted with a 200 square foot maximum on the display area. Wall signs
shall not protrude more than 12 inches from the wall to which it is attached.
It shall not extend above the eave line of the building to which it is
attached. If the building consists of two or more stories, the top of the sign
shall not extend more than 20 feet above ground level. Wall signs shall be
limited to the name, trademark and service mark of the establishment located on
the lot. One wall sign is permitted per wall fronting a public street.
   (D)   Illumination of signs is permitted. Illumination shall be designed as
to minimize light from directly hitting public rights-of-way and adjacent
properties used or zoned for residential and rural agricultural purposes.
   (E)   No other signs are permitted.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.016-18 COMPUTATION OF SIGN AREA.
   (A)   Area.
      (1)   In measuring the area of signs permitted under these regulations,
the entire face of the sign (one side only) shall be included.
      (2)   Structural parts, which are not intended for advertising purposes,
shall not be included as part of this measurement.
      (3)   In computing the total sign area, the smallest rectangle that can
encompass the sign face shall be used to determine the height and width of the
sign. The height and width shall then be multiplied to determine the total area
of the sign.
   (B)   Height. The height of a sign shall be the distance from the grade
level where the sign is erected to the top of the sign or sign structure,
whichever is greater.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.017 FLOOD HAZARD AREAS AND WATER SUPPLY WATERSHED PROTECTION.
§ 154.017-01 FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   (A)   Statutory authorization. The Legislature of the State of North
Carolina has in G.S. Ch. 143, Art. 21, part 6 and Ch. 160D, Art. 9, part 2
delegated to local governmental units the responsibility to adopt regulations
designed to promote the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   Findings of fact.
      (1)   The flood prone areas within the jurisdiction of Surry County are
subject to periodic inundation which results in loss of life, property, health
and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services,
extraordinary public expenditures of flood protection and relief, and
impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public health,
safety, and general welfare.
      (2)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities
and by the occupancy in flood prone areas of uses vulnerable to floods or other
hazards.
   (C)   Statement of purpose. It is the purpose of this subchapter is to
promote public health, safety, and general welfare and to minimize public and
private losses due to flood conditions within flood-prone areas by provisions
designed to:
      (1)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water or erosion hazards or that result in damaging increases
in erosion, flood heights or velocities;
      (2)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities that
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
      (3)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
      (4)   Control filling, grading, dredging and all other development that
may increase erosion or flood damage; and
      (5)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers that will
unnaturally divert flood waters, or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
   (D)   Objectives. The objectives of this subchapter are:
      (1)   To protect human life and health;
      (2)   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
      (3)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the public;
      (4)   To minimize prolonged business losses and interruptions;
      (5)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities (i.e., water
and gas mains, electric, telephone, cable and sewer lines, streets, and
bridges) that are in flood prone areas;
      (6)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use
and development of flood prone areas; and
      (7)   To ensure that potential buyers are aware that property is in a
special flood hazard area.
   (E)   Lands to which subchapter applies. This subchapter shall apply to all
special flood hazard areas within the land use jurisdiction of Surry County.
   (F)   Basis for establishing special flood hazard areas.
      (1)   The special flood hazard areas are those identified under the
Cooperating Technical State (CTS) agreement between the State of North Carolina
and FEMA in its Flood Insurance Study (FIS) and its accompanying Flood
Insurance Rate Map(s) (FIRM) for Surry County, dated November 18, 2016, which
are adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter. The special
flood hazard areas also include those defined through standard engineering
analysis for private developments or by governmental agencies, but which have
not yet been incorporated in the FIRM.
      (2)   This includes, but is not limited to:
         (a)   Detailed flood data generated as a requirement of §
154.017-01;
         (b)   Preliminary FIRMs were more stringent than the effective FIRM;
or
         (c)   Post-disaster flood recovery maps.
   (G)   Compliance. No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended,
converted, altered, or developed in any way without the compliance with the
terms of this subchapter and other applicable regulations.
   (H)   Abrogation and greater restrictions. This subchapter is not intended
to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions. However, where this subchapter and another conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
   (I)   Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of this
subchapter, all provisions shall be:
      (1)   Considered as minimum requirements;
      (2)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
      (3)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
   (J)   Warning and disclaimer of liability. The degree of flood protection
required by this subchapter is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes
and is based on scientific and engineering consideration. Larger floods can and
will occur. Actual flood heights may be increased by human-made or natural
causes. This subchapter does not imply that land outside the special flood
hazard areas or uses permitted within such areas will be free from flooding or
flood damages. This subchapter shall not create liability on the part of Surry
County or by any officer or employee thereof for any flood damages that result
from reliance on this subchapter, or any administrative decision lawfully made
hereunder.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.017-02 FLOOD HAZARD AREA APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Application for a floodplain development permit shall be made to the
Floodplain Administrator prior to any development activities located within
special flood hazard areas.
   (B)   The following items shall be presented to the Floodplain Administrator
to apply for a floodplain development permit:
      (1)   A plot plan drawn to scale which shall include, but shall not be
limited to, the following specific details of the proposed floodplain
development:
         (a)   The nature, location, dimensions and elevations of the area of
development/disturbance; existing and proposed structures, utility systems,
grading/pavement areas, fill materials, storage areas, drainage facilities and
other development;
         (b)   The boundary of the special flood hazard area as delineated on
the FIRM or other flood map as determined in §
154.017-01(D) or a statement that the entire lot is within the special flood
hazard area;
         (c)   Flood zone(s) designation of the proposed development area as
determined on the FIRM or other flood map as determined in §
154.017-01;
         (d)   The boundary of the floodway(s) or non-encroachment area(s) as
determined in §
154.017-01;
         (e)   The base flood elevation (BFE) where provided as set forth in §
154.017-01;
         (f)   The old and new location of any watercourse that will be altered
or relocated because of proposed development; and
         (g)   Certification of the plot plan by a registered land surveyor or
professional engineer;
      (2)   Proposed elevation and method thereof, of all development within a
special flood hazard area including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the proposed
reference level (including basement) of all structures;
         (b)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any non-
residential structure in Zone AE, A or AO will be flood-proofed; and
         (c)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any proposed
utility systems will be elevated or flood-proofed;
      (3)   If flood-proofing, a flood-proofing certificate (FEMA Form 81-65)
along with detailed back-up computations and operational plans that specify the
location on a FIRM panel of flood-proofing measures, the entity responsible for
transportation and installation according to the design within the warning time
available, and maintenance of flood-proofing measures assuring their
effectiveness when installed. Flood-proofing certificate and back-up
computations and operational plans shall be certified by a registered
professional engineer or architect to ensure that the non-residential flood-
proofed development will meet the flood-proofing criteria in §
154.017-08;
      (4)   A foundation plan drawn to scale which shall include details of the
proposed foundation system to ensure all provisions of this subchapter are met.
These details include, but are not limited to:
         (a)   The proposed method of elevation, if applicable (i.e., fill,
solid foundation perimeter wall, solid backfilled foundation, open foundation
on columns/posts/piers/piles/shear walls); and
         (b)   Openings to facilitate equalization of hydrostatic flood forces
on walls in accordance with §
154.017-07 when solid foundation perimeter walls are used in Zones A, AO, AE,
and A1-30;
      (5)   Usage details of any enclosed areas below the regulatory flood
protection elevation;
      (6)   Plans and/or details for the protection of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems to be located and
constructed to minimize flood damage;
      (7)   Copies of all other local, state and federal permits required prior
to floodplain development permit issuance (wetlands, endangered species,
erosion and sedimentation control, riparian buffers, mining, and the like);
      (8)   Documentation for placement of recreational vehicles and/or
temporary structures, when applicable, to ensure that the requirements of §
154.017-07 are met; and
      (9)   A description of proposed watercourse alteration or relocation,
when applicable, including an engineering report on the effects of the proposed
project on the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the effects to
properties located both upstream and downstream; and a map (if not shown on
plot plan) showing the location of the proposed watercourse alteration or
relocation.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.017-03 FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT, ZONING PERMIT, AND CERTIFICATION
REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Floodplain development permit. The floodplain development permit shall
include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   A description of the development to be permitted under the
floodplain development permit;
      (2)   The special flood hazard area determination for the proposed
development per available data specified in §
154.017-01;
      (3)   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the
reference level and all attendant utilities;
      (4)   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the
protection of all public utilities;
      (5)   All certification submittal requirements with timelines;
      (6)   A statement that no fill material shall encroach into the floodway
or non-encroachment area of any watercourse, as applicable;
      (7)   The minimum opening requirements, if in Zone A, AO, AE or A1-30;
and
      (8)   Limitations of below BFE enclosure uses (if applicable) (i.e.,
parking, building access and limited storage only).
      (9)   The Floodplain Administrator shall make as many inspections of the
work pursuant to a floodplain development permit as may be necessary to ensure
that the work is being done according to the provisions of this subchapter and
the terms of the permit. In exercising this power, the Floodplain Administrator
has a right upon presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises
within the jurisdiction of the community at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action.
   (B)   Issuance of zoning permits. A zoning permit, hereinafter referred to
as the "floodplain development permit" shall be required in conformance with
the provisions of this subchapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities within special flood hazard areas as determined in §
154.017-01.
   (C)   Elevation certification requirements.
      (1)   An elevation certificate (FEMA Form 81-31) is required prior to the
actual start of any new construction. It shall be the duty of the permit holder
to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the elevation of
the reference level, in relation to mean sea level. Elevation certification
shall be prepared by, or under direct supervision of, a registered land
surveyor or professional engineer and certified by same. The Floodplain
Administrator shall review the certificate data submitted. Deficiencies
detected by such review shall be corrected by the permit holder prior to the
beginning of construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure to
make required corrections shall be cause to deny a floodplain development
permit.
      (2)   An elevation certificate (FEMA Form 81-31) or flood-proofing
certificate (FEMA Form 81-65) is required after the reference level is
established. Within seven calendar days of establishment of the reference level
elevation, it shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to the
Floodplain Administrator a certification of the elevation of the reference
level in relation to mean sea level. Elevation certification shall be prepared
by, or under the direct supervision of, a registered land surveyor or
professional engineer and certified by same. Any work done within the seven-day
calendar period and prior to submission of the certification shall be at the
permit holder's risk. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate
data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the
permit holder immediately and prior to further work being permitted to proceed.
Failure to submit the certification or failure to make required corrections
shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the project.
      (3)   A final as-built elevation certificate (FEMA Form 81-31) is
required after construction is completed and prior to certificate of
compliance/occupancy issuance. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of final as-built
construction of the elevation of the reference level and all attendant
utilities. Elevation certification shall be prepared by, or under the direct
supervision of, a registered land surveyor or professional engineer and
certified by same. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate
data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the
permit holder immediately and prior to certificate of compliance/occupancy
issuance. In some instances, another certification may be required to certify
corrected as-built construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure
to make required corrections shall be cause to withhold the issuance of a
certificate of compliance/occupancy.
      (4)   Flood-proofing certificate. If non-residential flood-proofing is
used to meet the regulatory flood protection elevation requirements, a flood-
proofing certificate (FEMA Form 81-65) is required prior to the actual start of
any new construction. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to
the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the flood-proofed design
elevation of the reference level and all attendant utilities in relation to
mean sea level. Flood-proofing certification shall be prepared by or under the
direct supervision of a professional engineer or architect and certified by
same. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data submitted.
Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the permit holder
prior to the beginning of construction. Failure to submit the certification or
failure to make required corrections shall be cause to deny a floodplain
development permit. Failure to construct in accordance with the certified
design shall be cause to withhold the issuance of a certificate of compliance/
occupancy.
      (5)   Engineered foundation certification. If a manufactured home is
placed within Zone A, AO, AE or A1-30 and the elevation of the chassis is more
than 36 inches in height above grade, an engineered foundation certification is
required per §
154.017-07.
      (6)   Engineering report. If a watercourse is to be altered or relocated,
a description of the extent of watercourse alteration or relocation; an
engineering report on the effects of the proposed project on the flood-carrying
capacity of the watercourse and the effects to properties located both upstream
and downstream; and a map showing the location of the proposed watercourse
alteration or relocation shall all be submitted by the permit applicant prior
to issuance of a floodplain development permit.
      (7)   Certification exemptions. The following structures, if located
within Zone A, AO, AE, or A1-30, are exempt from the elevation/flood-proofing
certification requirements specified in divisions (A) and (B) above:
         (a)   Recreational vehicles meeting requirements of §
154.017-07;
         (b)   Temporary structures meeting requirements of §
154.017-07; and
         (c)   Accessory structures less than 150 square feet meeting
requirements of §
154.017-07.
   (D)   Floodplain Administrator authority to revoke permits or stop work.
      (1)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke and require the return of
the floodplain development permit by notifying the permit holder in writing
stating the reason(s) for the revocation. Permits shall be revoked for any
substantial departure from the approved application, plans or specifications;
for refusal or failure to comply with the requirements of state or local laws;
or for false statements or misrepresentations made in securing the permit. Any
floodplain development permit mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable
state or local law may also be revoked. Whenever a building or part thereof is
being constructed, reconstructed, altered, or repaired in violation of this
subchapter, the Floodplain Administrator may order the work to be immediately
stopped. The stop-work order shall be in writing and directed to the person
doing the work. The stop-work order shall state the specific work to be
stopped, the specific reason(s) for the stoppage, and the condition(s) under
which the work may be resumed. Violation of a stop-work order constitutes a
misdemeanor.
      (2)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke and require the return of
the floodplain development permit by notifying the permit holder in writing
stating the reason(s) for the revocation. Permits shall be revoked for any
substantial departure from the approved application, plans or specifications;
for refusal or failure to comply with the requirements of state or local laws;
or for false statements or misrepresentations made in securing the permit. Any
floodplain development permit mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable
state or local law may also be revoked.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.017-04 CORRECTIVE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Violations to be corrected. When the Floodplain Administrator finds
violations of applicable state and local laws, it shall be his or her duty to
notify the owner or occupant of the building of the violation. The owner or
occupant shall immediately remedy each of the violations of law pertaining to
his, her or its property.
   (B)   Actions in event of failure to take corrective action. If the owner of
a building or property shall fail to take prompt corrective action, the
Floodplain Administrator shall give the owner written notice, by certified or
registered mail to the owner's last known address or by personal service,
stating:
      (1)   The building or property is in violation of this subchapter;
      (2)   A hearing will be held before the Floodplain Administrator at a
designated place and time, not later than ten days after the date of the
notice, at which time the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or by
counsel and to present arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter; and
      (3)   That following the hearing, the Floodplain Administrator may issue
an order to alter, vacate or demolish the building; or to remove fill as
appears appropriate.
         (a)   Order to take corrective action. If, upon a hearing held
pursuant to the notice prescribed above, the Floodplain Administrator shall
find that the building or development is in violation of this subchapter, he or
she shall issue an order in writing to the owner, requiring the owner to remedy
the violation within a specified time, not less than 60 days, nor more than 120
days. Where the Floodplain Administrator finds that there is imminent danger to
life or other property, he or she may order that corrective action be taken in
such lesser period as may be feasible.
         (b)   Appeal. Any owner who has received an order to take corrective
action may appeal the order to the Board of Adjustment by giving notice of
appeal in writing to the Floodplain Administrator and the Clerk within 30 days
following issuance of the final order. In the absence of an appeal, the order
of the Floodplain Administrator shall be final. The Board of Adjustment shall
hear an appeal within a reasonable time and may affirm, modify, and affirm or
revoke the order.
         (c)   Failure to comply with order. If the owner of a building or
property fails to comply with an order to take corrective action for which no
appeal has been made or fails to comply with an order of the governing body
following an appeal, he or she shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
punished at the discretion of the court.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.017-05 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Variances may be issued for.
      (1)   The repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon the
determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the
structure's continued designation as a historic structure and that the variance
is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the
structure.
      (2)   Functionally dependent facilities if determined to meet the
definition as stated in §
154.003-02.
      (3)   Solid waste disposal facilities, hazardous waste management
facilities, salvage yards and chemical storage facilities that are in special
flood hazard areas; provided that all the following conditions are met in
addition to those included in division (B) below:
         (a)   The use serves a critical need in the community;
         (b)   No feasible location exists for the use outside the special
flood hazard area;
         (c)   The reference level of any structure is elevated or flood-
proofed to at least the regulatory flood;
         (d)   The use complies with all other applicable federal, state and
local laws; and
         (e)   Surry County has notified the Secretary of the North Carolina
Department of Crime Control and Public Safety of its intention to grant a
variance at least 30 calendar days prior to granting the variance.
      (4)   Any other type of development, provided it meets the requirements
stated in this section.
   (B)   Board of Adjustment.
      (1)   The Board of Adjustment as established by Surry County shall hear
and decide requests for variances from the requirements of this subchapter as
provided in G.S. § 160D-705(d).
      (2)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Board of Adjustment may
appeal such decision to the court, as provided in G.S. Ch. 7A and G.S. Ch.
160D, Art. 14.
      (3)   In passing upon variances, the Board of Adjustment shall consider
all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in
other sections of this chapter, and:
         (a)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
         (b)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage;
         (c)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
         (d)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility
to the community;
         (e)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location as
defined under §
154.003-02 as a functionally dependent facility, where applicable;
         (f)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to
flooding or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
         (g)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development;
         (h)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
and floodplain;
         (i)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
         (j)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
         (k)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
      (4)   A written report addressing each of the above factors shall be
submitted with the application for a variance.
      (5)   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of
this chapter, the Board of Adjustment may attach such conditions to the
granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of this
chapter.
   (C)   Variance conditions of approval.
      (1)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway or
non-encroachment area if any increase in flood levels during the base flood
discharge would result.
      (2)   Variances shall not be issued when the variance will make the
structure in violation of other federal, state or local laws, regulations or
ordinances.
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (4)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisance, cause fraud on or victimization of the public,
or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
   (D)   Notice and appeals.
      (1)   Any applicant to whom a variance from this subchapter is granted
shall be given written notice specifying the difference between the base flood
elevation (BFE) and the elevation to which the structure is to be built and a
written statement that the cost of flood insurance will be commensurate with
the increased risk resulting from the reduced reference level elevation. Such
notification shall be maintained with a record of all variance actions.
      (2)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all
appeal actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency and the State of North Carolina upon request.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.017-06 GENERAL STANDARDS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION.
   In all special flood hazard areas, the following provisions are required:
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure.
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements below the regulatory
flood protection elevation shall be constructed with materials and utility
equipment resistant to flood damage.
   (C)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damages.
   (D)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located to prevent water
from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding. These include, but are not limited to, HVAC equipment, water softener
units, bath/kitchen fixtures, ductwork, electric/gas meter panels/boxes,
utility/cable boxes, appliances (washers, dryers, refrigerators, freezers, and
the like), hot water heaters and electric outlets/switches.
   (E)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (F)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters.
   (G)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (H)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a structure
which complies with the provisions of this subchapter shall meet the
requirements of "new construction" as contained in this chapter.
   (I)   Nothing in this subchapter shall prevent the repair, reconstruction or
replacement of a building or structure existing on the effective date of this
chapter and located totally or partially within the floodway, non-encroachment
area or stream setback; provided that the bulk of the building or structure
below the regulatory flood protection elevation in the floodway, non-
encroachment area or stream setback is not increased; and provided that such
repair, reconstruction or replacement meets all of the other requirements of
this chapter.
   (J)   New solid waste disposal facilities, hazardous waste management
facilities, salvage yards and chemical storage facilities shall not be
permitted in special flood hazard areas, except by variance as specified in
this section. A structure or tank for chemical or fuel storage incidental to an
allowed use or to the operation of a water treatment plant or wastewater
treatment facility may be in a special flood hazard area only if the structure
or tank is either elevated or flood-proofed to at least the regulatory flood
protection elevation and certified according to §
154.017-03.
   (K)   All development proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
   (L)   All development proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (M)   All development proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.017-07 SPECIFIC STANDARDS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION.
   In all special flood hazard areas where base flood elevation (BFE) data has
been provided, as set forth in §
154.017-01, the following provisions, in addition to §
154.017-06, are required.
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction or substantial improvement
of any residential structure (including manufactured homes) shall have the
reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the regulatory
flood protection elevation, as defined in §
154.003-02.
   (B)   Non-residential construction.
      (1)   New construction or substantial improvement of any commercial,
industrial, or other non-residential structure shall have the reference level,
including basement, elevated no lower than the regulatory flood protection
elevation, as defined in §
154.003-02.
      (2)   Structures located in A, AO, AE, and A1-30 Zones may be flood-
proofed to the regulatory flood protection elevation in lieu of elevation;
provided that all areas of the structure below the required flood protection
elevation are water-tight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage
of water, using structural components having the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the effect of buoyancy.
      (3)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the standards of this division are satisfied.
      (4)   Such certification shall be provided to the official as set forth
in §
154.017-03, along with the operational and maintenance plans.
   (C)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   New or replacement manufactured homes shall be elevated so that the
reference level of the manufactured home is no lower than the regulatory flood
protection elevation, as defined in §
154.003-02.
      (2)   Manufactured homes shall be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement in
accordance with the State of North Carolina Regulations for Manufactured/Mobile
Homes, 1995 Edition, and any revision thereto adopted by the Commissioner of
Insurance pursuant to G.S. § 143-143.15 or a certified engineered foundation.
Additionally, when the elevation would be met by an elevation of the chassis 36
inches or less above the grade at the site, the chassis shall be supported by
reinforced piers or engineered foundation. When the elevation of the chassis is
above 36 inches in height, an engineering certification is required.
      (3)   All foundation enclosures or skirting shall be in accordance with
division (D) below.
      (4)   An evacuation plan must be developed for evacuation of all
residents of all new, substantially improved or substantially damaged
manufactured home parks or subdivisions located within flood-prone areas. This
plan shall be filed with and approved by the Floodplain Administrator and the
local Emergency Management Coordinator.
      (5)   Elevated building. Enclosed areas, of new construction or
substantially improved structures, which are below the regulatory flood
protection elevation:
         (a)   Shall not be designed or used for human habitation, but shall
only be used for parking of vehicles, building access or limited storage of
maintenance equipment used in connection with the premises. Access to the
enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow for parking of vehicles
(garage door) or limited storage of maintenance equipment (standard exterior
door), or entry to the living area (stairway or elevator). The interior portion
of such enclosed area shall not be partitioned or finished into separate rooms,
except to enclose storage areas;
         (b)   Shall be constructed entirely of flood resistant materials below
the regulatory flood protection elevation; and
         (c)   Shall include, in Zones A, AO, AE, AH and A99, measures to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on walls by allowing for the
entry and exit of flood waters. To meet this requirement, the openings must
either be certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet the
following minimum design criteria:
            1.   Provide a minimum of two openings on different sides of each
enclosed area subject to flooding;
            2.   The total net area of all openings must be at least one square
inch for each square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding;
            3.   If a building has more than one enclosed area, each area must
have openings to allow flood waters to automatically enter and exit;
            4.   The bottom of all required openings shall be no higher than
one foot above the adjacent grade;
            5.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers or other
opening coverings or devices; provided, they permit the automatic flow of flood
waters in both directions; and
            6.   Foundation enclosures made of flexible skirting are not
considered enclosures for regulatory purposes and, therefore, do not require
openings. Masonry or wood underpinning, regardless of structural status, is
considered an enclosure and requires openings as outlined above.
   (D)   Existing buildings and structures. For applications for building
permits to improve buildings and structures, including alterations, movement,
enlargement, replacement, repair, change of occupancy, additions,
rehabilitations, renovations, substantial improvements, repairs of substantial
damage, and any other improvement of or work on such buildings and structures,
the Floodplain Administrator, in coordination with the Building Official,
shall:
      (1)   Estimate the market value, or require the applicant to obtain an
appraisal of the market value prepared by a qualified independent appraiser, of
the building or structure before the start of construction of the proposed
work; in the case of repair, the market value of the building or structure
shall be the market value before the damage occurred and before any repairs are
made;
      (2)   Compare the cost to perform the improvement, the cost to repair a
damaged building to its pre-damaged condition, or the combined costs of
improvements and repairs, if applicable, to the market value of the building or
structure;
      (3)   Determine and document whether the proposed work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage; and
      (4)   Notify the applicant if it is determined that the work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage and that compliance
with the flood resistant construction requirements of the N.C. Building Code
and this chapter is required.
   (E)   Recreational vehicles. Recreational vehicles placed on sites within a
special flood hazard area shall either:
      (1)   Be on site for fewer than 180 consecutive days and be fully
licensed and ready for highway use (a recreational vehicle is ready for highway
use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by
quick disconnect type utilities and has no permanently attached additions); or
      (2)   Meet all the requirements for new construction, including anchoring
and elevation requirements of division (C)(1) and (2) above and §§
154.017-03 and
154.017-04.
   (F)   Temporary non-residential structures. Prior to the issuance of a
floodplain development permit for a temporary structure, applicants must submit
to the Floodplain Administrator a plan for the removal of such structure(s) in
the event of a hurricane, flash flood or other type of flood warning
notification. The following information shall be submitted in writing to the
Floodplain Administrator for review and written approval:
      (1)   A specified time for which the temporary use will be permitted.
Time specified should be minimal with total time on site not to exceed one
year;
      (2)   The name, address, and phone number of the individual responsible
for the removal of the temporary structure;
      (3)   The time frame prior to the event at which a structure will be
removed (i.e., minimum of 72 hours before landfall of a hurricane or
immediately upon flood warning notification);
      (4)   A copy of the contract or other suitable instrument with a trucking
company to ensure the availability of removal equipment when needed; and
      (5)   Designation, accompanied by documentation of a location outside the
special flood hazard area, to which the temporary structure will be moved.
   (G)   Accessory structures. When accessory structures (sheds, detached
garages, and the like) are to be placed within a special flood hazard area, the
following criteria shall be met:
      (1)   Accessory structures shall not be used for human habitation
(including working, sleeping, living, cooking or restroom areas);
      (2)   Accessory structures shall not be temperature controlled;
      (3)   Accessory structures shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential;
      (4)   Accessory structures shall be constructed and placed on the
building site to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of flood waters;
      (5)   Accessory structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance with
this section;
      (6)   All service facilities such as electrical shall be installed in
accordance with this section;
      (7)   Openings to relieve hydrostatic pressure during a flood shall be
provided below regulatory flood protection elevation in conformance with this
section; and
      (8)   An accessory structure with a footprint less than 150 square feet
or that is a minimal investment of $3,000 or less that satisfies the criteria
outlined above does not require an elevation or flood-proofing certificate.
Elevation or flood-proofing certifications are required for all other accessory
structures in accordance with §
154.017-03.
   (H)   Tanks. When gas and liquid storage tanks are to be placed within a
special flood hazard area, the following criteria shall be met:
      (1)   Underground tanks. Underground tanks in flood hazard areas shall be
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads during conditions of the design flood,
including the effects of buoyancy assuming the tank is empty;
      (2)   Above-ground tanks, elevated. Above-ground tanks in flood hazard
areas shall be elevated to or above the regulatory flood protection elevation
on a supporting structure that is designed to prevent flotation, collapse or
lateral movement during conditions of the design flood. Tank-supporting
structures shall meet the foundation requirements of the applicable flood
hazard area;
      (3)   Above-ground tanks, not elevated. Above-ground tanks that do not
meet the elevation requirements of this chapter shall be permitted in flood
hazard areas provided the tanks are designed, constructed, installed, and
anchored to resist all flood-related and other loads, including the effects of
buoyancy, during conditions of the design flood and without release of contents
in the floodwaters or infiltration by floodwaters into the tanks. Tanks shall
be designed, constructed, installed, and anchored to resist the potential
buoyant and other flood forces acting on an empty tank during design flood
conditions; and
      (4)   Tank inlets and vents. Tank inlets, fill openings, outlets and
vents shall be:
         (a)   At or above the regulatory flood protection elevation or fitted
with covers designed to prevent the inflow of floodwater or outflow of the
contents of the tanks during conditions of the design flood; and
         (b)   Anchored to prevent lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic
and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy, during conditions of
the design flood.
   (I)   Other development.
      (1)   Fences in regulated floodways and NEAs that have the potential to
block the passage of floodwaters, such as stockade fences and wire mesh fences,
shall meet the limitations of §
154.017-11.
      (2)   Retaining walls, sidewalks and driveways in regulated floodways and
NEAs. Retaining walls and sidewalks and driveways that involve the placement of
fill in regulated floodways shall meet the limitations of §
154.017-11.
      (3)   Roads and watercourse crossings in regulated floodways and NEAs.
Roads and watercourse crossings, including roads, bridges, culverts, low-water
crossings and similar means for vehicles or pedestrians to travel from one side
of a watercourse to the other side, that encroach into regulated floodways
shall meet the limitations of §
154.017-11.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.017-08 STANDARDS FOR FLOODPLAINS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD
ELEVATIONS (BFE).
   Within the special flood hazard areas established in §
154.017-01, where no base flood elevation (BFE) data has been provided by FEMA,
the following provisions, in addition to §
154.017-07, shall apply:
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements, or new development shall be permitted within 20 feet each side
from top of bank or five times the width of the stream, whichever is greater,
unless certification with supporting technical data by a registered
professional engineer is provided demonstrating that such encroachments shall
not result in any increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the base
flood discharge; and
   (B)   The BFE used in determining the regulatory flood protection elevation
shall be determined based on one of the following criteria set in priority
order:
      (1)   If base flood elevation (BFE) data is available from other sources,
all new construction and substantial improvements within such areas shall also
comply with all applicable provisions of this chapter and shall be elevated or
flood-proofed in accordance with standards in §
154.017-09;
      (2)   All subdivision, manufactured home park and other development
proposals located within special flood hazard areas shall provide base flood
elevation (BFE) data if development is greater than five acres or has more than
50 lots per manufactured home site. Such base flood elevation (BFE) data shall
be adopted by reference per §
154.017-01 to be utilized in implementing this subchapter; or
      (3)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is not available from a
federal, state or other source as outlined above, the reference level shall be
elevated above the highest adjacent grade as required in the regulatory flood
protection elevation definition.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.017-09 STANDARDS FOR RIVERINE FLOODPLAINS WITH BFE BUT WITHOUT
ESTABLISHED FLOODWAYS OR NON-ENCROACHMENT AREAS.
   Along rivers and streams where BFE data is provided but neither floodway nor
non-encroachment areas are identified for a special flood hazard area on the
FIRM or in the FIS report, the following requirements shall apply to all
development within such areas:
   (A)   Standards outlined in §§
154.017-07 and
154.017-08; and
   (B)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements, or other development, shall be permitted unless certification
with supporting technical data by a registered professional engineer is
provided demonstrating that the cumulative effect of the proposed development,
when combined with all other existing and anticipated development, will not
increase the water surface elevation of the base flood more than one foot at
any point within the community.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.017-10 FLOODWAYS AND NON-ENCROACHMENT AREAS.
   (A)   Areas designated as floodways or non-encroachment areas are located
within the special flood hazard areas established in §
154.017-01. The floodways and non-encroachment areas are extremely hazardous
areas due to the velocity of flood waters that have erosion potential and carry
debris and potential projectiles.
   (B)   The following provisions, in addition to standards outlined in §§
154.017-07 and
154.017-08 of this subchapter, shall apply to all development within such
areas:
      (1)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements, and other developments shall be permitted unless it has been
demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance
with standard engineering practice that the proposed encroachment would not
result in any increase in the flood levels during the occurrence of the base
flood. Such certification and technical data shall be presented to the
Floodplain Administrator prior to issuance of floodplain development permit;
      (2)   If division (A) above is satisfied, all development shall comply
with all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of this subchapter; and
      (3)   No manufactured homes shall be permitted, except replacement
manufactured homes in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision;
provided that the following provisions are met:
         (a)   The anchoring and the elevation standards of §
154.017-07; and
         (b)   The no encroachment standard of division (A) above are met.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.017-11 STANDARDS FOR AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (ZONE AO).
   (A)   Located within the special flood hazard areas established in §
154.017-07 are areas designated as shallow flooding areas. These areas have
special flood hazards associated with base flood depths of one to three feet
where a clearly defined channel does not exist and where the path of flooding
is unpredictable and indeterminate. In addition to §
154.017-06, all new construction and substantial improvements of all structures
shall have the reference level elevated to:
      (1)   At least as high as the depth number specified on the Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), in feet, plus a freeboard of one foot, above the
highest adjacent grade; or
      (2)   At least two feet above the highest adjacent grade, plus a
freeboard of one foot if no depth number is specified.
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements of non-residential
structures may, in lieu of elevation, flood-proof to the same depths as listed
above so that any space below that level shall be watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads and effects of buoyancy. Certification is required as per §
154.017-03.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.017-12 WATER SUPPLY WATERSHED PROTECTION.
   (A)   Authority and enactment. The Legislature of the State of North
Carolina has, in G.S. § 153A-121, General Ordinance Authority; in G.S. Ch. 143,
Art. 21, Watershed Protection Rules, and in G.S. Ch. 160D, Art. 9, delegated
the responsibility or directed local governmental units to adopt regulations
designed to promote the public health, safety, and general welfare of its
citizenry. The Surry County Board of Commissioners does hereby ordain and enact
into law section for the purposes of watershed protection within the
jurisdiction of Surry County and the Town of Dobson.
   (B)   Jurisdiction. The provisions of this section shall apply within the
areas designated as a public water supply watershed by the N.C. Environmental
Management Commission and their boundary shall be defined and established as a
Watershed Overlay Zoning District on the "Official Zoning Map of Surry County,
North Carolina" (or the "Zoning Map"), and in §§
154.006. The provisions of this section shall also apply within the land use
jurisdiction of the Town of Dobson, as shown on their official zoning map.
   (C)   Exceptions to applicability.
      (1)   Nothing contained herein shall repeal, modify, or amend any federal
or state law or regulation, or any ordinance or regulation pertaining thereto
except any ordinance which these regulations specifically replace; nor shall
any provision of this chapter amend, modify, or restrict any provisions of the
Code of Ordinances of Surry County; however, the adoption of this section shall
and does amend any and all ordinances, resolutions, and regulations in effect
in Surry County at the time of the adoption of this section that may be
construed to impair or reduce the effectiveness of this section or to conflict
with any of its provisions.
      (2)   It is not intended that these regulations interfere with any
easement, covenants or other agreements between parties. However, if the
provisions of this section impose greater restrictions or higher standards for
the use of a building or land, then the provisions of these regulations shall
control.
      (3)   Existing development, as defined in §
154.003-02, is not subject to the requirements of this section. Expansions to
structures classified as existing development must meet the requirements of
this section; however, the built-upon area of the existing development is not
required to be included in the density calculations.
      (4)   If a non-conforming lot of record is not contiguous to any other
lot owned by the same party, then that lot of record shall not be subject to
the development restrictions of this section if it is developed for single-
family residential purposes. Any lot or parcel created as part of a family
subdivision after the effective date of these rules shall be exempt from these
rules if it is developed for one single-family detached residence and if it is
exempt from this chapter. Any lot or parcel created as part of any other type
of subdivision that is exempt from this chapter shall be subject to the land
use requirements (including impervious surface requirements) of this section,
except that such a lot or parcel must meet the minimum buffer requirements to
the maximum extent practicable.
   (D)   Repeal of previous watershed protection ordinance. This section in
part carries forward by re-enactment some of the Watershed Protection Ordinance
of Surry County, North Carolina (originally adopted by the Board of
Commissioners on October 4, 1993, as amended), and it is not the intention to
repeal but rather to re-enact and continue in force such existing provisions so
that all rights and liabilities that have accrued thereunder are preserved and
may be enforced. All provisions of the Watershed Protection Ordinance which are
not re-enacted herein are hereby repealed. All suits at law or in equity and/or
all prosecutions resulting from the violation of any ordinance provisions
heretofore in effect, which are now pending in any court of this state or of
the United States, shall not be abated or abandoned by reason of the adoption
of this section, but shall be prosecuted to their finality the same as if this
section had not been adopted; and any and all violations of the existing
Watershed Protection Ordinance, prosecutions for which have not yet been
instituted, may be hereafter filed and prosecuted; and nothing in this section
shall be so construed as to abandon, abate or dismiss any litigation or
prosecution now pending and/or which may heretofore have been instituted or
prosecuted.
   (E)   Remedies. In addition to the remedies found in G.S. § 160D-404, the
N.C. Environmental Management Commission may assess civil penalties in
accordance with G.S. § 143-215.6(a). Each day that the violation continues
shall constitute a separate offense.
   (F)   Additional subdivision regulations in watershed areas.
      (1)   General provisions.
         (a)   No subdivision plat of land within the public water supply
watershed shall be filed or recorded by the Register of Deeds until it has been
approved in accordance with the provisions of this section. Likewise, the Clerk
of Superior Court shall not order or direct the recording of a plat if the
recording of such plat would conflict with this section.
         (b)   The approval of a plat does not constitute or effect the
acceptance by Surry County or the public of the dedication of any street or
other ground, easement, right-of-way, public utility line, or other public
facility shown on the plat and shall not be construed to do so.
         (c)   All subdivisions shall conform to the mapping requirements
contained in G.S. § 47-30.
         (d)   All subdivisions of land within the jurisdiction of Surry County
after the effective date of this section require a plat to be prepared,
approved, and recorded pursuant to this section.
      (2)   Subdivision application and review procedures.
         (a)   All proposed subdivisions shall be reviewed prior to recording
with the Register of Deeds by submitting a vicinity map to the Zoning
Administrator to determine whether the property is located within the
designated public water supply watershed. Subdivisions that are not within the
designated watershed area shall not be subject to the provisions of this
section and may be recorded, provided the Zoning Administrator initials the
vicinity map. In addition, subdivisions within a WS-IV watershed are subject to
the provisions of this section only when an erosion and sedimentation plan is
required under the provisions of state law or approved local program.
Subdivisions within the designated watershed area shall comply with the
provisions of this section and all other state and local requirements that may
apply.
         (b)   Subdivision applications shall be filed with the Subdivision
Administrator. The application shall include a completed application form, two
copies of the plat and supporting documentation deemed necessary by the Zoning
Administrator or the Planning Board.
         (c)   The Zoning Administrator shall review the completed application
and shall either approve, approve conditionally or disapprove each application.
The Zoning Administrator shall take final action within 60 days of submission
of the application. The Zoning Administrator or the Planning Board may provide
public agencies an opportunity to review and make recommendations. However,
failure of the agencies to submit their comments and recommendations shall not
delay action within the prescribed time limit. Said public agencies may
include, but are not limited to, the following:
            1.   The district highway engineer regarding proposed streets and
highways;
            2.   The Director of the Health Department regarding proposed
private water system or sewer systems normally approved by the Health
Department;
            3.   The state Division of Water Resources regarding proposed sewer
systems normally approved by the Division, engineered stormwater controls or
stormwater management in general; and
            4.   Any other agency or official designated by the Zoning
Administrator or Planning Board.
         (d)   If the Zoning Administrator approves the application, such
approval shall be indicated on both copies of the plat by the following
certificate and signed by the Zoning Administrator:
 
Certificate of Approval for Recording
I certify that the plat shown hereon complies with §§
154.017 , "Flood Hazard Areas and Water Supply Watershed Protection" of the Surry County Development Ordinance and is approved by the Planning Board for recording in the Register of Deeds
office.
                                                                                               
   Date                  Subdivision Administrator
NOTICE: This property is located within a public water supply watershed - development restrictions may apply.
 
         (e)   If the Zoning Administrator disapproves or approves
conditionally the application, the reasons for such action shall be stated in
writing for the applicant. The subdivider may make changes and submit a revised
plan which shall constitute a separate request for the purpose of review.
         (f)   All subdivision plats shall comply with the requirements for
recording of the Surry County Register of Deeds.
         (g)   The plat shall be recorded within 14 days of approval. The
subdivider shall provide the Zoning Administrator with evidence the plat has
been recorded with the Register of Deeds within five working days.
      (3)   Subdivision standards and required improvements.
         (a)   All lots shall provide adequate building space in accordance
with the development standards contained in division (H) of this section. Lots
which are smaller than the minimum required for residential lots may be
developed using built-upon area criteria in accordance with division (G).
         (b)   For the purpose of calculating built-upon area, total project
area shall include total acreage in the tract on which the project is to be
developed.
         (c)   Stormwater drainage facilities. The application shall be
accompanied by a description of the proposed method of providing storm water
drainage. The subdivider shall provide a drainage system that diverts
stormwater runoff away from surface waters and incorporates best management
practices to minimize water quality impacts.
         (d)   Erosion and sedimentation control. The application shall, where
required, be accompanied by a written statement that a sedimentation and
erosion control plan has been submitted to and approved by the North Carolina
Department of Environmental Quality (NCDEQ).
         (e)   Roads constructed in critical areas and watershed buffer areas.
Where possible, roads should be located outside of critical areas and watershed
buffer areas. Roads constructed within these areas shall be designed and
constructed to minimize their impact on water quality.
      (4)   Construction procedures.
         (a)   No construction or installation of improvements shall commence
in a proposed subdivision until a subdivision plat has been approved.
         (b)   No building or other permits shall be issued for erection of a
structure on any lot not of record at the time of adoption of this section
until all requirements of this section have been met. The subdivider, prior to
commencing any work within the subdivision, shall make arrangements with the
Zoning Administrator to provide for adequate inspection.
      (5)   Penalties for transferring lots in unapproved subdivisions in a
public water supply watershed. Any person who, being the owner or agent of the
owner of any land located within the jurisdiction of Surry County, thereafter,
subdivides his or her land in violation of this section or transfers or sells
land by reference to, exhibition of, or any other use of a plat showing a
subdivision of the land before the plat has been properly approved under this
section and recorded in the office of the Register of Deeds, shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor. The description by metes and bounds in the instrument of
transfer or other document used in the process of selling or transferring land
shall not exempt the transaction from this penalty. Surry County may bring an
action for injunction of any illegal subdivision, transfer, conveyance, or sale
of land, and the court shall, upon appropriate findings, issue an injunction
and order requiring the offending party to comply with this section.
   (G)   Establishment and description of watershed areas. The following
watershed areas are adopted for Surry County. See §§ 154.006 for rules
governing the interpretation of boundaries on the "Official Zoning Map".
      (1)   Watersheds classified as WS-II-CA (Critical Area) are intended to
maintain predominantly undeveloped land use intensity in WS-II and include:
         (a)   Fisher River Watershed Area (FRWS-CA); and
         (b)   Tom's Creek Watershed Area (TCWS-CA).
      (2)   Watershed areas classified as WS-II-BW (Balance of Watershed) are
intended to maintain predominantly undeveloped land use intensity and include:
         (a)   Elkin Creek Watershed Area (ECWS-BW);
         (b)   Fisher River Watershed Area (FRWS-BW); and
         (c)   Tom's Creek Watershed Area (TCWS-BW).
      (3)   Watersheds classified as WS-IV-CA (Critical Area) are intended to
address a moderate to high land use intensity pattern and include: Stewart's
Creek Watershed Area (SCWS-CA).
      (4)   Watersheds classified as WS-IV-PA (Protected Area) are intended to
accommodate moderate to high land use intensity and include:
         (a)   Ararat River Watershed Area (ARWS-PA);
         (b)   Stewart's Creek Watershed Area (SCWS-PA);
         (c)   Yadkin River Watershed Area - King (YRWS-K-PA);
         (d)   Lovill's Creek Watershed Area (LCWS-PA); and
         (e)   Stewart's Creek Watershed Area (SCWS-PA).
   (H)   Watershed development regulations.
      (1)   Applicability.
         (a)   WS-II development regulations apply to all development
activities when located in a WS-II watershed.
         (b)   WS-IV development regulations apply only to new development
activities that require an erosion/sedimentation control plan under state law
or approved local government program when located in a WS-IV watershed.
      (2)   Allowed uses. The following uses are allowed in watershed areas:
         (a)   Agriculture subject to the provisions of the Food Security Act
of 1985, the Food, Agriculture, Conservation and Trade Act of 1990 and the
rules and regulations of the Soil and Water Conservation Commission.
         (b)   Silviculture, subject to the provisions of the Forest Practices
Guidelines Related to Water Quality (15 NCAC 1I.6101-.0209).
         (c)   Residential development.
         (d)   Non-residential development within WS-IV-PA watersheds.
      (3)   Restricted uses for particular watersheds.
         (a)   All critical watersheds and WS-II-BW. Discharging landfills and
sites for land application of residuals or petroleum contaminated soils are
specifically prohibited. New residual application sites and landfills are
specifically prohibited.
         (b)   WS-II-BW. Non-residential development excluding discharging
landfills is allowed in the watersheds. Non-discharging landfills and residuals
application sites are allowed subject to built-upon area restrictions.
      (4)   Table of development regulations. The minimum lot sizes, density,
and built- upon area for each watershed area are indicated in the table below.
All calculations of density (du/ac) and built-upon area (BUA) are defined on a
project-by-project basis. The required minimum lot size for any property in the
watershed shall be established by the following table or the minimum lot size
for the zoning district, whichever is most restrictive.
 
                                                                             Maximum
                                                     Minimum     Single      Allowed
                                                     Permitted   Family      Built-Upon
                                                     Lot Size in Residential (BUA) for
                                                     Acres and   Density in  Residential
Watershed Title and Classification                   Square Feet Dwelling    Other Than
                                                     (Excluding  Units Per   Single-
                                                     Roadway     Acre (DU/   Family,
                                                     Right-of-   AC)         Non-
                                                     Way)                    Residentia
                                                                             l
                                                     2 acres/
                                                     80,000
                                                     square      One
WS-II-CA (Critical Area)                             feet,       dwelling
   Fisher River Watershed Area (FRWS-CA)          except      unit per    6%
   Tom's Creek Watershed Area (TCWS-CA)           within an   two acres
                                                     approved
                                                     cluster
                                                     development
                                                     1 acre/
                                                     40,000
WS-II-BW (Balance of Watershed)                      square      One
   Elkin Creek Watershed Area (ECWS-BW)           feet,       dwelling
   Fisher River Watershed Area (FRWS-BW)          except      unit per    12%
   Tom's Creek Watershed Area (TCWS-BW)           within an   acre (1 du/
                                                     approved    ac)
                                                     cluster
                                                     development
                                                                 1. 2 du/ac;
                                                                 or
                                                                 2. 3 du/ac
                                                                 is allowed
WS-IV-CA (Critical Area)                             1/2 acre,   for
   Stewart's Creek Watershed Area (SCWS-CA)       or 20,000   projects    24%
                                                     square feet without a
                                                                 curb and
                                                                 gutter
                                                                 street
                                                                 system
                                                                 1. Two
                                                     1/2 acre,   dwelling
                                                     or 20,000   units per
                                                     square      acre (2 du/
                                                     feet; or 1/ ac); or     1. 24%; or
WS-IV-PA (Protected Area)                            3 acre for  2. Three    2. 36% for
   Ararat River Watershed Area (ARWS-PA)          projects    dwelling    projects
   Stewart's Creek Watershed Area (SCWS-PA)       without a   units per   without a
   Yadkin River Watershed Area - King (YRWS-K-PA) curb and    acre (3 du/ curb and
   Lovill's Creek Watershed Area (LCWS-PA)        gutter      ac) is      gutter
   Stewart's Creek Watershed Area (SCWS-PA)       street      allowed for street
                                                     system,     projects    system
                                                     except an   without a
                                                     approved    curb and
                                                     cluster     gutter
                                                     development street
                                                                 system
 
   (I)   10/70 Rule. In addition to the development allowed under the table
above, new development and expansions to existing development in non-critical
watersheds may occupy up to 10% of the protected area with up to 70% built-upon
area on a project-by-project basis, when approved as a special intensity
allocation (SIA). The Zoning Administrator is authorized to approve SIA's
consistent with the provisions of this section. Projects must, to the maximum
extent practicable, minimize built-upon surface area, direct stormwater away
from surface waters and incorporate best management practices to minimize water
quality impacts. For the purpose of calculating built-upon area, total project
area shall include total acreage in the tract on which the project is to be
developed.
   (J)   Cluster development. Cluster development is allowed in all watershed
areas under the following conditions:
      (1)   Minimum lot sizes are not applicable to single-family cluster
development projects; however, the total number of lots shall not exceed the
number of lots allowed for single-family detached developments in this
division. Density or built-upon area for the project shall not exceed that
allowed for the critical area, balance of watershed or protected area,
whichever applies;
      (2)   All built-upon area shall be designed and located to minimize
stormwater runoff impact to the receiving waters and minimize concentrated
stormwater flow, maximize the use of sheet flow through vegetated areas, and
maximize the flow length through vegetated areas;
      (3)   Areas of concentrated density development shall be in upland areas
and away, to the maximum extent practicable, from surface waters and drainage
ways;
      (4)   The remainder of the tract shall remain in a vegetated or natural
state. The title to the open space area shall be conveyed to an incorporated
homeowner's association for management; to a local government for preservation
as a park or open space; or to a conservation organization for preservation in
a permanent easement. Where a property association is not incorporated, a
maintenance agreement shall be filed with the property deeds; and
      (5)   Cluster developments that meet the applicable low-density
requirements shall transport stormwater runoff by vegetated conveyances to the
maximum extent practicable.
   (K)   Buffer area requirements in watershed areas.
      (1)   A minimum 100-foot undisturbed natural buffer from each shoreline
is required for all new development activities that exceed the low-density
option. However, a minimum 50-foot undisturbed natural buffer from each
shoreline for all development activities is required along all perennial waters
indicated on the most recent versions of U.S.G.S. 1:24,000 (7.5 minute) scale
topographic maps, as is required in §§
154.015, regardless of the density option chosen. Desirable artificial
streambank or shoreline stabilization is permitted.
      (2)   No new development is allowed in the buffer except for water
dependent structures, other structures such as flag poles, signs, and security
lights which result in only diminutive increases in impervious area and public
projects such as road crossings and greenways where no practical alternative
exists. These activities should minimize built-upon surface area, direct runoff
away from the surface waters and maximize the utilization of stormwater best
management practices.
   (L)   Application of regulations.
      (1)   No building or land shall hereafter be used, and no development
shall take place except in conformity with the regulations herein specified for
the watershed area in which it is located.
      (2)   No area required for the purpose of complying with the provisions
of this division shall be included in the area required for another building.
      (3)   If a use or class of use is not specifically indicated as being
allowed in a watershed area, such use or class of use is prohibited.
   (M)   Existing development. Existing development as defined in this chapter
may be continued and maintained subject to the provisions provided herein.
Expansions to structures classified as existing development must meet the
requirements of this division; however, the built-upon area of the existing
development is not required to be included in the built-upon area calculations.
      (1)   Existing uses of land. This category consists of uses existing at
the time of adoption of this section where such use of the land is not
permitted to be established hereafter in the watershed area in which it is
located. Such uses may be continued except as follows:
         (a)   When such use of land has been changed to an allowed use, it
shall not thereafter revert to any prohibited use;
         (b)   Such use of land shall be changed only to an allowed use; and
         (c)   When such use ceases for a period of at least one year, it shall
not be reestablished, unless allowed under the provisions of §§
154.005.
      (2)   Reconstruction of buildings or built-upon areas. Any existing
building or built-upon area not in conformance with the restrictions of this
division that has been damaged or removed may be repaired and/or reconstructed,
except that there are no restrictions on single-family residential development,
provided:
         (a)   Repair or reconstruction is initiated within 12 months and
completed within two years of such damage; and
         (b)   The total amount of space devoted to built-upon area may not be
increased unless stormwater control that equals or exceeds the previous
development is provided.
   (N)   Watershed protection permit.
      (1)   Except where a single-family residence is constructed on a lot
deeded prior to the effective date of this section, no building or built-upon
area shall be erected, moved, enlarged or structurally altered, nor shall any
building permit be issued nor shall any change in the use of any building or
land be made until a watershed protection permit has been issued by the Zoning
Administrator. No watershed protection permit shall be issued except in
conformity with the provisions of section.
      (2)   Watershed protection permit applications shall be filed with the
Zoning Administrator. The application shall include a completed application
form and a site plan showing all existing and/or proposed impervious surfaces
(structures, driveways, and the like) along with built-upon calculations and
drainage plans that divert stormwater runoff away from surface waters and
incorporate best management practices to minimize water quality impacts. The
Zoning Administrator may waive the plan requirements of this section if deemed
appropriate.
      (3)   Prior to issuance of a watershed protection permit, the Zoning
Administrator may consult with qualified personnel for assistance to determine
if the application meets the requirements of this chapter.
      (4)   A watershed protection permit shall expire if a building permit or
watershed protection occupancy permit for such use is not obtained by the
applicant within 12 months from the date of issuance.
   (O)   Building permit required. No permit required under the North Carolina
State Building Code shall be issued for any activity for which a watershed
protection permit is required until that permit has been issued.
   (P)   Watershed protection occupancy permit.
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator shall issue a watershed protection
occupancy permit certifying that all requirements of this division have been
met prior to the occupancy or use of a building hereafter erected, altered or
moved and/or prior to the change of use of any building or land.
      (2)   A watershed protection occupancy permit, either for the whole or
part of a building, shall be applied for concurrently with the application for
a watershed protection permit and shall be issued or denied within ten days
following the erection or structural alterations of the building.
      (3)   When only a change in the use of land or existing building occurs,
the Zoning Administrator shall issue a watershed protection occupancy permit
certifying that all requirements of this section have been met coincident with
the watershed protection permit.
      (4)   If the watershed protection occupancy permit is denied, the Zoning
Administrator shall notify the applicant in writing stating the reasons for
denial.
      (5)   No building or structure which has been erected, moved, or
structurally altered may be occupied until the Zoning Administrator has
approved and issued a watershed protection occupancy permit.
   (Q)   Public health and water quality regulations.
      (1)   No activity, situation, structure, or land use shall be allowed
within a watershed area which poses a threat to water quality and the public
health, safety and welfare. Such conditions may arise from inadequate on-site
sewage systems which utilize ground absorption; inadequate sedimentation and
erosion control measures; the improper storage or disposal of junk, trash or
other refuse within a buffer area; the improper management of stormwater
runoff; or any other situation found to pose a threat to water quality.
      (2)   Abatement.
         (a)   The Zoning Administrator shall monitor land use activities
within the watershed areas to identify situations that may pose a threat to
public health or water quality.
         (b)   The Zoning Administrator shall report all findings to the
Planning Board. The Zoning Administrator may consult with any public agency or
official and request recommendations.
         (c)   Where the Planning Board finds a threat to water quality and the
public health, safety and welfare, the Board shall institute any appropriate
action or proceeding to restrain, correct or abate the condition and/or
violation.
   (R)   Administration, enforcement, and appeals.
      (1)   Zoning Administrator duties for watershed protection. It shall be
the duty of the Zoning Administrator to administer and enforce the provisions
of this section as follows:
         (a)   The Zoning Administrator shall issue watershed protection
permits and watershed protection occupancy permits as prescribed herein. A
record of all permits shall be kept on file and shall be available for public
inspection during regular office hours of the Administrator;
         (b)   The Zoning Administrator shall serve as clerk to the Planning
Board;
         (c)   The Zoning Administrator shall keep records of all amendments to
this subchapter and shall provide copies of all amendments upon adoption to the
Water Quality Section of the Division of Water Resources;
         (d)   The Zoning Administrator shall keep records of the
jurisdiction's use of the provision that a maximum of 10% of the non-critical
area of WS-II and WS-III watersheds and, for local governments that do not
choose to incorporate the high-density option, 10% of the protected area of WS-
IV watersheds may be developed with new development at a maximum of 70% built-
upon surface area. Records for each watershed shall include the total acres of
non-critical watershed area, total acres eligible to be developed under this
option, total acres approved for this development option, and individual
records for each project with the following information: location, number of
developed acres, type of land use and stormwater management plan (if
applicable);
         (e)   The Zoning Administrator is granted the authority to administer
and enforce the provisions of this section, exercising in the fulfillment of
his or her responsibility the full police power of Surry County. The Zoning
Administrator, or his or her duly authorized representative, may enter any
building, structure, or premises, as provided by law, to perform any duty
imposed upon him or her by this section; and
         (f)   The Zoning Administrator shall keep a record of variances to
this section. This record shall be submitted for each calendar year to the
Water Quality Section of the Division of Environmental Management on or before
January 1 of the following year and shall provide a description of each project
receiving a variance and the reasons for granting the variance.
      (2)   Appeal from the Zoning Administrator. Any order, requirement,
decision or determination made by the Zoning Administrator may be appealed to
and decided by the Board of Adjustment as described in §§
154.010 and G.S. § 160D-705(b).
   (S)   Changes and amendments to this section. Under no circumstances shall
the Board of Commissioners adopt such amendments, supplements, or changes that
would cause this section to violate the watershed protection rules as adopted
by the N.C. Environmental Management Commission. All amendments must be filed
with the N.C. Division of Environmental Quality, N.C. Division of Environmental
Health, and the N.C. Division of Community Assistance.
   (T)   Environmental Management Commission review of variances. If a variance
application is submitted, and if following a public hearing the Board of
Adjustment concurs that it is in favor of granting the variance, the Board
shall prepare a preliminary record of the hearing for the Environmental
Management Commission with all deliberate speed prior to holding a vote.
      (1)   The preliminary record of the hearing shall include:
         (a)   The variance application;
         (b)   The hearing notices;
         (c)   The evidence presented;
         (d)   Motions, offers of proof, objections to evidence, and rulings on
them;
         (e)   Proposed findings and exceptions; and
         (f)   The proposed decision, including all conditions proposed to be
added to the permit.
      (2)   (a)   The preliminary record shall be sent to the Environmental
Management Commission for its review and a decision as follows, which the Board
of Adjustment shall adhere to. If the Commission concludes from the preliminary
record that the variance qualifies as a major variance and that:
            1.   The property owner can secure no reasonable return from, nor
make any practical use of the property unless the proposed variance is granted;
and
            2.   The variance, if granted, will not result in a serious threat
to the water supply, then the Commission shall approve the variance as proposed
or approve the proposed variance with conditions and stipulations. The
Commission shall prepare a Commission decision and send it to the Board of
Adjustment. If the Commission approves the variance as proposed, the Board
shall prepare a final decision granting the proposed variance. If the
Commission approves the variance with conditions and stipulations, the Board
shall prepare a final decision, including such conditions and stipulations,
granting the proposed variance.
         (b)   If the Commission concludes from the preliminary record that the
variance qualifies as a major variance and that:
            1.   The property owner can secure a reasonable return from or make
a practical use of the property without the variance; or
            2.   The variance, if granted, will result in a serious threat to
the water supply, then the Commission shall deny approval of the variance as
proposed. The Commission shall prepare a Commission decision and send it to the
Board of Adjustment. The Board shall prepare a final decision denying the
variance as proposed.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.017-13 STATE ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY FOR WATER SUPPLY WATERSHED.
   The Environmental Management Commission may take any appropriate preventive
or remedial enforcement action authorized under G.S. § 143-214.5 against any
person who violates any minimum statewide water supply watershed management
requirement.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.018 MOUNTAIN RIDGE PROTECTION.
§ 154.018-01 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as "The Mountain Ridge
Protection Ordinance of the County of Surry, North Carolina".
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.018-02 PURPOSE.
   The Board of Commissioners of Surry County finds that the construction of
tall buildings or structures on mountain ridges may cause unusual problems and
hazards to the residents of and visitors to the mountains. The purpose of this
subchapter therefore is to regulate the construction of tall buildings or
structures on mountain ridges to ensure that: adequate water supply is
available to such building or structure, the disposing of sewage will not
infringe on the ground water rights or endanger the health of those persons
living at lower elevations, adequate fire protection can be made available,
such buildings or structures will not be hazards to air navigation or to
persons on the ground, and such tall buildings will not detract from the
natural beauty of the mountains.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.018-03 AUTHORITY AND ENACTMENT.
   In pursuance of the authority conferred by G.S. Ch. 113A, Art. 14 and G.S. §
160D-924, the Board of Commissioners of the County of Surry, North Carolina,
hereby ordains and enacts into law these sections.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.018-04 JURISDICTION.
   (A)   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to the construction of
tall buildings or structures, as defined in §
154.003-02, on protected mountain ridges within Surry County and outside the
territorial jurisdiction of any municipality within Surry County. This
subchapter may also apply to any or all areas lying within the territorial
jurisdiction of any municipality within Surry County if the municipality, by
resolution, requests such application.
   (B)   Protected mountain ridges are further identified by the map entitled
"Identification of Protected Mountain Ridges in the County of Surry", which is
on file in the office of the Enforcement Officer and with the Register of Deeds
of Surry County.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.018-05 INTERPRETATION AND DEFINITIONS.
   See §
154.003-02 for definitions.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.018-06 VIOLATIONS.
   Whenever, by the provisions of this subchapter, the performance of any act
is prohibited, or whenever any regulation, dimension or limitation is imposed
on the construction, reconstruction, alteration or expansion of any building or
structure, a failure to comply with such provisions of this subchapter shall
constitute a separate violation and a separate offense.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.018-07 SEVERABILITY.
   Should any section or provision of this subchapter be decided by a court of
competent jurisdiction to be unconstitutional or invalid, such decision shall
not affect the validity of the subchapter as a whole or any part thereof other
than the part as declared to the unconstitutional or invalid.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.018-08 CONFLICT WITH OTHER LAWS.
   In interpreting and applying the provisions of this subchapter, said
provisions shall be held to be the minimum requirements for promoting the
intent of this subchapter. This subchapter is not intended to interfere with,
abrogate or annul other rules, regulations, or ordinances of the county.
However, if the requirements of this subchapter are at variance with the
requirements of any other lawfully adopted rules, regulations, or ordinances of
the County of Surry, the more restrictive or that imposing the higher standards
shall govern.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.018-09 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter first took effect and was in force on 12-19-1983.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.018-10 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Permits. No tall building or structure as defined by §
154.003-02 shall be constructed, altered, reconstructed, or expanded on any
protected mountain ridge until a permit for such construction, alteration,
reconstruction or expansion has been obtained as provided in this subchapter.
No permit shall be issued that would not comply with the provisions of this
subchapter.
   (B)   Rezoning required. Any property proposed for development subject to
the provisions of this subchapter shall be rezoned to an appropriate
conditional zoning district meeting or exceeding the standards below. The
approval of the conditional zoning district shall constitute a mountain ridge
protection permit. In addition to the application requirements below,
conditional zoning requests for properties subject to the provisions of this
subchapter shall meet the application, notice and approval requirements for
conditional zoning in accordance with §§
154.009.
   (C)   Additional requirements for conditional zoning; application.
      (1)   The following shall be submitted in addition to the submittal
requirements for conditional zoning in §§
154.009:
         (a)   Title block containing the name of the development, name of
owner, name of developer, scale and north arrow;
         (b)   Existing site conditions, including contours, water courses, and
any unique natural or man-made features such as vegetation and ground cover;
         (c)   Exact boundary lines of the property containing the proposed
construction;
         (d)   Specific location and use of all existing and proposed buildings
or structures;
         (e)   Plans of proposed water and sewer layouts (excluding individual
wells and septic systems) shall show the location of lines, line sizes,
approximate location of manholes, pumps, hydrants, force mains and the
connection of the proposed system with existing systems;
         (f)   Location of existing and proposed easements and rights-of-way;
         (g)   The proposed treatment of the perimeter of the development,
including materials and/or techniques such as screens, fences, and walls;
         (h)   Information on adjacent land areas, including land use, zoning
classifications, public facilities, and any unique natural features;
         (i)   Existing and proposed road access to and within the development,
showing rights-of-way and pavement widths. Notation of the proposed ownership
of the street system (public or private); and
         (j)   A front and side elevation profile, drawn to scale, of all
existing and proposed buildings.
      (2)   In addition to the development plan, all applications for permits
shall be accompanied by the following documentation:
         (a)   If a street is to be dedicated for public use, a letter of
approval for the proposed street plan shall be submitted indicating that street
plans have been reviewed and approved in the following manner:
            1.   Street plans shall be reviewed and approved by the North
Carolina Department of Transportation (or whatever public agency is to accept
the dedication and assume maintenance of the streets);
            2.   Street plans shall contain all data, calculations, and
information as required by the North Carolina Department of Transportation (or
other appropriate public agency); and
            3.   The developer shall meet all other requirements of G.S. § 136-
102.6 if the development constitutes a subdivision;
         (b)   If the proposed water and/or sewer system is to connect onto an
existing system, a letter of approval from the owner of said existing system
for such connection shall be submitted. In addition, a letter of approval from
the appropriate regulatory agency shall be submitted indicating that the
proposed connection will not cause any problems related to overloads,
discharges, or shortages on said existing system;
         (c)   If individual wells and/or septic tanks are to be utilized, a
written statement from the Surry County Health Department indicating approval
of wells and/or septic tanks for use in the development shall be submitted;
         (d)   If an on-site package water and/or sewer treatment system is to
be utilized, a letter of approval from the North Carolina Department of Human
Resources and/or the North Carolina Department of Natural Resources and
Community Development shall be submitted;
         (e)   Documentation of an approved sedimentation and erosion control
plan shall be submitted where required;
         (f)   A letter of approval from the Surry County Department of
Emergency Medical Services and appropriate fire department indicating the
adequacy of the development facilities for emergency medical and fire services.
Such determination shall take into consideration the street access, water
pressure and availability, building height and any other relevant factors; and
         (g)   A letter from the applicant indicating the land in the proposed
development is under single ownership or management by the applicant or proper
assurances (legal title or execution of a binding sales agreement) shall be
provided indicating that the development can be successfully completed by the
applicant.
      (3)   Sufficient copies of all application materials shall be submitted
in quantities as may be required by the enforcement officer for his or her
review procedures.
   (D)   Additional considerations and procedures for conditional zoning
application. The following shall be taken into account in addition to the
considerations for conditional zoning in §§
154.009:
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator shall review the application for
compliance with the provisions of this subchapter. Any application not
containing all information required in this subchapter shall be returned to the
applicant for correction and resubmission. After the Zoning Administrator has
determined the application contains all information required in this
subchapter, he or she shall have 30 days to recommend to the Planning Board
either approval or disapproval of the application. In making his or her
recommendation, the Zoning Administrator may include any appropriate conditions
he or she feels should be placed on the issuance of the permit.
      (2)   First consideration of the application shall be at the next
regularly scheduled meeting of the Planning Board after receiving the
recommendations of the Zoning Administrator. The Planning Board shall act on
the application at its first consideration or within 30 days of its first
consideration.
      (3)   The Board of Commissioners shall not approve an application until
it has determined that the intent of this subchapter has not been violated. In
making such determination, the Board of Commissioners shall not approve the
issuance of a permit if the application for said permit fails to provide for:
         (a)   Sewage treatment that meets the requirements of a public
wastewater disposal system that it discharges into, or that is a part of a
separate system that meets applicable local, state, and federal standards;
         (b)   A water supply system that is adequate for fire protection,
drinking water and other projected system needs; that meets the requirements of
any public water supply system that it interconnects with; and that meets any
applicable local, state, and federal standards, requirements and approvals;
         (c)   Compliance with applicable local, state, and federal
sedimentation control regulations and requirements; and
         (d)   Adequate consideration to protecting the natural beauty of the
mountains as determined by the Board of Commissioners including such
considerations as:
            1.   Protection of existing vegetation;
            2.   Limitations on grading to prevent erosion or major scarring of
the land;
            3.   Preservation of scenic views; and
            4.   Landscaping the site to restore the natural setting.
            5.   In making such determination, the Board of Commissioners may
impose any additional conditions on the permit it deems necessary. Pursuant to
G.S. § 113(A)-208(c), permits may be conditioned to ensure proper operation, to
avoid or mitigate any of the problems or hazards recited in the findings of
G.S. § 113A-207, to protect natural areas or the public health, and to prevent
badly designed, unsafe or inappropriate construction.
      (4)   If the application is approved by the Board of Commissioners, such
approval shall be provided to the applicant in the form of a letter referencing
the approved conditional zoning case and including all conditions specified
with the approval of the zoning. A copy of the approved permit shall be filed
with the Register of Deeds of Surry County. One copy of said letter shall be
sent to the applicant, one copy shall be sent to the Zoning Administrator and
one copy shall be retained by the Board of Commissioners. Said letter shall be
sent within five days of approval of the application. Upon receipt of the
letter indicating approval, the Zoning Administrator shall issue a permit for
construction. Said letter shall contain a listing of all conditions imposed on
the issuance of the permit.
      (5)   The Board of Commissioners determination of consistency and
statement of reasonableness given with the conditional rezoning denial shall be
prepared. One copy of said letter shall be sent to the applicant, one copy
shall be sent to the Zoning Administrator and one copy shall be retained by the
Board of Commissioners. Said letter shall be sent within five days of
disapproval of the conditional rezoning application.
   (E)   Development permits. The issuance of any development permits
subsequent to the conditional rezoning approval shall be subject to the
conditions imposed by the Board of Commissioners as authorized in this
subchapter and as stated in the letter approving the application. If no
construction has begun within 12 months after the date of approval of the
zoning, the subsequent development permits shall expire. Construction shall be
deemed to have begun when any grading or excavation has commenced. If a permit
expires, it shall not be reissued, except under the provisions outlined in this
subchapter for all permits.
   (F)   Application to existing buildings. The provision of this subchapter
shall apply to buildings that existed upon the effective date of this
subchapter as follows:
      (1)   No reconstruction, alteration or expansion may aggravate or
intensify a violation by an existing building or structure that did not comply
with this subchapter upon its effective date.
      (2)   No reconstruction, alteration or expansion may cause or create a
violation by an existing building or structure that did comply with this
subchapter upon its effective date.
   (G)   Enforcement and penalties. (Pursuant to G.S. § 113A-211)
      (1)   Enforcement Officer. The Zoning Administrator shall be the
Enforcement Officer for the requirements of this subchapter.
      (2)   Violations of this subchapter shall be subject to the same civil
penalties and equitable remedies as provided by G.S. § 160D-404.
      (3)   Any person injured by a violation of this subchapter or any person
who resides in the county in which the violation occurred may bring a civil
action against the person alleged to be in violation. The action may seek:
         (a)   Injunctive relief; or
         (b)   An order enforcing the provision violated; or
         (c)   Damages caused by the violation; or
         (d)   Both damages and injunctive relief; or
         (e)   Both damages and an enforcement order; or
         (f)   Both an enforcement order and injunctive relief.
      (4)   If actual damages as found by the court or jury in suits brought
under this division are $500 or less, the plaintiff shall be awarded double the
amount of actual damages; if the amount of actual damages as found by the court
or jury is greater than $500, the plaintiff shall receive damages in the amount
so found. Injunctive relief or an enforcement order under this division may be
based upon a threatened injury, an actual injury, or both.
      (5)   Civil actions under this division shall be brought in the general
court of justice of the county in which the alleged violation occurred. The
court, in issuing any final order in any action brought pursuant to this
section may award costs of litigation, including reasonable attorney and
expert-witness fees, to any party, whenever it determines that such an award is
appropriate. The court may, if a temporary restraining order or preliminary
injunction is sought, require the filing of a bond or equivalent security, the
amount of such bond or security to be determined by the court. Nothing in this
section shall restrict any right which any person or class of persons may have
under the common law or under any statute to seek injunctive or other relief.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.019 MANUFACTURED HOMES AND MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS.
§ 154.019-01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide minimum standards of planning,
design, construction, operation and maintenance of manufactured homes and
manufactured home parks and to provide for the health, safety, and welfare of
the citizens of Surry County.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.019-02 GENERAL MANUFACTURED HOME DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   The following shall apply to all manufactured homes, whether located on
individual parcels or located within a manufactured home park. See §§
154.017 for standards for flood hazard reduction applicable to manufactured
homes.
   (A)   Skirting.
      (1)   All manufactured homes shall be skirted, to completely conceal the
space between the floor elevation and the grade beneath the unit.
      (2)   In the RA and MHP Zoning Districts, the type of skirting material
required shall be:
         (a)   Masonry; or
         (b)   A non-flammable material commercially fabricated for specific
use as manufactured home skirting or for general use as an external building
siding material.
      (3)   The enclosed space shall be ventilated in accordance with State of
North Carolina Regulations for Manufactured Homes recommendations for skirting.
      (4)   Skirting shall always be maintained and kept in compliance. The
continued use with normal repair and maintenance of non-conforming skirting is
allowable under these provisions; however, when non-conforming skirting is
replaced, the new skirting material shall comply with this section.
      (5)   All skirting, porches, and decks shall be completed and inspected
before a certificate of occupancy is issued by the Inspections Department.
Therefore, until the certificate of occupancy is issued, occupancy of a
manufactured home and electrical connections shall not be permitted.
   (B)   Abandoned manufactured home removal requirements. An abandoned
manufactured home is defined as one that has not been occupied within six
months and is valued at below 50% of its tax value. In such cases, these homes
shall be removed from the lot or park and disposed of, unless the owner takes
corrective action immediately so that the definition of "abandoned manufactured
home" no longer applies to the manufactured home in question. Corrective action
shall be taken consistent with §§
154.005. This section shall apply to all manufactured homes located in the
county's jurisdiction, even those in existence prior to 12-19-2005.
   (C)   Manufactured homes utilized as accessory structures prohibited.
Manufactured homes proposed to be used as accessory structures, storage
buildings, private workshops, or the like, are expressly prohibited. According
to North Carolina Building Code, the only appropriate use of a manufactured
home is as a residential dwelling.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
§ 154.019-03 MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS; APPLICATION; MEETINGS; PLAN.
   (A)   General. Before developing a manufactured home park, the applicant
must apply for and receive a special use permit. The applicant shall prepare an
application for review by the Board of Adjustment and other applicable
government agencies that complies with division (B) below, rather than the
requirements found in §§ 154.010. Before developing or expanding a manufactured
home park, the property or parcel shall be zoned MHP (Manufactured Home Park),
as this is the only zoning district in which this type of use is allowed.
Manufactured home parks shall comply with the provisions set forth in this
subchapter, whether the subject is new development, expansion, operational or
maintenance.
   (B)   Manufactured home park development application. The following shall be
adhered to when preparing and applying for a special use permit for a
manufactured home park:
      (1)   Required meeting with Zoning Administrator. Prior to submittal of
an application for a special use permit to develop a manufactured home park,
the owner and/or developer shall schedule a meeting with the Zoning
Administrator to discuss the proposed development. The Zoning Administrator
shall have discretion to invite additional county officials to the meeting.
      (2)   Boundary survey. The developer shall have prepared by a registered
land surveyor a boundary survey, which shall meet all requirements for
recordation in the office of the Register of Deeds.
      (3)   Detailed development plan. The application shall contain a detailed
development plan meeting the requirements of this division on a sheet not less
than 18 inches by 24 inches drawn at a scale of sufficient size to accurately
and clearly show all required information dictated by this subchapter including
additional information as required by division (B)(4) below. The plan shall be
recorded, with, or as part of, the boundary survey as required by division (C)
below. Approved detailed development plans for manufactured home parks must be
recorded in the office of the Register of Deeds within six months following
approval or lose approval status. The detailed development plan shall include:
         (a)   The boundary of the property to be developed;
         (b)   The names and addresses of adjoining property owners;
         (c)   The location of existing streets, buildings, railroads,
transmission lines, sewers, bridges, culverts, drainpipes, and easements, to
the extent that these may be ascertained from a field inspection of the
property;
         (d)   Municipal boundaries, extraterritorial boundary lines, township
lines, zoning district classifications;
         (e)   The name of the fire district serving the property;
         (f)   Basic geographic information about the site, including general
topography, proximity to streams, susceptibility to flooding as determined from
available floodplain maps, soil characteristics and other characteristics which
may impose restrictions on the development of the site;
         (g)   If the park is to be developed in stages, this should be
designated on the area map;
         (h)   Name of owner, surveyor, and land planner;
         (i)   Scaled vicinity map inset showing location of park in
relationship to nearby towns, communities, and roads;
         (j)   Boundaries of tract to be developed shown with bearings and
distances as established by the boundary survey;
         (k)   Site data table, including total square feet in common
recreation area, total number of home sites, lineal and square feet of streets,
and total acreage;
         (l)   Proposed streets, street names, sidewalks, rights-of-way,
pavement widths and approximate grades. There shall be one unrestricted access
to a state road for each manufactured home park and said road shall only serve
one manufactured home park, as shown on the application. The Board of
Adjustment may allow multiple accesses to the park upon being presented with
evidence supporting this need;
         (m)   The location of proposed utilities showing connections to
existing systems or plans for individual or public water supply, sewage
disposal, storm drainage, and park lighting. An alternative well site as
determined by North Carolina Department of Environmental Quality (NCDEQ) and
room for repair of the septic tank system as specified by the Health Department
shall be designated;
         (n)   Other proposed rights-of-way or easements: location, widths, and
purposes;
         (o)   Proposed setback lines from property boundaries;
         (p)   Proposed manufactured home spaces. All spaces shall have
boundary dimensions shown and shall have permanently assigned site numbers
placed at the driveway or parking area for each lot. All spaces shall have the
proposed location of the manufactured home pads which are designed to turn
water flow underneath the building as defined in the North Carolina State
Building Code;
         (q)   Proposed common recreational areas;
         (r)   Title, date, north arrow, and graphic scale. If proceeding under
cluster development option, title shall so indicate;
         (s)   Proposed storm water drainage system, as needed;
         (t)   Watershed designation;
         (u)   Proposed plan for park lighting; and
         (v)   Any additional requirements found elsewhere in this chapter.
      (4)   Additional information. In addition to the detailed development
plan, the application shall contain the following:
         (a)   A copy of any park regulations which the owner proposes to use;
         (b)   A letter from the N.C. Division of Highways Engineer indicating
that his or her office has reviewed the area map and development plan and
specifying any problems such as highway access or right-of-way encroachments
which need to be resolved prior to approval of the application;
         (c)   A copy of the Health Department's septic system permits, or
other evidence that the proposed septic systems have been approved;
         (d)   A letter from the Surry County Fire Marshal indicating that he
has reviewed the project with the Chief of the Volunteer Fire Department
serving the project area and the Director of Emergency Medical Services, and
stating any problems which need to be resolved prior to approval of the
application;
         (e)   Proposed sedimentation control measures approved by the NCDEQ;
         (f)   Proposed landscaping and garbage containment plans; and
         (g)   Certificates or letters of approval from appropriate state
agencies if the developer is proposing to install a package waste treatment
plant or a public or community water system.
      (5)   Submission of application to the Board of Adjustment. The owner
shall submit the following to the Board of Adjustment:
         (a)   One copy of the complete application, including the area map,
the boundary survey, the detailed development plan and required letters and
documents; and
         (b)   Fourteen additional copies of the detailed development plan and
any other requested copies.
      (6)   Board of Adjustment action.
         (a)   The Development Services Director shall set and advertise a date
and time for a quasi-judicial public hearing before the Board of Adjustment as
provided by G.S. § 160D-406. Notice of such hearing shall be published in a
newspaper of general local circulation at least 15 days before the date set for
the public hearing. At the public hearing, all interested parties shall be
permitted to testify in sworn testimony. At least ten days, but not more than
25 days, prior to the hearing, all adjacent property owners and others required
by G.S. § 160D-406 shall be mailed a notice of the hearing, via certified mail.
The person mailing notices shall certify that such notices have been mailed.
Cost of postage shall be reimbursed through fees set by the Board of County
Commissioners. In addition, the property for which the conditional use is
proposed shall be posted at least ten days, but not more than 25 days before
the public hearing.
         (b)   The Board of Adjustment shall consider the application and
comments at the public hearing and may grant or deny the special use permit for
the manufactured home park. If the special use permit is granted, the Board of
Adjustment shall use as a guide the specific conditions outlined in this
subchapter for each use proposed. In addition, the Board of Adjustment shall
find:
            1.   The use will not materially endanger the public health or
safety, if located according to the plan submitted and approved;
            2.   The use meets all required conditions and specifications;
            3.   The use will not substantially injure the value of adjoining
or abutting property, or that the use is a public necessity; and
            4.   The location and character of the use, if developed according
to the plan as submitted and approved, will be in harmony with the area in
which it is to be located and in general conformity with the Surry County Land
Use Plan.
         (c)   In granting the special use permit, the Board of Adjustment may
designate only those conditions, in addition to those stated herein, which, in
its opinion and with the written consent of the applicant or landowner, assure
that the use and its proposed location will be harmonious with the area and
with the spirit of this chapter and clearly in keeping with the public welfare.
All such additional conditions shall be entered in the minutes of the meeting
at which the special use permit is granted, on the special use permit itself,
and on the approved plans submitted therewith. All specific conditions shall
run with the land and shall be binding on the original applications for the
special use permit, their heirs, successors, and assigns.
         (d)   When deciding special use permits, the Board of Adjustment shall
follow quasi-judicial procedures. No vote greater than a majority vote of the
entire Board membership shall be required for the Board of Adjustment to issue
a special use permit. Vacant positions on the Board and members of the Board
who are disqualified from voting on a quasi-judicial matter shall not be
considered "members of the Board" for calculation of the requisite majority.
   (C)   Filing of documents.
      (1)   Following approval of the special use permit by the Board of
Adjustment, the owner shall record the boundary survey along with the detailed
development plan with the Register of Deeds. Both documents must contain the
signature block of the Board of Adjustment Chairperson.
      (2)   A copy of the complete application shall be kept on file, as a
public record, in the Development Services Department.
   (D)   Manufactured home park dimensional requirements.
      (1)   Each manufactured home park shall be developed on a tract not less
than two acres in size and shall contain at least two manufactured home spaces
available at first occupancy.
      (2)   Manufactured home parks shall not exceed one manufactured home
space per 30,000 square feet or 0.69 acres of land area. This limitation shall
apply without regard to the method of providing water and sewer service to the
individual manufactured home units. In some cases, the method of providing
water and sewer service to the individual manufactured home units may require a
space greater than that provided for in this division by the Surry County
Health Department.
      (3)   Notwithstanding the above, in no case shall the built-upon
requirements of a manufactured home park located in a designated water supply
watershed exceed the built-upon limitations for the watershed as shown in this
chapter. For manufactured home parks, when calculating lot size and built upon
limitations, the most restrictive shall apply.
      (4)   Likewise, in no case shall the development of a manufactured home
park located in the Mitchell River Outstanding Resource Water (ORW) area exceed
the standards for the ORW as promulgated by the N.C. Environmental Management
Commission. For manufactured home parks, when calculating lot size and built
upon limitations, the most restrictive shall apply. Unless otherwise set out in
this chapter, these are the minimum development standards.
      (5)   Each manufactured home lot or space shall consist of a minimum of
30,000 square feet or 0.69 acres and shall have a minimum mean lot width of 100
feet. Each manufactured home space shall be occupied by only one manufactured
home at any time. Each manufactured home shall have its street address mounted
on the manufactured home in accordance with
Ch. 151 of the Surry County Code of Ordinances.
      (6)   No manufactured home shall be located closer than:
         (a)   Fifty feet to a public street right-of-way;
         (b)   Thirty feet to the exterior boundary of the park;
         (c)   Thirty feet to another manufactured home or dwelling; and
         (d)   Twenty-five feet to the travel way of an internal street in the
park.
      (7)   Distances shall be measured from the outermost part of the unit
including tongue or towing apparatus, porches, steps, or other attachments.
      (8)   The developer shall grade each manufactured home space to provide
proper drainage from the home site as defined in the North Carolina State
Building Code.
      (9)   Each manufactured home unit shall be secured by adequate
foundations, tiedowns and anchors to conform to the State of North Carolina
Regulations for Manufactured Homes.
      (10)   All manufactured homes shall have steps and porches constructed at
all required exits from the manufactured home to conform to the State of North
Carolina Regulations for Manufactured Homes.
   (E)   Cluster manufactured home park dimensional requirements. Clustering
shall be permitted upon submission of an acceptable open space preservation
plan as physically indicated on the detailed development plan. Notwithstanding
the development standards set out in this subchapter, the cluster development
shall be exempt from the minimum lot size requirements of division (D) above,
except for the watershed and outstanding resource water sections; provided that
a lot size of 6,000 square feet with a park wide density ratio of 30,000 square
feet per lot, and the developmental standards in divisions (J) through (P)
below, and other requirements herein are met.
      (1)   Each manufactured home park cluster development shall be developed
on a tract not less than five acres in size and shall contain at least
manufactured home spaces available at first occupancy.
      (2)   Each manufactured home space shall consist of 6,000 square feet
with a park wide density ratio of 30,000 square feet per home. The 6,000 square
foot space shall have a lot width of 60 feet, and a lot depth of 100 feet or
vice versa. The following criteria shall be used to determine the location of
each lot.
      (3)   Development should be buffered from direct view by a vegetative
buffer, or an earth berm constructed to reflect the topography of the
surrounding area or located out of sight on slopes below existing ridge lines.
      (4)   Each lot shall be located to minimize the visual impact of the
development.
      (5)   Each lot shall not include wetlands, transition areas and
floodplains.
      (6)   Each lot shall not include areas with excessive slopes of greater
than 35%.
      (7)   Roadways shall follow existing contours to minimize the extent of
cuts and fills.
      (8)   The minimum common open space shall be contiguous.
      (9)   No manufactured home or manufactured home in a cluster development
shall be located closer than:
         (a)   Fifty feet to a public street right-of-way;
         (b)   Thirty feet to the exterior boundary of the park;
         (c)   Thirty feet to another manufactured home or dwelling; and
         (d)   Twenty-five feet to the travel way of an internal street in the
park.
         (e)   Distances shall be measured from the outermost part of the unit,
including tongue or towing apparatus, porches, steps, oil tank or other
attachment.
      (10)   Prior to the submission of the detailed development plan, the
developer shall schedule a mutually convenient time to walk the property with
the Zoning Administrator. The purpose of this visit is to familiarize staff
with the property's special features, and to provide them an informal
opportunity to offer guidance to the applicant regarding the tentative location
of the building lots, open space areas, buffering requirements, and street
locations. Prior to scheduling the on-site visit, the applicant shall have
prepared a preliminary site or sketch plan that shall show the basic concept of
meeting the clustering and open space preservation section and other
requirements set forth herein.
   (F)   Streets and parking. All streets within the manufactured home park,
and all streets or easements providing access to the manufactured home park,
shall be paved with concrete or asphalt, or provided with an all-weather
surface of at least four inches of crushed stone on a well compacted sub-base
to a continuous width of 20 feet. Such streets shall be continuously maintained
in good condition. The interior street that provides ingress and egress into
the park from a public street shall require a driveway permit issued by NCDOT.
The street area can be calculated as part of the 30,000 square feet lot or 0.69
acres of land area.
      (1)   Off-street parking. Each manufactured home space shall have two
off-street parking spaces surfaced with pavement or a minimum of four inches of
crushed stone or gravel, extending to the internal street serving the space. At
his or her option, the developer may install ten-foot-wide shoulders on one or
both sides of interior streets, using those for off-street parking instead of
individual spaces for each manufactured home.
      (2)   Cul-de-sac. Dead-end streets shall be provided with cul-de-sacs
with a minimum of 45 feet in diameter or alternative T, Y, L or U-shaped cul-
de-sacs (standard design and dimensions will be provided by the Development
Services Department).
      (3)   Access. No manufactured home space in a park may have direct access
to any public road. Each lot shall have direct access to an internal street of
the park.
      (4)   Street names and street signs. Permanent street names shall be
assigned to all internal streets. Said street names shall comply with
Ch. 151 of the Surry County Code of Ordinances. Permanent street name signs
shall be purchased from Surry County by the manufactured home park developer
and shall be installed by Surry County at the appropriate locations.
   (G)   Buffers and screening requirements. All manufactured home parks shall
be screened on all sides, except at approved entrances and exits. The screen or
buffer shall comply with the specifications found in §§
154.015.
   (H)   Refuse disposal.
      (1)   The owner shall provide a dumpster installed on a concrete pad and
made accessible and available to residents.
      (2)   The owner shall provide a refuse disposal plan satisfactory to the
Local Ordinance Officer. The term "waste disposal containers" shall be
interpreted to be dumpsters. The approved refuse disposal plan shall be noted
on the manufactured home park detailed development plan.
   (I)   Accessory buildings and structures. Any attachment to a manufactured
home within a manufactured home park shall meet the setback requirement of
divisions (D) or (E) above. No more than one freestanding accessory building or
structure shall be permitted on an individual manufactured home space. Such
freestanding building or structure shall observe the setback requirements of §
154.008 and shall be located no closer than ten feet to the manufactured home
that it serves.
   (J)   Grounds maintenance.
      (1)   Parks shall be maintained free of accumulations of debris which may
provide rodent harborage or breeding places for flies, mosquitoes, and other
pests. The growth of brush, weeds and grass shall be controlled to prevent
harborage of ticks, chiggers, and other noxious insects. Open areas shall be
maintained free of heavy undergrowth.
      (2)   No junked or nuisance vehicle of any type and/or size shall be
parked or stored within any manufactured home park.
   (K)   Infrastructure requirements for parks.
      (1)   Following the issuance of a special use permit by the Board of
Adjustment, the owner may proceed to install manufactured home park
improvements as specified in the approved plans. The intent of this permit is
to authorize the construction of the park according to the approved plans and
shall not be construed to entitle the owner to offer spaces for rent or lease,
or to operate a manufactured home park as defined in this chapter until
construction has been completed and has been inspected by the Surry County
Inspections Department, the Surry County Health Department, and the Local
Ordinance Officer. Improvements may be installed in stages, if this was
specified in the park development application and subsequently approved.
      (2)   Required improvements shall include the following: installation of
roads, on-site water and sewer systems, screening, or buffering, waste disposal
containers and parking areas.
      (3)   The Surry County Inspections Department shall not issue a permit to
connect electricity to a manufactured home until the park or specified stage of
the park has been completed in compliance with this chapter and the approved
plan has been approved as specified above. Likewise, no permit to connect
electricity shall be issued until a registered professional engineer furnished
by the owner has certified that the water system and any public sewer system
meet the appropriate state agency standards for such systems.
   (L)   Maintenance of parks. Continuing maintenance and upkeep of the park
are responsibilities of the owner. If the owner fails to maintain the park and
allows it to fall below the development standards specified herein, the Local
Ordinance Officer may recommend to the Zoning Administrator that the special
use permit, or a previously approved manufactured home park permit under a
previous ordinance, be revoked.
   (M)   Revocation of park permits.
      (1)   If the Zoning Administrator finds sufficient evidence to justify
the revocation of the special use permit or manufactured home park compliance
permit, based on the recommendation of the Local Ordinance Officer, he or she
shall schedule a quasi-judicial hearing before the Board of Adjustment
according to the process for the original approval to allow the manufactured
home park owner to officially respond to the recommendation of the Local
Ordinance Officer.
      (2)   After hearing the testimony of the Local Ordinance Officer,
manufactured home park owner and other persons who have information pertinent
to the case, the Board of Adjustment may:
         (a)   Overrule the Local Ordinance Officer's recommendation;
         (b)   Prepare a list of corrective actions which the owner shall make
within a time specified by the Zoning Administrator; and/or
         (c)   Revoke the owner's permit.
      (3)   In the event that a permit is revoked, the Zoning Administrator and
the Inspections Department shall issue no permits for the placement of
manufactured homes in the park, and the county may seek other relief as
permitted by this chapter.
      (4)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of division (H) above, if,
for any reason, a sewage treatment and disposal system falls into disrepair, no
new manufactured home can locate in the park until all systems meet the
provisions enforced by Surry County Environmental Health Department and NCDEQ.
   (N)   Existing manufactured home parks.
      (1)   Manufactured home parks existing at the time of adoption of this
subchapter are not required to comply with the regulations and minimum
standards of this subchapter, with the exception that all existing manufactured
home parks shall be subject to the grounds maintenance requirements of this
section and to the street maintenance requirements of division (F) above.
      (2)   Manufactured home parks existing at the time of adoption of this
subchapter shall continue to comply with the ordinance in which their parks
were approved. Any alteration to an existing manufactured home park shall
result in the owner complying in full with this subchapter. Manufactured home
parks who are unoccupied for a continuous period of one year shall be required
to meet the minimum standards of this subchapter before reopening.
   (O)   Modification of permits and site plans. Where plans are required to be
submitted and approved as part of the application for a special use permit,
modifications of the originally approved plans may be authorized by the Board
of Adjustment. Modifications of the site plan, which is a part of the permit,
are permitted following a quasi-judicial hearing consistent with §§
154.010 and with G.S. § 160D-705(c).
   (P)   Required signature blocks and statements for boundary survey and
detailed development plan. The following certificates, notes and approval
blocks shall appear on the appropriate plans and plats in substantially the
formats set by the County Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2023)
CHAPTER 155: VOLUNTARY AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
Section
General Provisions
   
155.01   Title
   
155.02   Authority
   
155.03   Purpose
   
155.04   Definitions
   
155.05   Creation of districts
   
155.06   Certification and qualification of farmland
   
155.07   Application, approval and appeal procedure
   
155.08   Revocation and renewal of preservation agreement
   
155.09   Public hearings
   
155.10   Notification
   
155.11   Subdivision and zoning ordinance review
   
155.12   Waiver of water and sewer assessments
   
155.13   Land use planning
   
155.14   Consultation authority
   
155.15   State agency notification
   
155.16   Severability
   
155.17   Conflict with other ordinances and statutes
   
155.18   Amendments
Agricultural Advisory Board
   
155.30   Creation
   
155.31   Membership; requirements
   
155.32   Tenure
   
155.33   Vacancies
   
155.34   Removal
   
155.35   Funding
   
155.36   Procedure
   
155.37   Duties
Cross-reference:
   Zoning, see
Ch. 154
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.01 TITLE.
   An ordinance of the Board of County Commissioners of Surry County, North
Carolina, entitled, “Voluntary Agricultural District Ordinance”.
(Ord. passed 3-16-2015)
§ 155.02 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is adopted pursuant to authority conferred by the G.S. §§ 106-
735 through 106-744 and G.S. Ch. 153A.
(Ord. passed 3-16-2015)
§ 155.03 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to promote agricultural values and the
general welfare of the county and more specifically, increase identity and
pride in the agricultural community and its way of life; encourage the economic
and financial health of agriculture; and increase protection from non-farm
development and other negative impacts on properly managed farms.
(Ord. passed 3-16-2015)
§ 155.04 DEFINITIONS.
   The following are defined for purposes of this chapter.
   ADVISORY BOARD. Surry County Agricultural Advisory Board.
   BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS. Surry County Board of Commissioners.
   CHAIRPERSON. Chairperson of the Surry County Agricultural Advisory Board.
   DISTRICT. Voluntary Agricultural District as established by this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-16-2015)
§ 155.05 CREATION OF DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Regions. Surry County is hereby divided into five regions, as defined
on enclosed map.
   (B)   Implementation. In order to implement the purposes stated in §
155.03 of this chapter, this program provides for the creation of voluntary
agricultural districts which meet the following standards.
      (1)   The district shall contain a minimum of 25 contiguous acres of
qualified farmland; or smaller acreage may be accepted if the board determines
it to be agriculture based.
      (2)   The district shall contain one or more qualified farms within areas
designated by the Advisory Board.
      (3)   All land enrolled in a region, defined in division (A) above, shall
be part of a single district.
   (C)   Education. The county may take such action as it deems appropriate
through the Advisory Board or other entities or individuals to encourage the
formation of the districts and to further their purposes and objectives,
including the implementation of a public information program to reasonably
inform landowners of the agricultural district program.
   (D)   Addition and withdrawal.
      (1)   Qualifying farmland in a region with an existing district shall be
added to the district as herein provided.
      (2)   In the event that one or more participants in the district withdraw
and the acreage in the district becomes less than the minimum acreage required
or results in the remaining land being non- contiguous, a voluntary
agricultural district will continue to exist so long as there is one qualifying
farm.
(Ord. passed 3-16-2015)
§ 155.06 CERTIFICATION AND QUALIFICATION OF FARMLAND.
   To secure county certification as qualifying farmland, a farm must:
   (A)   Be able to provide documentation to substantiate that you are actively
engaged in agriculture;
   (B)   Be certified by the Natural Resources Conservation Service (formerly
the Soil Conservation Service) of the United States Department of Agriculture
as being a farm on which at least two-thirds of the land is composed of soils
that:
      (1)   Are best suited for providing food, seed, fiber, forage, timber,
forestry products, horticultural crops and oil seed crops;
      (2)   Have good soil qualities;
      (3)   Are favorable for all major crops common to the county where the
land is located;
      (4)   Have a favorable growing season; and
      (5)   Receive the available moisture needed to produce high yields for an
average of eight out of ten years; and
      (6)   Have been actively used in agricultural, horticultural or forestry
operations as defined by G.S. § 105-2772 (1, 2, 3) during each of the five
previous years, measured from the date on which the determination must be made
as to whether the land in question qualifies.
   (C)   Be managed, if highly erodible land exists on the farm, in accordance
with the Natural Resources Conservation Service defined erosion-control
practices that are addressed to said highly-erodible land; and
   (D)   Be the subject of a conservation agreement, as defined in G.S. § 121-
35, between the county and the owner of such land that prohibits non-farm use
or development of such land for a period of at least ten years, except for the
creation of not more than three lots that meet applicable county zoning and
subdivision regulations.
(Ord. passed 3-16-2015)
§ 155.07 APPLICATION, APPROVAL AND APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Application procedure.
      (1)   A landowner may apply to participate in the program by making
application to the chairperson of the Advisory Board or a designated staff
person. The application shall be on forms provided by the Advisory Board. The
application to participate in a district may be filed with the certification
for qualifying farmland.
      (2)   A conservation agreement to sustain, encourage and promote
agriculture must be executed by the landowner and recorded with the Advisory
Board. Permitted uses include agriculture, horticulture, forestry and outdoor
recreation.
      (3)   A one-time fee per farm of $25 will be levied to cover
administrative costs.
   (B)   Approval process.
      (1)   Upon submission of the application to the Advisory Board, the
Advisory Board shall meet within 90 days to approve or disapprove the
application. The Chairperson shall notify the applicant by first class mail of
approval or disapproval of participation in the district.
      (2)   Upon receipt of an application, the Chairperson will forward copies
immediately to the following offices which shall be asked to provide comments,
if any, to the Advisory Board prior to the date set for the Advisory Board vote
on the application:
         (a)   The Surry County Tax Assessor;
         (b)   The Surry Soil and Water Conservation District office; and
         (c)   The Natural Resources Conservation Service.
   (C)   Appeal. If an application is denied by the Advisory Board, the
petitioner shall have 30 days to appeal the decision to the Board of
Commissioners. Such appeal shall be presented in writing. The decision of the
Board of Commissioners is final.
(Ord. passed 3-16-2015)
§ 155.08 REVOCATION AND RENEWAL OF PRESERVATION AGREEMENT.
   (A)   Revocation. By providing 30 days’ advance written notice to the
Advisory Board, a landowner of qualifying farmland may revoke the preservation
agreement or the Advisory Board may revoke the same preservation agreement
based on non-compliance by the landowner, subject to the same provisions as
contained in §
155.07 of this chapter for appeal of denials. Such revocation shall result in
loss of qualifying farm status and loss of eligibility to participate in a
district. Absent non-compliance by the landowner, neither the Advisory Board
nor the Board of Commissioners shall revoke any preservation agreements prior
to its expiration.
   (B)   Renewal. Preservation agreements shall be deemed automatically renewed
for an additional term of ten years, unless either the Advisory Board or the
landowner gives written notice to the contrary no later than 30 days prior to
the termination date.
(Ord. passed 3-16-2015)
§ 155.09 PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   (A)   General. Pursuant to G.S. § 106-740, which provides that no state or
local public agency or governmental unit may formally initiate any action to
condemn any interest in qualifying farmland within a district until such agency
or unit has requested the Advisory Board to hold a public hearing on the
proposed condemnation.
   (B)   Procedure.
      (1)   Upon receiving a request, the Advisory Board shall publish notice
describing the proposed action in the appropriate newspapers of Surry County
within five business days of the request, and will in the same notice notify
the public of a public hearing on the proposed condemnation, to be held within
ten days of receipt of the request.
      (2)   The Advisory Board shall meet to review:
         (a)   Whether the need for the project has been satisfactorily
established by the agency or unit of government involved, including a review of
any fiscal impact analysis conducted by the agency involved; and
         (b)   Whether there are alternatives to the proposed action that have
less impact and are less disruptive to the agricultural activities of the
district within which the proposed action is to take place.
      (3)   The Advisory Board shall consult with the County Agricultural
Extension Agent, the Natural Resources Conservation Service District
Conservationist, Surry Soil and Water Conservation District and any other
individuals, agencies or organizations deemed by the Advisory Board to be
necessary for its review of the proposed action.
      (4)   Within five days after the hearing, the Advisory Board shall make a
report containing its findings and recommendations regarding the proposed
action. The report shall be made available to the public prior to its being
conveyed to the decision-making body of the agency proposing the acquisition.
      (5)   There will be a period of ten days allowed for public comment on
the report of the Advisory Board.
      (6)   After the ten-day period for public comment has expired, the
Advisory Board shall submit a final report containing all of its findings and
recommendations regarding the proposed action to the decision making body of
the agency proposing the acquisition.
      (7)   The total time period, from the day that a request for a hearing
has been received to the day that a final report is issued to the decision
making body of the agency proposing the acquisition, shall not exceed 30 days.
If the agency agrees to an extension, the agency and the Advisory Board shall
mutually agree upon a schedule to be set forth in writing and made available to
the public.
      (8)   Pursuant to G.S. § 106-740, the Board of Commissioners shall not
permit any formal initiation of condemnation by local agencies while the
proposed condemnation is properly before the Advisory Board.
(Ord. passed 3-16-2015)
§ 155.10 NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   Record notice of proximity to Voluntary Agricultural District.
      (1)   Procedure. The following offices have been provided signage
detailing the VAD and instructing landowners to check the locations of all
Voluntary Agriculture Districts: Surry Soil and Water, Surry County Cooperative
Extension, Surry County Tax Office, Surry County Development Services and Surry
County Register of Deeds. The Surry County Tax Office will update new VADs as
they are approved, the VAD tracts will be highlighted and a one-half-mile
radius around each one will be available on Surry County GIS website.
      (2)   Limit of liability. In no event shall the county or any of its
officers, employees, members of the Advisory Board, or agents be held liable in
damages for any misfeasance, malfeasance or non- feasance occurring in good
faith in connection with the duties or obligations imposed by this chapter.
      (3)   No cause of action. In no event shall any cause of action arise out
of the failure of a person researching the title of a particular trad to report
to any person the proximity of the tract to a qualifying farm or voluntary
agricultural district as defined in this chapter.
   (B)   Signage. Signs identifying approved agricultural districts shall be
placed upon the property of the landowner in a way calculated to reasonably
notify the public aud adjoining property owners of the presence of farm
property. Approved districts will be provided one sign, additional signs will
be made available for purchase. Placement of signage along major roads shall be
coordinated with the N.C. Department of Transportation.
   (C)   Maps. Maps identifying approved agricultural districts shall be
provided to the following agencies or offices:
      (1)   Development Services Department;
      (2)   Register of Deeds;
      (3)   Natural Resources Conservation Service;
      (4)   North Carolina Cooperative Extension Service;
      (5)   Soil and Water Conservation District; and
      (6)   Any other such agency or office the Advisory Board deems
appropriate.
(Ord. passed 3-16-2015; Ord. passed 12-7-2020)
§ 155.11 SUBDIVISION AND ZONING ORDINANCE REVIEW.
   Applicants to the Development Services Department for approval of major and
minor subdivisions, planned unit developments, conditional or general zoning
map amendments or conditional use permits shall designate on preliminary and
final development plans the existence of the districts within one-half aerial
mile(s) of the proposed development.
(Ord. passed 3-16-2015; Ord. passed 12-7-2020)
§ 155.12 WAIVER OF WATER AND SEWER ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   No connection required. A landowner belonging to the district shall
not be required to connect to Surry County water and/or sewer systems.
   (B)   Abeyance. Water and sewer assessments shall beheld in abeyance,
without interest, for farms in an agricultural district, until improvement; on
such property are connected to the water or sewer system for which the
assessment was made.
   (C)   Termination of abeyance. When the period of abeyance ends, the
assessment is payable in accordance with the terms set out in the assessment
resolution.
   (D)   Suspension of statute of limitations. Statutes of limitations are
suspended during the time that any assessment is held in abeyance without
interest.
   (E)   Other statutory abeyance procedures. Nothing in this section is
intended to diminish the authority of the county to hold assessments in
abeyance under G.S. § 153A-201, or other applicable law.
   (F)   Conflict with water and/or sewer system construction and improvements;
grants. To the extent that this section conflicts with the terms of federal,
state or other grants under which county water and/or sewer systems are
constructed this section shall not apply.
(Ord. passed 3-16-2015)
§ 155.13 LAND USE PLANNING.
   (A)   Duty of the Advisory Board. It shall be the duty of the Advisory Board
to advise the Board of Commissioners or the agency or office to which the Board
of Commissioners delegate authority to oversee county land use planning, on the
status, progress and activities of the county’s agricultural district program
and to also coordinate the formation and maintenance of agricultural districts
with the county’s land use planning activities and the county’s land use plan
if one currently exists at the time this chapter is enacted or when one is
formed.
   (B)   Posting of notice. The following notice, of a size and form suitable
for posting, shall be posted in the office of the Register of Deeds, and any
other office or agency the Advisory Board deems necessary: “Surry County has
established agricultural districts to protect and preserve agricultural lands
and activities. These districts have been developed and mapped by the county to
inform all purchasers of real property that certain agricultural and forestry
activities, including but not limited to pesticide spraying, manure spreading,
machinery and truck operation, livestock operations, sawing, irrigation,
operation of engines that generate power, pump water and run tillage equipment,
and other common farming activities may occur in these districts any time
during the day or night. Maps and information and the location and
establishment of these districts can be obtained from the North Carolina
Cooperative Extension Service office, the office of the Register of Deeds, the
County Planning office, or the Natural Resources Conservation Service office”.
   (C)   Growth corridors. At such time as the county might establish
designated growth corridors, agricultural districts will not be permitted in
the designated growth corridors, as delineated on the official county planning
map without the approval of the Board of Commissioners. Districts located in
growth corridors designated after the effective date of this program may
remain, but shall not be expanded within the growth corridor area without the
approval of the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 3-16-2015; Ord. passed 9-4-2018)
§ 155.14 CONSULTATION AUTHORITY.
   The Advisory Board may consult with the Surry Soil and Water Conservation
District, North Carolina Cooperative Extension Service, the Natural Resources
Conservation Service office, the North Carolina Department of Agriculture and
Consumer Services, and with any other individual, agency or organization the
Advisory Board deems necessary to properly conduct its business.
(Ord. passed 3-16-2015)
§ 155.15 STATE AGENCY NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   A copy of this chapter shall be sent to the Office of the North
Carolina Commissioner of Agriculture and Consumer Services, the Board of
Commissioners, the County Office of the North Carolina Cooperative Extension
Service and the Soil and Water Conservation District office after adoption.
   (B)   At least annually the county shall submit a written report to the
Commissioner of Agriculture and Consumer Services on the county’s agricultural
district program, including the following information:
      (1)   Number of landowners enrolled;
      (2)   Number of acres enrolled;
      (3)   Number of acres certified during the renewing period;
      (4)   Number of acres denied during the reporting period;
      (5)   Number of acres for which applications are pending;
      (6)   Copies of any amendments to the ordinance; and
      (7)   Any other information the Advisory Board deems useful.
(Ord. passed 3-16-2015)
§ 155.16 SEVERABILITY.
   If any article, section, division, clause, phrase or portion of this chapter
is for any reason found invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-16-2015)
§ 155.17 CONFLICT WITH OTHER ORDINANCES AND STATUTES.
   Whenever the provisions of this chapter conflict with other ordinances of
Surry County, this chapter shall govern. Whenever the provisions of any federal
or state statute require more restrictive provisions than are required by this
chapter, the provisions of such statute shall govern.
(Ord. passed 3-16-2015)
§ 155.18 AMENDMENTS.
   This chapter may be amended from time to time by the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 3-16-2015)
AGRICULTURAL ADVISORY BOARD
§ 155.30 CREATION.
   The Board of Commissioners shall establish an Agricultural Advisory Board to
implement the provisions of this program.
(Ord. passed 3-16-2015)
§ 155.31 MEMBERSHIP; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The Advisory Board shall consist of no less than five members
appointed by the Board of Commissioners and a representative from the Surry
County offices of Soil and Water Conservation Service and NC Cooperative
Extension.
   (B)   (1)   Each Advisory Board member shall be a Surry County resident.
      (2)   All of the members shall be actively engaged in farming or work
with the farming community.
      (3)   The members actively engaged in farming, as well as other members,
shall be selected for appointment by the Board of Commissioners from the names
of individuals submitted to the Board of Commissioners by the Soil and Water
Conservation District Board of Supervisors, the County Office of the North
Carolina Cooperative Extension Service, the U.S. Farm Service Agency County
Committee, non-profit agricultural organizations, conservation organizations,
agribusiness and the public at large.
(Ord. passed 3-16-2015)
§ 155.32 TENURE.
   The initial Board is to consist of three appointees for terms of two years;
and two appointees for terms of three years. Thereafter, all appointments are
to be for terms of three years, with reappointment permitted.
(Ord. passed 3-16-2015)
§ 155.33 VACANCIES.
   Any vacancy on the Advisory Board is to be filled by the Board of
Commissioners for the remainder of the unexpired term.
(Ord. passed 3-16-2015)
§ 155.34 REMOVAL.
   Any member of the Advisory Board may be removed by the Board of
Commissioners upon a two- thirds vote of the Commissioners. No cause for
removal shall be required.
(Ord. passed 3-16-2015)
§ 155.35 FUNDING.
   The per diem compensation, if any, of the members of the Advisory Board may
be fixed by the Board of Commissioners and funds may be appropriated to the
Advisory Board to perform its duties.
(Ord. passed 3-16-2015)
§ 155.36 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Chairperson. The Advisory Board shall elect a Chairperson and Vice-
Chairperson each year at its first meeting of the fiscal year. The Chairperson
shall preside over all regular or special meetings of the Advisory Board. In
the absence or disability of the Chairperson, the Vice-Chairperson shall
preside and shall exercise all the powers of the Chairperson. Additional
officers may be elected as needed.
   (B)   Jurisdiction. The Advisory Board may adopt rules of procedure not
inconsistent with this chapter or with other provisions of state law.
   (C)   Advisory Board year. The Advisory Board shall use the Surry County
fiscal year as its meeting year.
   (D)   Meetings. Meetings of the Advisory Board shall be held at the call of
the Chairperson and at such other times as the Advisory Board may specify in
its rules of procedure or upon the request of at least a majority of the
Advisory Board membership. A meeting shall be held at least annually and notice
of any meetings to the members shall be in writing, unless otherwise agreed to
by all Advisory Board members. Meeting dates and times shall be posted as far
in advance as possible at the meeting site and by advertisement in other means
of public dissemination of the meeting dates as may be agreed upon by at least
a majority of the Advisory Board membership. All meetings shall be open to the
public.
   (E)   Majority vote. All issues shall be decided by a majority vote of the
members of the Advisory Board, except as otherwise stated herein.
   (F)   Records. The Advisory Board shall keep minutes of the proceedings
showing the vote of each member upon each question, or if absent or failing to
vote, indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and
other official actions, all of which shall be filed in the office of the
Advisory Board and shall be a public record.
   (G)   Administrative. The Advisory Board may contract with the Surry Soil
and Water Conservation District to serve the Board for record keeping,
correspondence, application procedures under this chapter and whatever services
the Board needs to complete its duties.
(Ord. passed 3-16-2015)
§ 155.37 DUTIES.
   The Advisory Board shall:
   (A)   Review and approve applications for qualified farmland and voluntary
agricultural districts and make recommendations concerning the establishment
and modification of agricultural districts;
   (B)   Conduct public hearings;
   (C)   Advise the Board of Commissioners on projects, programs or issues
affecting the agricultural economy or activities within the county that will
affect agricultural districts;
   (D)   Review and make recommendations concerning proposed amendments to this
chapter;
   (E)   Assist with the development of a county wide farmland protection plan
as defined in G.S. § 106-744(e)(1) for presentation to the Board of
Commissioners;
   (F)   Study additional methods of farmland preservation and make
recommendations to the Board of Commissioners; and
   (G)   Perform other agricultural related tasks or duties assigned by the
Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 3-16-2015)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
[Reserved]
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to North Carolina General Statutes
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTES
G.S. Section Code Section
G.S. Section                    Code Section
Ch. 1, Art. 37                  91.99
1-593                           10.05
Ch. 7A                          Ch. 154, App. A:
                                154.017-05
Ch. 14, Art. 27A                130.01
                                10.99,
                                30.99,
14-4                            90.999,
                                114.99,
                                130.99,
                                151.999
14-148                          Ch. 154, App. A:
                                154.013-01
14-149                          Ch. 154, App. A:
                                154.013-01
14-202.10                       Ch. 154, App. A:
                                154.003-02
14-288.8(C)(5)                  30.25
14-361.1                        90.017
19A-32.1                        90.035
                                Ch. 154, App. A:
Ch. 29                          154.003-02,
                                154.011-03
Ch. 39, Art. 5A                 Ch. 154, App. A:
                                154.013-11
Art. 47                         90.095
                                Ch. 154, App. A:
47-30                           154.011-03,
                                154.012-02,
                                154.017-12
Ch. 55A                         Ch. 154, App. A:
                                154.003-02
Ch. 62A                         151.002
Ch. 63, Art. 4                  Ch. 154, App. A:
                                154.006-21
67-1A                           90.065 -
                                90.068
67-4.1(a)(1)                    90.067
67-4.1(a)(1)a.1.                90.067
67-4.1(a)(2)                    90.067
67-4.1(a)(2)a.                  90.067
67-4.1(a)(2)b.                  90.067
67-4.1(a)(2)c.                  90.067
67-4.1(a)(5)                    90.067
67-4.1(b)                       90.054
67-4.1(c)                       90.066,
                                90.067
67-4.2(c)                       90.066
70-27                           Ch. 154, App. A:
                                154.013-01
70-29                           Ch. 154, App. A:
                                154.013-01
70-30                           Ch. 154, App. A:
                                154.013-01
74-46 through 74-68             110.03
Ch. 90, Art. 5                  131.02
104E-1 through 104E-23          110.03
Ch. 105, Art. 5 and 9, Subch. I 115.03,
                                115.10
Ch. 105, Subch. II              115.10
Ch. 105, Subch. VIII            115.10
105-230                         115.10
105-242                         115.10
105-267                         115.11
105-277.3                       Ch. 154, App. A:
                                154.002-04
105-368                         115.10
105-2772 (1, 2, 3)              155.06
106-581.1                       132.02, Ch. 154, App. A:
                                154.002-04
106-581.1(6)                    Ch. 154, App. A:
                                154.002-04
106-735 through 106-744         155.02
106-740                         155.09
106-743.2                       Ch. 154, App. A:
                                154.002-04
106-743.4                       Ch. 154, App. A:
                                154.002-04
106-744(e)(1)                   155.37
110-86                          Ch. 154, App. A:
                                154.008
113-133.1                       90.130
Ch. 113A, Art. 14               Ch. 154, App. A:
                                154.018-03
113A-207                        Ch. 154, App. A:
                                154.018-10
113A-208(c)                     Ch. 154, App. A:
                                154.018-10
113A-211                        Ch. 154, App. A:
                                154.018-10
121-35                          155.06
122C3-(11)(b)                   Ch. 154, App. A:
                                154.003-02
Ch. 130A                        110.01
Ch. 130A, Art. 6, part 6        90.115
Ch. 130A, Art. 9                Ch. 154, App. A:
                                154.003-02
130A-184                        90.002
130A-190                        90.116
130A-190(a)                     90.116
130A-192                        90.117
130A-200                        90.065
130A-290(a)(6)                  Ch. 154, App. A:
                                154.003-02
130A-290(a)(35)                 Ch. 154, App. A:
                                154.003-02
130A-290(a)(36)                 Ch. 154, App. A:
                                154.003-02
130A-294                        110.03
132-1                           115.05
Ch. 136, Art. 2E                Ch. 154, App. A:
                                154.013-03
136-18(29)                      Ch. 154, App. A:
                                154.010-01
                                Ch. 154, App. A:
136-102.6                       154.013-01,
                                154.018-10
Ch. 143, Art. 21                Ch. 154, App. A:
                                154.017-12
Ch. 143, Art. 21, part 6        Ch. 154, App. A:
                                154.017-01
Ch. 143, Art. 21A               110.03
143-143.15                      Ch. 154, App. A:
                                154.017-07
143-214.5                       Ch. 154, App. A:
                                154.017-13
143-215.1                       110.03
143-215.6(a)                    Ch. 154, App. A:
                                154.017-12
Ch. 153A                        155.02
Ch. 153A, Art. 12               151.002,
                                151.075
                                Ch. 154, App. A:
153A-26                         154.004-01,
                                154.004-02
                                90.130,
153A-121                        110.01,
                                113.03, Ch. 154, App. A:
                                154.017-12
                                10.99,
                                90.999,
153A-123                        114.99, Ch. 154, App. A:
                                154.005-11,
                                154.017-12
153A-123(b)                     Ch. 154, App. A:
                                154.005-10
153A-125                        113.03
153A-131                        90.130
153A-132.1                      110.01
153A-136                        110.01
153A-140                        92.02,
                                92.23
153A-156                        115.12
153A-201                        155.12
153A-250                        112.24,
                                112.25
160A-307                        Ch. 154, App. A:
                                154.010-01
                                Ch. 154, App. A:
                                154.001,
Ch. 160D                        154.003-02,
                                154.004-01,
                                154.004-03,
                                154.005-05
Ch. 160D, Art. 9                Ch. 154, App. A:
                                154.017-12
Ch. 160D, Art. 9, part 2        Ch. 154, App. A:
                                154.017-01
Ch. 160D, Art. 10               Ch. 154, App. A:
                                154.003-02
Ch. 160D, Art. 14               Ch. 154, App. A:
                                154.017-05
                                Ch. 154, App. A:
160D-102                        154.003-02,
                                154.005-06
160D-102(7)                     Ch. 154, App. A:
                                154.003-02
160D-105                        Ch. 154, App. A:
                                154.002-02
160D-108                        Ch. 154, App. A:
                                154.005-06
160D-108(c)                     Ch. 154, App. A:
                                154.003-02
160D-108(f)                     Ch. 154, App. A:
                                154.004-01
                                Ch. 154, App. A:
160D-108.1                      154.003-02,
                                154.005-06,
                                154.009-02
160D-109                        Ch. 154, App. A:
                                154.010-02
160D-303(a) and (b)             Ch. 154, App. A:
                                154.004-01
                                Ch. 154, App. A:
160D-303(b)                     154.004-01,
                                154.004-03
160D-303(b)(ii)                 Ch. 154, App. A:
                                154.006-22
160D-303B                       Ch. 154, App. A:
                                154.006-22
                                Ch. 154, App. A:
160D-308                        154.004-01 -
                                154.004-03
                                Ch. 154, App. A:
160D-403                        154.005-06,
                                154.005-10
160D-403(c)                     Ch. 154, App. A:
                                154.005-06
                                Ch. 154, App. A:
                                154.005-05,
160D-404                        154.005-10,
                                154.005-12,
                                154.017-12,
                                154.018-10
160D-405                        Ch. 154, App. A:
                                154.005-05
160D-405(c)                     Ch. 154, App. A:
                                154.006-22
                                Ch. 154, App. A:
                                154.003-02,
                                154.004-02,
160D-406                        154.006-22,
                                154.010-01,
                                154.010-03,
                                154.010-04,
                                154.019-03
160D-501                        Ch. 154, App. A:
                                154.003-02
160D-601                        Ch. 154, App. A:
                                154.002-10
160D-604(d)                     Ch. 154, App. A:
                                154.002-07
160D-605                        Ch. 154, App. A:
                                154.002-07
160D-605(a)                     Ch. 154, App. A:
                                154.009-02
160D-701                        Ch. 154, App. A:
                                154.002-07
160D-702                        Ch. 154, App. A:
                                154.002-04
160D-702(b)                     Ch. 154, App. A:
                                154.010-01
160D-703(a)4                    Ch. 154, App. A:
                                154.006-21
                                Ch. 154, App. A:
160D-703(b)                     154.003-02,
                                154.006-16
160D-705                        Ch. 154, App. A:
                                154.003-02
160D-705(b)                     Ch. 154, App. A:
                                154.017-12
160D-705(c)                     Ch. 154, App. A:
                                154.019-03
                                Ch. 154, App. A:
160D-705(d)                     154.010-03,
                                154.017-05
160D-801 - 808                  Ch. 154, App. A:
                                154.011-03
160D-803(d)                     Ch. 154, App. A:
                                154.013-12
160D-804(g)                     Ch. 154, App. A:
                                154.013-12
160D-903                        Ch. 154, App. A:
                                154.002-04
160D-924                        Ch. 154, App. A:
                                154.018-03
160D-940 - 949                  Ch. 154, App. A:
                                154.004-03
160D-942                        Ch. 154, App. A:
                                154.004-03
                                Ch. 154, App. A:
160D-947                        154.004-01,
                                154.006-22
160D-951                        Ch. 154, App. A:
                                154.004-03
                                Ch. 154, App. A:
160D-1110                       154.005-06,
                                154.013-12
160D-1111                       Ch. 154, App. A:
                                154.005-06
160D-1402                       Ch. 154, App. A:
                                154.006-22
160D-1402(c)                    Ch. 154, App. A:
                                154.005-07
160D-1404                       Ch. 154, App. A:
                                154.006-22
164-7                           10.14
166A-19.22                      30.20
                                
 
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
                     115.25 -
–      4-4-1972    115.27,
                     115.99
                     91.01 -
                     91.08,
–      5-3-1982    91.20 -
                     91.39,
                     91.99
                     30.01 -
                     30.08,
–      11-3-1986   30.20 -
                     30.27,
                     30.99
                     31.01 -
–      9-17-1990   31.10,
                     31.99
                     132.01 -
–      9-5-1995    132.03,
                     132.99
                     113.01 -
–      10-7-1996   113.03,
                     113.99
                     114.01 -
–      7-21-1997   114.03,
                     114.99
                     131.01,
–      4-5-1999    131.02,
                     131.99
–      2-19-2001   115.01 -
                     115.13
                     Ch. 154, App. A:
                     154.001,
                     154.002 -
                     154.002-10,
–      9-17-2001   154.003-01,
                     154.003-02,
                     154.005-01,
                     154.005-03 -
                     154.005-06
                     Ch. 154, App. A:
                     154.001,
                     154.002 -
                     154.002-10,
–      3-17-2003   154.003-01,
                     154.003-02,
                     154.005-01,
                     154.005-03 -
                     154.005-06
                     Ch. 154, App. A:
                     154.001,
                     154.002 -
                     154.002-10,
–      5-5-2003    154.003-01,
                     154.003-02,
                     154.005-01,
                     154.005-03 -
                     154.005-06
                     Ch. 154, App. A:
                     154.001,
                     154.002 -
                     154.002-10,
–      5-29-2003   154.003-01,
                     154.003-02,
                     154.005-01,
                     154.005-03 -
                     154.005-06
                     Ch. 154, App. A:
                     154.001,
                     154.002 -
                     154.002-10,
–      12-1-2003   154.003-01,
                     154.003-02,
                     154.005-01,
                     154.005-03 -
                     154.005-06
                     Ch. 154, App. A:
                     154.001,
                     154.002 -
                     154.002-10,
–      5-17-2004   154.003-01,
                     154.003-02,
                     154.005-01,
                     154.005-03 -
                     154.005-06
                     151.001 -
                     151.013,
                     151.025 -
                     151.029,
                     151.040 -
                     151.047,
                     151.060 -
                     151.063,
–      6-21-2004   151.075 -
                     151.083,
                     151.095,
                     151.096,
                     151.110 -
                     151.115,
                     151.130 -
                     151.133,
                     151.999
                     Ch. 154, App. A:
                     154.001,
                     154.002 -
                     154.002-10,
–      8-16-2004   154.003-01,
                     154.003-02,
                     154.005-01,
                     154.005-03 -
                     154.005-06
                     112.01 -
                     112.06,
–      9-7-2004    112.20 -
                     112.32,
                     112.99
                     Ch. 154, App. A:
                     154.001,
                     154.002 -
                     154.002-10,
–      2-21-2005   154.003-01,
                     154.003-02,
                     154.005-01,
                     154.005-03 -
                     154.005-06
                     Ch. 154, App. A:
                     154.001,
                     154.002 -
                     154.002-10,
–      4-18-2005   154.003-01,
                     154.003-02,
                     154.005-01,
                     154.005-03 -
                     154.005-06
                     111.01 -
                     111.19,
                     111.30 -
–      12-19-2005  111.40,
                     111.55 -
                     111.66,
                     111.99
                     Ch. 154, App. A:
                     154.001,
                     154.002 -
                     154.002-10,
–      1-17-2006   154.003-01,
                     154.003-02,
                     154.005-01,
                     154.005-03 -
                     154.005-06
–      9-2-2008    112.06
                     130.01 -
–      11-3-2008   130.03,
                     130.99
–      5-17-2009   Ch. 154, App. A:
                     154.003-02
–      7-20-2009   Ch. 154, App. A:
                     154.003-02
                     110.01 -
                     110.04,
–      8-17-2009   110.06 -
                     110.12,
                     110.99
–      11-4-2013   Ch. 154, App. A:
                     154.002-04
                     155.01 -
–      3-16-2015   155.18,
                     155.30 -
                     155.37
–      4-20-2015   Ch. 154, App. A:
                     154.003-02
–      11-2-2015   150.01
                     90.001 -
                     90.003,
                     90.015 -
                     90.018,
                     90.030 -
                     90.038,
                     90.050 -
                     90.054,
                     90.065 -
                     90.068,
–      8-1-2016    90.080,
                     90.081,
                     90.095 -
                     90.100,
                     90.115 -
                     90.117,
                     90.130 -
                     90.135,
                     90.150,
                     90.151,
                     90.998,
                     90.999
–      9-19-2016   Adopting Ordinance
–      9-19-2016   Ch. 154, App. A:
                     154.003-02
–      2-20-2017   110.05
–      8-21-2017   Ch. 154, App. A:
                     154.003-02
–      9-4-2018    132.02
–      9-4-2018    155.13
                     91.02 -
                     91.99,
                     110.99, Ch. 154, App. A:
–      12-7-2020   154.002-03,
                     154.003-02,
                     154.005-05,
                     155.10,
                     155.11
                     30.20 -
–      12-7-2020   30.28,
                     30.99
–      7-19-2021   154.012
–      8-16-2021   112.05
                     92.01 -
                     92.06,
–      10-18-2021  92.20 -
                     92.24,
                     92.99
                     Ch. 154, App. A:
                     154.001,
                     154.002-01 -
                     154.002-10,
                     154.003-01,
                     154.003-02,
                     154.004-01 -
                     154.004-04,
                     154.005-01 -
                     154.005-12,
                     154.006-01 -
                     154.006-22,
                     154.007-01,
                     154.007-02,
                     154.008,
                     154.009-01 -
                     154.009-03,
                     154.010-01 -
–      4-17-2023   154.010-04,
                     154.011-01 -
                     154.011-05,
                     154.012-01 -
                     154.012-04,
                     154.013-01 -
                     154.013-12,
                     154.014-01 -
                     154.014-11,
                     154.015-01 -
                     154.015-07,
                     154.016 -
                     154.016-18,
                     154.017-01 -
                     154.017-13,
                     154.018-01 -
                     154.018-10,
                     154.019-01 -
                     154.019-03
                     151.077 -
                     151.079,
–      8-12-2024   151.096,
                     151.112,
                     151.130,
                     151.131
                    
 
 
Comprehensive Ordinance List
Publisher's Note: The following table lists all ordinances passed by Surry
County beginning in August 2016. The table includes links to the ordinances (as
maintained in PDF format) and to the code sections affected (where applicable).
For other legislation, including ordinances passed prior to August 2016, please
contact the County.
 
Ordinances that amend the Code of Ordinances and are not yet codified have
their identifiying information highlighted in yellow.
 
Jump to:
2016 Ordinances
2017 Ordinances
2018 Ordinances
2019 Ordinances
2020 Ordinances
2021 Ordinances
2022 Ordinances
2023 Ordinances
2024 Ordinances
2016 Ordinances
 
Ord. No. Eff. Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
                   Animal Control and Animal Welfare
--       8-1-16    Section Affected:
                   Chapter 90
                   Amending Zoning Ordinance to include Solar Farms
--       9-19-16   Section Affected:
                   Chapter 154; 154.160
                   Adopting Ordinance
--       9-19-16   Section Affected:
                   Adopting Ordinances
                   Special Flood Hazard Areas
--       11-7-16   Section Affected:
                   154.294
 
2017 Ordinances
 
Ord. No. Eff. Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
                   Solid Waste
--       2-20-17   Section Affected:
                   § 110.05
--       4-17-17   Mandatory Sewer Connections
                   Motorcross Tracks
--       8-21-17   Section Affected:
                   § 154.011; 154.160; 154.202
                   Elkin Area Water System; Cross Connection, Backflow, and
--       9-18-17   Back-Siphonage Control
                   Section Affected:
                   § 50.01; 50.02; 50.03; 50.04; 50.05; 50.06
 
 
2018 Ordinances
 
Ord. No. Eff. Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
                   Amending Zoning Ordinance
--       5-21-18   Section Affected:
                   154.148; 154.385
                   Amending Noise Control ordinance
9-2018   9-4-18    Section Affected:
                   132.02
                   Amending Voluntary Agricultural District Ordinance
9-2018   9-4-18    Section Affected:
                   155.13
 
 
2019 Ordinances
 
Ord. No. Eff. Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
                   Repealing Chapter 133: Weapons
2019-04  4-3-19    Section Affected:
                   Chapter 133
 
 
2020 Ordinances
 
Ord. No. Eff. Date  Short Title and Code Sections Affected
                    Amending title of Planning Director to Development Services
                    and Planning Department to Development Services Department
--       --         throughout code
                    Section Affected:
                    Chapter 91; Chapter 110; Chapter 153; Chapter 154; Chapter
                    155
                    Amending Chapter 30 regarding States of Emergency
--       11-18-2020 Section Affected:
                    30.20 - 30.29
                    Repealing Chapter 50: Cross-Connection, Backflow, and Back-
--       12-7-2020  Siphonage control
                    Section Affected:
                    Chapter 50
 
 
2021 Ordinances
 
Ord. No. Eff. Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
                   Electronic Gaming Operations and Multipurpose Event Center
--       7-19-2021 Section Affected:
                   154.011
                   Nuisances
--       --        Section Affected:
                   Chapter 92
 
 
 
2022 Ordinances
 
 
Ord. No. Eff. Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
                   Development Standards
--       --        Section Affected:
                   154.351
 
 
2023 Ordinances
 
 
Ord. No. Eff. Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
                   Development Ordinance
--       4-17-2023  
                   Section Affected:
                   Chapter 152, Chapter 153, Chapter 154
 
 
2024 Ordinances
 
 
Ord. No. Eff. Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
                   Road Addressing Ordinance Amendments
                    
--       8-12-2024 Section Affected:
                   151.010, 151.077, 151.078, 151.079, 151.096, 151.112,
                   151.130, 151.131
 
 
 
2025 Ordinances
 
 
Ord. No. Eff. Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
                   Amending the Scenic Byway Overlay
--       3-17-2025  
                   Section Affected:
                   154.006-21
                  
 
 
