TOWN OF SWANSBORO, NORTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-20 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2024-O16, passed 8-27-24; and
State legislation current through 2024 North Carolina Legislative Service,
Pamphlet No. 3
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
CHARTER
Section
Article I. Incorporation and Corporate Powers
   
1.1   Incorporation and general powers
   
1.2   Exercise of powers
   
1.3   Form of Government
   
1.4   Enumerated powers not exclusive
Article II. Corporate Boundaries
   
2.1   Existing corporate boundaries
   
2.2   Extension of corporate boundaries
Article III. Mayor and Board of Commissioners
   
3.1   Composition of board of commissioners
   
3.2   Mayor and mayor pro tempore
   
3.3   Terms; qualifications; vacancies
   
3.4   Compensation of mayor and commissioners
   
3.5   Organization of board; oaths of office
   
3.6   Meetings of council
   
3.7   Quorum; votes
   
3.8   Ordinances and resolutions
Article IV. Election procedure
   
4.1   Regular elections
   
4.2   Filing of candidates
   
4.3   Regulation of elections
Article V. Town Attorney
   
5.1   Appointment; qualifications; term; compensation
   
5.2   Duties of town attorney
Article VI. Administrative Officers and Employees
   
6.1   Town manager
   
6.2   Town clerk
   
6.3   Deputy town clerk
   
6.4   Town tax collector
   
6.5   Town accountant
   
6.6   Consolidation of functions
Article VII. Finance and Taxation
   
7.1   Custody of town money
   
7.2   Independent audit
Article VIII. Police
   
8.1   Jurisdiction extended
   
8.2   Effect of ordinances on town property
Article IX. Sidewalk Improvements
   
9.1   Sidewalks; assessment of costs
   
9.2   Assessment procedure
   
9.3   Effect of assessments
Article X. Claims Against the Town
   
10.1   Presentation of claims; suit upon claims
ARTICLE I. INCORPORATION AND CORPORATE POWERS
§ 1.1 INCORPORATION AND GENERAL POWERS.
   The Town of Swansboro shall continue to be a body politic and corporate
under the name and style of the “Town of Swansboro” and shall continue to be
vested with all property and rights which now belong to the town; shall have
perpetual succession; may have a common seal and alter and renew the same at
pleasure; may sue and be sued; may contract; may acquire and hold all such
property, real and personal, as may be devised, bequeathed, sold or in any
manner conveyed or dedicated to it, or otherwise acquired by it, and may from
time to time hold or invest, sell or dispose of the same; and shall have and
may exercise in conformity with this charter all municipal powers, functions,
rights, privileges and immunities of every name and nature.
§ 1.2 EXERCISE OF POWERS.
   All powers, functions, rights, privileges and immunities of the town, its
officers, agencies or employees, shall be carried into execution as provided by
this charter, or, if this charter makes no provision, as provided by ordinance
or resolution of the board of commissioners and as provided by the general laws
of North Carolina pertaining to municipal corporations.
Statutory reference:
   Corporate powers generally, G.S. §§ 160A-11 and 160A-12
§ 1.3 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The form of government of the Town of Swansboro shall be the Council-Manager
form as described in North Carolina General Statutes Chapter 160A, Article 7,
Part 2.
Statutory reference:
   G.S. §§ 160A-147 – 160A-152
§ 1.4 ENUMERATED POWERS NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The enumeration of particular powers by this charter shall not be held or
deemed to be exclusive but, in addition to the powers enumerated herein or
implied hereby, or those appropriate to the exercise of such powers, the Town
of Swansboro shall have and may exercise all powers which are granted to
municipal corporations by the general laws of North Carolina and all powers
which, under the Constitution of North Carolina, it would be competent for this
charter specifically to enumerate.
ARTICLE II. CORPORATE BOUNDARIES
§ 2.1 EXISTING CORPORATE BOUNDARIES.
   The corporate boundaries of the Town of Swansboro until changed in
accordance with laws, shall be and include the following areas:
   Beginning at the mouth of a small creek emptying into White Oak River just
North of the Swansboro School property, being the beginning point of the old
corporate boundary, and running thence up and with said small creek with its
various courses to the “Frog Pond,” being the Frog Pond mentioned in the old
incorporation act, at the southwest side of the old Swansboro-Jacksonville
(dirt) highway, being the prolongation or extension of Main Street; thence with
the West side of said old highway to Wise's Branch; thence with Wise's Branch
southwestwardly with its various courses, to N.C. Highway 24, and continuing
under and beyond said highway to the point where said Wise's Branch flows into
Hawkin's Creek; thence with the various courses of Hawkin's Creek to the U.S.
Inland Waterway; thence southeastwardly with the North side of said Inland
Waterway to Beacon No. 46-A on said Inland Waterway in line with the
prolongation or extension of Front Street; thence continuing on with the North
side of said U.S. Inland Waterway to the dividing line between Onslow and
Carteret Counties; thence northeastwardly with said dividing line between the
two said counties to a point due southeast of the chimney top of the Swansboro
School heating plant; thence from said point a straight course to the point of
the beginning.
   Beginning at a point in the center line of N.C. Highway 24 at a point where
Wise's Branch crosses said Highway; said point also being in the present
corporate limit line; thence with the run of Wise's Branch and the present
corporate limit line the following courses: South 63 degrees 59 minutes East
349.81 feet; South 14 degrees 41 minutes West 315.25 feet; South 16 degrees 59
minutes East 477.1 feet; South 29 degrees 35 minutes East 52.7 feet and South
12 degrees 30 minutes East 113.0 feet to a point at the head of Hawkin's Creek;
thence with the edge of the marsh South 25 degrees 30 minutes West 79.0 feet;
South 60 degrees 35 minutes West 111.0 feet and North 68 degrees 25 minutes
West 145.0 to J.R. Freshwater's corner in Hatchell's line; then with the
Hatchell and Ward Heirs line North 39 degrees 29 minutes West 231.51 feet to a
point; thence North 41 degrees 02 minutes West 137.2 feet to a point; thence
South 56 degrees 01 minutes West 150.0 feet to a point; thence North 41 degrees
02 minutes West 100.0 feet to a point; thence South 56 degrees 01 minutes West
376.88 feet to a concrete monument in the Easterly right-of-way line of State
Road No. 1513; said monument being located 1,207-08 feet from the Southerly
right-of-way line of State Road No. 1512 (Hammocks Road) when measured along
the Easterly right-of-way line of State Road No. 1513 in a Southerly direction;
thence South 62 degrees 27 minutes West 60.0 feet to a point in the Westerly
right-of-way line of State Road No. 1513; thence with the Westerly right-of-way
line of State Road No. 1513 North 27 degrees 33 minutes West 1,207-08 feet to
the point of intersection with the Southerly right-of-way line of State Road
No. 1512; thence with the Southerly right-of-way line of State Road No. 1512
South 59 degrees 30 minutes West 952.0 feet; thence crossing State Road No.
1512 and with Glancy's line North 16 degrees 10 minutes West 1,943.65 feet to a
point in the center of Hall's Branch; thence up Hall's Branch in a
Northeasterly direction 250.98 feet to the Meadows corner; thence with Meadows
and Phillips line South 20 degrees 33 minutes East 185.61 feet to Parrish
corner; thence with the Parrish and Meadows line North 51 degrees 10 minutes
East 418.8 feet to a point; thence North 40 degrees 55 minutes East 311.0 feet
to a point in the Southerly right-of-way line of N.C. Highway 24 South 55
degrees 11 minutes East 230.0 feet to a concrete monument in the Ward Heir
line; thence 72 degrees 54 minutes East 63.52 feet to a tack in the center line
of N.C. Highway 24; thence North 76 degrees 26 minutes East 66-76 feet to a
concrete monument in the Northerly right-of-way line of N.C. Highway 24, said
monument also being the Ward Heirs line: thence with the Ward Heirs line North
76 degrees 25 minutes 50 seconds East 886.96 feet to an iron stake, Frank
LeCraft's corner in Ward Heirs line; thence North 27 degrees 58 minutes East
256.96 feet to a concrete monument in the Southerly right-of-way line of State
Road No. 1447; thence with the right-of-way of State Road No. 1447 South 69
degrees 43 minutes East 619-36 feet to a concrete monument, Carney's Corner;
thence with Carney's and Ward Heirs line south 30 degrees 55 minutes 30 seconds
East 953.24 feet to a concrete monument in the Northerly right-of-way line of
State Road No. 1512; thence crossing State Road No. 1512 South 30 degrees 55
minutes 30 seconds East 60.0 feet to a concrete monument in the Southerly
right-of-way of State Road No. 1512, thence with Ward Heirs and Catholic Church
line South 35 degrees 14 minutes East 994.34 feet to a concrete monument in
Wise's Branch; said monument being a point in the present corporate limits
line; thence with Wise's Branch and present corporate limits line South 50
degrees 38 minutes West 131-30 feet to a point; thence South 69 degrees 14
minutes West 290.0 feet to a tack in the center line of N.C. Highway 24, the
point of beginning.
§ 2.2 EXTENSION OF CORPORATE BOUNDARIES.
   All extensions of the corporate boundaries shall be governed by the General
Statutes of North Carolina.
Statutory reference: 
   Municipal annexation generally, G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 4A
ARTICLE III. MAYOR AND BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
§ 3.1 COMPOSITION OF BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS.
   The board of commissioners shall consist of five (5) commissioners to be
elected by the qualified voters of the town voting at large in the manner
provided in Article IV.
(Am. Ord. 2011-09, passed - -11)
§ 3.2 MAYOR AND MAYOR PRO TEMPORE.
   The mayor shall be elected by and from the qualified voters of the town
voting at large in the manner provided in Article IV. The mayor shall be the
official head of the town government and shall preside at all meetings of the
board of commissioners. Where there is an equal division on a question, the
mayor shall determine the matter by his vote, but he shall vote in no other
case. The mayor shall exercise such powers and perform such duties as are or
may be conferred upon him by the general laws of North Carolina, by this
charter and by the ordinances of the town and such authority shall specifically
include the power to perform the marriage ceremony. The board of commissioners
shall choose one (1) of its number to act as mayor pro tempore, and he shall
perform the duties of the mayor in the mayor's absence or disability. The mayor
pro tempore as such shall have no fixed term of office, but shall serve in such
capacity at the pleasure of the remaining members of the board.
(Ch. 561, Sess. L. 1971, Ch. 8, Sess. L. 1973)
§ 3.3 TERMS; QUALIFICATIONS; VACANCIES.
   (A)   The mayor shall serve for a term of four (4) years and members of the
board of commissioners shall serve for terms of four (4) years or two (2)
years, as provided in Section 4.1, beginning the day and hour of the
organizational meeting following their election, as established by ordinance in
accordance with this charter; provided, they shall serve until their successors
are elected and qualify. (Amended 1977)
   (B)   No person shall be eligible to be a candidate or be elected as mayor
or as a member of the board of commissioners or to serve in such capacity,
unless he is a resident and a qualified voter of the town.
   (C)   In the event a vacancy occurs in the office of mayor or commissioner,
the board shall by majority vote appoint some qualified person to fill the same
for the remainder of the unexpired term.
(Am. Ord. 2009-11, passed 5-19-09; Am. Ord. 2011-09, passed - -11)
Statutory reference: 
   Residency requirements, N.C. Constitution Art. VI; vacancies, see G.S. §§
160A-63
   Qualifications, see G.S. § 160A-59
§ 3.4 COMPENSATION OF MAYOR AND COMMISSIONERS.
   The mayor shall receive for his services such salary as the Board of
Commissioners shall determine, but no reduction in his salary shall be made to
take effect during the term in which it is voted. The Board may establish a
salary for its members which may be increased or reduced.
Statutory reference:
   Compensation of Mayor and Board, see G.S. § 160A-64
§ 3.5 ORGANIZATION OF BOARD; OATHS OF OFFICE.
   The Board of Commissioners shall meet and organize for the transaction of
business at a time established by ordinance, following each biennial election
and prior to January 1. Before entering upon their offices, the Mayor and each
commissioner shall take, subscribe and have entered upon the minutes of the
Board the following oath of office: “I, ______________ do solemnly swear (or
affirm) that I will support and defend the Constitution of the United States
and the Constitution and laws of North Carolina not inconsistent therewith, and
that I will faithfully perform the duties of the office of ______________, on
which I am about to enter, according to my best skill and ability; so help me,
God.”
(Amended November 10, 1988)
Statutory reference:
   Organizational meeting of Board is to be held at first regular meeting in
December after election results are certified, see G.S. § 160A-68
§ 3.6 MEETINGS OF COUNCIL.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners shall fix suitable times for its regular
meeting, which shall be as often as once monthly. Special meetings may be held
on the call of the Mayor or a majority of the Board, and those not joining in
the call shall be notified in writing. Any business may be transacted at a
regular meeting.
   (B)   All meetings of the Board shall be open to the public. The Board shall
not by executive session or otherwise formally consider or vote upon any
question in private session.
Statutory reference:
   Regular and special meeting, see G.S. § 160A-71
   Open meetings statute, see G.S. § 143-318.9
§ 3.7 QUORUM; VOTES.
   (A)   A majority of the members elected to the Board of Commissioners shall
constitute a quorum for the conduct of business, but a lesser number may
adjourn from time to time and compel the attendance of absent members in such
manner as may be prescribed by ordinance.
   (B)   Three (3) affirmative votes, which may include the vote of the Mayor
in case of equal division among the board, shall be necessary to adopt any
ordinance or any resolution or motion having the effect of an ordinance. All
other matters to be voted upon shall be decided by a majority vote of those
present and voting.
(Am. Ord. 2011-09, passed - -11)
Statutory reference:
   Quorum requirements, see G.S. § 160A-74
§ 3.8 ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS.
   The adoption, amendment, repeal, pleading or proving of ordinances shall be
in accordance with the applicable provisions of the general laws of North
Carolina not inconsistent with this charter. The yeas and nays shall be taken
upon all ordinances and resolutions and entered upon the minutes of the board.
The enacting clauses of all ordinances shall be: “Be it Ordained by the Board
of Commissioners of the Town of Swansboro.” All ordinances and resolutions
shall take effect upon adoption unless otherwise provided therein.
ARTICLE IV. ELECTION PROCEDURE
§ 4.1 REGULAR ELECTIONS.
   Elections shall be held biennially in odd-numbered years on the day set by
general law for municipal elections. In each election, the candidate for mayor
who receives the largest number of votes cast for mayor shall be declared
elected for a term of four (4) years. The two (2) candidates for commissioner
who receive the largest numbers of votes cast for commissioner shall be
declared elected for terms of four (4) years. The candidate for commissioner
who receives the next highest number of votes shall be declared elected for a
term of two (2) years. Candidates for commissioner will be elected for
staggered terms with three (3) commissioners elected in each biennial election.
(Amended 1977)
(Am. Ord. 2009-11, passed 5-19-09; Am. Ord. 2011-09, passed - -11)
Statutory reference: 
   Uniform Municipal Election Law of 1971, as amended, G.S. §§ 163-279 et seq.
§ 4.2 FILING OF CANDIDATES.
   Each qualified person who would offer himself as a candidate for the office
of mayor or commissioner shall file with the county board of elections,
accompanied by the appropriate filing fee, as required by general law. (Amended
November 10, 1988)
§ 4.3 REGULATION OF ELECTIONS.
   All town elections shall be conducted in accordance with the general laws of
North Carolina relating to municipal elections, except as otherwise herein
provided.
ARTICLE V. TOWN ATTORNEY
§ 5.1 APPOINTMENT; QUALIFICATIONS; TERM; COMPENSATION.
   The board of commissioners shall appoint a town attorney who shall be an
attorney at law licensed to engage in the practice of law in North Carolina and
who need not be a resident of the town during his tenure. The town attorney
shall serve at the pleasure of the board and shall receive such compensation as
the board shall determine.
§ 5.2 DUTIES OF TOWN ATTORNEY.
   It shall be the duty of the town attorney to prosecute and defend suits for
and against the town; to advise the mayor, board of commissioners and other
town officials with respect to the affairs of the town; to draw all legal
documents relating to the affairs of the town; to draw proposed ordinances when
requested to do so; to inspect and pass upon all agreements, contracts,
franchises and other instruments with which the town may be concerned; to
attend all meetings of the board of commissioners; and to perform such other
duties as may be required of him by virtue of his position as town attorney.
Statutory reference: 
   Town attorney, see G.S. § 160A-173
ARTICLE VI. ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
§ 6.1 TOWN MANAGER.
   The board of commissioners shall appoint a town manager to serve at its
pleasure. The manager shall be appointed solely on the basis of executive and
administrative qualifications. The manager shall have the powers and duties set
out in North Carolina General Statutes section 160-148. The Town Administrator
as of the date of passage of this ordinance shall become Town Manager upon such
passage. The salary and benefits for the manager shall be fixed by the Board of
Commissioners. In case of the absence or disability of the manager, the Board
of Commissioners may designate a qualified administrative officer of the Town
to perform the duties of the manager during such absence or disability.
(Amended December 15, 1992)
§ 6.2 TOWN CLERK.
   The board of commissioners shall appoint a town clerk to keep a journal of
the proceedings of the board of commissioners and to maintain in a safe place
all records and documents pertaining to the affairs of the town, and to perform
such other duties as may be required by law or as the board of commissioners
may direct.
Statutory reference:
   Town clerk, see G.S. § 163-171
Editor's note:
   G.S. § 163-171 has been repealed.
§ 6.3 DEPUTY TOWN CLERK.
   The board of commissioners shall appoint a deputy town clerk to maintain in
a safe place all records and documents pertaining to the affairs of the town,
to perform such other duties as the board of commissioners may direct, and to
perform the duties of the town clerk in her absence. (Amended November 10,
1988)
§ 6.4 TOWN TAX COLLECTOR.
   The board of commissioners may appoint a tax collector to collect all taxes,
licenses, fees and other monies belonging to the town, subject to the
provisions of this charter and the ordinances of the town, and he shall
diligently comply with and enforce all the general laws of North Carolina
relating to the collection, sale and foreclosure of taxes by municipalities.
Statutory reference:
   Tax collector, see G.S. §§ 105-349 and 105-350
§ 6.5 TOWN ACCOUNTANT.
   The board of commissioners may appoint a town accountant to perform the
duties of the accountant as required by the Municipal Fiscal Control Act.
Statutory reference:
   Finance officer, see G.S. § 159-25
§ 6.6 CONSOLIDATION OF FUNCTIONS.
   The board of commissioners may, in its discretion, consolidate any two (2)
or more of the positions of town clerk, town tax collector and town accountant,
or may assign the functions of any one (1) or more of these positions to the
holder of any other of these positions. The board of commissioners may also, in
its discretion, designate a single employee to perform all or any part of the
functions of any of the named offices, in lieu of appointing other persons to
perform the same.
ARTICLE VII. FINANCE AND TAXATION
§ 7.1 CUSTODY OF TOWN MONEY.
   All monies received by the town for or in connection with the business of
the town government shall be paid promptly into the town depository or
depositories. Such institutions shall be designated by the board of
commissioners in accordance with such regulations and subject to such
requirements as to security for deposits and interest thereon as may be
established by the General Statutes of North Carolina. All interest on monies
belonging to the town shall accrue to the benefit of the town. All monies
belonging to the town shall be disbursed only in accordance with the provisions
of the Municipal Fiscal Control Act.
Statutory reference:
   Municipal budgeting and accounting generally, the Local Government Budget
and Fiscal Control Act, as amended, see G.S. §§ 159-7 et seq.
§ 7.2 INDEPENDENT AUDIT.
   As soon as practicable after the close of each fiscal year, the independent
audit shall be made of all books and accounts of the town government by a
certified public accountant registered under Chapter 93 of the General Statutes
of North Carolina, who shall have no personal interest directly or indirectly
in the affairs of the town or of any of its officers. The board of
commissioners shall select the certified public accountant, and the results of
such audit shall be made available for inspection by any interested citizen of
the town, and may be published if so ordered by the board of commissioners.
ARTICLE VIII. POLICE
§ 8.1 JURISDICTION EXTENDED.
   (A)   The jurisdiction of the police force is hereby extended to include all
unincorporated territory outside and within one (1) mile of the corporate
limits, and all members of the police force shall have within such territory
all rights, power and authority as they have within the corporate limits.
   (B)   The jurisdiction of the police force is hereby extended to include all
town owned property and facilities whether located within or outside the
corporate limits, and all members of the police force shall have upon and
within such property and facilities all rights, power and authority as they
have within the corporate limits.
Statutory reference:
   Law enforcement jurisdiction, see G.S. § 15A-402 and § 160A-286
§ 8.2 EFFECT OF ORDINANCES ON TOWN PROPERTY.
   All applicable ordinances of the town shall have full force and effect upon
and within all property and facilities owned by the town, whether located
within or outside the corporate limits.
ARTICLE IX. SIDEWALK IMPROVEMENTS
§ 9.1 SIDEWALKS; ASSESSMENT OF COSTS.
   In addition to any authority which is now or may hereafter be granted by
general law to the town for making sidewalk improvements, the board of
commissioners is hereby authorized to order to be made or to make sidewalk
improvements or repairs without petition according to standards and
specifications of the town, and to assess the total cost thereof against
abutting property owners.
Statutory reference:
   Local improvements generally, see G.S. §§ 160A-216 et seq.
§ 9.2 ASSESSMENT PROCEDURE.
   In ordering sidewalk improvements without a petition and assessing the cost
thereof under authority of this article, the board of commissioners shall
comply with the procedure provided by those provisions of the General Statutes
relating to street and sidewalk assessments, except those provisions relating
to the petition of property owners and the sufficiency thereof.
§ 9.3 EFFECT OF ASSESSMENTS.
   The effect of the act of levying assessments under authority of this article
shall for all purposes be the same as if the assessments were levied under
authority of the General Statutes.
ARTICLE X. CLAIMS AGAINST THE TOWN
§ 10.1 PRESENTATION OF CLAIMS; SUIT UPON CLAIMS.
   (A)   All claims or demands against the Town of Swansboro arising in tort or
in contract shall be presented to the board of commissioners in writing, signed
by the claimant, his attorney or agent, within 90 days after the claim or
demand is due or the cause of action accrues, and no suit or action shall be
brought thereon within 30 days or after the expiration of 12 months from the
time said claim or demand is so presented. Unless the claim or demand is so
presented within 90 days after the cause of action accrues, and unless suit is
brought within 12 months thereafter, any action thereon is barred.
   (B)   No action shall be instituted against the town on account of damages
to or compensation for real property taken or used by the town for any public
purpose, or for the ejectment of the town therefrom, or to remove a cloud upon
the title thereof, unless, within two (2) years after such alleged use, the
owner, his executor, administrator, guardian or next friend, shall have given
notice in writing to the board of commissioners of the claim, stating in the
notice the date that the alleged use commenced, a description of property
alleged to have been used, and the amount of the damage or compensation
claimed.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections (A) and (B) of this
section, if a complainant suffers from physical or mental incapacity that
renders it impossible for him to give notice, his action shall not be barred if
notice of claim is given by him or on his behalf within six (6) months after
the termination of his incapacity; provided, that minority shall not of itself
constitute physical or mental incapacity. If the complainant is a minor, his
action shall not be barred if notice of claim is given on his behalf within
three (3) years after the happening or the infliction of the injury complained
of; or, if the minor suffers from physical or mental incapacity that renders it
impossible for him to give notice, his action shall not be barred if notice of
claim is given on this behalf within six (6) months after termination of the
incapacity, or within three (3) years after the happening or the infliction of
the injury complained of, whichever is the longest period. The town may at any
time request the appointment of a next friend to represent any person having a
potential claim against the town and known to be suffering from physical or
mental incapacity.
Statutory reference:
   G.S. § 1-539.16 provides for a uniform, statewide procedure for notice of
claims against municipalities and repeals certain provisions of this article.
RELATED LOCAL LAWS
Chapter 777, Session Laws of 1947.
   Authority for the Town Board to Acquire Property for Recreational
Facilities.
§ 1. The Governing Body of the Town of Swansboro, Onslow County, is authorized
and empowered to acquire from the Federal Works Agency, Bureau of Community
Facilities of the United States of America, certain real property and the
improvements thereon and equipment located in said Town of Swansboro and
heretofore used as a USO facility, to provide facilities for a municipal
recreational center and to pay the sum of $5,000 as a purchase therefor.
§ 2. The Governing Body of said Town of Swansboro is authorized and empowered
to execute notes for the purchase price of said facilities and to secure the
payment of said notes by giving a mortgage or deed of trust upon the property
acquired and by pledging the net revenue from the operation of said
recreational facilities. Provided, that nothing herein shall be construed as
authorizing said town to pledge its faith or loan its credit, or to levy or
collect any tax for the payment of the debt evidenced by said notes, unless
authorized by a vote of the people; and the holders of said notes shall depend
solely on the properties securing said notes and the revenues therefrom for the
payment of said notes.
Chapter 443, Session Laws of 1971
   Regulation of Fishing from Bridges on N.C. Highway 24 Over the White Oak
River.
§ 1. The Board of Commissioners of the Town of Swansboro is hereby authorized
to prohibit or regulate by ordinance any fishing from the highway bridges on
N.C. Route No. 24 over the White Oak River in Onslow and Carteret Counties.
§ 2. The police department of the Town of Swansboro is hereby vested with the
jurisdiction and authority to enforce any ordinance passed pursuant to section
1 of this act.
   The Charter and Other Local Laws of Swansboro
   Disposition Table
Act   Subject   Disposition
Ch. 777, Sess. L. 1947   Funds for Recreation   Related Local Laws
   Facilities
Ch. 1146, Sess. L. 1949   Proceeds of County   NC
   ABC Stores
Ch. 607, Sess. L. 1963   Historic Swansboro   NC
   Commission
Ch. 443, Sess. L. 1971   Regulation of Fishing   Related Local Laws
Ch. 561, Sess. L. 1971   Charter Revision   Charter and Consolidation
Ch. 8, Sess. L. 1973   Charter Amend.,   Charter, § 3.2
   Power of Mayor
   to Perform Marriages
Editor’s Note:   
   Prior charter and other local acts were repealed expressly or by implication
through the
    adoption of the new, revised city charter, §§ 561, Session Laws 1971, as
amended.
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Chapter
   
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
11.   EXTRATERRITORIAL JURISDICTION BOUNDARIES
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   How code designated and cited
   
10.02   Definitions and rules of construction
   
10.03   Provisions considered as continuations of existing ordinances
   
10.04   Section designations
   
10.05   Effect of repeal or expiration of ordinances
   
10.06   Severability of parts of code
   
10.07   Amendments to code; effect of new ordinances; amendatory language
   
10.99   Penalty
§ 10.01 HOW CODE DESIGNATED AND CITED.
   The provisions embraced in this and the following chapters and sections
shall constitute and be designated the Code of Ordinances, Town of Swansboro,
North Carolina, and may be so cited.
(OC, § 1-1-1)
Statutory reference:
   As to admission of code into evidence, see G.S. § 160A-79
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS AND RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   In the construction of this code and of all ordinances, the following
definitions and rules of construction shall be observed unless inconsistent
with the manifest intent of the Board of Commissioners or the context clearly
requires otherwise.
   BOARD. The Board of Commissioners of the town.
   COMPUTATION OF TIME. The time within which an act is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and including the last day; and if the last day
is Saturday, Sunday or a legal holiday, that day shall be excluded.
   COUNTY. The County of Onslow, in the state of North Carolina, except as
otherwise provided.
   GENDER. Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine and
neuter.
   JOINT AUTHORITY. All words giving a joint authority to three or more persons
or officers shall be construed as giving authority to a majority of persons or
officers.
   MAY.   The act referred to is permissive.
   MAYOR. The Mayor of the town.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   NUMBER. Words used in the singular include the plural, and words used in the
plural include the singular number.
   OATH. Shall be construed to include an affirmation in all cases in which, by
law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in certain cases the
words swear and sworn shall be equivalent to the words affirm and affirmed.
   OWNER. When applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner,
joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the
whole or a part of the building or land.
   PERSON. Includes a corporation, firm, partnership, association, organization
and any other group acting as a unit, as well as an individual.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes every species of property except real property
as herein defined in this section.
   PRECEDING, FOLLOWING. The words preceding and following shall mean next
before and next after respectively.
   PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   SIGNATURE. The words signature or subscription include a mark when the
person cannot write.
   STATE. Any public way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard, parkway,
alley, lane, viaduct or bridge and the approaches thereto within the town.
   TENANT. The words tenant or occupant applied to a building or land shall
include any person who occupies the whole or a part of the building or land
whether alone or with others.
   TIME. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well as
the past and present.
   TOWN. The Town of Swansboro, in Onslow County, North Carolina, except as
otherwise provided.
   TOWN MANAGER. The person duly appointed as Town Manager or duly acting in
that capacity by authority of the Board of Commissioners. Hereafter, all
references in the Code of Ordinances and the various written policies to the
town to Town Administrator shall be deemed to be references to the Town Manager
until the time that those references are duly removed from the Code of
Ordinances.
   WRITING. The words writing and written shall include printing and any other
mode of representing words and letters.
   YEAR. A calendar year.
(OC, § 1-1-2)
§ 10.03 PROVISIONS CONSIDERED AS CONTINUATIONS OF EXISTING ORDINANCE.
   The provisions appearing in this code, so far as they are the same as
ordinances adopted prior to this code and included herein, shall be considered
as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
(OC, § 1-1-3)
§ 10.04 SECTION DESIGNATIONS.
   The headings of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of these sections nor as any part of the section, nor,
unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of these
sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(OC, § 1-1-4)
§ 10.05 EFFECT OF REPEAL OR EXPIRATION OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   The repeal of an ordinance, or its expiration by virtue of any
provision contained therein, shall not affect any right accrued, any offense
committed, any penalty or punishment incurred or any proceeding commenced
before the repeal took effect or the ordinance expired.
   (B)   When an ordinance which repealed another shall itself be repealed, the
previous ordinance shall not be revived without express words to that effect.
(OC, § 1-1-5)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY OF PARTS OF CODE.
   It is hereby declared to be the intention of the Board of Commissioners that
the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this code are
severable and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this
code shall be declared unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by the valid
judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, the
unconstitutionality of invalidity shall not affect any of the remaining
phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this code since the
same would have been enacted by the Board without the incorporation in this
code of any unconstitutional or invalid phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or
section.
(OC, § 1-1-7)
§ 10.07 AMENDMENTS TO CODE; EFFECT OF NEW ORDINANCES; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   (A)   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code of ordinances which
amend, repeal or in any way affect this code of ordinances, may be numbered in
accordance with the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion
herein. In the case of repealed chapters, sections and subsections or any part
thereof, by subsequent ordinances, the repealed portions may be excluded from
the code by omission from reprinted pages affected thereby. The subsequent
ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be
prima facie evidence of subsequent ordinances until a time that this code of
ordinances and subsequent ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new
code of ordinances by the Board.
   (B)   Amendments to any of the provisions of this code may be made by
amending these provisions by specific reference to the section number of this
code in the following language. “That section _____________of the Code of
Ordinances, Town of Swansboro, North Carolina, is hereby amended to read as
follows:    __________________________________.” The new provisions shall then
be set out in full as desired.
   (C)   In the event a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to
be added, the following language may be used. “That the Code of Ordinances,
Town of Swansboro, North Carolina, is hereby amended by adding a section to be
numbered __________, which section reads as follows: ___________.” The new
provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
(OC, § 1-1-8)
§ 10.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   In accordance with G.S. § 160A-75, and unless this code of ordinances
provides otherwise, violation of any provision hereof shall be a Class 3
misdemeanor as provided in G.S. § 14-4, punishable upon conviction by a fine
not exceeding $50 or by imprisonment not exceeding 30 days. An ordinance may
provide by express statement that the maximum fine or term or imprisonment to
be imposed for its violation shall be some figure or number of days less than
the maximum penalties prescribed by G.S. § 14-4.
   (B)   By express statement, an ordinance contained herein may provide for
its enforcement by other remedies, as authorized in G.S. § 160-175, including
the imposition of civil fines, the ordering of appropriate equitable relief,
including injunctions or a combination of remedies.
   (C)   An ordinance may provide, when appropriate, that each day's continuing
violation shall be a separate and distinct offense.
(OC, § 1-1-6)
CHAPTER 11: EXTRATERRITORIAL JURISDICTION BOUNDARIES
Section
   
11.01   Extraterritorial jurisdiction boundaries established
   
11.02   Additional boundaries
   
11.03   Authority in the extraterritorial area
   
11.04   County approval of city jurisdiction
   
11.05   Proposed jurisdiction change
   
11.06   Split jurisdiction
   
11.07   Pending jurisdiction
   
11.08   Local acts
   
11.09   Effect on vested rights
§ 11.01 EXTRATERRITORIAL JURISDICTION BOUNDARIES ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The town hereby establishes boundaries for the extraterritorial
enforcement of the following ordinances:
      (1)   Ordinance creating:
         (a)   Municipal Planning Board;
         (b)   Municipal Inspection Department.
      (2)   North Carolina State Building Code;
      (3)   Zoning Ordinance;
      (4)   Subdivision Regulations;
      (5)   Mobile Home Ordinance.
   (B)   The boundaries indicated in this chapter shall be delineated on the
face of a map entitled Extraterritorial Jurisdiction of the Town of Swansboro
which is hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein by reference.
   (C)   The official copy of any ordinances and the map described in division
(B) of this section shall be on record in the office of the Town Clerk for
public inspection during normal business hours. The Town Clerk shall cause a
certified copy of the ordinances and map (which may be reduced in size,
provided that the boundaries set out thereon are still clearly legible) as
hereby amended to be recorded in the office of the Register of Deeds of Onslow
County, North Carolina.
   (D)   All ordinances or parts of ordinances of the town which are in
conflict with this amendment are hereby repealed to the extent of the conflict.
   (E)   This amendment shall be effective upon its passage.
(Ord. passed 9-8-83; Am. Ord. passed 11-17-98)
§ 11.02 ADDITIONAL BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   The area described as follows is hereby added to the town's
Extraterritorial Jurisdiction area pursuant to the provisions of G.S. § 160D-
202, and the ordinance establishing Extraterritorial Jurisdiction Boundaries
for the town.
   (B)   As delineated on the town Extraterritorial Jurisdiction Official Map
dated October 15, 2004, and included herein for reference purposes, the new ETJ
boundary line begins at the centerline of Highway 24 where the town municipal,
and existing ETJ, boundary's lie. The new ETJ boundary line extends northwest
from this point to include property fronting on the northeast side of Highway
24 to the intersection of Belgrade Swansboro Road. The new ETJ boundary also
extends from the Highway 24 centerline northeast down Leslie Lane to include
all lots that are adjacent and that are connected by some means of easement off
Leslie Land and Franklin Road. The property adjacent to Seth Thomas Lane on the
southeast, at the end of Seth Thomas Lane to the northeast, and the property
adjacent to Seth Thomas Lane on the northwest terminating at Swansboro library
northwest property line extending two parcels northwest. Also, beginning at the
northwest town limit property line along Highway 24 the ETJ boundary line then
extends northwest from this point to include proeprty fronting on the southwest
side of Highway 24 to one parcel pass the Belgrade Swansboro Road and Highway
24 intersection on the northwest side of Highway 24. The new ETJ boundary line
then extends southwest along Queens Creek Road from the Highway 24 centerline
and the existing ETJ boundary for all property fronting the northwest side of
Queens Creek Road to the property line northwest (across Queens Creek Road) of
Ella Lane. The expansion includes the Halls Creek Subdivision, bordering the
existing ETJ boundary line along Hammock Beach Road extending to Clam Digger
Court and includes all lots with frontage along Clam Digger Court.
   (C)   The official map of the town entitled "Town of Swansboro
Extraterritorial Jurisdiction" and dated October 15, 2004 shall be maintained
in the manner provided for in the Office of the Register of Deeds of Onslow
County.
   (D)   All ordinances previously enforceable in the Extraterritorial
Jurisdiction area as it existed prior to the enactment of this amendment, and
referenced within §
11.01, shall hereafter be enforceable in the area described in division (B)
above.
(Ord. passed 11-7-98; Am. Ord. passed 9-21-04; Am. Ord. 2021-O3, passed 5-24-
21)
§ 11.03 AUTHORITY IN THE EXTRATERRITORIAL AREA.
   The town may not exercise any power in its extraterritorial jurisdiction
that it is not exercising within its corporate limits. The town may exercise in
its extraterritorial area all powers that it is exercising within its corporate
limits, however, if a city fails to extend a particular type of development
regulation to the extraterritorial area, the county may elect to exercise that
particular type of regulation in the extraterritorial area.
(Ord. 2021-O3, passed 5-24-21)
§ 11.04 COUNTY APPROVAL OF CITY JURISDICTION.
   The town may not extend its extraterritorial powers into any area for which
the county has adopted and is enforcing county zoning and subdivision
regulations. However, the town may do so where the county is not exercising
both of these powers, or when the town and the county have agreed upon the area
within which each will exercise the powers. The town may not extend its
extraterritorial powers beyond one mile from its corporate limits without the
approval of the Board of County Commissioners with jurisdiction over the area.
(Ord. 2021-O3, passed 5-24-21)
§ 11.05 PROPOSED JURISDICTION CHANGE.
   (A)   If the town proposes to exercise extraterritorial jurisdiction, it
shall notify the owners of all parcels of land proposed for addition to the
area of extraterritorial jurisdiction, as shown on the county tax records. The
notice shall be sent by first-class mail to the last addresses listed for
affected property owners in the county tax records. The notice shall inform the
landowner of the effect of the extension of extraterritorial jurisdiction, of
the landowner’s right to participate in a legislative hearing prior to adoption
of any ordinance extending the area of extraterritorial jurisdiction, as
provided in G.S. § 160D-601, and of the right of all residents of the area to
apply to the Board of County Commissioners to serve as a representative on the
Planning Board and the Board of Adjustment, as provided in G.S. § 160D-307.
   (B)   The notice shall be mailed at least 30 days prior to the date of the
hearing. The person or persons mailing the notices shall certify to the City
Council that the notices were sent by first-class mail, and the certificate
shall be deemed conclusive in the absence of fraud.
   (C)   The town shall adopt an ordinance specifying the areas to be included
based upon existing or projected urban development and areas of critical
concern, as evidenced by officially adopted plans for its development. The
boundaries specified in the ordinance shall at all times be drawn on a map, set
forth in a written description, or shown by a combination of these techniques.
This delineation shall be maintained in the manner provided in G.S. § 160D-202
for the delineation of the corporate limits and shall be recorded in the office
of the register of deeds of each county in which any portion of the area lies.
(Ord. 2021-O3, passed 5-24-21)
§ 11.06 SPLIT JURISDICTION.
   (A)   If a parcel of land lies within the planning and development
regulation jurisdiction of the town and another local government, the town and
local government may, by mutual agreement and with the written consent of the
landowner, assign exclusive planning and development regulation jurisdiction
for the entire parcel to either government. Such a mutual agreement shall only
be applicable to development regulations and shall not affect taxation or other
non-regulatory matters.
   (B)   The mutual agreement shall be evidenced by a resolution formally
adopted by each governing board and recorded with the register of deeds in the
county where the property is located within 14 days of the adoption of the last
required resolution.
(Ord. 2021-O3, passed 5-24-21)
§ 11.07 PENDING JURISDICTION.
   After consideration of a change in jurisdiction has been formally proposed,
the town may receive and process proposals to adopt development regulations and
any application for development approvals that would be required. No final
decisions shall be made on any development approval prior to the actual
transfer of jurisdiction. Acceptance of jurisdiction, adoption of development
regulations, and decisions on development approvals may be made concurrently
and may have a common effective date.
(Ord. 2021-O3, passed 5-24-21)
§ 11.08 LOCAL ACTS.
   Nothing in this section shall repeal, modify, or amend any local act that
defines the boundaries of the town’s extraterritorial jurisdiction by metes and
bounds or courses and distances.
(Ord. 2021-O3, passed 5-24-21)
§ 11.09 EFFECT ON VESTED RIGHTS.
   (A)   Whenever the town acquires jurisdiction over a territory that
theretofore has been subject to the jurisdiction of another local government,
any person who has acquired vested rights in the surrendering jurisdiction may
exercise those rights as if no change of jurisdiction had occurred.
   (B)   The town may take action regarding such a development approval,
certificate, or other evidence of compliance that could have been taken by the
local government surrendering jurisdiction pursuant to its development
regulations. Any building, structure, or other land use in a territory over
which the town has acquired jurisdiction is subject to the development
regulations of the town.
(Ord. 2021-O3, passed 5-24-21)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
Chapter
   
30.   MAYOR AND BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
   
31.   TOWN OFFICES
   
32.   RESERVED
   
33.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
   
34.   FIRE DEPARTMENT
   
35.   FINANCE AND PURCHASING
   
36.   CIVIL EMERGENCY
   
37.   BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 30: MAYOR AND BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Governing body
   
30.02   Oath of office
   
30.03   Residency requirements
   
30.04   Powers and duties generally
   
30.05   Mayor; duties
   
30.06   Selection and duties of the Mayor Pro Tem
   
30.07   Resignations of members
   
30.08   Compensation of Board members
   
30.09   Governing body expenses
Meetings
   
30.25   Regular meetings
   
30.26   Special meetings
   
30.27   Recess
   
30.28   Presiding officer
   
30.29   Order of business
   
30.30   Rules of procedure
   
30.31   Meetings open to public
   
30.32   Quorum
   
30.33   Previous questions
   
30.34   Motions having precedence; motion to adjourn
Committees
   
30.50   Purpose
   
30.51   Standing committees
   
30.52   Appointment; reports; compensation
   
30.53   Committee meetings
Ordinances
   
30.65   Procedure; form
   
30.66   Effective date
   
30.67   Official copy
   
30.68   Ordinance book
   
30.69   Ordinances adding to code
   
30.70   Improper amending
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 GOVERNING BODY.
   The governing body of the town shall consist of a Mayor and Board of
Commissioners of four members, elected according to the uniform municipal
election laws of the state. The governing body shall be charged with the
general government and administration of the affairs of the town.
(OC, § 2-1-1)
Statutory reference:
   Board to organize town government, see G.S. § 160A-146
   Uniform Municipal Election Law of 1971, as amended, see G.S. §§ 163-279 et
seq.
§ 30.02 OATH OF OFFICE.
   The Mayor and each Commissioner shall, before entering upon the duties of
office, take and subscribe, before some person lawfully entitled to administer
oaths, the oath of office prescribed in Article VI, Sec. 7 of the State
Constitution. The oaths of office shall then be filed with the Town Clerk.
(OC, § 2-1-2) (Ord. passed 4-13-89)
Statutory reference:
   Oath of office, see G.S. § 160A-61
§ 30.03 RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS.
   If any member of the Town Board shall move his residence from the town, his
office shall at once be declared vacant and shall be filled as provided by G.S.
§ 160A-63.
(OC, § 2-1-3) (Ord. passed 4-13-89)
Statutory reference:
   Residency requirements for elected municipal officers, see G.S. § 160A-59
§ 30.04 POWERS AND DUTIES GENERALLY.
   The powers and duties of the governing body shall be as set out in the
General Statutes, the Town Charter and the ordinances of the town.
(OC, § 2-1-4)
§ 30.05 MAYOR; DUTIES.
   (A)   The Mayor shall be the chief executive officer of the town, and shall
perform the following duties:
      (1)   Keep himself informed as to the town's business;
      (2)   Preside over the meetings of the Board of Commissioners;
      (3)   Sign all contracts, ordinances, resolutions, franchises and all
other documents as authorized by the Board;
      (4)   Make recommendations to the Board concerning the affairs of the
town, as he deems necessary, and require a report to the Board from the town
departments within 30 days after the close of each year;
      (5)   Represent the town at ceremonies and other official occasions;
      (6)   Perform other duties as authorized by the General Statutes, the
Town Charter and this code.
   (B)   The Mayor shall receive as compensation such sum as may be fixed by
the Town Board.
(OC, § 2-1-5) (Ord. passed 4-13-89; Am. Ord. 2014-O12, passed 6-11-14)
Statutory reference:
   Powers and duties of the Mayor, see G.S. §§ 160A-67 and 160A-69;
   Compensation, see G.S. § 160A-64
Cross-reference:
   Mayor to appoint committees, see §
30.52
§ 30.06 SELECTION AND DUTIES OF THE MAYOR PRO TEM.
   (A)   At the first meeting after their election, the Board of Commissioners
shall select one of their number to act as Mayor Pro Tem. A Board member
serving as Mayor Pro Tem shall be entitled to vote on all matters and shall be
considered a Board member for all purposes, including the determination of
whether a quorum is present.
   (B)   The Mayor Pro Tem shall have no fixed term of office. During the
absence of the Mayor, the Board may confer upon the Mayor Pro Tem any of the
powers and duties of the Mayor. If the Mayor should become physically or
mentally incapable of performing the duties of his office, the Board may by
unanimous vote declare that he is incapacitated and confer any of his powers
and duties on the Mayor Pro Tem. Upon the Mayor's declaration that he is no
longer incapacitated, and with the concurrence of a majority of the Board, the
Mayor shall resume the exercise of his powers and duties.
   (C)   In the event both the Mayor and the Mayor Pro Tem are absent from a
meeting, the Board may elect from its members a temporary chairman to preside
in such absence.
(OC, § 2-1-6) (Am. Ord. passed 4-13-89)
Statutory reference:
   For provisions on Mayor Pro Tem, see G.S. § 160A-70
§ 30.07 RESIGNATIONS OF MEMBERS.
   Resignation of any member of the Board shall be in writing, and the
resignation shall lie on the table until the next regular meeting unless
accepted by the unanimous consent of all members of the Board.
(OC, § 2-1-8)
§ 30.08 COMPENSATION OF BOARD MEMBERS.
   The compensation of Board members shall be as provided in the annual budget
ordinance, and may be amended from time to time.
(OC, § 2-1-9)
Statutory reference:
   Compensation of Mayor and Board members, see G.S. § 160A-64
§ 30.09 GOVERNING BODY EXPENSES.
   The members of the governing body are entitled to reimbursement for actual
expenses incurred in the course of performing their official duties at rates
not in excess of those allowed to other city officers and employees, or to a
fixed allowance, the amount of which shall be established by the Board, for
travel and other personal expenses of office; provided, any fixed allowance so
established during a term of office shall not be increased during such term of
office.
(OC, § 2-1-10) (Ord. passed 4-13-89)
MEETINGS
§ 30.25 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   (A)   The regular meetings of the Mayor and Board of Commissioners of the
town shall be held on the second and fourth Tuesday of each month at the Town
Hall unless otherwise designated by the Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   The regular meetings of the Historic District Commission of the town
shall be held on the third Tuesday of each month at the Town Hall, unless
otherwise designated by the Historic District Commission.
   (C)   The regular meetings of the Planning Board of the town shall be held
on the first Tuesday of each month at the Town Hall, unless otherwise
designated by the Planning Board.
   (D)   The regular meetings of the Board of Adjustment shall be held on an as
needed basis at the Town Hall, unless otherwise designated by the Board of
Adjustment as permitted by this code or by other applicable law.
   (E)   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed or interpreted to
prohibit any of the agencies named in this chapter from holding special
meetings or from otherwise appropriately recessing a regular meeting to a time
other than the regular meeting time as set out in this chapter, so long as any
additional meeting is properly noticed as required by law; provided, however,
that only the Board of Commissioners may change the regular meeting time of any
of the agencies named in the chapter. Provided further that the chairman of any
board or commission except the Board of Commissioners may cancel any meeting if
it is apparent prior to the meeting that there is no business to come before
the meeting.
(OC, § 2-1-21) (Ord. passed 5-9-91; Am. Ord. 2015-O7, passed 10-20-15; Am. Ord.
2023-O13, passed 12-15-23)
Statutory reference:
   For provisions on a quorum, see G.S. § 160A-74
   For provisions on voting, see G.S. § 160A-75
§ 30.26 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   Special meetings of the Board may be held according to the procedures set
out in the applicable General Statutes.
(OC, § 2-1-22)
Statutory reference:
   For provisions on special meetings, see G.S. § 160A-71
§ 30.27 RECESS.
   A regular or special meeting of the Board and any recessed meeting thereof
may continue or recess to such time prior to the next regular meeting date as
may be fixed by the Board.
(OC, § 2-1-23(b)) (Ord. passed 4-13-89)
§ 30.28 PRESIDING OFFICER.
   At the hour appointed for the meeting of the Board, the Mayor, or in his
absence the Mayor Pro Tem, shall take the chair and preside and shall order a
call of the members by the Clerk, who shall note those present and absent. The
presiding officer shall preserve order and decorum and shall decide all
questions of order, subject to the right of appeal by any member to the full
Board.
(OC, § 2-1-24) (Ord. passed 4-13-89)
§ 30.29 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   Unless the Board agrees in advance otherwise, the business of the
Board shall be taken up for consideration and disposition at regular meetings
in the following order:
      (1)   Call to order;
      (2)   Opening prayer and Pledge of Allegiance;
      (3)   Adoption of agenda and consent items;
      (4)   Presentations;
      (5)   Appointments;
      (6)   Public hearings;
      (7)   Business non-consent;
      (8)   Comments (Public, Mayor/BOC and Manager);
      (9)   Adjournment.
   (B)   If the Board directs any matter to be the special business of a future
meeting, the matter shall have precedence over all other business at that
meeting.
(OC, § 2-1-25) (Am. Ord. passed 4-13-89; Am. Ord. passed 3-16-04)
§ 30.30 RULES OF PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Agenda. All reports, communications, ordinances, resolutions, when
possible, contract documents or other matters to be submitted to the Board
should be delivered or submitted to the Town Manager at least seven days prior
to its meeting. The Town Manager shall then arrange a list of these matters
according to the order of business and furnish each member of the Board and the
Town Attorney with a copy prior to the Board meeting and as far in advance of
the meeting as time for preparation will permit.
   (B)   Rules of debate and decorum.
      (1)   Manner of speaking. Every member desiring to speak shall address
the chair and upon recognition by the Mayor shall confine himself to the
question under debate, avoiding all indecorous language.
      (2)   Interrupting the speaker. A member, once recognized, shall not be
interrupted when speaking, unless it is to call him to order or as herein
otherwise provided. If a member, while speaking is called to order, he shall
cease speaking until the question of order is determined and, if in order, he
shall be permitted to proceed.
      (3)   Closing debate. The member moving the adoption of an ordinance or
resolution shall have the privilege of closing the debate.
      (4)   Motion to reconsider. A motion to reconsider a vote may be made
only at the same or any recessed meeting to that at which the vote is taken, or
upon notice by one voting with the majority that a motion to reconsider will be
made at the next regular meeting. The motion must be made by a member of the
Board voting on the prevailing side but may be seconded by any other member and
may be made at any time and have precedence over all other motions or while a
member has the floor.
      (5)   Request to have statement abstracted. A member may request from the
Mayor the privilege of having an abstract of his statement on any subject under
consideration by the Board entered in the minutes.
      (6)   Request to record synopsis of discussion in the minutes. The Clerk
may be directed by the Mayor, with consent of the Board, to enter in the
minutes a synopsis of the discussion on any question coming before the Board.
   (C)   Addressing the Board. Any person desiring to address the Board shall
first secure the permission of the Mayor. Any interested parties or their
authorized representatives may address the Board on matters listed on the
agenda of the Board. After a motion is before the Board, no person shall
address the Board without first securing the permission of the Board to do so.
   (D)   Manner of addressing the Board; time limit. Every person addressing
the Board shall attempt to limit his remarks to ten minutes. All remarks shall
be addressed to the Board as a body and not to any member thereof. No person,
other than Board members and the person having the floor, shall be permitted to
enter into any discussion either directly or through a member of the Board. No
question shall be asked a member except through the Mayor.
   (E)   Voting; explanation of vote. All elections by the Board shall be made
by individual ballot if requested by any two members present. A member may be
permitted to explain his/her vote and may have the reason for voting for or
against any measure recorded in the minutes.
   (F)   Questions of order. All questions of order shall be decided by the
Mayor without debate, subject to an appeal to the Board.
   (G)   Roberts’ Rules of Order. When a point of procedure shall arise not
covered by this chapter, the latest revised edition of Roberts' Rules of Order
shall determine the question of procedure.
(OC, § 2-1-26) (Am. Ord. passed 4-13-89)
§ 30.31 MEETINGS OPEN TO PUBLIC.
   Except as provided in the Open Meetings Law of the state, all meetings of
the Board shall be open to the public.
(OC, § 2-1-27)
Statutory reference:
   For provisions on the open meetings law, see G.S. §§ 143-318.9 et seq.
§ 30.32 QUORUM.
   (A)   A majority of the members elected to the Board of Commissioners shall
constitute a quorum for the conduct of business, but a less number may adjourn
from time to time and compel the attendance of absent members in a manner as
may be prescribed by ordinance.
   (B)   If a quorum of the Board is not present, the Mayor may send for the
absentees, and if a quorum fails to attend, the meeting shall stand adjourned
to such time as may be agreed upon by a majority of the Board members present.
(OC, § 2-1-28) (Ord. passed 4-13-89)
Cross-reference:
   Quorum, see Charter §
3.7
§ 30.33 PREVIOUS QUESTIONS.
   The previous question may be called at any time by a majority of the members
of the Board present. The “ayes” and “nays” may be called for by any member.
(OC, § 2-1-29) (Ord. passed 4-13-89)
§ 30.34 MOTIONS HAVING PRECEDENCE; MOTION TO ADJOURN.
   (A)   When a question is under consideration, no motion shall be received,
except the following:
      (1)   To lay on the table;
      (2)   To postpone to a time certain;
      (3)   To postpone indefinitely;
      (4)   To refer to a committee;
      (5)   To amend;
      (6)   To strike out or insert;
      (7)   To divide.
   (B)   Motions for any of these purposes shall have precedence in the order
named in division (A).
(OC, § 2-1-30)
   (C)   At a meeting of the Board, a motion to adjourn shall have precedence
over all other motions and shall be acted on immediately and without debate.
(OC, § 2-1-23)
(Ord. passed 4-13-89)
COMMITTEES
§ 30.50 PURPOSE.
   The purpose and intent of this chapter is to formally set out the
organization of town government and to promote the efficient handling of town
business while keeping the proper town officials and Board of Commissioners
advised and involved in town government. Standing committees shall be
designated to promote the strong and efficient functioning of town government
and service delivery. The committees are intended to provide continuity in
longterm program goals and needs and to assist with ongoing familiarization for
new staff and commissioners. Further, it is the intent of the committee
structure to be responsive to the town's responsibilities to its citizens and
to strengthen communication and understanding between citizens, commissioners
and functioning town departments and employees.
(OC, § 2-1-51) (Ord. passed 4-13-89)
§ 30.51 STANDING COMMITTEES.
   (A)   The following shall be the standing committees of the Board of
Commissioners:
      (1)   Administration, finance, management, and intergovernmental affairs;
      (2)   Planning and development, parks, recreation and community affairs;
      (3)   Public safety (police and fire);
      (4)   Public utilities, public works and sanitation.
   (B)   Items may be referred to standing committees for further review and
recommendation, at regular or special called meetings of the Board. The
referral shall be by formal motion and consent by the majority of the Board.
(OC, § 2-1-52) (Ord. passed 4-13-89)
§ 30.52 APPOINTMENT; REPORTS; COMPENSATION.
   (A)   At the first regular meeting following election of the Board of
Commissioners, the Mayor shall appoint, with the consent of the Board, two
Commissioners to serve as members to each committee. Each Commissioner may
serve on two committees.
   (B)   Each Committee shall consist of the Town Manager as recording
secretary, the working department head, if any, and the two Commissioners
appointed to the Committee by the Mayor.
(OC, § 2-1-53) (Ord. passed 4-13-89)
   (C)   Committees shall, unless otherwise ordered, be appointed by the Mayor,
and approved by a majority vote of the Board of Commissioners. All committees
shall make reports to the Board upon request, and committee members shall
receive any compensation for extra and special service as the Board may
designate.
(OC, § 2-1-7)
§ 30.53 COMMITTEE MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Committee shall have a regularly scheduled meeting not less than
quarterly at a date set by a majority of the members of the committee with
notice of not less than five days to all Committee members. Public notice of
meetings shall be posted at least 48 hours prior to the meetings. Department
heads will attend but employees will only be required to attend in the event a
Commissioner finds their presence to be necessary.
   (B)   Either of the Committee Commissioners may call a meeting upon giving
three days notice to the other members of the Committee. Public notice of
meetings shall be posted at least 48 hours prior to the meetings.
   (C)   Any action or recommendation proposed must be approved by a majority
vote of all Committee Commissioners.
   (D)   Regular reports of the Committee meetings shall be made to the full
Board of Commissioners by the recording secretary at the next regularly
scheduled meeting of the Board. Any report covering information which would
normally be discussed in executive session as provided in the state Open
Meetings Law will be provided only during an executive session.
   (E)   No action by a Committee shall be taken that would normally be subject
to a vote by the full Board of Commissioners. However, the Committee may study
a situation, gather information and present a recommendation or report to the
Board at the next regularly scheduled or called meeting.
(OC, § 2-1-54) (Ord. passed 4-13-89)
ORDINANCES
§ 30.65 PROCEDURE; FORM.
   Every ordinance amending or repealing any ordinance and every new ordinance
shall be proposed in writing and shall be approved as to form by the Town
Attorney. Ordinances shall have ordinance and section captions.
(OC, § 2-1-41)
§ 30.66 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   All ordinances shall be effective after the ratification except ordinances
specifying some other effective date, or ordinances required by state law to be
effective only after having met specific statutory time requirements.
(OC, § 2-1-42)
§ 30.67 OFFICIAL COPY.
    A true copy of an ordinance, which has been duly enacted by the Board,
signed by the Mayor and attested to by the Clerk shall be known as an official
copy of any ordinance for the town.
(OC, § 2-1-43)
Statutory reference:
   Pleading and proving municipal ordinances, see G.S. § 160A-79
§ 30.68 ORDINANCE BOOK.
   The Clerk shall file a true copy of each ordinance, until it is codified in
this code, in an ordinance book separate and apart from the Board's minute
book. The ordinance book shall be appropriately indexed and maintained for
public inspection in the office of the Clerk.
(OC, § 2-1-44)
Statutory reference:
   Ordinance book, see G.S. § 160A-78
§ 30.69 ORDINANCES ADDING TO CODE.
   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the code a new chapter, article or
section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this code, the
proper number of the title, chapter, article or section.
(OC, § 2-1-45)
§ 30.70 IMPROPER AMENDING.
   It shall be unlawful for members of the Board to annul, abridge, modify or
in any way change any ordinance of the Board except at a regular or special
meeting of the Board.
(OC, § 2-1-46)
CHAPTER 31: TOWN OFFICES
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Departments enumerated
   
31.02   Officers appointed by Board
   
31.03   Employees serve at pleasure of Board
   
31.04   Interest of town officers or employees in town contracts
   
31.05   Consolidation of offices
   
31.06   Employee’s bonds
Town Offices
   
31.20   Town Manager
   
31.21   Town Clerk
   
31.22   [Reserved]
   
31.23   Town Attorney
Cross-reference:
   Duties of Mayor, see §
30.05
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01   DEPARTMENTS ENUMERATED.
   The administrative organization of the town shall be divided into the
following departments:
   (A)   Administrative Department;
   (B)   Public Works Department;
   (C)   Police Department;
   (D)   Fire Department.
(OC, § 2-3-1)
§ 31.02 OFFICERS APPOINTED BY BOARD.
   Any officers and employees that are deemed necessary shall be appointed by
the town Board. All officers and employees shall serve at the pleasure of the
Board and receive such compensation as from time to time may be prescribed by
the Board.
(OC, § 2-2-1) (Ord. passed 4-13-89)
§ 31.03 EMPLOYEES SERVE AT PLEASURE OF BOARD.
   All employees elected or appointed by the Board of Commissioners shall hold
their office at the pleasure of the Board and may be removed at any time by the
Board.
(OC, § 2-2-21)
§ 31.04 INTEREST OF TOWN OFFICERS OR EMPLOYEES IN TOWN CONTRACTS.
   No Board member, employee, officer or agent of the town, nor immediate
family member, business partner or organization which employs or is about to
employ any person as set forth in § 31.03 shall be pecuniarily interested
directly or indirectly, in the selection, award or administration of any
contract made or entered into by the town, nor in any matter which the rights
or liabilities of the town are or may be involved.
(OC, § 2-2-22) (Am. Ord. passed 10-6-87)
§ 31.05 CONSOLIDATION OF OFFICES.
   Except as otherwise provided by law, the Board may in its discretion
consolidate any two or more offices and assign the duties of both offices to
one or more persons.
(OC, § 2-2-23)
§ 31.06 EMPLOYEE’S BONDS.
   The Town Manager, Clerk and other officers or employees required by the
Board shall, before entering upon their duties, post bond in amounts specified
by the Board. All bond premiums shall be paid from town funds. Provided, that
when two offices are combined, only one bond shall be required.
(OC, § 2-2-24)
TOWN OFFICES
§ 31.20 TOWN MANAGER.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners shall appoint a Town Manager to serve at
its pleasure. The Manager shall be appointed solely on the basis of his/her
executive and administrative qualifications. The powers and duties of the Town
Manager shall be those set out in G.S. § 160A-148.
   (B)   Neither the Mayor nor any member of the Board of Commissioners shall
be eligible for appointment as Town Manager, nor shall any former Mayor or
Commissioner be eligible for appointment as Town Manager until at least one
year after the last meeting at which the person last served as an elected
member of the governing body.
   (C)   All references in the code to the term Town Administrator shall
hereafter be deemed to be references to the Town Manager and all duties and
powers formerly held by the Town Administrator shall hereafter be held by the
Town Manager.
   (D)   The Town Manager shall have the authority to create and implement
administrative policies deemed necessary for the efficient administration,
direction and supervision of staff and employees, except as otherwise provided
by state or federal laws or town ordinances.
(OC, § 2-2-2) (Ord. passed 8-27-87; Am. Ord. passed 4-13-89; Am. Ord. passed
12-15-92; Am. Ord. 2006-04, passed 2-21-06)
Editor’s note:
   Prior to December 15, 1992, the town operated under the Mayor-Council form
of government. On December 15, 1992, the Board of Commissioners passed an
ordinance amending the Charter pursuant to G.S. § 160A-102 providing for a
change in the form of government to the Council-Manager form. It is the intent
of the Board of Commissioners by passage of this ordinance to vest in the Town
Manager all of the statutory powers and duties attending that position as well
as all of the power and duties formerly vested in the Town Administrator
pursuant to the Code of Ordinances and the various written policies of the
town.
§ 31.21 TOWN CLERK.
   The Board shall appoint a Town Clerk.
(OC, § 2-2-3) (Am. Ord. passed 4-13-89)
Statutory reference:
   Duties of clerk specified, see G.S. § 160A-171
   Minutes to be kept, see G.S. § 160A-72
§ 31.22 [RESERVED].
§ 31.23 TOWN ATTORNEY.
   The Board shall appoint a Town Attorney.
(OC, § 2-2-5) (Am. Ord. passed 4-13-89)
Statutory reference:
   Duties of attorney, see G.S. § 160A-173
CHAPTER 32: RESERVED
CHAPTER 33: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Creation
   
33.02   Composition of department
   
33.03   Personnel
   
33.04   Conditions of employment
   
33.05   Requirements of employment
   
33.06   Uniforms
Operating Regulations
   
33.15   Control and supervision of department
   
33.16   Power and authority
   
33.17   Specific functions of the Chief of Police
   
33.18   Police officer’s duties
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 CREATION.
   The town Police Department is hereby created subject to the terms, authority
and conditions as set out in this chapter of the code.
(OC, § 3-1-1) (Am. Ord. passed 8-11-88)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal law enforcement in general, see G.S. §§ 160A-281 et seq.
§ 33.02 COMPOSITION OF DEPARTMENT.
   The Police Department of the town shall consist of a Chief of Police and
police officers of a designated grade as the Town Board deems necessary, from
time to time, all of whom shall hold office at the pleasure of the Town Board,
and shall receive compensation as the Town Board shall direct.
(OC, § 3-1-2) (Am. Ord. passed 8-11-88)
§ 33.03 PERSONNEL.
   The Chief of Police shall have the duty of hiring persons as may be
necessary to man the police force of the town and to provide the town with
adequate police protection, together with the duty of discharging the members.
(OC, § 3-1-5) (Am. Ord. passed 8-11-88)
§ 33.04 CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT.
   Members of the Police Department shall be appointed by the Chief of Police
after due examination and based upon the results of the examination. Unless
provided otherwise by the Board, members of the Police Department shall be
subject to the general personnel policies of the town.
(OC, § 3-1-9) (Am. Ord. passed 8-11-88)
§ 33.05 REQUIREMENTS OF EMPLOYMENT.
   Every person appointed as a law enforcement officer shall meet the following
requirements:
   (A)   Be a citizen of the United States of America;
   (B)   Be at least 20 years of age;
   (C)   Be of good moral character and possess correct habits;
   (D)   Be fingerprinted and a search made of local, state and federal
fingerprint files;
   (E)   Not have been convicted of a felony or an offense involving moral
turpitude;
   (F)   Have a high school diploma or its equivalent;
   (G)   Pass an examination conducted by a physician.
(OC, § 3-1-10) (Am. Ord. passed 8-11-88)
Statutory reference:
   State law now requires that local law enforcement officers be certified by
the North Carolina
    Criminal Justice Education and Training Standards Council, see G.S. §§ 17C-
1 et seq.
§ 33.06 UNIFORMS.
   All police officers except the Chief shall wear uniforms as shall be
provided by the town and shall keep such uniforms in a neat and clean
condition, and shall surrender all uniforms and equipment upon leaving the
police service of the town if the uniforms and equipment were furnished by the
town.
(OC, § 3-1-8) (Am. Ord. passed 8-11-88)
OPERATING REGULATIONS
§ 33.15 CONTROL AND SUPERVISION OF DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall have immediate direction and control of the
members of the Police Department, subject, however, to the supervision of the
Town Board and to rules, regulations and orders that the Town Board may
prescribe.
(OC, § 3-1-4)
   (B)   The Chief of Police of the town, subject to the general supervision of
the Town Board, is held responsible for the discipline, good order and proper
conduct of the Department and the various duties thereof, and for the proper
enforcement of the laws of the state and of the town.
(OC, § 3-1-6)
(Am. Ord. passed 8-11-88)
§ 33.16 POWER AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The persons exercising police powers shall have all the power and
authority now, or which may hereafter be invested, in local law enforcement
officers for the preservation of the peace of the town and for suppressing
disturbances and arresting offenders.
   (B)   Except when pursuing an offender of the law or happening upon persons
in the act of committing some offense, or when directed by a superior officer
or when acting pursuant to official request for assistance, the police shall
carry out their duties when on duty within the law enforcement jurisdiction of
the town.
(OC, § 3-1-7) (Am. Ord. passed 8-11-88)
Cross-reference:
   Police jurisdiction extended, see Charter, §
8.1
Statutory reference:
   Jurisdiction of police officers, see G.S. §§ 15A-402 and 160A-286
§ 33.17 SPECIFIC FUNCTIONS OF THE CHIEF OF POLICE.
   The functions of the Chief of Police in the town are as follows:
   (A)   To issue to the force under his command any orders and directives as
may be necessary to preserve the public peace, prevent crime, arrest offenders
and to protect public and private property and persons in the town;
   (B)   To enforce the laws, ordinances, police regulations and executive
orders applicable to his/her jurisdiction;
   (C)   To suspend from duty any members of the Department for incompetence,
neglect of duty, immorality, drunkenness, drinking intoxicants when on duty, or
who shall be found unfit for duty when called on emergency service, or who fail
to obey orders given by proper authority and in addition for any just or
reasonable cause in the judgment of the Town Manager;
   (D)   To require the proper submission and handling of the necessary and
required reports.
(OC, § 3-1-11) (Am. Ord. passed 8-11-88; Am. Ord. 2006-04, passed 2-21-06)
§ 33.18 POLICE OFFICER’S DUTIES.
   (A)   The Chief of Police and the members of the Police Department shall
have the duty of enforcing all of the ordinances of the town and the laws of
this state within the town, and other duties as may be prescribed by ordinance,
and to abide by rules as the Town Manager may prescribe.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of each member of the police force, upon
information furnished him/her, or upon his/her knowledge of any violation of
the ordinances of the town or of the laws of this state, to secure proper
warrants for the arrest and trial of offenders against any ordinances or laws.
(OC, § 3-1-3) (Am. Ord. passed 8-11-88; Am. Ord. 2006-04, passed 2-21-06)
CHAPTER 34: FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
34.01   Organization
   
34.02   Fire Chief duties
   
34.03   Interference with firefighters, apparatus or equipment
Cross-reference:
   Fire prevention, see
Ch. 91
§ 34.01 ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   The Fire Department shall be a legally established agency through the
departmental charter and any associated amendments adopted by the local
governing body.
   (B)   The Fire Department shall also be a division of the town, conforming
to all associated town policies and procedures.
   (C)   The Fire Department shall meet and maintain all requirements defined
in the Fire Suppression Rating Schedule (FSRS) to earn a Public Protection
Classification (PPC) of 9S.
   (D)   The Fire Department shall maintain awareness of and conform to all
applicable legal requirements and associated changes from local, state, and
federal governments.
   (E)   The Fire Department organizational structure shall be clearly defined,
with supporting references for all positions and roles, including each job
classification’s responsibilities, qualifications, and functions.
   (F)   The Fire Department shall reserve the ability to develop, maintain,
and implement intradepartmental operational guidelines aligned with the
organization’s mission, vision, and goals. Unless otherwise approved by the
Town Manager, the intradepartmental policies or operational guidelines shall
not supersede other town policies, procedures, or guidelines.
   (G)   The primary responsibility of the Fire Department shall be fire
protection for the Swansboro Fire District and for any other districts as
contracted. Services provided by the Fire Department shall include, but are not
limited to:
      (1)   Fire suppression;
      (2)   Emergency medical services;
      (3)   Technical rescue;
      (4)   Hazardous materials response;
      (5)   Fire prevention, inspections, and enforcement;
      (6)   Community risk reduction, fire life safety education;
      (7)   Fire investigations;
      (8)   Emergency management and domestic preparedness.
   (H)   The Fire Department shall review, update, maintain, and abide by any
terms related to services established or defined in contracts.
   (I)   The Fire Department shall review, update, maintain, and abide by terms
relating to or established in mutual or automatic aid agreements with other
agencies.
(OC, § 3-2-1) (Am. Ord. 2006-04, passed 2-21-06; Am. Ord. 2023-O10, passed 7-
24-23)
§ 34.02 FIRE CHIEF DUTIES.
   The Fire Chief for the Fire Department, supervised by the Town Manager,
shall be responsible for planning, directing, managing, and overseeing daily
activities and operations for the Fire Department, including, but not limited
to:
   (A)   Overall control of the Fire Department, including, but is not limited
to, personnel, apparatus, and equipment management;
   (B)   Implementing policies, guidelines, and procedures related to Fire
Department operations;
   (C)   Development and oversight of annual training plans for career and
volunteer personnel, coordinating training exercises with mutual and automatic
aid agencies, and ensuring accurate documentation of the events;
   (D)   Maintaining or improving the town’s ISO rating;
   (E)   Maintain awareness of legislative or industry changes that may alter,
deviate, or require new services;
   (F)   Review all potential developments for the town and its ETJ;
   (G)   Promote continuous improvement throughout the organization, supported
by data-driven performance metrics;
   (H)   Ensure that
Chapter 91 of this code, the North Carolina Fire Prevention Code, and other
adopted standards are enforced;
   (I)   Function as the Town Emergency Manager.
(OC, § 3-2-3) (Am. Ord. 2006-04, passed 2-21-06; Am. Ord. 2023-O10, passed 7-
24-23)
§ 34.03 INTERFERENCE WITH FIREFIGHTERS, APPARATUS OR EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   No person shall interfere with a firefighter in the discharge of their
duty, or hinder in the performance of their duty consistent with G.S. §§ 58-82-
1 et seq.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to drive
over, or in any way damage or mutilate any fire hose or fire equipment in use
at a fire or otherwise.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to obstruct
in any manner, or to park or station a vehicle, not being a firefighting
apparatus, within ten feet, in any given direction, of a fire hydrant. The
vehicles and/or obstructions shall be removed at the owner’s expense.
(OC, § 3-2-9) (Am. Ord. 2023-O10, passed 7-24-23) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 35: FINANCE AND PURCHASING
Section
General Provisions
   
35.01   Capital reserve accounts
   
35.02   Checks and drafts countersigned
Purchasing
   
35.10   Authority granted
   
35.11   Extent of authority
   
35.12   No limitation of other authority
   
35.13   Application of state law
   
35.14   Purchases authorized by annual budget
   
35.15   Purchasing manual
   
35.16   Disposition of personal property
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 35.01 CAPITAL RESERVE ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   Water and sewer.
      (1)   The purpose of this division (A) is to establish a capital reserve
account to be called Capital Reserve Account I to reserve funds for repairs,
modifications, expansion and capital improvements to the town's water and sewer
facilities and system.
      (2)   Funds for Capital Reserve Account I may be appropriated from any
other fund of the town consistent with any limitations imposed by the General
Statutes and from those fees received pursuant to the ordinance adopted by the
town on January 4, 1985 establishing impact fees.
      (3)   Capital Reserve Account I will be used principally for repairs,
modifications, expansion and capital improvements to the water and sewer
facilities and system. Capital improvements and major repairs are defined by
cost and expected duration of use of the improvement or repair. A cost of more
than $500 or a life expectancy of three years or more will constitute a capital
improvement or a major repair.
      (4)   The total of funds in the account will vary as revenues and
expenditures occur. The sum of $250,000 is the suggested amount necessary for
the expense of repairs, modifications, expansion and capital expenditures to
the water and sewer facilities and system.
      (5)   Capital Reserve Account I is hereby established for an indefinite
period. It is expected that repairs, modifications, expansion and capital
improvements of the water and sewer facilities and system will be continuous.
(OC, § 2-4-51) (Ord. passed 6-6-85)
   (B)   General fund.
      (1)   The purpose of this division (B) is to establish a capital reserve
account to be called Capital Reserve Account II to reserve funds for repairs,
modifications, expansion and capital improvements for the town departments in
the general fund such as police, fire, streets, parks, administration and the
like.
      (2)   Funds for Capital Reserve Account II may be appropriated from any
other fund of the town consistent with any limitations imposed by the General
Statutes.
      (3)   Capital Reserve Account II will be used principally for repairs,
modifications, expansion and capital improvements for the departments of the
town general fund. Capital improvements and major repairs are defined by cost
and expected duration of use of the improvement or repair. A cost of more than
$500 or a life expectancy of three years or more will constitute a capital
improvement or a major repair.
      (4)   The total of funds in the account will vary as revenues and
expenditures occur. The sum of $250,000 is the suggested amount necessary for
the expense of repairs, modifications, expansion and capital expenditures for
the departments of the town general fund.
      (5)   Capital Reserve Account II is hereby established for an indefinite
period. It is expected that repairs, modifications, expansion and capital
improvements for the departments of the town general fund will be continuous.
(OC, § 2-4-52) (Ord. passed 2-11-88) (Am. Ord. passed 4-13-89)
§ 35.02 CHECKS AND DRAFTS COUNTERSIGNED.
   All checks and drafts issued by the town, regardless of amount, must be
signed by two of the following three individuals: the Town Manager, the Mayor
or the Finance Officer.
(OC, § 2-4-41) (Am. Ord. passed 3-18-97)
Statutory reference:
   Dual signatures on checks, see G.S. § 159-25
PURCHASING
§ 35.10 AUTHORITY GRANTED.
   Subject to the restrictions and conditions hereinafter provided, when
purchasing apparatus, supplies, materials or equipment for use by the town, in
addition to the authority as may be provided by law and/or otherwise delegated
by the Board of Commissioners, the Finance Officer shall have the authority to
do all of the following:
   (A)   Prepare, or cause to be prepared, plans and/or specifications setting
forth a complete description of the item(s) to be purchased and the
characteristics, features and/or requirements therefor;
   (B)   Include, where appropriate, in specifications for the item(s) to be
purchased an opportunity for bidders to purchase as trade-in specified personal
property owned by the town;
   (C)   Advertise, or otherwise secure bids, for such item(s), if required
under applicable law;
   (D)   Award contracts for the purchase of the item(s) and, where applicable,
award contracts for the purchase of the item(s) and the sale of trade-in
property as directed by the Town Manager;
   (E)   Reject bids;
   (F)   Readvertise to receive bids;
   (G)   Waive bid bond or deposit requirements as directed by the Town
Manager;
   (H)   Waive performance and payment bond requirements as directed by the
Town Manager;
   (I)   Execute and deliver the purchase contract(s) as directed by the Town
Manager;
   (J)   In accordance with the local government budget and Fiscal Control Act,
no bill or claim against the town may be paid unless it has been approved by
the officer or employee responsible for the function or agency to which the
expense is charged. No check or draft of the town shall be valid unless it
bears on its face the certificate of the finance offices as follows: This
disbursement has been approved as required by the local government budget and
Fiscal Control Act;
   (K)   No contract, agreement or purchase order shall be valid unless it
bears the Finance Officer's certificate as follows: This instrument has been
preaudited in the manner required by the Local Government Budget and Fiscal
Control Act;
   (L)   At the first meeting of the Board of Commissioners following the award
of any contract(s) pursuant to this subchapter, the Finance Officer shall
submit a report to the Board of Commissioners summarizing the bids received and
the contract(s) awarded. The report shall be included in the minutes of the
meeting at which it is received.
(OC, § 2-4-1, A.) (Ord. passed 11-10-88; Am. Ord. passed 10-20-98)
§ 35.11 EXTENT OF AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Except in cases of sole source purchases pursuant to G.S. § 143-129(f)
and cases of purchases from established contracts pursuant to G.S. § 143-129
(g), unless otherwise provided by law, the provisions of this subchapter shall
apply to the purchase of apparatus, supplies, materials or equipment requiring
the estimated expenditure of municipal funds in an amount not to exceed $30,000
for any one item or group of similar items.
   (B)   This subchapter is enacted pursuant to the provisions of G.S. § 143-
129(a).
(OC, § 2-4-1, B. and E.) (Ord. passed 11-10-88; Am. Ord. passed 10-20-98)
§ 35.12 NO LIMITATION OF OTHER AUTHORITY.
   The provisions of this subchapter are not intended to limit, restrict or
revoke, in any manner, authority otherwise granted and/or delegated to the
Finance Officer by statute, law or action of the Board of Commissioners.
(OC, § 2-4-1, C.) (Ord. passed 11-10-88; Am. Ord. passed 10-20-98)
§ 35.13 APPLICATION OF STATE LAW.
   In acting pursuant to the authority delegated by this subchapter, the
Finance Officer shall comply with the requirements of G.S. Ch. 143, Art. 8, as
from time to time amended, modified, supplemented, revised or superseded, to
the same extent as would have otherwise applied to the Board of Commissioners.
(OC, § 2-4-1, D.) (Ord. passed 11-10-88; Am. Ord. passed 10-20-98)
§ 35.14 PURCHASES AUTHORIZED BY ANNUAL BUDGET.
   No purchase shall be made by the Finance Officer under authority of this
subchapter unless an appropriation for the purpose has been authorized in the
annual budget, or by supplemental appropriation or budget appropriation
amendment duly adopted by the Board of Commissioners.
(OC, § 2-4-1, E.) (Ord. passed 11-10-88; Am. Ord. passed 10-20-98)
§ 35.15 PURCHASING MANUAL.
   Purchasing procedures are set forth in the town’s purchasing manual.
(OC, § 2-4-2) (Ord. passed 4-13-89; Am. Ord. passed 10-20-98)
§ 35.16 DISPOSITION OF PERSONAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   The Town Manager or Finance Director is hereby authorized, pursuant to
G.S. § 160A-266(c), to dispose of any surplus property owned by the town,
whenever he or she determines, in his or her desecration, any of the following:
      (1)   Any one item or group of items has a fair market value of less than
$5,000;
      (2)   The property is no longer necessary for the conduct of public
business;
      (3)   Sound property management principles and financial considerations
indicate the interests of the town would best be served by disposing of the
property.
   (B)   The Town Manager or Finance Director may dispose of any such surplus
personal property by any means which he or she judges reasonablely calculated
to yield the highest attainable sale price in money or other consideration,
including but not limited to the methods of sale provided in G.S. Ch. 160A,
Art. 12. The sale may be electronic, public, or private, and with or without
notice and minimum waiting period.
   (C)   The surplus property shall be sold to the party who tenders the
highest offer, or exchanged for any property or services useful to the town if
greater value may be obtained in that manner, and the Town Manager or Finance
Director is hereby authorized to execute and deliver any applicable title
documents. If no offers are received within a reasonable time, the Town Manager
or Finance Director may retain the property, obtain any reasonable available
salvage value or cause it to be disposed of as waste material. No surplus
property may be donated to any individual or organizations except by resolution
the Town Board of Commissioners.
   (D)   The Finance Director shall keep a record of all property sold under
authority of this section and that record shall generally describe the property
sold or exchanged, to whom it was sold, or with whom exchanged, and the amount
of money or other consideration received for each sale or exchange.
(OC, § 2-4-3) (Ord. passed 11-10-88; Am. Ord. passed 10-20-98; Am. Ord. 2008-
08, passed 4-15-08)
CHAPTER 36: CIVIL EMERGENCY
Section
   
36.01   State of emergency
   
36.02   Curfew
Statutory reference:
   Authority of Mayor during states of emergency, see G.S. § 166A-19.31
§ 36.01 STATE OF EMERGENCY.
   A state of emergency shall be deemed to exist whenever, during times of
great public crisis, disaster, rioting, catastrophe or similar public
emergency, for any reason, municipal public safety authorities are unable to
maintain public order or afford adequate protection for lives, safety or
property.
(OC, § 3-3-1)
§ 36.02 CURFEW.
   (A)   Curfew. In the event of an existing or threatened state of emergency
endangering the lives, safety, health and welfare of the people within the
town, or threatening damage to or destruction of property, the Mayor of the
town is hereby authorized and empowered to issue a public proclamation
declaring to all persons the existence of the state of emergency, and, in order
to more effectively protect the lives, safety and property of the people within
the town, to define and impose a curfew applicable to all persons within the
jurisdiction of the town.
(OC, § 3-3-2)
   (B)   Limited application. The Mayor is hereby authorized and empowered to
limit the application of a curfew to any area specifically designated and
described within the corporate limits of the town and to specific hours of the
day or night; and to exempt from the curfew police officers, firefighters,
doctors, nurses and any other classes of persons as may be essential to the
preservation of public order and immediately necessary to serve the safety,
health and welfare needs of the people within the town.
(OC, § 3-3-3)
   (C)   Termination. The Mayor shall proclaim the end of the state and curfew
as soon as circumstances warrant or when directed to do so by the Town Board.
(OC, § 3-3-4)
   (D)   Violations. During the existence of a proclaimed state of emergency
when a curfew has been imposed, it shall be unlawful for anyone subject to the
curfew to do as follows:
      (1)   To be or travel upon any public street, alley or roadway or upon
public property, unless in search of medical assistance, food or other
commodity or service necessary to sustain the well-being of him/herself or his/
her family or member thereof;
      (2)   To possess off one’s own premises, buy, sell, give away or
otherwise transfer or dispose of any explosives, firearms, ammunition or
dangerous weapon of any kind;
      (3)   To sell beer, wines or intoxicating beverages of any kind; or to
possess or consume the same off one’s own premises;
      (4)   To sell gasoline or any other similar petroleum products, or any
other inflammable substances, except as expressly authorized by the provisions
of the curfew imposed.
(OC, § 3-3-5)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 37: BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
   
37.01   Parks and Recreation Board creation; composition
Cross-reference:
   Community Tree Board, see §
95.03
§ 37.01 PARKS AND RECREATION BOARD CREATION; COMPOSITION.
   (A)   There is hereby established the Swansboro Parks and Recreation Board,
hereafter referred to as the Parks and Recreation Board, to consist of seven
at-large members, to be appointed by the Board of Commissioners of the town.
Those persons sitting as members of the existing Parks and Recreation Board
shall continue to serve out the terms to which they have been appointed.
Thereafter, the terms shall continue to be staggered. Members appointed to fill
a vacancy shall be appointed to serve the remainder of the vacated term. A
Board member may continue serving until his or her successor is appointed.
   (B)   The Parks and Recreation Board shall have the authority to amend its
organizational procedures and by-laws subject to the Board of Commissioners
review for comments at any time by an affirmative vote of the members of the
Parks Board, provided such amendment shall have first been presented to the
membership in writing at a regular or special meeting.
   (C)   A majority of the membership constitutes a quorum.
   (D)   The purpose of the Parks and Recreation Board is to continually
determine and assess the recreational needs and interest of the citizens of the
town and its immediate surrounding area, to develop and implement a master
recreation plan and to ultimately provide an adequate system of park facilities
and recreational programs for all age groups within our community.
(Ord. passed 1-21-03; Am. Ord. passed 7-20-04)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
Chapter
   
50.   REFUSE, SOLID WASTE, AND RECYCLING
   
51.   WATER AND SEWER SERVICE
   
52.   SEWERS
   
53.   WATER AND SEWER EXTENSION
   
54.   INFRASTRUCTURE REIMBURSEMENT AGREEMENTS
CHAPTER 50: REFUSE, SOLID WASTE AND RECYCLING
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Purpose
   
50.02   Definitions
Regulations
   
50.15   Litter on public and private property
   
50.16   Receptacles and containers required
   
50.17   Disposal site practices
   
50.18   Rules and regulations for residents and businesses
   
50.19   Use of containers required
   
50.20   Storing of trash or refuse
   
50.21   Scattering refuse prohibited
   
50.22   Commercial establishments
   
50.23   Loading and unloading areas
   
50.24   Inspection and replacement of receptacles
   
50.25   Collectors to use reasonable care
   
50.26   Curbside pickup
   
50.27   Burning or burying garbage, solid waste, recycling or refuse
   
50.28   Construction and demolition sites; special refuse collection
   
50.29   Special refuse disposal
   
50.30   Commercial haulers
   
50.31   Certain conditions declared nuisances
   
50.32   Maintaining a nuisance; notice of violations
Administration and Enforcement
   
50.45   Police Department to enforce
   
50.46   Enforcement procedures; citations of violations
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 PURPOSE.
   It has been determined by researchers that most litter is generated from the
following sources: motorists, pedestrians, household and business putouts,
commercial putouts, loading/unloading areas, construction sites and uncovered
vehicles. It is the purpose of this chapter to insure that these sources are
regulated in such manner as to reduce the generation of litter in the town and
to protect the public safety, health, welfare and environment.
(OC, § 4-2-1)
§ 50.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BULK CONTAINER.  A container that can be picked up and emptied mechanically.
   BUSINESS TRASH. Any waste accumulation of dust, paper, cardboard, excelsior,
rags or other
accumulations which are usually attendant to the operation of stores, offices
and similar businesses.
   COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT. Any retail, manufacturing, wholesale,
institutional, religious, governmental or other non-residential establishment
at which garbage or trash may be generated.
   CONSTRUCTION DEBRIS. Any discarded material such as lumber, brick, plastic,
aluminum, styrofoam, plaster, paper, sheet rock, vinyl or other substances
accumulated as a result of repairs or additions to existing structures or
buildings, construction of new structures or buildings or demolition of
existing structures or buildings, including but not limited to excavated earth,
stones, brick, plaster, lumber, concrete, shingles, insulation and waste parts
generated by installations and replacements of structures and facilities.
   CUSTOMER. Any person, corporation, firm or other entity which generates,
collects or otherwise causes or allows to be accumulated any kind of
construction debris, business trash, garbage, hazardous refuse, household
trash, industrial waste, litter, refuse, solid waste, yard trash or any other
kind of trash or rubbish upon property served by the garbage collector of the
town.
   DETACHABLE CONTAINER. A unit which is used for collecting, storing and
transporting construction debris, commercial trash, industrial waste, hazardous
refuse, refuse or yard trash. The distinguishing feature of the detachable
container is that it is picked up by a specially equipped truck and becomes an
integral part of the truck for transporting the waste materials to the disposal
site. Commonly known as a “Green box.”
   GARBAGE. The by-product of animal or vegetable foodstuffs resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food which is subject to
decay, and which generates offensive odors, and serves as breeding material for
pests.
   GARBAGE COLLECTOR. The Town of Swansboro or any person, corporation, firm or
other entity duly appointed, contracted or otherwise designated by the town as
responsible for the collection and disposition of construction debris, business
trash, garbage, hazardous refuse, household trash, industrial waste, litter,
refuse, solid waste, yard trash or any other kind of trash or rubbish pursuant
to the provisions of this chapter.
   HAZARDOUS REFUSE. Materials such as poisons, acids, caustics, chemicals,
infected materials, offal, fecal matter and explosives.
   HOUSEHOLD TRASH. Every waste accumulation of paper, sweepings, dust, rags,
bottles, cans or other matter of any kind, other than garbage, which is usually
attendant to housekeeping.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. All waste, including solids, semi-solids, sludges and
liquids created by factories, processing plants or other manufacturing
enterprises.
   LITTER. Any discarded, used, unconsumed, noncontainerized substance or
waste. Litter may include, but is not limited to any garbage, trash, refuse,
debris, rubbish, grass clippings or other lawn or garden waste, newspaper,
magazines, glass, metal, plastics, plastic or paper containers or other
packaging, construction debris, motor vehicles parts, furniture, oil, carcass
of a dead animal, cloth, any nauseous or offensive matter of any kind, any
object likely to injure any person or create a traffic hazard or anything else
of an unsightly nature, which has been declared, abandoned or otherwise
disposed of improperly.
   LOADING AND UNLOADING AREA. Any stream, river, or lakeside land dock or
ramp, space or area used by any moving vehicle for the purpose of loading/
unloading, commodities and persons.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, partnership, corporation or
association.
   PORTABLE PACKING UNIT. A metal container that contains a compacting
mechanism and an internal or external power unit.
   PUTOUT. Solid waste which has been placed by a household, commercial or
business establishment for the purpose of being picked up by an appropriate
collection agency or for pickup and delivery to an authorized disposal area by
others.
   REFUSE. Solid waste accumulations consisting of garbage, household trash,
commercial and/or business trash as herein defined.
   REFUSE RECEPTACLE. A corrosion resistant metal or plastic container, for
refuse, of substantial construction, with tight fitting lid, and provided with
wheels and/or handle sufficient for safe and convenient handling. The
receptacles shall be kept in serviceable condition at all times.
   RUBBISH. Any waste material not otherwise defined in this section.
   SOLID WASTE. Useless, unwanted or discarded material with insufficient
liquid content to be free flowing.
   WEEK. That period of time between one Sunday and the following Sunday.
   YARD TRASH. Waste accumulation of lawn grass or shrubbery or vine cuttings
or clippings and dry leaf rakings, free of dirt, rocks, large branches, and
bulky or noncombustible material.
(OC, § 4-2-2) (Am. Ord. passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 2015-O2, passed 8-18-15)
REGULATIONS
§ 50.15 LITTER ON PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to trespass on the rights of another
through the neglect of property by causing or allowing unsightly litter, foul
odor or potentially dangerous devices to remain on or emanate from the
property, or to throw, place, discard, abandon, dump or cause such on public
property, including street rights-of-way, or other’s private property.
(OC, § 4-2-3) (Am. Ord. passed 11-10-88) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.16 RECEPTACLES AND CONTAINERS REQUIRED.
   It shall be required of every person in possession, charge or control of any
place in or from which construction debris, as defined in §
50.02 of this chapter, business/commercial trash, garbage, household trash,
industrial waste is accumulated or produced to provide and at all times to keep
in a suitable place, adequate and suitable receptacles and/or containers
capable of holding all such waste materials. All tree and shrubbery trimmings
and yard trash shall be neatly stacked near the curb. The refuse should not
exceed the size and weight which can be accommodated by the refuse collector.
The Department of Public Works or its contractor shall determine whether the
receptacles and containers meet the standards required of a refuse receptacle
as defined in this chapter.
(OC, § 4-2-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.17 DISPOSAL SITE PRACTICES.
   (A)   Refuse. All refuse shall be placed and maintained on containers as
specified herein. All containers shall be kept covered at all times with tight-
fitting covers until the refuse is disposed of.
   (B)   Garbage. All garbage being placed in containers for collection shall
have drained from it all free liquid, and shall be wrapped, bagged or enclosed
in paper or plastic material unless otherwise specifically authorized.
   (C)   Household trash. All household trash shall be drained of all liquids
prior to its deposit in refuse receptacles. Any items of household trash which
are too large for receptacles and cannot be reduced to a size which can be
placed in a receptacle may be placed in securely bagged or bound packages next
to the receptacle.
   (D)   Dangerous trash items.  All dangerous trash items, and all waste
material of an injurious nature, such as broken glass, light bulbs, sharp
pieces of metal, fluorescent tubes and television tubes, shall be securely
wrapped to prevent injury to collection crews and other persons.
   (E)   Hazardous refuse.  No hazardous refuse or building materials shall be
placed in any receptacle or container unless the receptacle is authorized by
state of federal regulation.
   (F)   Tree and shrubbery trimmings. Tree and shrubbery trimmings transported
upon roads and streets within the boundaries of the town will be securely
covered or tied to prevent the depositing thereof on roads, streets, sidewalks
or road shoulders.
   (G)   Authorized sites. Only those landfills and container sites operated
and maintained by a county are authorized disposal sites.
(OC, § 4-2-5)
§ 50.18 RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR RESIDENTS AND BUSINESSES.
   (A)   The following rules and regulations shall be observed:
      (1)   Garbage receptacles shall be made substantially of metal or plastic
and shall be provided with a tight-fitting cover and strong handles. The covers
shall be kept on the receptacles at all times, except when being filled or
emptied. Nothing shall be placed in a garbage receptacle until it is thoroughly
drained.
      (2)   No unauthorized receptacles shall be used for garbage or waste, and
the waste collector shall be required to remove all such boxes and other wooden
receptacles. All garbage receptacles must be properly constructed, maintained
and covered at all times.
   (B)   Each resident and proprietor shall dispose of garbage and wastes in
accordance to the rules and regulations of this chapter. No town employee shall
assist in any way any resident or proprietor in the disposal of such garbage or
wastes.
   (C)   The owners or agents, tenants or lessees of all residential units and
commercial establishments shall be responsible for compliance with this
chapter.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person, corporation or other entity to
bring any construction debris, business trash, garbage, hazardous refuse,
household trash, industrial waste, litter, refuse, solid waste, yard trash or
any other kind of trash or rubbish into the town from a point outside the town
for the purpose of disposing of such materials the that the materials will
become subject to pick-up by the garbage collector.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person, corporation or other entity to
knowingly permit the use of its receptacles or any other portion of his, its,
or their property by any person, corporation or other entity for the
disposition of any construction debris, business trash, garbage, hazardous
refuse, household trash, industrial waste, litter, refuse, solid waste, yard
trash or any other kind of trash or rubbish brought into the town from a point
outside the town for the purpose of disposing of the materials such that the
materials will become subject to pick-up by the town or its duly established
garbage collector.
   (F)   The Public Works Director shall determine the need for size and number
of any such receptacle according to commonly accepted standards, based on the
quantity of refuse and the schedule of collection. The solid waste collector
shall pick up no more than three solid waste receptacles and three recycling
receptacles per dwelling or commercial business per collection day. Any
dwelling unit or commercial business generating more than can be contained in
three solid waste receptacle or three recycle receptacles between collection
days shall use bulk containers.
   (G)   The owner, tenant, lessee or occupant of property using a rollout cart
shall notify the town for cart pickup prior to their departure from that
property.
(OC, § 4-2-6) (Am. Ord passed 11-10-88; Am. Ord. passed 12-13-90; Am. Ord.
2015-O2, passed 8-18-15) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.19 USE OF CONTAINERS REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any customer going upon the premises of another in
any manner to dispose of wastepaper, wrapping paper, paper napkins, cartons,
package containers and other used or waste materials, except in receptacles
provided for such purposes.
(OC, § 4-2-7) (Ord. passed 11-10-88) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.20 STORING OF TRASH OR REFUSE.
   All solid waste, recycle, and refuse shall be collected and placed in
containers as required by this chapter. It shall be unlawful for any person to
permit garbage or refuse to accumulate or remain on any premises longer than is
reasonably necessary to remove and deposit same in approved containers as
required herein, and in accordance with the following provisions:
   (A)   Public streets and private property. No person shall place any
accumulations of refuse and trash in any street, median strip, alley or other
public place of travel, nor upon any private property except as stated herein.
   (B)   Unauthorized accumulations. Any unauthorized accumulation of refuse or
trash items on any lot, property, premises, public street, alley or other
public or private place is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and is
prohibited. Failure of owner or occupant to remove and correct any such
unauthorized accumulation of refuse shall be deemed a violation of this
chapter.
   (C)   Junk. It shall be unlawful for any person to place or leave outside
any building or dwelling within public view any dilapidated furniture,
appliance, machinery, equipment, building material or other item which is
either in a wholly or partially rusted, wrecked, junked, dismantled or
inoperative condition, and which is not completely enclosed within a building
or dwelling. Any such item(s) which remain on the property of the occupant for
a period of ten days after notice of violation of this section shall be
presumed to be abandoned and subject to removal from the property by the town
without further notice and subject to expenses incurred in the removal of such
item(s). This shall not apply to authorized junk dealers or establishments
engaged in the repair, rebuilding, reconditioning or salvaging of equipment.
(OC, § 4-2-8) (Am. Ord. passed 11-10-88; Am. Ord. 2015-O2, passed 8-18-15)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.21 SCATTERING REFUSE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to do the following:
      (1)   Scatter refuse about or litter any public or private street or area
or place;
      (2)   Cast, throw, place, sweep or deposit anywhere within the town, any
refuse or trash in such a manner that it may be carried or deposited by the
elements upon any street, sidewalk, alley, sewer, parkway or other public place
or into any occupied or unoccupied premises.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any vehicle transporting loose materials
within the town to transport same without suitable covers. This section shall
not apply to the transportation of poultry, livestock, tobacco and silage or
other feed grain used in the feeding of poultry or livestock.
(OC, § 4-2-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.22 COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   All commercial establishments shall store their refuse in receptacles
or containers as specified herein so as to eliminate wind-driven debris and
unsightly litter in and about their establishments. Approved methods of
containerization include refuse receptacles, bulk containers and detachable
containers. The number and type of containers necessary for each commercial
establishment shall be as required to maintain a clean, neat, sanitary premises
as directed by the Department of Public Works. Spillage and overflow shall be
immediately cleaned up when and as it occurs by the establishment. Equipment
and other personal property located or stored outdoors shall be situated to
prevent water from accumulating therein.
   (B)   Commercial establishments will be allowed to use the 96 gallon
receptacles under the following guidelines:
      (1)   The property does not have room available for a commercial
dumpster;
      (2)   The property does not have room for a commercial front end truck to
safely access a dumpster;
      (3)   The property’s generated waste is similar in size and material to
residential waste, no food waste, hazardous waste, or construction debris;
      (4)   Solid waste and recycle receptacles shall be secured in an enclosed
area at the rear of property.
      (5)   The Public Works Director shall determine the need for size and
number of any such receptacle according to commonly accepted standards, based
on the quantity of refuse and the schedule of collection. The solid waste
collector shall pick up no more than three solid waste receptacles and three
recycling receptacles per dwelling or commercial business per collection day.
Any dwelling unit or commercial business generating more than can be contained
in three solid waste receptacles or three recycling receptacles between
collection days shall use bulk containers.
(OC, § 4-2-10) (Am. Ord. 2015-O2, passed 8-18-15) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.23 LOADING AND UNLOADING AREAS.
   All loading and unloading areas shall be provided with refuse receptacles
for loose debris, paper, packaging materials and other trash. The number of
containers necessary for each area shall be as required to maintain a clean,
neat, and sanitary premises as directed by the Department of Public Works or
its contractor.
(OC, § 4-2-11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.24 INSPECTION AND REPLACEMENT OF RECEPTACLES.
   All refuse receptacles shall be inspected as to their sanitary condition,
and if and when found in an unsanitary condition or deteriorated condition, the
Public Works Department shall furnish the owner of the cans with a notice to
correct the condition. It shall be the duty of every person owning,
controlling, managing, operating, policing, renting or occupying any premises
where garbage and/or trash accumulates, to replace within ten days after
receipt of a notice issued by the town, acting through its duly authorized
officials any receptacles that have deteriorated or that are found in an
unsanitary condition.
(OC, § 4-2-12) (Ord. passed 11-10-88) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.25 COLLECTORS TO USE REASONABLE CARE.
   Solid waste and recycling collectors shall exercise reasonable care in the
handling of receptacles and shall not willfully break, deface or injure the
same.
(OC, § 4-2-13) (Ord. passed 11-10-88; Am. Ord. 2015-O2, passed 8-18-15)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.26 CURBSIDE PICKUP.
   All solid waste, recycling, or other refuse shall be placed on the curbside
by the property owner for collection by the collector, except businesses and
apartment complexes, where refuse shall be placed in a duly designated, easily
accessible area for pickup. The curbside area shall be in front of the property
and at least three feet from other objects, such as mailboxes, vehicles, and
utilities poles. Containers shall not be placed at the curb any earlier than
5.00 p.m. the night before the scheduled collection day, and shall be removed
from the curb no later than 6:00 a.m. the day following collection. All loose
refuse (for example, leaves, grass clippings, and the like) shall be placed in
outdoor, leaf-and-lawn-style paper bags during all months of the year. Tree
limbs shall be no larger than six inches in diameter, and in lengths not to
exceed eight feet. Yard waste generated by a professional landscaping service,
tree service, lot clearing, or by a voluntary removal of trees will not be
collected or disposed of by the town.
(OC, § 4-2-14) (Ord. passed 11-10-88; Am. Ord. 2014-O11, passed 5-20-14; Am.
Ord. 2015-O2, passed 8-18-15; Am. Ord. 2018-O11, passed 8-14-18; Am. Ord. 2020-
O5, passed 5-11-20; Am. Ord. 2023-O11, passed 7-24-23) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.27 BURNING OR BURYING GARBAGE, SOLID WASTE, RECYCLING OR REFUSE.
   It shall be unlawful to burn or set fire to any garbage, solid waste,
recycling, or refuse for the purpose of disposal, unless a permit therefor has
been granted by the fire chief. In addition, it shall be unlawful to bury any
refuse for the purpose of disposal.
(OC, § 4-2-15) (Ord. passed 11-10-88; Am. Ord. 2015-O2, passed 8-18-15)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Editor’s note:  
   Extensive state regulations are in effect with respect to the open burning
of trash and refuse; see Division of Environmental Management regulations
governing the control of air pollution.
§ 50.28 CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION SITES; SPECIAL REFUSE COLLECTION.
   (A)   Construction and demolition sites. All construction and demolition
contractors shall provide on-site refuse receptacles, bulk containers or
detachable containers for construction debris and other trash which is capable
of being moved or blown about by the wind and which is produced by those
working on the site. All such materials shall be containerized by the end of
each day, and the site shall be kept in a reasonably clean and litter-free
condition. Construction debris and refuse deposited upon any public or private
property as a result of construction or demolition shall be immediately removed
by the contractor. Construction sites shall be kept clean and orderly at all
times.
   (B)   Special refuse collection.  
      (1)   Every person engaged in the construction, repair or demolition of
any building or structure, or part thereof, shall remove and dispose of, in an
authorized manner from any street, alley, gutter, park, sidewalk, curbing, curb
space, public way or premises all waste matter or refuse deposited thereon.
      (2)   The refuse shall be cleaned up, removed and disposed of in a
sanitary manner within seven days of the final cessation of construction work
on such buildings or structures, unless otherwise specifically authorized by
the Public Works Director.
      (3)   No collection shall be made from vacant lots nor shall any large
rocks, tree trunks, tree limbs of more than three inches in diameter or three
feet in length or other heavy objects be collected by the garbage contractor.
No waste building materials or lot clearings shall be collected from houses or
other structures under construction or recently completed.
(OC, §§ 4-2-16 and 4-2-17) (Am. Ord. passed 11-10-88) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.29 SPECIAL REFUSE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Contagious disease refuse. The removal of clothing, bedding or other
refuse from homes or other places where highly infectious diseases have
prevailed shall be performed under the supervision and direction of the County
Health Department.
   (B)   Hypodermic instruments. No person shall dispose of or discard any
hypodermic syringe, hypodermic needle or any instrument or device for making
hypodermic injections before first breaking, disassembling, destroying or
otherwise rendering inoperable and incapable of reuse, such hypodermic syringe,
needle, instrument or device, and without safeguarding the disposal thereof, by
wrapping or securing same in a suitable manner so as to avoid the possibility
of causing injury to the collection personnel.
   (C)   Ashes. Ashes that are to be transported to authorized disposal sites
or landfills must have been wetted and cool to the touch prior to disposal.
(OC, § 4-2-18) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.30 COMMERCIAL HAULERS.
   All commercial collectors of refuse who desire to haul within the town shall
obtain a permit from the County Health Department and shall use a vehicle
provided with a tight cover and so operated as to prevent offensive odors or
liquids from escaping and refuse from being dropped, blown or spilled.
(OC, § 4-2-19) (Ord. passed 11-10-88) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.31 CERTAIN CONDITIONS DECLARED NUISANCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to create a nuisance on his lot or a lot
occupied by him, or to allow a nuisance to remain on his lot or a lot occupied
by him. Dead animals, stagnant water, decayed vegetables and fruits, filthy
privies and stables, or to permit the existence of anything causing an
offensive odor, or anything that causes injury or damage to the health or life
of any other person, are declared nuisances. Normal animal and manure odors
from established farms and livestock and poultry operations are excluded.
(OC, § 4-2-20) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.32 MAINTAINING A NUISANCE; NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain premises, including
vacant lots or lands, upon which trash, garbage or miscellaneous refuse is
permitted or caused to accumulate in any manner which is, or may become a
nuisance, or cause injury to the health or welfare of residents in the vicinity
or may injure neighboring property. Drive-in restaurants and other food
establishments that permit carry-out food service shall maintain at all times
on their premises sufficient receptacles for the disposal of trash, garbage and
miscellaneous refuse.
   (B)   In the event the person or persons responsible refuse to remove the
trash, garbage or refuse from the property on which it is allowed to accumulate
within ten days after notice in writing has been given to the person
responsible, shall be deemed guilty of a violation of this section.
   (C)   If the person responsible for the conditions named above has not acted
to correct the violation, the Town Attorney shall, upon request of the Board of
Commissioners, apply to the appropriate division of the General Court of
Justice for a mandatory or prohibitory injunction and order of abatement within
the time allowed by the court, he may be cited for contempt and the town shall
execute the order of abatement. When the town executed the order, it has a lien
on the property, in the nature of a mechanic’s and materialman’s lien, for the
costs of executing the order.
   (D)   In addition to and separate and apart from the other remedies set
forth in this section, a violator of any of the above provisions may be
assessed a civil penalty of $10, and each and every day during which a
violation occurs shall be a separate and distinct offense.
(OC, § 4-2-21) Penalty, see §
10.99
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 50.45 POLICE DEPARTMENT TO ENFORCE.
   The Police Department, with the assistance of the Public Works Department
and sanitation service contractor, shall be responsible for the enforcement of
this chapter. All formal enforcement actions will be executed only by the
Police Department.
(OC, § 4-2-22(a))
§ 50.46 ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES; CITATIONS OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced by the inspection of
property and by the observance of those persons who are seen to violate any of
the provisions contained herein. The Public Works Director is empowered to
issue letters of warning. When voluntary cooperation cannot be secured, the
Police Department shall issue written citations. Citations may be delivered by
enforcement officials in person to the violator or mailed registered mail
(return receipt requested) to the person so charged, if he or she cannot be
readily found. Any citation of violation, so delivered or mailed shall direct
the alleged violator to appear in Magistrate Court on or before a specific day
or hour named in the citation. The period so specified shall not be less than
72 hours after its delivery to the violator.
   (B)   In all instances where the enforcement agency determines a first
offense violation of this chapter has taken place, a written notice or warning
citation shall be issued by the enforcement agency for each such violation,
stating therein the violation found, the date and time of such violation and
the corrective measures to be taken, together with the time in which the
corrections shall be made. All the notices and warning citations shall be kept
in a clearly marked file and shall be available for public inspection during
regular business hours.
   (C)   If a violator of the provisions of this section does not respond to
the notice or citation at or before the date and hour named, a complaint will
be filed and a warrant of arrest issued against that person.
(OC, § 4-2-22(b)-(d)) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 51: WATER AND SEWER SERVICE
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Town Board to regulate
   
51.03   Use of public water systems required; exceptions
   
51.04   Private water systems
   
51.05   Application for water and/or sewer service
   
51.06   Deposit
   
51.07   Change of occupancy
   
51.08   Customer charges and tap fees
   
51.09   Meter reading, billing and collecting
   
51.10   Customer bill complaints and adjustments
   
51.11   Inspection
   
51.12   Service connections to taps
   
51.13   Access to premises
   
51.14   Consumer’s responsibility
   
51.15   Town’s responsibility and liability
   
51.16   Interconnections
   
51.17   Backflow and cross-connection control
   
51.18   Fire protection service
   
51.19   Suspension of service
   
51.20   Impact fees
   
51.21   Rate schedule
   
51.22   Authority and amendment
   
51.23   Discontinuance of service; reconnection
Water Conservation
   
51.35   Declaration of water shortage
   
51.36   Stage I water shortage condition
   
51.37   Stage II water shortage condition
   
51.38   Stage III water shortage condition
   
51.39   Cancellation of water shortage declaration
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. Any person, group of persons, association, partnership, firm or
corporation requesting water and/or sewer service from the town.
   BACKFLOW. The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures or substances into
potable water lines from any source other than the town's water supply
facilities.
   CONCEALED LEAK. Any water use of which the user has no knowledge, such as
leaking underground piping. Leaking toilets, outside and inside faucets, hose
bibs, water heater pressure relief valves, exposed piping and the like shall
not be considered as concealed water uses and are the customer's responsibility
to maintain and correct on an as needed basis.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any temporary or permanent physical connection or
arrangement, located either on public or private property, between a potable
water outlet and an outlet for water of an unknown or questionable quality
whereby there may be a flow from one system to the other.
   CUSTOMER. Any person, group of persons, association, partnership, firm or
corporation purchasing water and/or sewer services from the town.
   NONPOTABLE WATER. Water that is considered unsatisfactory for domestic
consumption but may be satisfactory for cooling, heating or irrigation
purposes.
   POTABLE WATER. Water that does not contain objectionable pollution,
contamination, minerals or infective agents and is considered satisfactory for
domestic consumption.
   PRIVATE WATER SYSTEM. Any facility for obtaining potable water not
maintained and operated by the town.
   PUBLIC UTILITIES SUPERINTENDENT. The town employee responsible for the
direct supervision of the water and sewer services.
   SEWER SERVICE POINT. The interconnection point between the customer's sewer
piping and the town's service line, usually at the property line unless
otherwise agreed upon by the customer and the town.
   WATER SERVICE POINT. The point where the town's meter for supplying water is
connected to the customer's piping (usually at the property line), unless
otherwise specified in the town's agreement with the customer for the purchase
of water.
(OC, § 5-1-1)
§ 51.02 TOWN BOARD TO REGULATE.
   The Town Board shall regulate the public water distribution and sewer
collection system of the town. The Board or its duly authorized agent shall
prescribe and enforce full compliance with all the rules and regulations set
forth herein governing the use of the town’s public water and sewer system.
(OC, § 5-1-2)
§ 51.03 USE OF PUBLIC WATER SYSTEMS REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Any owner of developed property on which there are situated one or
more residential dwelling units or commercial establishments located within the
city limits and within a reasonable distance of any water line owned, leased as
lessee or operated by or on behalf of the town is required to connect the
owner's premises with the water line. All connections shall be made by or under
the supervision of the town Public Utilities Superintendent and in accordance
with the applicable plumbing and building codes and the town's specifications.
The property owner shall pay all connection charges which shall include the
cost of replacing pavement, if applicable. Unless expected as permitted in
division (B) of this section, owners of newly annexed property using a private
water supply for potable water shall connect the property to the town's public
water supply and cease use of the private water supply for potable water at the
time of annexation if water lines are available at that time or at the time
water lines become available to the property if they are not available at the
time of annexation.
   (B)   On application of a property owner, the Board of Commissioners shall
have authority to waive the connection requirements of division (A) of this
section in order to avoid hardship. If the Board of Commissioners waives these
connection requirements, then the owner of any developed property on which
there are situated one or more residential dwelling units or commercial
establishments located within the city limits and within a reasonable distance
of any water line owned, leased as lessee or operated by or on behalf of the
town shall pay a periodic availability charge to be determined by the Board of
Commissioners, but not to exceed the minimum periodic service charge for
properties that are connected to the town's water supply system as set out in
the town's annual budget ordinance as it may be amended from time to time.
(OC, § 5-1-3) (Ord. passed 9-19-95)
§ 51.04 PRIVATE WATER SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Where a public water line is not available under the provisions of §
51.03, the facilities requiring potable water shall be connected to a private
water system complying with the requirements of the appropriate state and/or
local regulatory agencies.
   (B)   At the time a public water line becomes available to a property served
by a private water system, a direct connection shall be made from the
customer's premises to the public water line in compliance with this chapter.
There shall be no physical connection (cross-connection) between any privately-
owned water source and the municipal water system.
   (C)   The owner(s) of a private water facility shall operate and maintain
the facility in a sanitary manner at all times at no expense to the town.
   (D)   Where public water is available, private water systems within the
corporate limits of the town may be used for nonpotable purposes only. If water
from a private water system is to be discharged into the town's public sewer
collection system, the water source shall be metered by the customer in order
for the town to determine the sewer charge. The customer shall comply with all
requirements set forth in this chapter and shall bear all costs when metering a
water supply.
   (E)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by state or federal
agencies.
(OC, § 5-1-4)
§ 51.05 APPLICATION FOR WATER AND/OR SEWER SERVICE.
   (A)   Each applicant requesting water and/or sewer service from the town
shall be required to complete an application for water and/or sewer service
before the connection is made. The application shall be supplemented by any
plans, specifications or other information considered to be pertinent in the
judgement of the Town Manager. By accepting water and/or sewer service, the
applicant agrees to be bound by the applicable schedule of rates and conditions
and terms as from time to time may be modified by the Town Board.
   (B)   If the applicant is requesting new service where it is not presently
supplied, the town shall charge the applicant a water and/or sewer tap fee as
specified in the town's rate schedule for which the town will provide a
connection between the applicant's building water line and the municipal water
system and/or between the applicant's sewer piping and the municipal sewer
system. The point of connection shall be at the right-of-way or easement limit.
   (C)   The town may reject any application for service which may involve
excessive service cost, affect the supply of service to other customers or for
other good and sufficient reasons.
   (D)   The town may reject any application for service when the applicant is
delinquent in payment of bills incurred for service previously supplied at any
location until the water and/or sewer bill has been paid.
   (E)   The applicant for water and/or sewer service shall notify the Town
Manager when the service is ready for inspection and connection to the
municipal systems. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the
Public Utilities Superintendent.
   (F)   An applicant may request a separate meter for a lawn sprinkler,
swimming pool and the like for which only a water bill will be assessed as no
water will be discharged to the town's sanitary sewer system. Applicable tap
and impact fees will be assessed for each meter.
   (G)   It shall be the policy of the town to pursue diligently all reasonable
methods to insure timely payment of all sums owed to the town for water and
sewer bills and all tap fees, impact fees and similar or related charges.
(OC, § 5-1-5)
§ 51.06 DEPOSIT.
   (A)   Before receiving water and/or sewer service, each applicant shall make
a cash deposit in an amount stipulated by the town rate schedule. A separate
deposit is required for each meter installed. Deposits shall not draw interest.
The most current town rate schedule is set forth in § 51.21 and shall be kept
on file in the Town Clerk's office.
   (B)   The individual in whose name the deposit is made shall be responsible
for payment of all bills incurred in connection with the service furnished. It
shall be the responsibility of the customer to apply for the deposit refund
upon termination of the service. When services are discontinued and all bills
paid, the remaining portion of the deposit will be refunded upon request.
   (C)   The deposit receipt is not negotiable and can be redeemed only at the
Town Hall. Where the town finds that the request for a deposit refund is
questionable, the town may require the refund applicant to produce the properly
endorsed deposit receipt within 15 days. Undue delay by the customer shall
cause forfeiture of the benefits of adjustments.
   (D)   Upon discontinuance of service for nonpayment of bills, the deposit
will be applied by the town toward settlement of the account. Any balance will
be refunded to the customer upon request, the request having been made within a
three-year period after the termination of service. If the deposit is not
sufficient to cover the bill, the town may proceed to collect the unpaid
balance in the usual way provided by law. Service will be restored only upon
the payment of the balance, if any, of the outstanding bills; a new deposit
made on the basis of the customer deposit required above; plus the payment of a
service charge, as specified in the town rate schedule, for each reconnected
meter.
(OC, § 5-1-6) (Am. Ord. passed 11-10-88)
§ 51.07 CHANGE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   The customer must give not less than three days notice at the Town
Hall in person, by phone or in writing to discontinue service for a change in
occupancy.
   (B)   The outgoing party shall be responsible for all water consumed up to
the time of departure.
   (C)   Upon vacancies of owner-occupied structures, the property owner shall
be responsible for all unpaid balances. Upon vacancies of rental property, the
property owner or agent shall be responsible for all unpaid balances.
   (D)   Upon vacancies of rental property, the account will be placed in the
name of the property owner for the duration of the vacancy.
   (E)   If a delinquent customer is the owner of the premises to which
services are delivered, payment of the delinquent account will be required
before providing services at the request of a new and different occupant of the
premises; provided however, that this provision shall not apply if the new and
different tenant or occupant of the premises has purchased the premises from
the delinquent customer/owner.
(OC, § 5-1-7)
§ 51.08 CUSTOMER CHARGES AND TAP FEES.
   (A)   All customers shall be billed for water and sewer services per the
rate schedule set out in §
51.21 of this chapter. The Town Board shall review the rate schedule at least
once per year and shall revise the charges for water and sewer services and the
rate schedule set out in §
51.21 as the Board deems necessary and proper.
   (B)   Tap-on fees shall be charged and collected from all new customers in
accordance with the rates illustrated in §
51.21 of this chapter. The Town Board shall review tap-on rates periodically
and shall revise them as necessary. The Town Board shall retain the authority
and right to offer special tap-on charges for specified periods of time to new
customers along newly constructed lines in areas previously not served by the
municipal water system.
   (C)   The minimum charge, as indicated in §
51.21, shall be made for each meter installed regardless of location. The
minimum charge shall be made even in the event of nonuse, as is typical for
summer homes in resort areas.
   (D)   Multi-residential or multi-commercial users shall install individual
meters for each unit. The town will operate and maintain the individual meters
and will invoice each individual customer on a monthly basis in the same manner
as single-family residences are administered.
   (E)   Unmetered privately-owned hydrants, sprinklers or other related fire
protection services shall be invoiced monthly (or annually at the town's
discretion) based on the rates illustrated in §
51.21. Water use through fire services shall be for fire-related uses only. All
other types of water consumption through fire services are strictly prohibited.
(OC, § 5-1-8) (Am. Ord. passed 1-21-92)
§ 51.09 METER READING, BILLING AND COLLECTING.
   (A)   The town shall endeavor to have each customer's meter(s) read at
approximately monthly intervals to determine the consumption of water or
discharge of sewage. If a meter reading is missed, an estimated reading shall
be made and the billing shall be based on the estimated reading and adjusted to
actual consumption when a reading is obtained.
   (B)   Bills for water service will be figured in accordance with the town's
published rate schedule then in effect and will be based on the amount consumed
for the period covered by the meter readings. Each customer will be charged a
monthly fee as long as the connection is maintained. If the connection is
maintained, but no water is used nor sewage discharged, the minimum monthly fee
will be charged. If any customer's water service has been cut off by the town
because of nonpayment of any unpaid balance due on the customer's account, then
the customer will be billed the minimum monthly fee on the account.
   (C)   Readings from different meters will not be combined for billing
irrespective of the fact that the meters may be for the same or different
premises, or for the same or different consumers or for the same or different
services.
   (D)   Bills will be rendered monthly and are payable in full at the Town
Hall on or before the 20th of the month. If not paid by the twentieth, a 10%
penalty will be charged. The town will discontinue water service the following
work day after the twenty-fifth for any customer having an unpaid balance.
Water service will be restored upon full payment of the account in addition to
the payment of a reconnection fee as specified in §
51.21.
   (E)   Failure or refusal to receive bills or notices shall not prevent the
bills from becoming delinquent or relieve the consumer from payment.
   (F)   When a check is returned to the town due to insufficient funds, the
customer will be required to make payments in cash. A fee, as specified in §
51.21, will be charged to the customer for each check returned to the town for
insufficient funds.
(OC, § 5-1-9) (Am. Ord. passed 5-9-91)
§ 51.10 CUSTOMER BILL COMPLAINTS AND ADJUSTMENTS.
   (A)   If a customer believes a bill is in error, the customer shall present
the claim, in person or in writing, at the Town Hall before the bill becomes
delinquent. The claims, if filed after the bill has become delinquent, shall
not be effective in preventing discontinuance of service as heretofore
provided. The consumer shall pay the bill under protest and the payment shall
not prejudice the claim. The Town Board may authorize corrections for billing
errors.
   (B)   Adjustments on concealed leaks shall be made for 50% of the excessive
water usage and 100% of the excessive sewer usage unless the concealed water
usage entered the town's sewer system. Adjustment of the excessive sewer usage
shall be made for 50% of the excessive sewer usage if the concealed water usage
entered the sewer system. Adjustments are intended for hardship situations
only. No adjustments will be made unless the excessive water usage is at least
5,000 gallons over the average monthly usage for the preceding 12 months. Only
one adjustment per customer will be made within a 12-month period. Adjustment
may be authorized by the Town Board on bills under the following conditions:
      (1)   A concealed leak in the consumer's piping;
      (2)   A statement from a licensed plumber stating the location of the
concealed leak, that the same has been repaired by a licensed plumber and that
the repair meets or exceeds the applicable plumbing codes.
   (C)   In the event that town personnel discovers that a leak exists, and the
customer is notified of the same, the customer shall take immediate steps to
correct the situation within 15 days. Undue delay by the customer shall cause
forfeiture of the benefits of adjustments.
   (D)   The town will make special meter readings at the request of the
customer during normal working hours. The customer will be charged a fee
therefor as adopted by the Town Board, provided, however that if the special
reading discloses that the meter was overread, no charge will be made.
   (E)   At the request of the customer, the town will perform any service,
such as turn-ons or turn-offs to restore service during normal working hours
and shall charge a fee therefor as adopted by the Town Board.
   (F)   Upon request by a customer, the town will test a customer's meter
without charge provided that the test will not be made more frequently than
once in 12 months per customer. If the customer requires a meter test more
frequently than once in 12 months, the town will require a payment as specified
in §
51.21 if the meter registration is found not to exceed 5% of the correct
volume. The customer, or their representative, shall be present when the
customer's meter is tested. If the meter is found to be faulty and/or the
registration is found to exceed 5%, no service charge will be billed against
the customer and the meter will be replaced or repaired.
   (G)   When, as the result of the test, a meter is found to be no more than
5% fast or slow, no adjustment will be made in the customers bill. If the meter
is found to be more than 5% fast or slow because of incorrect calibration, the
town will rebill the customer for the correct amount as calculated for a period
of not more than 60 days.
   (H)   Whenever a customer requests the replacement of the water meter on the
customer's premises, the request shall be treated as a request for a test of
the meter to determine any defects or errors in registration. The request shall
follow the provisions set forth in division (F) of this section.
   (I)   If the seal of a meter is broken by other than the town's
representative or if the meter fails to register correctly or is stopped for
any cause, the consumer shall pay an amount estimated from the record of his
previous bills and/or from other proper data.
(OC, § 5-1-10)
§ 51.11 INSPECTION.
   (A)   The town will be obligated to provide water and/or sewer service only
when the following conditions shall have been complied with:
      (1)   The applicant's installation shall have been made in accordance
with the applicable way necessary for the town water or sewer facilities and
lines so as to be able to furnish service to the customer;
      (2)   The town has received from the applicant, or if the town so elects,
has obtained for itself, a certificate signed by the local Building Inspector
that a proper building permit has been issued. All fees or other charges
required to be paid in connection with the issuance of the certificates shall
be borne by the applicant. The applicant by accepting water and/or sewer
service assumes all liability and risk which may result therefrom.
   (B)   Any changes in or additions to the original plumbing or fixtures of an
applicant or customer must be installed in compliance with the requirements of
the applicable plumbing code and other requirements as may be fixed by the
local Building Inspector.
(OC, § 5-1-11)
§ 51.12 SERVICE CONNECTIONS TO TAPS.
   (A)   Each individual business or residential building or structure shall
install a separate water and sewer connection. The connection shall be made by
the customer under the supervision of the Public Utilities Superintendent. Each
customer's service must be separately metered at a single delivery and metering
point. Each commercial unit and each storeroom or stall used for business
purposes shall have a separate meter. All commercial uses, including storerooms
and stalls for business purposes, shall be metered separately from any
residential use and vice versa, whether now in service or to be installed in
the future. Each individual dwelling unit will be separately metered. Each
institutional, or industrial unit will also be separately metered.
   (B)   Charges for service begin when a meter is installed and connection
made, whether or not the service is used.
   (C)   Water furnished for a given property shall be used on that property
only. Water supplied by the town to any customer shall not be metered for
resale either directly or indirectly, except upon written approval of the town.
   (D)   No unauthorized person(s) shall uncover, make any connection with,
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public water or sewer line, or
appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the town. It
is a misdemeanor to tamper with public water or sewer lines or appurtenances
thereof.
   (E)   No taps on water or sewer facilities owned or under the care or
custody of the town shall be made by anyone other than town personnel, unless
the taps are made under the direct supervision and approval of authorized
employees of the town. Tap-on fees then in effect will be charged to the
customer requesting the service.
   (F)   The size, alignment, materials and/or construction of a building water
or sewer service, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of pipe,
jointing, testing and back-filling the trench, shall conform to the
requirements of the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and
regulations of the town.
   (G)   The connection of a building water and/or sewer service to the
municipal system(s) shall conform to the requirements of the building and
plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the town. All
connections shall be made water-tight and be verified by proper testing.
   (H)   (1)   The applicant will apply for, obtain and deliver to the town all
permits or certificates necessary to give the applicant permission to connect
its lines to the town's facilities and access for all other proper purposes
including an easement from the landowner for any town-owned facilities. The
town shall not be required to provide water or sewer service until a reasonable
time has elapsed after the town has obtained or received all necessary permits,
certificates and easements .
      (2)   Before the applicant shall connect in any manner any privately-
owned line(s) or system(s) with any of the town's facilities, the applicant
shall by proper written instrument, in consideration of making the connection
and the benefits to be derived therefrom, dedicate, grant, give and convey such
line(s) or system(s) to the town. No connection shall be made with the town's
facilities without the express approval of the town, nor shall the connection
be made except by properly supervised town personnel for which a fee may be
charged of the applicant. Should any person, firm or corporation connect any
privately-owned line(s) or system(s) with any town facilities without first
dedicating, giving, granting or conveying the same to the town, the act of
connecting the line(s) to those of the town's lines shall be deemed a
dedication, gift, grant and conveyance of the line(s) to the town, at the
discretion of the town, provided, however, that the privately-owned line(s) or
system(s) referred to in this paragraph shall mean and include only main
distribution lines laid in streets, roads, highways and alleys or across
private property, and shall not include lateral lines leading from mains to
building connections, and shall not include the water or sewer lines within any
residence or other privately-owned building.
   (I)   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and connection
of the water service shall be borne entirely by the customer. The customer
shall indemnify the town from any loss or damage that may directly or
indirectly occur through the installation of the service.
   (J)   Should any change(s) in the service connection furnished the customer
by the town be made necessary by request of the customer, the entire cost of
the changes shall be borne by the customer.
   (K)   Piping on the customer's premises must be so arranged that the point
of connection is conveniently located with respect to the town's service lines
and mains. If the customer's piping is not so arranged, the customer may be
required to relocate the piping so that the connection can be made with a
single meter at the town's right-of-way.
   (L)   All excavations for service connections shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks and other public property disturbed in the course of work shall be
restored in a manner satisfactory to the town.
(OC, § 5-1-12)
Penalty, see § 10.99
Cross-reference:
   Street excavations, see
Ch. 93
§ 51.13 ACCESS TO PREMISES.
   (A)   The customer shall provide, as may be necessary, a suitable location
satisfactory to the town for its metering equipment. This location shall be
convenient and accessible at all reasonable times to the town's meter readers
and other agents. This location shall conform with all applicable local, state
or federal requirements.
   (B)   Duly authorized agents of the town shall be given access to the
premises of the customer at all reasonable hours for reading or testing meters,
for shutting off the flow of water, for inspecting, removing, repairing or
protecting from abuse or fraud any of the property of the town installed on the
premises or for any other purpose in connection with the town's service of
facilities. Access shall be granted at all times for emergency purposes. Any
metering equipment that is enclosed by building alterations, fencing or other
structures, that restricts the town's representatives from reasonable and ready
access to the meter for reading, testing and servicing shall be relocated by
the owner to a space on the premises that is approved by the town prior to
relocation. Should the customer restrict the town's reasonable and ready access
to its metering facilities, including restrictions created by animals, the town
shall give written notice and shall discontinue service 30 days thereafter if
the restrictions are not eliminated.
   (C)   Each customer shall grant or convey, or shall cause to be granted or
conveyed to the town a perpetual easement and right-of-way across any property
owned or controlled by the consumer wherever the perpetual easement and right-
of-way is necessary for the town water or sewer facilities and lines so as to
be able to furnish service to the customer.
   (D)   The customer shall be liable to the town for damages to or loss of
meters, connections or other town property on the customer's premises due to
negligence or want of care on the part of the customer, members of the
customer's household, agents or employees. The town may refuse or suspend water
service on refusal of legitimate access to the property or until any damage or
loss shall have been settled to the town's satisfaction.
(OC, § 5-1-13)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.14 CONSUMER’S RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Piping on the consumer's premises must be so arranged that the
connections are conveniently located with respect to the town's lines or mains,
and in compliance with applicable building and plumbing codes.
   (B)   If the customer's piping on the customer's premises is so arranged
that the town is called upon to provide additional meters, each place of
metering will be considered as a separate and individual account.
   (C)   Where a meter is placed on the premises of a customer, a suitable
place shall be provided by the customer for placing the meter unobstructed and
accessible at all times to the meter reader.
   (D)   The customer shall furnish and maintain a private cut-off valve and a
check valve or other backflow prevention device at the meter on the customer's
side of the meter.
   (E)   The customer's piping and apparatus shall be installed and maintained
under the responsibility and at the expense of the customer or owner of the
premises in a safe and efficient manner, in accordance with applicable local
and state regulations, and in compliance with the rules and regulations of the
N.C. Division of Health Services, especially, Rules Governing Public Water
Supplies, §§ .0600 – .2200. In violation of these conditions, the town may
refuse service or discontinue service without notice until the violations are
remedied by the customer.
   (F)   All meters, service connections and other equipment shall be and
remain the property of the town. Owners of the premises shall provide a space
for the property. In the event that any accident or injury to persons or
property is caused by or results from the negligence or wrongful act of the
customer, his agents or employees, the cost of the necessary repairs or
replacements shall be paid by the customer to the town, and any liability
otherwise resulting shall be assumed by the customer.
   (G)   The amount of the loss or damage, or the cost of repairs shall be
added to the customer's bill; and if not paid, service may be discontinued by
the town.
(OC, § 5-1-14) (Am. Ord. passed 12-19-00)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.15 TOWN’S RESPONSIBILITY AND LIABILITY.
   (A)   The town shall run a water service line from its water distribution
line to the property line where the distribution line runs immediately adjacent
and parallel to the property to be served and for which a water tap fee then in
effect for each size of meter will be charged. The town shall run a sewer
service line from its sewer collection line to the property line for which a
sewer tap fee then in effect will be charged.
   (B)   The town will make every effort to install all meters and other
municipal appurtenances in the public right-of-way. When physical barriers
prevent installation in the right-of-way, a written easement from the owner to
the town will be required.
   (C)   When two or more meters are to be installed on the same premises for
different customers, the meters shall be closely grouped and each clearly
designated to which customer it applies.
   (D)   The town does not assume the responsibility of inspecting the
customer's piping or apparatus and will not be responsible therefor.
   (E)   The town reserves the right to refuse service unless the customer's
lines or piping are installed in a manner as to prevent cross-connections or
backflow.
   (F)   The town shall not be liable for damage of any kind whatsoever
resulting from water or the use of water on the customer's premises, unless the
damage results directly from negligence on the part of the town. The town shall
not be responsible for any damage done by or resulting from any defect in the
piping, fixtures or appliances on the customer's premises. The town shall not
be responsible for negligence of third persons or forces beyond the control of
the town resulting in any interruption of service. The town shall not be
responsible for the user's piping and shall not be liable for any damages that
may result to the customer from the interruption of water service.
   (G)   The town may temporarily discontinue the supply of water to the
customer's premises for the purposes of making necessary repairs or adjustments
to mains or supply lines. Under normal conditions, the town will make a
reasonable effort to notify major water customers and those individuals
requiring water for medical reasons of any anticipated interruption of service.
The town reserves the right to discontinue the supply of water without notice
in case of emergencies.
(OC, § 5-1-15)
§ 51.16 INTERCONNECTIONS.
   There shall be no interconnections between any water source and any customer
piping connected to the town's water system. Valved tie-ins shall not be
permitted. A physical separation must be maintained between the systems at all
times. When an interconnection is found, water service will be terminated and
not restored until the time that the town is satisfied that the interconnection
has been permanently eliminated.
(OC, § 5-1-18)
§ 51.17 BACKFLOW AND CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL.
   (A)   The intent of this section is to protect for human use the potable
water of the town's water supply system from pollution or contamination
resulting from backflow or crossconnection. It is intended to accomplish this
protection through cooperative efforts between the applicant/customer and the
town.
   (B)   Any customer either operating or planning to operate a manufacturing,
storage service, laboratory, medical or other facility similar to (but not
limited to) those listed below shall take whatever measures necessary to comply
with and carry out the intent of this chapter:
      (1)   Hospitals, medical and dental buildings;
      (2)   Metal manufacturing, cleaning, plating or processing plants
      (3)   Sewage and industrial waste treatment plants;
      (4)   Chemical plants, including agriculture chemical warehouses;
      (5)   Restricted facilities closed to inspection;
      (6)   Morgues, mortuaries and clinics;
      (7)   Film laboratories
      (8)   Nursing and convalescent homes;
      (9)   Fire protection systems;
      (10)   Multi-story buildings;
      (11)   Irrigation systems;
      (12)   Food or food by product manufacturing plants;
   (C)   In addition to meeting the requirements of the state building code,
all customers shall install or cause to be installed and maintain the programs,
methods and devices as deemed necessary by the town to protect for human use
the potable water supplied by the town's water system.
   (D)   When in the opinion of the town a requested service requires the
installation of a control device, the customer shall prior to receiving the
service submit for review, plans and specifications of the proposed facilities.
The submittal shall include a description of proposed processes, operations and
the like in the detail needed to evaluate potential effects on the town's
system. Proposed control devices shall be identified by size, manufacturer and
model number or by specification.
   (E)   When in the opinion of the town an existing service may require the
installation of a control device in order to accomplish the intent of this
section, the customer shall submit for review the information as may be
necessary to permit the town to evaluate the potential for undesirable effects
on its system. Upon notification of the customer by the town that a control
device is necessary, the customer will submit plans and specification for
approval and install or cause to be installed entirely at the customer's
expense the devices as may be necessary to comply with this section.
   (F)   When in the town's opinion a control device is required the following
will occur.
      (1)   A reduced pressure principle device shall be installed when it is
determined that the activities of or the materials utilized within the facility
could become a hazard to public health in the event a cross-connection or
backflow were to occur.
      (2)   A double check valve shall be installed when it is determined by
the town that the activities of or material utilized within the facility could
create an undesirable effect on potable water in the event a cross-connection
or backflow were to occur. The customer shall install, operate, test and
maintain an approved backflow prevention device at the direction of the town.
The town reserves the right to refuse service unless the customer's line(s) or
piping are installed in a manner as to prevent cross connection or backflow.
   (G)   Control devices installed to meet the requirements of this section
shall be limited to those approved by the Foundation for Cross-connection
Control and Hydraulic Research, University of Southern California.
   (H)   All water service connections to the town's mains and all control
devices up to and including four inches which are to be located in a vault at
the customer's property shall be installed by the town. The installation will
be made only after approval of plans and receipt of the estimated cost of the
installation.
   (I)   All control devices six inches and larger and all control devices to
be located within the customer's property shall be installed by the customer
after town approval of plans.
   (J)   The town shall own and maintain the service from the main (generally
in the street) to the property line of the customer.
   (K)   Annual testing and necessary repair of control devices shall be
performed by town personnel. All testing and repair costs shall be billed to
and paid by the customer. Representatives of the town shall be given ready
access to control devices required by the town at all reasonable times for
inspection, testing and repair. Under emergency conditions, access shall be
granted whenever requested.
(OC, § 5-1-19)
§ 51.18 FIRE PROTECTION SERVICE.
   (A)   Application or requests for fire protection service shall include a
plan indicating the fire protection system to be installed on the customer's
premises showing all valves, hydrants and related facilities. The town reserves
the right to approve applications for fire protection service when the proposed
system is consistent with the town's ability to provide adequate service, or to
deny an application where the town cannot provide adequate service, or when the
proposed fire protection system will in the town's opinion adversely affect the
town's water distribution system.
   (B)   Fire protection services will be installed, owned and maintained from
the town's mains to the customer's property line by town personnel, or, subject
to approval by the town, the service may be installed by the customer under the
direct supervision of town personnel. Under either condition, the customer will
pay the full cost of the fire protection service including the tapping valve.
In addition, the customer will pay the full cost of the fire protection system
on the customer's property. Where the installation is to be made by the town,
the full cost shall be paid by the customer prior to any work being performed.
The town does not warrant or guarantee the delivery of any minimum water flow
rate or residual pressure for fire protection.
   (C)   Fire protection service shall be separate and apart from the domestic
water service.
   (D)   Fire protection systems must include an approved backflow prevention
device which shall be installed and maintained in accordance with the
requirements of §
51.17 of this chapter.
   (E)   Where the customer's fire protection system incorporates one or more
privately-owned hydrants or extensive main lengths on the customer's property
(generally in excess of 200 feet) or includes booster pumps and the like, then
a detector check meter shall be installed in addition to an approved backflow
prevention device. The purpose of the detector meter shall be to detect and
monitor leakage or unauthorized use of water from the customer's fire
protection system, but shall not be designed to meter or detect water used in
firefighting. Plans submitted to the town for approval shall show the
manufacturer and model number of the detector check meter proposed.
   (F)   Installation of the customer’s fire protection system shall include
pressure testing of the fire main in the presence of the town's authorized
representatives.
(OC, § 5-1-17)
Cross-reference:
   Fire prevention, see
Ch. 91
§ 51.19 SUSPENSION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   The Town Manager shall endeavor to assure compliance with the
requirements of this chapter by all individuals within the corporate limits and
by all customers receiving municipal water and/or sewer service through
conference and persuasion. If these efforts, over a reasonable period of time,
are futile, the Town Manager shall take formal action as provided for as
follows:
      (1)   The Town Manager or his/her representative shall give notice to the
person by registered mail stating the specifics of the failure of compliance
and requiring that the person remedy the failure within 72 hours;
      (2)   The Town Manager or his/her representative may thereupon, without
further notice, cause the water service from the public water system to be
discontinued for the person;
      (3)   In any case where water service is discontinued by the town for
enforcement purposes, the restoration of the service shall be conditioned on
full compliance by the person and payment of any expense incurred in the
enforcement proceeding and in the restoration of service;
      (4)   The town may, in its discretion, continue or restore water service
in a case of failure of compliance on condition that the person furnish a bond
or other security, with terms as specified by the town, to hold harmless the
town from any loss or expense that it may incur as a result of the
noncompliance or any further noncompliance;
      (5)   The Town Manager shall give notice to any individual receiving
water from the municipal water system by registered mail stating the specifics
of the failure of compliance and requiring that the persons promptly remedy the
failure. At the same time, the Town Manager shall report the facts of the case
in writing to the Town Board and to other government agencies as may have
jurisdiction and power to take appropriate enforcement action.
   (B)   Water service will be terminated to all customers delinquent in
payments and a reconnection charge will be assessed in accordance with the
town's rate schedule prior to water service restoration (as provided in §
51.09(D)).
   (C)   When services are discontinued and all bills paid, the meter deposit
will be refunded. However, the town is only responsible for the refunding of
deposits after the request for a refund has been made by the customer.
   (D)   Upon discontinuance of service for nonpayment of bills, the deposit
will be applied by the town toward settlement of the account. Any balance will
be refunded to the customer upon request; but if the deposit is not sufficient
to cover the bill, the town may proceed to collect the balance in the usual way
provided by law for the collection of debts.
   (E)   Service discontinued for nonpayment of bills will be restored only
after bills including any penalties are paid in full, and a service charge paid
for each meter reconnected in accordance with the town’s published rate
schedule. An additional deposit will be required if the previous deposit was
applied to the unpaid bill.
   (F)   The town reserves the right to discontinue its service without notice
for the following additional reasons:
      (1)   To prevent fraud or abuse;
      (2)   Customer’s willful disregard of the town’s rules;
      (3)   Emergency repairs;
      (4)   Insufficiency of supply due to circumstances beyond the town’s
control;
      (5)   Legal processes;
      (6)   Direction of public authorities;
      (7)   Strike, riot, fire, flood, accident or any unavoidable cause;
      (8)   To prevent contamination of the water supply;
      (9)   Customer’s failure to pay bills as required by this chapter;
      (10)   Discovery of a cross-connection between a private water source and
the municipal water system.
   (G)   The town may, in addition to prosecution by law, permanently refuse
service to any customer who tampers with a meter or other measuring device.
   (H)   If any authorized person alters, tampers with or bypasses the town’s
water meters in a manner that causes the meter to inaccurately measure and
register the water consumed or which would cause the water to be diverted from
the recording apparatus of the meter, then in that event, the meter shall
immediately be removed by the town and water service to the property or
premises shall be halted. Service to the property or premises shall not be
reinstated until a required reconnect fee has been paid in addition to any
damages done to the meter. Nothing in this section shall be construed to
prohibit the town from pursuing criminal or civil actions against any person
who alters, tampers with or attempts to bypass a water meter.
   (I)   In cases of wanton and willful damage, the town will commence criminal
proceedings under the appropriate state law.
(OC, § 5-1-16)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.20 IMPACT FEES.
   (A)   Impact fees shall be charged to offset the costs of major repairs,
necessary updating of equipment and expansion of the water supply capacity,
such as elevated water storage tanks, pumps and wells and water treatment
facilities; and the wastewater treatment capacity, such as the sewage treatment
plant, lift stations and the like. Revenues from impact fees shall be
identified as a separate capital reserve account and used solely for the
purpose of providing adequate water and wastewater treatment capacity to meet
the water and sewer system needs.
      (1)   Impact fees shall apply to the following:
         (a)   All new construction connected to the town's water and/or sewer
system;
         (b)   New connections of existing buildings or other improvements not
previously connected to the town's water or sewer system;
         (c)   Improvements, additions or changes in existing buildings or
other improvements requiring increased capacity or increased use of water or
sewer from the town (but only to the extend of the increase).
      (2)   Impact fees will not be charged on buildings or other improvements
constructed or made to repair or replace like buildings or improvements damaged
or destroyed by fire or other disaster; provided, however that the repair or
replacement will not result in any increased capacity requirements over that
required to serve the damaged or destroyed buildings or improvements. The
decision of the Town Board as to the increased capacity requirement shall be
final.
   (B)   The full payment of the impact fee shall be made to the town at the
later of the issuance of the certificate of occupancy by the Building Inspector
or the time of application for connection to the water/or sewer system.
   (C)   For building additions, alterations, or changes in building use that
increase the demand for water or sewer services, owners and/or the renter/
lessee shall be required to pay an impact fee based on the same rates applying
to new construction. The amount of impact fee due will be determined by the
difference between the fees associated with the previous consumption level and
increased consumption level.
   (D)   The impact fees for residential and commercial uses shall be those set
out in the impact fees schedule in §
51.21 and as maintained in Town Hall as it is amended from time to time by the
Board of Commissioners of the town. The most recently enacted Impact Fee
Schedule in existence at any given time shall be deemed to be incorporated
herein by reference as if fully set out.
   (E)   The estimated construction costs of providing water and wastewater
capacity for gallon of water composed of costs for water capacity and costs of
wastewater capacity are stipulated in the published rate schedule for the town.
   (F)   The calculation of average daily flow for uses or establishments that
do not have utility operating data in the town shall be determined by using
available plumbing and engineering flow data, water using fixtures, occupancy
or operating patterns, and/or water consumption history of similar uses or
establishments from surrounding public water systems or the town may use other
measured data at its option.
   (G)   Impact fees to the water and sewer system may be reduced up to 25% if
the property being developed has been subject to town ad valorem taxes for the
three previous tax years and the total amount of the taxes paid on the property
during these three years is at least four times greater than the value of the
reduced impact fees.
(OC, § 5-1-21) (Am. Ord. passed 8-18-98; Am. Ord. passed 6-3-99; Am. Ord.
passed 9-17-02)
§ 51.21 RATE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Water usage.
      (1)   Inside town limits.
 
Residential                                 $11.00/first 2,000 gallons
                                            $0.375/additional 100 gallons
Commercial/Multi-users                      $11.00/first 1,000 gallons
                                            $0.375/additional 100 gallons
Minimum utility rate per unit served by one $11.00/unit
master meter
 
      (2)   Outside town limits.
 
Residential                                        $22.00/first 2,000 gallons
                                                   $0.75/additional 100 gallons
Commercial/Multi-users                             $22.00/first 1,000 gallons
                                                   $0.75/additional 100 gallons
Minimum utility rate per unit served by one master $22.00/unit
meter
 
   (B)   Sewer usage.
      (1)   Inside town limits.
 
Residential                                        $16.00/first 2,000 gallons
                                                   $0.45/additional 100 gallons
Commercial/Multi-users                             $16.00/first 1,000 gallons
                                                   $0.45/additional 100 gallons
Minimum utility rate per unit served by one master $16.00/unit
meter
 
      (2)   Outside city limits.
 
Residential                                        $32.00/first 2,000 gallons
                                                   $0.90/additional 100 gallons
Commercial/Multi-users                             $32.00/first 1,000 gallons
                                                   $0.90/additional 100 gallons
Minimum utility rate per unit served by one master $32.00/unit
meter
 
      (3)   Users defined. Commercial users are users other than residential.
Multi-users are commercial, residential or a mixture of commercial and
residential. Multiple units are where there are two units or more served by one
meter.
   (C)   Fees.
Type of fee Amount
Type of fee                             Amount
Deposit                                 $50.00
Administration fee (non-refundable)     $40.00
High user                               $300.00 plus administration fee
Meter testing:                          no charge
Once per year                           $15.00
First additional time                   $50.00
Other additional readings
Turn on request                         $10.00 (for temporary service)
                                        $10.00 (for temporary service)
Turn off request                        If at the time of turn off more than
                                       the minimum bills is used, the bill
                                        will be paid in conjunction with the
                                        above fee.
Reconnect fee:
Termination of service due to           $45.00
nonpayment or willful disregard of       
chapter)                                $25.00
Administration charge                   $20.00
To increase customer refundable deposit
Returned checks                         $25.00
Private unmetered fire hydrants,        $60.00
annually
Private unmetered fire protection
sprinkler systems, per sprinkler head,  $0.15
per month
Sewer surcharge
Note: Sewer surcharge applies to all    $5.00 flat monthly fee (collection
sewer accounts, such as residential,    system upgrade)
commercial and multi-users/per user.
 
   (D)   Tap fees.
      (1)   Water taps.
 
Water taps              Inside town              Outside town
3/4-inch line           $400.00                  $800.00
1-inch line             $650.00                  $1,300.00
1½-inch line           $850.00                  $1,700.00
2-inch line             $1,000.00                $2,000.00
Larger than 2-inch line Materials cost and labor Two times the material cost
                                                 and labor
 
      (2)   Sewer taps.
 
Sewer taps              Inside town              Outside town
4-inch line             $450.00                  $900.00
6-inch line             $500.00                  $1,000.00
Larger than 6-inch line Materials cost and labor Two times the materials cost
                                                 and labor
The above sewer tap fees are based on normal installation of taps on gravity
sewer lines by town employees. In the event that a contractor is required on
gravity force main lines, or when required by DOT to be bored under state
roads, the sewer tap must be installed by the owner, or their designee, at
their expense.
 
   (E)   Impact fees.
      (1)   Residential (rate changes adopted January 17, 2006).
Residential Rate
Residential                  Rate
1-3 bedroom:
Water & sewer (1-2 bedrooms) $2,500.00
(3 bedrooms)                 $3,500.00
Water only                   $500.00
Sewer only (1-2 bedrooms)   $2,000.00
(3 bedrooms)                 $3,000.00
4+ bedrooms:
Water & sewer                $4,675.00
Water only                   $675.00
Sewer only (4+ bedrooms)     $4,000.00
 
      (2)   Commercial (rate changes adopted February 21, 2006).
Commercial: Water Only Rate
Commercial: Water Only                     Rate
Category 1: 0 to 4,999 gallons/month       $675.00
Category 2: 5,000 to 9,999 gallons/month   $1,000.00
Category 3: 10,000 to 14,999 gallons/month $1,250.00
Category 4: 15,000 to 19,999 gallons/month $1,500.00
Category 5: 20,000 to 29,999 gallons/month $1,750.00
Category 6: 30,000 to 39,999 gallons/month $2,000.00
Category 7: 40,000 + gallons/month         $3,000.00
 
Commercial: Sewer Only Rate
Commercial: Sewer Only         Rate
0 to 1,499 gallons/month       $4,000.00
1,500 to 2,999 gallons/month   $6,500.00
3,000 to 4,999 gallons/month   $9.000.00
5,000 to 9,999 gallons/month   $11,500.00
10,000 to 15,999 gallons/month $14,000.00
16,000 to 19,999 gallons/month $16,500.00
20,000 to 29,999 gallons/month $19,000.00
30,000 to 39,999 gallons/month $21,500.00
Unlimited**                    $24,000.00
**An additional $2,500.00 per 5,000 gallons-per-day increment
 
(OC, Attachment I) (Ord. passed 8-11-88; Am. Ord. passed 1-21-92; Am. Ord.
passed 8-18-98; Am. Ord. passed 6-3-99; Am. Ord. 12-19-00; Am. Ord. 4-16-02;
Am. Ord. passed 11-19-02; Am. Ord. passed 6-26-03; Am. Ord. passed 3-16-04; Am.
Ord. 2006-06, passed 1-17-06; Am. Ord. 2006-06, passed 2-21-06)
§ 51.22 AUTHORITY AND AMENDMENT.
   (A)   The Town Board shall be the reviewing authority for all appeals of
actions or administrative determinations under the provision of these
regulations. Notice of an intent to appeal and request for a hearing shall be
addressed to the Town Manager in writing and shall detail the nature of the
appeal. A date for the hearing shall be set by the Town Board and the appellant
promptly notified in writing. The decision of the Town Board after the hearing
shall be final and conclusive and shall be conveyed to the appellant in
writing.
   (B)   The Town Board expressly reserves the absolute right to amend, modify,
rescind or supplement the regulations. No modification of rates or any of the
rules and regulations shall be made by any agent of the town. No promise,
agreement or representation of any employee of the town shall be binding upon
the town, except and unless it has been agreed upon in writing, signed, and
accepted by the Town Board.
(OC, § 5-1-22)
§ 51.23 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE; RECONNECTION.
   Pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, service may be temporarily
discontinued for willful disregard of this chapter and a reconnect fee, as
specified in the town rate schedule, may be imposed before restoration of
service. In the event of continued gross noncompliance of this chapter removal
of the meter will be deemed proper, service will be discontinued and all tap
fees and deposits will be forfeited. Reconnection will be made upon payment of
current due amounts in addition to new tap fees and deposits.
(OC, § 5-1-20(f))
WATER CONSERVATION
§ 51.35 DECLARATION OF WATER SHORTAGE.
   In the event it appears that water demand on the town water system may
exceed supply and transmission capabilities, the Town Manager may recommend
that voluntary water conservation measures be implemented. The Town Manager,
following consultation with the County Manager, Public Utilities Superintendent
and the Board of Commissioners, may declare a Stage I Water Shortage Condition
Advisory requesting voluntary water conservation by consumers. The Town
Manager, following consultation with the Board of Commissioners may, with or
without the recommendation of the Public Utilities Superintendent declare that
a Stage II or Stage III Water Shortage Condition exists.
(OC, § 5-1-20)
§ 51.36 STAGE I WATER SHORTAGE CONDITION.
   (A)   In the event a Stage I Water Shortage Condition is declared an
extensive publicity campaign will be initiated using public media and
specialized methods to inform the public of an impending or existing water
shortage, and conservation measures will be encouraged and recommended.
   (B)   In the event a Stage I Water Shortage Condition is declared the
following guidelines shall apply and the public shall be encouraged to adhere
to the following:
      (1)   Limit car washing to the minimum;
      (2)   Limit lawn and garden watering to that which is necessary for
plants to survive;
      (3)   Do not wash down outside areas such as sidewalks, patios, parking
lots, service bays or aprons and the like;
      (4)   Do not leave faucets running while shaving or rinsing dishes;
      (5)   Water shrubbery to the minimum required reusing household water
when possible;
      (6)   Limit use of clothes washers and dishwashers and when used, operate
fully loaded;
      (7)   Use of showers for bathing, rather than bathtub and limit showers
to no more than four minutes;
      (8)   Limit flushing of toilets by multiple usage;
      (9)   The use of disposable and biodegradable dishes is encouraged;
      (10)   The use of flow restrictive and water saving devices is
encouraged;
      (11)   Limit hours of operation of water-cooled air conditioners;
      (12)   All residents, businesses and institutions are requested to
temporarily delay new landscape work until the water shortage has ended.
(OC, § 5-1-20(a))
§ 51.37 STAGE II WATER SHORTAGE CONDITION.
   (A)   In the event the Town Manager issues a declaration of a Stage II Water
Shortage Condition, then it shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation, to use or permit the use of water from the town water system for
any purpose hereinafter set forth until the time as the declaration of water
shortage has been rescinded. In exercising the authority for declaring a water
shortage condition consideration shall be given to water storage levels and
available sources of supply, available usable storage on hand, drawdown rates,
the projected supply capability, outlook for precipitation, daily water use
patterns and availability of water from other sources.
   (B)   In the event a Stage I Water Shortage Condition is in effect and
available water supply continues to decrease, then a Stage II Water Shortage
may be proclaimed. In addition to the voluntary guidelines already in effect it
shall be unlawful to use water supplied by the town water system in the
following manner:
      (1)   To water lawns, grass, shrubbery, trees, flowers and vegetable
gardens except on Saturday and Tuesday between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 9:00
a.m. The watering shall be done by hand-held hose or container or drip
irrigation system only;
      (2)   To fill newly-constructed swimming and/or wading pools or refill
swimming and/or wading pools which have been drained;
      (3)   To wash automobiles, trucks, trailers, boats, airplanes or any
other type of mobile equipment, including commercial washing;
      (4)   To wash down outside areas such as streets, driveways, service
station aprons, parking lots, office buildings, exteriors of existing or newly-
constructed homes or apartments;
      (5)   To use water from public or private fire hydrants for any purpose
other than fire suppression or other public emergency;
      (6)   To operate or induce water into any ornamental fountain, pool or
pond or other structure making similar use of water;
      (7)   To serve drinking water in restaurants, cafeterias or other food
establishments, except upon request;
      (8)   To operate water-cooled air conditioners or other equipment that
does not recycle cooling water, except when health and safety are adversely
affected;
      (9)   To use water for any unnecessary purpose or to intentionally waste
water.
(OC, § 5-1-20(b))
§ 51.38 STAGE III WATER SHORTAGE CONDITION.
   (A)   In the event the Town Manager in consultation with the County Manager
issues a declaration of Stage III Water Shortage Condition then it shall be
unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to use or permit the use of water
from the town water system for any purpose hereinafter set forth until the time
as the declaration of water shortage has been rescinded. In exercising this
authority, consideration shall be given to water storage levels and available
sources of supply, available usable storage on hand, drawdown rates, projected
supply capability, outlook for precipitation, daily water use patterns and
availability of water from other sources.
   (B)   In the event a Stage II Water Shortage Condition exists and available
water supply continues to decrease, then a Stage III Water Shortage may be
proclaimed. In addition to the restrictions for Stage I and Stage II Water
Shortage Conditions the following restrictions shall also apply:
      (1)   No water shall be introduced into any pool;
      (2)   No water shall be used outside a structure for any use other than
an emergency involving a fire;
      (3)   Fire protection shall be maintained by drafting ponds, rivers and
the like, wherever possible;
      (4)   The use of throw-away utensils and plates shall be encouraged and
recommended at all eating establishments;
      (5)   The operation of an evaporative air conditioner which recycles
water shall be limited to use during operating hours of business only.
(OC, § 5-1-20(c))
§ 51.39 CANCELLATION OF WATER SHORTAGE DECLARATION.
   Water shortage conditions will expire when the Town Manager, after
consultation with the County Manager and the Board of Commissioners and upon
recommendation of the Public Utilities Superintendent, deems that the condition
which caused the alert has abated. The expiration or cancellation of a water
shortage declaration shall be promptly and extensively publicized.
(OC, § 5-1-20(d))
CHAPTER 52: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
52.001   Authority; establishment
   
52.002   Definitions
Connections
   
52.015   Use of public sewers required
   
52.016   Separate wastewater connections
   
52.017   Water meters
   
52.018   Connections required within time limit
   
52.019   Materials for sewer service lines
   
52.020   Installation of sewer service lines and laterals
   
52.021   Repair of connections
   
52.022   Outside connections
   
52.023   Substances to enter through proper connections
   
52.024   Privies, cesspools, septic tanks
Wastewater Disposal; Pretreatment Standards
   
52.040   Wastewater discharge prohibited
   
52.041   Storm drainage and ground water
   
52.042   Unpolluted water
   
52.043   Limits on use of garbage grinders
   
52.044   Point of discharge limits
   
52.045   Holding tank wastes
   
52.046   Flow equalization
   
52.047   Industrial users; special requirements
   
52.048   Disposal of unacceptable wastes
   
52.049   Town may reject certain wastes
   
52.050   Tampering or damaging equipment prohibited
   
52.051   Wastewater volume determination
   
52.052   Periodic inspection
   
52.053   Monitoring facilities
   
52.054   Inspection and sampling
   
52.055   Pretreatment
   
52.056   Protection from accidental discharge
   
52.057   Flow control measuring equipment
   
52.058   Sampling procedures and analysis
   
52.059   Unlawful discharge; duty of users
   
52.060   Regulation of grease interceptors and grease traps
Discharge Permits
   
52.075   Permit required
   
52.076   Application
   
52.077   Conditions
   
52.078   Duration
   
52.079   Transfer
   
52.080   Suspension or revocation
Rates and Charges
   
52.095   User charges
   
52.096   Classification of users
   
52.097   Types of charges
   
52.098   Basis for determination of surcharges
   
52.099   Method of determining surcharges and rates
Administration and Enforcement
   
52.115   Administrative authority
   
52.116   Discharge reports
   
52.117   Injunction and abatement
   
52.118   Term of service
   
52.119   Notice and hearing
   
52.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.001 AUTHORITY; ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   The town, by virtue of the authority granted by its Charter and the
General Statutes, is authorized and empowered to acquire, provide, construct,
establish, maintain and operate a sewerage system for the town and extend that
system beyond the town boundaries. In accordance with this authority a sewerage
system for the town is hereby established.
   (B)   The management and control of this system is hereby vested in the Town
Board and the utility system of the town shall be governed in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   This chapter is designed to provide uniform requirements for discharge
into the town’s wastewater collection system. Nothing included herein shall
contravene the requirements and conditions of the town’s NPDES permit(s).
(OC, § 5-2-1) (Ord. passed 3-8-88)
§ 52.002 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Other terms used in this chapter, but not defined herein, shall have
the meaning set forth in the latest edition of Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association
(APHA), the American Waterworks Association (AWWA) and the Water Pollution
Control Federation (WPCF).
   (B)   Unless otherwise expressly stated in the chapter, waste constituents
and characteristics shall be measured by methods set forth in the latest
edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater, and/or
Methods for Chemical Analysis of Waters and Wastes, published by the EPA.
      ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the Clean
Water Act, as amended, 33 USC 1251 et seq.
      APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The Public Utilities Superintendent who shall have
operation control and responsibility of the water and sewer system under the
general supervision of the Town Manager.
      APPROVED POTW PRETREATMENT PROGRAM or POTW PRETREATMENT PROGRAM. A
program administered by the POTW that meets the criteria established in §§
403.8 and 403.9 of the Act and which has been approved by a Regional
Administrator of EPA or State Director in accordance with § 403.11 of the Act.
      AVERAGE DAILY FLOW. The total quantity of liquid tributary to a point
divided by the number of days of flow measurement.
      BOD (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND).  The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter or parts per million by
weight.
      COD (CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of equivalent oxygen utilized
in the chemical oxidation of organic matter as measured by standard laboratory
methods, as set out herein, expressed in milligrams per liter.
      COLLECTOR (OR COLLECTION) LINES. The conduits to which laterals and
service connections from residential, commercial, institutional and industrial
users are connected.
      COLOR. The true color due to the substances in solution expressed in wave
lengths of light.
      COOLING WATER. The water discharged from any use such as air
conditioning, cooling or refrigeration, during which the only pollutant added
to the water is heat.
      COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. BOD, suspended solids, pH and fecal coliform
bacteria, and additional pollutants as are now or may be in the future
specified and controlled in the town's NPDES permit(s) for its wastewater
treatment works where the works have been designed and used to reduce or remove
the pollutants.
      COMPLETE WASTEWATER TREATMENT SYSTEM. Consists of all the connected
treatment works necessary to transport wastewaters from individual homes or
buildings to a plant or facility wherein treatment of the wastewater is
accomplished; the treatment of the wastewaters to remove pollutants; and the
ultimate disposal, including recycling or reuse, of the treated wastewaters and
residues resulting from the treatment process. The term may also be referred to
as a sewerage system or wastewater system.
      COUNTY. The County of Onslow, North Carolina or any duly authorized
official(s) acting on behalf of the county.
      DIRECTOR. The chief administrative officer of the Division of
Environmental Management, North Carolina Department of Natural Resources and
Community Development.
      DOMESTIC WASTES. Liquid wastes from noncommercial preparation, cooking
and handling of food; or those containing human excrement and wash waters from
the sanitary conveniences of dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial
facilities and institutions.
      EPA. The federal agency named the United States Environmental Protection
Agency.
      EXCESSIVE RADIATION DOSE. A dose of radiation in excess of the maximum
permissible dose. MAXIMUM PERMISSIBLE DOSE shall mean a dose of radiation to
any part of the body, internal and external or both that, in the light of
current knowledge, is not expected to cause appreciable bodily injury to a
person at any time during his/her lifetime. Application of this definition will
conform to all federal and state regulations concerning the use of radioactive
materials.
      EXPANSION. Increasing the hydraulic capacity and treatment capacity of a
treatment facility but not increasing the level or degree of efficiency of
treatment.
      FEDERAL ACTS. Public Law 92-500, the Federal Water Pollution Control Act
Amendments of 1972; and/or Public Law 95-217, and the Federal Water Pollution
Control Act Amendments of 1977.
      GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the preparation, cooking and dispensing of
food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
      GREASE AND OILS. A group of substances with similar physical
characteristics including hydrocarbons, fatty acids, soaps, waxes, oils and any
other material that is extracted with a stated solvent from an acidified sample
and that is not volatilized during the test.
      GREASE INTERCEPTOR/GREASE TRAP. A device or system designed and intended
to intercept and remove from the wastewater stream fats, oils, greases, solids
or any other substance the presence of which in the wastewater stream is
regulated by federal, state or local law, whether statutory, regulatory or
otherwise. Unless the context requires otherwise, the terms GREASE INTERCEPTOR
and GREASE TRAP shall be interchangeable, but generally the term GREASE
INTERCEPTOR refers to such a device or system that is located outdoors and the
term GREASE TRAP refers to such a device or system that is located indoors.
      HOLDING TANK WASTE. Any waste from holding tank such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers, septic tanks and vacuum pump tank trucks.
      HYDRAULIC LOAD. The tributary wastewater flow to a line segment, pumping
station, treatment plant and the like, measured in million gallons per day,
gallons per day, gallons per minute or other unit of flow.
      INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant which is not a compatible pollutant
as defined in this section.
      INDUSTRIAL USER.
         (a)   Any nongovernmental, nonresidential user of a publicly-owned
treatment works which discharges more than the equivalent of 25,000 gallons per
day (GPD) of sanitary wastes and which is identified in the Standard Industrial
Classification Manual, 1972, Office of Management and Budget, as amended and
supplemented under one of the following divisions:
            1.   Division A - Agriculture, forestry and fishing;
            2.   Division B - Mining;
            3.   Division D - Manufacturing;
            4.   Division E - Transportation, communications, electric, gas and
sanitary services;
            5.   Division I - Services.
         (b)   In determining the amount of a users discharge for purposes of
classification as an industry, the town may exclude domestic wastes or
discharges from sanitary conveniences.
         (c)   After applying the sanitary waste exclusion in subsection (2) of
this definition (at the town’s discretion), dischargers in the divisions that
have a volume exceeding 25,000 GPD or the weight of biochemical oxygen demand
(BOD) or suspended solids (SS) equivalent to that weight found in 25,000 GPD of
sanitary waste are considered industrial users and are subject to pretreatment
requirements of incompatible pollutants. Sanitary wastes, for purposes of this
calculation of equivalency, are the wastes discharged from residential users.
The town, with the Regional Administrator’s approval, shall define the strength
of the residential discharges in terms of parameters including, as a minimum,
BOD and SS per volume of flow.
         (d)   Any nongovernmental user of the treatment works which discharges
wastewater to the treatment works containing toxic pollutants or poisonous
solids, liquids or gases in sufficient quantity to either singly or by
interaction with other wastes, contaminate the sludge of the municipal system,
or to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, or which
constitutes a hazard to humans or animals, creates a public nuisance, or
creates any hazard in, or has an adverse effect on the waters receiving any
discharge from the treatment works.
         (e)   All commercial users of an individual system constructed with
grant assistance under § 201(h) of the Act and Subpart E.
      INDUSTRIAL WASTES. Liquid or water-carried wastes from institutional
processes and operations, as distinguished from domestic sewage.
      INFILTRATION. The water entering a wastewater system, including
wastewater service connections, from the ground through such means as, but not
limited to, defective pipes, pipe joints, connections or manhole walls.
      INFLOW. The water discharged into a wastewater system, including service
connections from such sources as, but not limited to, roof leaders, cellars,
yard and area drains, foundation drains, cooling water discharge, drains from
springs and swampy areas, manhole covers, cross connections from storm sewers
and combined sewers, catch basins, storm waters, surface runoff, street wash
waters or drainage.
      INTERCEPTOR LINE. A conduit whose primary purpose is to transport
wastewaters from collector or collection lines to a pumping station or
treatment facility.
      INTERFERENCE. Inhibition or disruption of the town's sewer systems,
treatment processes or operations which contributes to a violation of any
requirement of the NPDES permit(s). The term includes prevention of sewage
sludge use or disposal by the POTW in accordance with § 405 of the Act, or any
criteria, guidelines or regulations developed pursuant to the Solid Waste
Disposal Act (SWDA), the Clean Air Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act or
more stringent state criteria (including those contained in any state sludge
management plan prepared pursuant to Title IV of SWDA) applicable to the method
of disposal or use employed by the POTW.
      LATERAL LINE. A line that discharges into a branch or other wastewater
conduit and has no other common wastewater line tributary to it.
      MASS EMISSION RATE. The weight of material discharged to the town's
wastewater collection system during a given time interval. Unless otherwise
specified, the mass emission rate shall mean pounds per day of a particular
constituent or combination of constituents.
      MONITORING FACILITY. A manhole, flume box, junction box or other
structure approved by the town which shall provide access to a wastewater
stream for purpose of visual observation, sampling and flow measurement.
      NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES). The federal and/
or state managed program for issuing, conditioning and denying permits for the
discharge of pollutants from point sources into navigable waters.
      NATIONAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD or PRETREATMENT STANDARD. Any regulation
containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in accordance with
§ 307(b) and (c) of the Act, which applies to industrial users.
      NPDES PERMIT or PERMIT. A permit issued to a POTW pursuant to § 402 of
the Act.
      NORMAL STRENGTH SEWAGE. That liquid waste having chemical concentrations
not in excess of that to be expected from domestic sewage, which for purposes
of this chapter shall mean BOD equal to or less than 250 mg/l, suspended solids
equal to or less than 250 mg/l, total solids equal to or less than 750 mg/l,
COD equal to or less than 600 mg/l, ammonia nitrogen equal to or less than 30
mg/l and other chemical and physical characteristics not in excess of those
prohibited by this chapter.
      OWNER. The person(s) holding legal title to the premises or the tenant(s)
occupying the same, whoever is obligated to pay the town for water consumed on
the premises taken from the town water system and/or who is obligated to pay
the town for sewer service.
      PEAK FLOW. The maximum rate of flow occurring at any time measured in
terms of gallons per normal calendar day of 24 hours.
      PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, partnership, association, society,
corporation, institution or group, including the state, and agencies,
districts, commissions and political subdivisions created by or pursuant to
state law.
      pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the concentration of hydrogen ions
in grams per liter of solution. A stabilized pH will be considered as a pH
which does not change beyond the specified limits when the wastewater is
subjected to aeration. A pH value indicates the degree of acidity or
alkalinity.
      POLLUTION. An alteration of the quality of the waters.
      ppm. Part per million by weight in water and wastewater analysis and is
the equivalent of milligrams per liter (mg/l).
      PREMISES. A parcel of real estate or portion thereof, including any
improvements, which is determined by the town to be a single user for purposes
of receiving, using and paying for sewer service.
      PRETREATMENT. Application of physical, chemical and biological processes
to reduce the amount of pollutants in or alter the nature of the pollutant
properties in wastewater prior to discharging the wastewater into the publicly-
owned wastewater system.
      PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. All applicable federal rules and regulations
implementing § 307 of the Act as well as any nonconflicting state and local
standards. In cases of conflicting standards or regulations, the more stringent
thereof shall be applied.
      PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. Wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to the degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
wastewater lines, with no particle greater than ½-inch in any dimension.
      PUBLIC SANITARY SEWER OR PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer owned or controlled by the
town or county which carries wastewater or polluted industrial wastes, and to
which storm, surface and ground waters and unpolluted industrial wastes are not
intentionally admitted.
      PUBLICLY-OWNED TREATMENT WORKS or POTW. A treatment works as defined by §
212 of the Act, which is owned by a state or municipality (as defined by § 502M
of the Act). This definition includes any sewers that convey wastewater to a
treatment works, but does not include pipes, sewers or other conveyances not
connected to a facility providing treatment. The term also means the
municipality as defined in § 502M of the Act, which has jurisdiction over the
indirect discharges to and from the treatment works.
      RECEIVING STREAM. A body of water, stream or water course receiving the
discharge of waters from the wastewater treatment plant.
      REGIONAL ADMINISTRATOR. The appropriate EPA Regional Administrator.
      REPLACEMENT COSTS. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the service life of the
collection, interception, pumping and treatment works to maintain the capacity
and performance for which the works were designed and contracted. The term
operation and maintenance includes replacement.
      SANITARY SEWERS. A sewer which is intended to carry only sanitary and
acceptable strength industrial wastewater from residences, commercial
buildings, industrial plants and institutions.
      SEWER. A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
      SEWER CONNECTION. A sewer pipe line, normally a four-inch or six-inch
diameter pipe, running laterally from a street line, an off-street line or a
trunk line to an individual tract, lot or parcel of land to serve one or more
houses or other buildings, whether or not connected to any house or building.
The jurisdiction, responsibility and liability of the town concerning sewer
connections is limited to the portion of sewer pipe lines within public rights-
of-way.
      SHALL and MAY. Shall is mandatory; may is permissive.
      SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER. A user who has a flow of 25,000 gallons or
more per average day; has a flow greater than 5% of the flow carried by the
town's system receiving the waste; has in its waste a toxic pollutant as
defined in standards issued under § 307(a) of the Act; or has a significant
impact either singly or in combination with other contributing industries, on
the treatment works or the quality of effluent discharged from the treatment
works.
      STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A line or drain designed and constructed to
carry storm and surface waters and drainage, but not wastewater and polluted
industrial wastes.
      SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS). Solids that either float on the surface or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquids, which are removable by laboratory
filtering (expressed in parts per million or milligram per liter by dry
weight).
      TOXIC WASTE. Those wastes, or combination of wastes, including disease-
causing agents, which, after discharge, and upon exposure, ingestion,
inhalation or assimilation into any organism, either directly from the
environment or indirectly by ingestion through food chains, will cause death,
disease, behavioral abnormalities, cancer, genetic mutations, physiological
malfunctions (including reproduction malfunctions) or physical deformities, in
organisms or their offspring. Toxic substances include, by way of illustration
and not limitation: lead, cadmium, chromium, mercury, vanadium, arsenic,
molybdenum, antimony, nickel, barium, beryllium, copper, selenium, zinc,
orthonitro-chlorabenzene (ONCB), polychlorinated biphenoyls (PCB's) and
dichlordiph trichloroethane (DDT); and any other materials that have or may
hereafter be determined to have toxic properties.
      TREATMENT WORKS. Any devices and systems used in the storage, treatment,
recycling and reclamation of municipal waste or industrial wastes of a liquid
nature. Treatment works include intercepting lines, outfall lines, pumping,
power and other equipment for wastewater treatment and their appurtenances;
expansions, improvement, remodeling, additions and alteration thereof; elements
essential to provide a reliable recycled supply such as standby treatment units
and clear well facilities; and any works including site acquisition of the land
that will be an integral part of the treatment process or is used for ultimate
disposal of residues resulting from the treatment; or any other method or
system for preventing, abating, reducing, storing, treating, separating or
disposing of municipal wastes including industrial wastes.
      UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water not containing any pollutants limited or
prohibited by the effluent standards in effect, or water whose discharge will
not cause any violation of receiving water quality standards.
      UPGRADING. Increasing the level, degree and efficiency of treatment of a
treatment facility.
      USER. Any political entity, corporation, business, organization or person
who discharges, causes or permits the discharge of wastewater into the town's
wastewater collection system.
      USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of a wastewater system, or that
portion of the ad valorem taxes paid by a user, for the user's proportionate
share of the cost of operation and maintenance (including replacement) of the
works under §§ 204(b)(1)(A) and 201(h)(2) and Subpart E of the Act.
      VIOLATION. A contravention of one or more points of the chapter. Each day
on which a violation shall occur or continue shall be deemed a separate and
distinct offense.
      WASTE. Includes sewage and all other waste substances, liquid, solid,
gaseous or radioactive, associated with human habitation, or of human or animal
origin, or from any producing, manufacturing or processing operation of
whatever nature, including the waste placed within containers for whatever
nature prior to, and for purposes of disposal.
      WASTEWATER. A combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together
with any ground water, surface water and storm water that may be present.
      WASTEWATER COLLECTION SYSTEM. All of the common lateral lines and pumping
facilities within a publicly-owned wastewater system, which are primarily
installed to receive wastewaters directly from facilities which convey
wastewaters from individual structures or from private property, and which
include service connection Y fittings designed for connection with those
facilities. The facilities which convey wastewater from individual structures
or from private property to the public lateral line or its equivalent, are
specifically excluded from the definition, with the exception of pumping units
and pressurized lines for individual structures or group of structures when the
units are cost effective and are owned and maintained by the town.
      WASTEWATER CONSTITUENTS AND CHARACTERISTICS. The individual chemical,
physical, bacteriological and radiological parameter, including volume and flow
rate and other parameters that serve to define, classify or measure the
contents, quality and strength of wastewater.
      WATER POLLUTION CONTROL PLANT (WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT OR FACILITIES).
An arrangement of devices and structures for treating wastewater to remove or
alter its objectionable constituents and thus render it less offensive or
dangerous, including any devices and structures used to recycle or reuse the
treated wastewater and to process and dispose of any sludge derived from any of
the treatment processes.
(OC, § 5-2-2) (Ord. passed 3-8-88; Am. Ord. passed 1-23-01)
CONNECTIONS
§ 52.015 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any owner of developed property on which there are situated one or
more residential dwelling units or commercial establishments located within the
city limits and within a reasonable distance of any sewer collection line
owned, leased as lessee or operated by or on behalf of the town to connect the
owner’s premises with the sewer collection line. All connections shall be made
by or under the supervision of the Town Public Utilities Superintendent and in
accordance with the applicable plumbing and building codes and the town’s
specifications. The property owner shall pay all connection charges which shall
include the cost of replacing pavement, if applicable. Unless expected as
permitted in division (B) of this section, owners of newly annexed property
using a private sewer or septic system shall connect the property to the town’s
public sewer or septic system at the time of annexation if sewer collection
lines are available at that time or at the time sewer collection lines become
available to the property if they are not available at the time of annexation.
   (B)   On application of a property owner, the Board of Commissioners shall
have authority to waive the connection requirements of division (A) of this
section in order to avoid hardship. If the Board of Commissioners waives the
connection requirements of division (A) of this section, then the owner of any
developed property on which there are situated one or more residential dwelling
units or commercial establishments located within the city limits and within a
reasonable distance of any sewer collection line owned, leased as lessee or
operated by or on behalf of the town shall pay a periodic availability charge
to be determined by the Board of Commissioners, but not to exceed the minimum
periodic service charge for properties that are connected to the town’s sewer
collection system as set out in the town annual budget ordinance as it may be
amended from time to time.
(OC, § 5-2-3) (Ord. passed 3-8-88; Am. Ord. passed 9-19-95)
§ 52.016 SEPARATE WASTEWATER CONNECTIONS.
   Each residence or other building and structure shall have a separate sewer
connection; provided, however, that this requirement shall not be construed to
apply to a building customarily incident to and located upon the same lot
occupied by the main building.
(OC, § 5-2-4) (Ord. passed 3-8-88)
§ 52.017 WATER METERS.
   A water meter is required on every individual water supply source used for
industrial or nonindustrial purposes by a person discharging sewage into the
town sewer collection and treatment system. The water supply sources would
include, but are not limited to, town water, county water and private well. The
meters are required to determine the number of gallons of sewage generated by
an individual sewer customer and discharged into the public sewer system.
(OC, § 5-2-5) (Ord. passed 3-8-88)
§ 52.018 CONNECTIONS REQUIRED WITHIN TIME LIMIT.
   (A)   All property owners having property located within 200 feet of a sewer
line, if the property is occupied, shall install sanitary toilets and make
sewer connections within 30 days after notice. Provided that approved septic
tanks may be used where sewer connections are impractical; and provided further
that no private septic tank disposal system may be installed until a permit has
been obtained from the County Health Department.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (A) of this section, the
following shall apply with respect to connections to sewer lines in areas
annexed into the town by any means other than by petition for voluntary
annexation.
      (1)   If the annexed property is served or to be served by a gravity
sanitary sewer line, then the owner of the property shall connect to the
gravity sanitary sewer line within one year after the date the sanitary sewer
becomes available to that property, if the property is developed as of the
effective date of the annexation. If the annexed property is not developed as
of the effective date of annexation, then the owner of the property shall
connect to the gravity sanitary sewer line when the property is developed.
      (2)   If the annexed property is served or to be served by a pressurized
sanitary sewer line, then the owner of the property shall connect to the
pressurized sanitary sewer line within five years after the effective date of
annexation, if the property is developed as of the effective date of the
annexation. If the annexed property is not developed as of the effective date
of annexation, then the owner of the property shall connect to the pressurized
sanitary sewer line when the property is developed.
(OC, § 5-2-6) (Ord. passed 3-8-88; Am. Ord. passed 3-16-93)
§ 52.019 MATERIALS FOR SEWER SERVICE LINES.
   (A)   Materials for sewer service lines shall be either ABS or PVC in
conformance with the requirements stated in the town specifications.
   (B)   Connections between new service lines and the cleanout provided at the
right-of-way line and existing or new sanitary drain lines from the user's
premises shall be using mechanical couplings employing rubber gaskets and/or
sleeves. No concrete collar connections shall be allowed. Normally, connections
between new sanitary sewer service lines and the cleanouts installed at the
right-of-way can be made using a plane-end piece of pipe and special transition
rubber gasket. Existing services not in compliance with this chapter shall
conform to this requirement when replaced or repaired. It shall be the property
owner's responsibility to pay for any broken service.
(OC, § 5-2-7) (Ord. passed 3-8-88)
§ 52.020 INSTALLATION OF SEWER SERVICE LINES AND LATERALS.
   (A)   Construction and installation of all new sanitary sewer service lines
on public and private property shall conform to the State Plumbing Code.
   (B)   Long-sweep combination bends and cleanouts shall be installed at each
change in direction (horizontal alignment). Connections to existing sanitary
drains shall be made between the structure and existing septic tank at a point
upstream of the septic tank. If, in the opinion of the Town Inspector or
authorized town representative, the existing sanitary drain line is unsuitable
(for example, infested with roots, cracked, clogged or in some way impaired or
subject to infiltration) a new sewer line of acceptable material will be
connected by the private property owner to the town's sewer line.
   (C)   Upon installation of the new sanitary sewer service line, but prior to
connection of the line to the cleanout at the right-of-way and backfilling of
the line, the line installation shall be inspected by the Town Inspector or the
town's authorized representative and tested in his/her presence. The test shall
consist of a hydrostatic test with water at a head of at least five feet above
ground level or six feet above service line level, whichever is greater. The
test shall be conducted by capping both ends of the service line, filling the
line through a riser extending from a cleanout in the line or from a connection
to one of the end pipe caps with the water and observing the water level in the
riser to insure no drop in same. The test shall have passed when no appreciable
leakage is observed as evidenced by no drop in the water level in the riser
pipe over a period of 30 minutes. Any defects in the service line installation
shall be repaired to the satisfaction of the Town Inspector or the town's
authorized representative prior to connection to the cleanout at the right-of-
way line.
(OC, § 5-2-8) (Ord. passed 3-8-88)
§ 52.021 REPAIR OF CONNECTIONS.
   Whenever any house or building, or connection with any main sewer or common
drain becomes clogged, broken, out of order or detrimental to the use of the
sewer or other drain or unfit for the purpose of drainage, the owner, agent,
occupant or person having charge of any building or premises which is drained
through the defective connection shall, when directed by the town, within five
days after notice in writing, reconstruct or repair the sewer, drain or
connection as the condition of same may require. Repairs will be made in
accordance with the State Plumbing Code and town specifications.
(OC, § 5-2-9) (Ord. passed 3-8-88)
§ 52.022 OUTSIDE CONNECTIONS.
   Any person owning or controlling premises located beyond the corporate
limits of the town and desiring to install a plumbing system for the purpose of
discharging domestic wastewater and/or industrial wastewater into the
collection system owned or controlled by the town may do so upon approval of
the town and by complying with the requirements of this chapter.
(OC, § 5-2-10) (Ord. passed 3-8-88)
§ 52.023 SUBSTANCES TO ENTER THROUGH PROPER CONNECTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to introduce any substance either solid
or liquid, into the wastewater collection system of the town through the tops
of manholes or in any other way than through a proper connection, except under
specific permit or as hereinafter provided.
(OC, § 5-2-11) (Ord. passed 3-8-88)
Penalty, see § 52.999
§ 52.024 PRIVIES, CESSPOOLS, SEPTIC TANKS.
   (A)   Use prohibited.
      (1)   After the effective date of this chapter, construction of privies,
cesspools and septic tanks shall be prohibited within the corporate limits of
the town. Should a transfer in ownership of properties with the facilities
occur after the effective date of this chapter, it shall be the responsibility
of the new owner to construct indoor sanitary plumbing facilities in accordance
with all applicable plumbing codes prior to occupation of the property and use
of the existing facilities shall be terminated and the facilities destroyed or
otherwise removed.
      (2)   No septic tank nor cesspool overflow to any open drain, ditch,
stream or water well shall be allowed within the corporate limits of the town.
   (B)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Where publicly-owned treatment works are not accessible and cannot
presently be made available to properties proposed for new construction with
sanitary facilities within the corporate limits of the town, septic tanks with
drain fields may be installed in accordance with septic tank permit
specifications and regulations and minimum lot area requirements of the County
Health Department, which department issues permits for the same; in no case
shall the tank in question have a working capacity of less than 500 gallons
(i.e. the capacity below the bottom of the outlet pipe) and a nitrification bed
of less than 100 feet of drain tile for sandy soil and 200 feet of drain tile
for medium soil.
      (2)   The permits shall be presented to the approving authority of the
town prior to installation. The approving authority may approve or reject
private sewage disposal facilities in accordance with a standard set of plans
and specifications for the installation of the facilities.
(OC, §§ 5-2-12 and 5-2-13) (Ord. passed 3-8-88)
Penalty, see § 52.999
WASTEWATER DISPOSAL; PRETREATMENT STANDARDS
§ 52.040 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge or cause to be
discharged sanitary wastewater into the storm sewers of the town without
exception.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge or cause to be
discharged any inflow, as defined in §
52.002, or any unpolluted industrial and commercial process water into any
public sewer.
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful for any person to
discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following described materials,
water, liquids or wastes into any public sanitary sewer:
      (1)   Liquids or vapors having a temperature higher than 150°F (66°C);
      (2)   Water or wastes containing more than 100 parts per million by
weight of animal or vegetable fats, or grease;
      (3)   Any flammable or explosive liquid, solid or gas, including, but not
limited to gasoline, benzene, naptha and fuel oil;
      (4)   Water or wastes having pH lower than 6.0 or higher than 9.0 or
having other corrosive properties capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment or personnel of the wastewater system;
      (5)   Any toxic substances, chemical elements or compounds in quantities
sufficient to impair the operation or efficiency of the sewage treatment
facilities, or that will pass through the sewage treatment plant and cause the
effluent thereof to exceed state or interstate water quality requirements for
the receiving stream, or will constitute a hazard to humans, animals, aquatic
life or the receiving stream;
      (6)   Noxious or malodorous gases or substances capable of creating a
public nuisance while being conveyed through the sewage collection and
treatment system in its normal operation;
      (7)   Garbage that has not been properly shredded;
      (8)   Ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, septic
tank sludge, hair, bones, feather, tar, plastics, resin, paint, wood, paunch
manure, butcher’s offal, dead animals or any other solids or viscous substances
capable of causing obstructions to the flow in wastewater lines or other
interference with the proper operation of the wastewater collection system,
pumping facilities or a wastewater treatment plant;
      (9)   Materials which form excessive amounts of scum that may interfere
with the operation of a wastewater treatment plant or cause undue additional
labor in connection with its operation;
      (10)   Waters or wastes containing dyes or other color which cannot be
removed by biological processes and which require special chemical treatment in
order for water pollution control plant effluent to meet standards set by the
state and federal laws or rules, regulations or orders made pursuant to law;
       (11)   Waters or wastes which require excessive quantities of chlorine
for disinfection in addition to biological treatment. The amount of excess
demand shall be determined by comparing the chlorine demand of the waste in
question with the average chlorine demand of all other wastes entering the
plant;
      (12)   Any waters or wastes having a BOD in excess of 212 parts per
million (mg/l) on a weekly average basis unless a surcharge is paid in
accordance with the current adopted user charge schedule, and no waters or
wastes having a BOD in excess of 300 parts per million (mg/l) on a weekly
average
basis;
      (13)   Any waters or wastes having a COD in excess of 600 parts per
million (mg/l) on a weekly average basis;
      (14)   Any waters or wastes containing more than 30 parts per million of
ammonia nitrogen on a weekly average basis;
      (15)   Any waters or wastes containing more than 250 parts per million of
suspended solids on a weekly average basis unless a surcharge is paid in
accordance with the current adopted user charge schedule, and no waters or
waste containing more than 400 parts per million (mg\l) by weight of suspended
solids on a weekly average basis;
      (16)   Any waters or wastes containing suspended solids of the character
and quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle the
materials at the town water pollution control plant;
      (17)   Any waters or wastes containing substances in excess of the
following amounts:
Constituent Code Max. Concent. for Avg. Day (mg/ Avg. Daily Value of 30 Cons.
                 l)                              Days Shall Not Exceed (mg/l)
Constituent    Code  Max. Concent. for Avg. Day  Avg. Daily Value of 30 Cons.
                     (mg/l)                      Days Shall Not Exceed (mg/l)
Arsenic        As    0.10                        0.10
Boron          B     10.00                       10.00
Barium         Ba    0.50                        0.50
Cadmium        Cd    1.20                        0.50
Copper         Cu    2.00                        0.80
Cyanide        CN    0.80                        0.23
Lead           Pb    0.50                        0.25
Mercury        Hg    0.0005                      0.0005
Nickel         Ni    4.10                        1.80
Silver         Ag    1.20                        0.50
Total Chromium Cr    7.00                        2.50
Vanadium       V     0.50                        0.50
Zinc           An    0.50                        0.20
Chloroform     CHCL3 1.00                        1.00
 
      (18)   Any waters or wastes containing more than 0.20 mg/l total
identifiable chlorinated hydrocarbons which cannot be removed by the town’s
treatment processes;
      (19)   Any waters or wastes containing more than 0.01 mg/l phenolic
compounds;
      (20)   Any waters or wastes which will dissolve, attack, corrode or harm
in some other way polyvinyl chloride, acrylonitrile-butadiene-styrene plastic,
concrete or cast iron;
      (21)   Radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or concentration
that they do not comply with regulations or orders issued by the appropriate
authority having control over their use and which will or may cause damage or
hazards to the wastewater facilities or personnel operating the system.
(OC, § 5-2-14) (Ord. passed 3-8-88)
Penalty, see § 52.999
§ 52.041 STORM DRAINAGE AND GROUND WATER.
   (A)   Storm water, ground water, rain water, street drainage, subsurface
drainage or yard drainage shall not be discharged through direct or indirect
connection to a sanitary sewer unless a permit is issued by the town. The town
shall approve the discharge of the water only when no reasonable alternative
method of disposal is available.
   (B)   If a permit is granted for the discharge of the water into a sanitary
sewer, the user shall pay the charges and fees and meet other conditions as
required by the town.
(OC, § 5-2-15) (Ord. passed 3-8-88)
Penalty, see § 52.999
§ 52.042 UNPOLLUTED WATER.
   (A)   Unpolluted water, included by a way of illustration but not limited
to, cooling water, processed water or blowdown water from cooling towers or
evaporative coolers shall not be discharged through direct or indirect
connection to a sanitary sewer unless a permit is issued by the town. The town
shall approve the discharge of the water only when there is no reasonable
alternative method of disposal available.
   (B)   If a permit is granted for the discharge of the water into a sanitary
sewer, the user shall pay the charges and fees and shall meet other conditions
as required by the town. Uncontaminated water, however, may be discharged into
the storm sewer system.
(OC, § 5-2-16) (Ord. passed 3-8-88)
Penalty, see § 52.999
§ 52.043 LIMITS ON USE OF GARBAGE GRINDERS.
   (A)   Waste from garbage shredders and grinders shall not be acceptable for
discharge into a sanitary sewer except for the following:
      (1)   Wastes generated in preparation of food normally consumed on the
premises;
      (2)   Where the user has obtained a permit for that specific use from the
town, and agrees to undertake whatever self-monitoring is required to enable to
town to determine the waste constituents and characteristics and applicable
fees and charges.
   (B)   The grinders must shred the waste to a degree that all particles will
be carried freely under normal flow conditions prevailing in the sanitary
sewer. Garbage grinders shall not be used for grinding plastic, paper products,
inert materials or garden refuse.
(OC, § 5-2-17) (Ord. passed 3-8-88)
Penalty, see § 52.999
§ 52.044 POINT OF DISCHARGE LIMITS.
   No person shall discharge any substances directly into a manhole or other
opening in a sanitary sewer other than through an approved building sewer,
unless the user has been issued a permit by the town. If a permit is issued for
a direct discharge, the user shall pay the applicable charges and fees and
shall meet the other conditions necessary to properly treat this discharge as
required by the town.
(OC, § 5-2-18) (Ord. passed 3-8-88)
Penalty, see § 52.999
§ 52.045 HOLDING TANK WASTES.
   No person shall discharge any holding tank waste, including by definition,
but not limited to, pumping from septic tanks into a sanitary sewer.
(OC, § 5-2-19) (Ord. passed 3-8-88)
Penalty, see § 52.999
§ 52.046 FLOW EQUALIZATION.
   No person shall discharge wastes into the collection system with a volume
flow rate that the flow results in hydraulically overloading downstream sewer
lines and/or pumping facilities. In cases where a peak flow rate of wastewater
discharge may cause overloading of the town’s collection system and pumping
facilities, the town may require the discharger to provide holding facilities
of sufficient capacity and design for flow regulations so as to discharge into
the collection system at any equalized rate as specified by the town.
(OC, § 5-2-20) (Ord. passed 3-8-88)
Penalty, see § 52.999
§ 52.047 INDUSTRIAL USERS; SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The town shall require each industrial user to construct, operate and
maintain waste treatment facilities necessary to pretreat its industrial
wastewater, to produce an effluent which conforms in quality with the effluent
limitations established for each class of industrial users by the U.S. EPA and
state regulatory agencies, prior to discharging the wastewater into town
sewers.
   (B)   Industries shall pretreat industrial wastewater in accordance with
National Pretreatment Standards for the various industrial classifications as
promulgated by EPA under § 403 of the Act. Any substances which result in
interference with the town’s treatment processes shall be specifically
prohibited.
   (C)   The town, without limitations by other sections of this chapter, may
authorize any person to discharge industrial waste into the collection system
without requiring pretreatment under the following conditions:
      (1)   The industrial waste contains no pollutants which cannot be removed
in treatment processes provided to remove pollutants in wastewater introduced
from nonindustrial sources;
      (2)   When it is proven that treating combined untreated industrial
wastewater and nonindustrial wastewater is more cost effective than requiring
industries to pretreat their waste.
   (D)   The town may prohibit entry of particular industrial wastes into
sanitary sewer whenever the action is necessary to prevent damage to the system
or to determine the effects of the wastes on the wastewater treatment system.
   (E)   Any person discharging industrial wastes into the town’s wastewater
collection system shall construct and maintain a suitable control manhole,
downstream from any treatment, storage or other approved works, to facilitate
observation, measurements and sampling of all wastes including domestic
wastewater, from the industry. The control manhole shall be constructed at a
suitable and satisfactory location and built in a manner approved by the town.
Where a storage tank is not required, the control manhole shall be equipped
with a permanent type of volume-measuring device such as a flume, nozzle or
other suitable devices as may be approved by the town. The manhole shall be
installed at the expense of the person discharging the wastes and shall be
maintained by him so as to be safe, accessible and in proper operating
condition at all times. Ready, 24-hour per day access to the control manholes
shall be provided to the town.
   (F)   Plans for the construction of the control manhole and flow measuring
devices shall be approved by the town prior to the beginning of construction.
(OC, § 5-2-21) (Ord. passed 3-8-88)
§ 52.048 DISPOSAL OF UNACCEPTABLE WASTE.
   Waste not permitted to be discharged into the sanitary sewer must be
transported to a state-approved disposal site.
(OC, § 5-2-22) (Ord. passed 3-8-88)
Penalty, see § 52.999
§ 52.049 TOWN MAY REJECT CERTAIN WASTES.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes (discharged or proposed to be discharged to
the town sewers) contain the substances or possess the characteristics
enumerated in this chapter, and which in the judgement of the town or county,
may have a deleterious effect upon the wastewater treatment works, processes,
equipment or receiving waters, or which create a hazard to life, or constitute
a public nuisance, the town may reject the wastes.
   (B)   The town may discontinue water service or sewer service, or both, to
any user who violates this chapter when, in the judgement of the town, the
action is necessary to protect the wastewater treatment works, processes,
equipment or receiving waters from injury or damage, or is necessary to protect
life or health.
(OC, § 5-2-23) (Ord. passed 3-8-88)
§ 52.050 TAMPERING OR DAMAGING EQUIPMENT PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maliciously, willfully or negligently
break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any equipment or
material belonging to the town used for the purpose of making tests or
examination that has been left upon the premises of a person discharging wastes
into the wastewater system; to remove, damage or interfere with the functioning
of any pipe or main, manhole, manhole cover, building, apparatus or equipment
used in the collection, conveyance or treatment of wastewater or industrial
wastes; to place or cause to be placed in any manhole or sewer pipe or main,
any material which results, or is likely to result in, the stopping or
obstruction of the normal flow of sewage or wastes.
(OC, § 5-2-24) (Ord. passed 3-8-88)
Penalty, see § 52.999
§ 52.051 WASTEWATER VOLUME DETERMINATION.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   Persons receiving wastewater service shall have installed at their
expense, water meters of a type approved by the town for the purpose of
measuring the volume of water being used.
      (2)   In the event a person is not serviced by the town’s water system,
then that person shall have installed and maintain at his own expense a water
meter of a type approved by the town on his well or other source of supply.
Ready access to the meter shall be provided to authorized representative of the
town. The meter shall be maintained by the user.
       (3)   Except as noted in division (B) of this section, wastewater user
charges shall be based on metered water consumption.
      (4)   It shall be unlawful for any person to tamper with or damage any
recording device necessary to determine a volume of flow required by this
chapter.
   (B)   Industry.
      (1)   In the event an industry employs a process involving consumptive
use of water and wastewater and discharge volume cannot be adequately measured
by water usage volume, then that industry may install and maintain at its own
expense a wastewater meter of a type approved by the town. In this case,
wastewater user charges will be based on wastewater meter readings.
      (2)   The volume of flow used in computing any industrial waste surcharge
shall be based upon metered water consumption records except where the
industrial waste has been segregated from the wastewater discharge from
sanitary conveniences located on the premises; in which case, the charge will
be computed from the flow recorded by an approved measuring device located at
the point of water supply to all the industrial processes which generate
wastewater or located on the sewer line tributary to the town wastewater
collection system. The measuring devices shall be installed and maintained at
the expense of the industry.
      (3)   The town has the right to read all private meters as required in
divisions (B)(1) and (2) of this section, and all water meters and/or
wastewater flow measuring devices recording water consumed and/or wastewater
discharged by industrial user.
(OC, §§ 5-2-25 and 5-2-26) (Ord. passed 3-8-88) Penalty see §
52.999
§ 52.052 PERIODIC INSPECTION.
   (A)   The town shall make a periodic determination of character and
concentration of wastewater of any user as may be deemed necessary by the town.
   (B)   Location and design of sampling sites shall be approved by the town,
and samples shall be collected in a manner as to be satisfactory to the town.
The laboratory methods used in the examination of the wastewaters shall be
those set forth in the latest edition of the Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater, published jointly by the American Health
Association, American Water Works Association and Water Pollution Control
Federation, ASTM Standards, Part 31, Water 1978, or Methods for Chemical
Analysis of Water and Wastes (EPA).
   (C)   The determination of the character and concentration of the industrial
wastes by the town shall be binding as a basis for charges. Industries wishing
to have another sample taken other than at regular intervals may ask the town
to take a sample.
   (D)   Costs incident to sampling and analyzing of wastes that are applicable
to surcharges shall be included in the surcharge made to persons discharging
wastes into the town wastewater collection system.
(OC, § 5-2-27) (Ord. passed 3-8-88)
§ 52.053 MONITORING FACILITIES.
   (A)   Users who propose to discharge, or who in the judgement of the town
likely could discharge, wastewater with constituents and characteristics
different from that produced by a domestic premise may be required to install a
monitoring facility.
   (B)   When more than one user can discharge into a common service
connection, the town may require installation of a separate monitoring facility
for each user. Also, when in the judgement of the town, there is a significant
difference in the wastewater constituents and characteristics produced by
different operations of a single user, the town may require that separate
monitoring facilities be installed for each separate discharge.
   (C)   Monitoring facilities that are required to be installed shall be
constructed, operated and maintained at the user’s expense. The purpose of the
facility is to enable inspection, sampling and flow measurement of wastewaters
produced by a user. If sampling or metering equipment is required by the town,
it may be provided, installed and operated at the user’s expense. The
monitoring facility will normally be required to be located on the user’s
premises outside of the building. The town may, however, when the location
would be impractical or cause undue hardship on the user, allow the facility to
be constructed in the public street or sidewalk area with the approval of the
public agency having jurisdiction over that street or sidewalk, and located so
that it will not be obstructed by landscaping or parked vehicles.
   (D)   If the monitoring facility is inside the user's fence, there shall be
accommodations to allow safe and immediate access for town personnel, such as a
gate secured with a town lock. There shall be ample room in or near the
facility to allow accurate sampling and compositing of samples for analysis.
The entire facility and the sampling and measuring equipment shall or may be
supplied and/or maintained by the user, at his/her expense.
   (E)   Whether constructed on public or private property, the monitoring
facilities shall be constructed in accordance with the town's requirements and
all applicable town construction standards and specifications. When in the
judgement of the town, an existing user requires a monitoring facility, the
user will be so notified in writing. Construction must be completed within 90
days following a written notification unless a time extension is otherwise
granted by the town.
(OC, § 5-2-31) (Ord. passed 3-8-88)
§ 52.054 INSPECTION AND SAMPLING.
   The town may inspect the facilities of any user to ascertain whether the
purpose of this chapter is being met and all requirements are being complied
with. Persons or occupants of premises where wastewater is created or
discharged shall allow the town, or their representatives ready access at all
reasonable times to all parts of the premises for purposes of inspection or
sampling or in performance of any of their duties. The town shall have the
right to set up on the user's property the devices as are necessary to conduct
sampling or metering operations. Where a user has security measures in force
which would require proper identification and clearance before entry into their
premises, the user shall make necessary arrangements with their security guards
so that upon presentation of suitable identification, personnel from the town
will be permitted to enter without delay for the purposes of performing their
specific responsibilities.
(OC, § 5-2-32) (Ord. passed 3-8-88)
§ 52.055 PRETREATMENT.
   Users shall make wastewater acceptable under the limitations established
herein before discharging into any sanitary sewer. Any facilities required to
pretreat wastewater to a level acceptable to the town shall be provided and
maintained at the user's expense. Detailed plans showing the pretreatment
facility and operating procedures shall be submitted to the town for review,
and shall be approved by the town before beginning construction of the
facility. The review and approval of the plans and operating procedures will in
no way relieve the user from the responsibility of modifying the facility as
necessary to produce an effluent complying with the provisions of this chapter.
Any subsequent changes in the pretreatment facility or method of operation
shall be reported to and be approved by the town.
(OC, § 5-2-33) (Ord. passed 3-8-88)
§ 52.056 PROTECTION FROM ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE.
   (A)   Each user shall provide protection from accidental discharge of
prohibited materials or other wastes regulated by this chapter. Facilities to
prevent accidental discharge of prohibited materials shall be provided and
maintained at the user's expense. Detailed plans showing facilities and
operating procedures to provide this protection shall be submitted to the town
for review and shall be approved by the town before construction of the
facility.
   (B)   The review and approval of the plans and operating procedures will in
no way relieve the user from the responsibility of modifying the facility as
necessary to provide the protection necessary to meet the requirements of this
chapter.
(OC, § 5-2-34) (Ord. passed 3-8-88)
§ 52.057 FLOW CONTROL MEASURING EQUIPMENT.
   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided for
any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and
effective operation by the user at his/her expense. All flow control equipment
including, but not limited to, pumps, nozzles, weirs, gates, valves and flumes
shall be subject to the approval of the town.
(OC, § 5-2-35) (Ord. passed 3-8-88)
§ 52.058 SAMPLING PROCEDURES AND ANALYSIS.
   (A)   All samples and determinations of wastewater characteristics shall be
as representative of the waste discharge as possible. The costs of regular
sampling and analysis will be included in the charges and fees. The town may
take additional samples after a significant process change which significantly
affects the quantity or strength of the wastewater discharged. The frequency of
sampling shall be on the following table.
YEARLY CUMULATIVE FLOW
Million Gallons Minimum Required Frequency of Tests for Surcharge Parameters
YEARLY CUMULATIVE FLOW
Million Gallons Minimum Required Frequency of Tests for Surcharge Parameters
Less than 3.0   0-1 per year
3.0 to 6.0      1 per year
6.0 to 9.0      1 per six months
9.0 to 12.0     1 per five months
12.0 to 15.0    1 per four months
15.0 to 18.0    1 per three months
Over 18         1 per month
 
   (B)   More frequent sampling may be done at any time at the option of the
town.
   (C)   Upon requests by the user concerned, the town shall make available
split samples of the composite sample collected. If the user feels the results
are not representative of their wastes, the town may resample at the actual
cost to the town.
(OC, § 5-2-42) (Ord. passed 3-8-88)
§ 52.059 UNLAWFUL DISCHARGE; DUTY OF USERS.
   (A)   Any user who discharges wastes in violation of this chapter shall,
upon discovery thereof, immediately notify the town so that the town may take
necessary countermeasures to minimize the damage to the wastewater collection
and treatment facilities, treatment processes and receiving waters. In
addition, the user shall, within 15 days of the occurrence, deliver to the town
a written detailed report describing the cause of the discharge and the
measures taken or to be taken to prevent a reoccurrence in the future.
   (B)   A user who gives the notice and report required by the preceding
paragraph shall thereby be relieved from the imposition of any civil fines,
authorized by this chapter, but shall remain liable to the town for any
expenses incurred by the town as a result of the violation of this chapter and
for any loss, or damage to the town’s sewer system or wastewater treatment
facility, treatment processes or receiving waters, and shall further be liable
to the town by the following:
      (1)   The North Carolina Department of Environment and Natural Resources,
Division of Environmental Management, or its successor agency, under the
provisions of G.S. §§ 143-215.6A through 143-215.6C;
      (2)   The EPA under any applicable federal laws or regulations and shall
further be subject to termination of service, suspension or revocation of any
discharge permit or injunctive relief as deemed appropriate by the town should
the measures taken by the violator be deemed inadequate by the town to prevent
a reoccurrence of the violation.
(OC, § 5-2-43) (Ord. passed 3-8-88)
§ 52.060 REGULATION OF GREASE INTERCEPTORS AND GREASE TRAPS.
   (A)   Any user who discharges any industrial wastes, including without
limitation fats, oils, greases and solids into a public sewer shall install or
cause to be installed in the user's system a grease interceptor or grease trap
of a size and design approved by the town. If the Board of Commissioners makes
no other designation of a person to provide such approvals, then the Public
Utility Superintendent or his designee shall be that person. By way of
illustration, but not limitation, such users include restaurants and other food
service vendors, food processing establishments, grocery stores, hospitals,
school and business cafeterias, daycare providers who provide on-premise food
service, convalescent homes, car washes and establishments where diesel or
gasoline engine repairs are conducted. Provided, however, neither grease
interceptors nor grease traps shall be required for private living quarters or
dwelling units not associated with an entity that discharges industrial wastes
as provided herein.
   (B)   No industrial waste may be discharged into the public sewer system
until it has been passed through a properly installed and properly operating
grease interceptor or grease trap installed as provided herein.
   (C)   Any grease interceptor or grease trap required as provided herein
shall be installed and connected so that it is easily accessible for
inspection, cleaning and removal of intercepted waste; provided, however, that
toilets, urinals, wash basins and other fixtures containing or likely to
contain fecal materials shall not flow through a grease interceptor or grease
trap.
   (D)   All grease interceptors and grease traps shall be maintained in
efficient operating condition by periodic removal of the accumulated waste.
Outdoor grease interceptors shall be cleaned and serviced and the accumulated
waste removed as frequently as needed in order to maintain the efficient
operation of the grease interceptor, but in any event at least every 60 days.
Indoor grease interceptors or grease traps shall be cleaned and serviced and
the accumulated waste removed as frequently as needed in order to maintain the
efficient operation of the grease interceptor or grease trap, but in any event
at least every 30 days. If the user of any grease interceptor or grease trap,
whether indoors or outdoors, can demonstrate that such a maintenance schedule
imposes an unreasonable burden on such user, and that less frequent cleaning
and servicing than that required by this subsection is sufficient to ensure the
continued efficient operation of the grease interceptor or grease trap, then
such user may apply to the town for an exemption from the cleaning and
servicing requirements of this subsection. If such an exemption is allowed,
then the user shall be given an exemption certificate which shall be signed by
the Public Utility Superintendent or such other person as he designates, dated,
shall state the schedule which the user shall use in lieu of the schedule set
out herein, shall be maintained by the user, and shall be valid for one year
from the date of issuance or until the user's usage of the grease interceptor
or grease trap changes such that the approved alternate schedule no longer
ensures the efficient operation of the system.
   (E)   No waste removed from a grease interceptor or grease trap as required
herein may be reintroduced into the town's sewer system under any
circumstances.
   (F)   No user may cause or permit the introduction into a grease interceptor
or grease trap of hot water, solvents or any other agents designed or intended
to dissolve grease.
   (G)   Any user of a system in which a grease interceptor or grease trap is
required as provided herein shall maintain a maintenance log. In the case of
grease interceptors and grease traps cleaned, pumped or serviced by a licensed
third party pumper, the user shall obtain from the pumper and maintain in the
place of business an invoice, manifest or similar document identifying the
third party pumper which shall be signed and dated by a representative of the
third party pumper. In the case of grease interceptors and grease traps
cleaned, pumped or serviced by the user, the log shall consist of a bound paper
logbook or similarly secure document with an entry dated and signed by the
representative of the user who did or oversaw the cleaning, pumping or
servicing. In either case, the record of service shall be maintained for not
less than three years.
   (H)   A violation of any of the provisions of this section shall subject the
user to a civil penalty of $50 per day for the first violation and $200 per day
for any subsequent violation within three years after any other violation.
   (I)   Nothing herein shall or may be interpreted as excusing any user from
complying with any other ordinance, regulation or statute concerning what
substances may be introduced into the town's sewer system.
   (J)   This section shall be effective as of the date of its passage as to
all users and future users who were not open for business on the date of
passage, or who (a) were not closed due to the season of the year, and (b) were
open for business during the portion of the year 2000 that corresponds to the
user's usual open season. As to users who were open for business on the date of
passage, or who were closed due to the season of the year and who had been open
during the portion of the year 2000 that corresponds to the user's usual open
season, such users shall bring themselves into compliance herewith within six
months of notification of passage of this section.
   (K)   The notification required in the preceding subsection may be given in
any manner reasonably calculated to come to the attention of the user, but the
mailing of a copy of this section to the user, certified mail, return receipt
requested, addressed to the address at which the user receives its water and
sewer bill from the town shall provide conclusive evidence that the user
received notification of the passage of this section upon the return to the
town of the return receipt showing delivery of said notification. The user's
six-month period within which to effect compliance herewith shall begin on the
delivery date recorded by the United States Postal Service on said return
receipt. In any event, the agent or employee giving notification shall certify
in writing the manner in which he or she gave such notification.
(Ord. passed 1-23-01)
DISCHARGE PERMITS
§ 52.075 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Mandatory permits. Each discharger of industrial wastewater must
obtain a wastewater discharge permit before connecting to or discharging into a
sanitary sewer. Each currently connecting industry must obtain a wastewater
discharge permit within 90 days after being so directed by the town.
   (B)   Optional permits. The town may issue a wastewater discharge permit to
any user, upon application, in accordance with the terms of this section in the
following category: Any user whose wastewater strength is less than the normal
range for the user classification to which he is assigned because of
pretreatment, process changes or other reasons.
(OC, § 5-2-30(a) and (b)) (Ord. passed 3-8-88)
§ 52.076 APPLICATION.
   Users seeking a wastewater discharge permit shall complete and file with the
town an application in the form prescribed by the town and accompanied by the
applicable fees. The applicant may be required to submit, in units and terms
appropriate for evaluation, the following information:
   (A)   Name, address and standard industrial classification number of
applicant;
   (B)   Volume of wastewater to be discharged;
   (C)   Wastewater constituents and characteristics including, but not limited
to, those mentioned in §§ 52.040 et seq. as determined by a laboratory approved
by the town;
   (D)   Time and duration of discharge;
   (E)   Average and 30-minute peak wastewater flow rates, including daily,
monthly and seasonal variations if any;
   (F)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans and details to
show all sewers and appurtenances by size, location and elevation;
   (G)   Description of activities, facilities and plant processes on the
premises including all materials, processes and types of materials which are or
could be discharged;
   (H)   Each product produced by type, amount and rate of production;
   (I)   Number and type of employees and hours of work;
   (J)   Any other information as may be reasonable deemed by the town to be
necessary to evaluate the permit application.
(OC, § 5-2-30(c)) (Ord. passed 3-8-88)
§ 52.077 CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Wastewater discharge permits shall be expressly subject to all
provisions of this chapter and all other ordinances of the town. The conditions
of wastewater discharge permits shall be uniformly enforced by the town in
accordance with this chapter, and applicable state and federal regulations.
   (B)   Permits may contain the following:
      (1)   The unit charge or schedule of charges and fees for the wastewaters
to be discharged to a sanitary sewer;
      (2)   The average and maximum wastewater constituents and
characteristics;
      (3)   Limits on rate and time of discharge or requirements for flow
regulation and equalization;
      (4)   Requirements for installation of inspection and sampling
facilities;
      (5)   Pretreatment requirements;
      (6)   Specifications for monitoring programs which may include sampling
locations, frequency and method of sampling, number, types and standards for
tests and reporting schedule;
      (7)   Requirements for submission of technical reports or discharge
reports;
      (8)   Requirements for maintaining plant records relating to wastewater
discharges as specified by the town, and affording town access thereto;
      (9)   Mean and maximum mass emission rates, or other appropriate limits
when incompatible pollutants (as defined by § 52.002) are proposed or present
in the user’s wastewater discharge;
      (10)   Other conditions as may be reasonable deemed appropriate by the
town to insure compliance with the chapter.
(OC, § 5-2-30(d)) (Ord. passed 3-8-88)
§ 52.078 DURATION.
   Wastewater discharge permits shall be issued for a specified time period,
not to exceed five years. A permit may be issued for a period less than a year
or may be stated to expire on a specific date. If the user is not notified by
the town 30 days prior to the expiration of the permit, the permit shall be
extended one additional year. The terms and conditions of the permit may be
subject to modification and change by the town during the life of the permit as
limitations or requirements as identified in this section are modified and
changed. The user shall be informed of any proposed changes in his permit at
least 30 days prior to the effective date of change. Any changes or new
conditions in the permit shall include a reasonable time schedule for
compliance.
(OC, § 5-2-30(e)) (Ord. passed 3-8-88)
§ 52.079 TRANSFER.
   Wastewater discharge permits are issued to a specific user for a specific
operation. A wastewater discharge permit shall not be reassigned or transferred
or sold to a new owner, new user, different premises or another or changed
operation.
(OC, § 5-2-30(f)) (Ord. passed 3-8-88)
§ 52.080 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   Any user who violates the conditions of the wastewater discharge permit, and
provisions of this chapter, applicable state and federal regulations or any of
the following is subject to having his/her permit suspended or revoked:
   (A)   Failure of a user to factually report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of the discharge;
   (B)   Failure of the user to report significant changes in operations or
wastewater constituents and characteristics;
   (C)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user's premises for the purpose of
inspection or monitoring;
   (D)   Failure to report a chemical spill or accidental discharge.
(OC, § 5-2-30(g)) (Ord. passed 3-8-88)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 52.095 USER CHARGES.
   A schedule of charges and fees shall be adopted by the town which will
enable the town to comply with the revenue requirements of the State Clean
Water Grant Program, Pub. L. 92-506, Pub. L. 95-217, and which will distribute
the cost of operation, maintenance and debt service of treatment works to each
user in proportion to the user's contribution to the total waste loading of
collection and treatment works. The charges and fees shall be determined in a
manner consistent with the regulations of the grant programs that have
benefitted the town and its industrial users. All industries using the town's
treatment works are subject to Industrial Waste Surcharges on discharges whose
characteristics exceed the limits set out in § 52.096 for certain pollutants.
(OC, § 5-2-36) (Ord. passed 3-8-88)
§ 52.096 CLASSIFICATION OF USERS.
   (A)   All users are to be classified by the town either by assigning each
one to a user classification category according to the principal activity
conducted on the user's premises, by individual user analyzation or by a
combination thereof. The purpose of the collective and/or individual
classification is to facilitate the regulation of wastewater discharges based
on wastewater constituents and characteristics to provide an effective means of
source control, and to establish a system of charges and fees which will insure
an equitable recovery of the town's cost.
   (B)   Users are hereby classed as nonindustrial and industrial, as follows:
      (1)   An industrial user is any user which meets the definition of an
industry, as defined in § 52.002 with the definition of domestic strength waste
for exclusion purposes, as follows:
Domestic Wastes        mg/l
BOD                    250
Total suspended solids 250
Ammonia Nitrogen       2.5
Oil and grease         50
pH                     6-9
   No heavy metal, toxicants and the like
   Hydraulic loading allowance of no greater than 20 gpd per employee
 
      (2)   A nonindustrial user is a user who does not meet the qualifications
of an industrial user.
(OC, § 5-2-37) (Ord. passed 3-8-88)
§ 52.097 TYPES OF CHARGES.
   The charges and fees as established in the town's schedules of charges and
fees may include, but not be limited to the following:
   (A)   Tap (sewer connection) charges;
   (B)   User classification charges;
   (C)   Fees for extra monitoring, for example, that which requires costs
above the average cost of assessing an average or representative analysis;
   (D)   Fees for permit applications;
   (E)   Appeal fees;
   (F)   Charges and fees based on hydraulic load and wastewater constituents
and characteristics;
   (G)   Industrial waste surcharges;
   (H)   Ad valorem tax;
   (I)   Industrial cost recovery payments (if required by federal
regulations).
(OC, § 5-2-38) (Ord. passed 3-8-88)
§ 52.098 BASIS FOR DETERMINATION OF SURCHARGES.
   (A)   Charges and fees shall be based upon a minimum basic charge for each
premise, computed on the basis of wastewater from a domestic premise with the
characteristics as given in §
52.096(B).
   (B)   The charges and fees for all classifications of users other than the
domestic premise shall be based on the relative difference between the average
wastewater constituents and characteristics of that classification as related
to those of a domestic premise.
   (C)   The charges and fees established for permit users shall be based upon
the measured or estimated constituents and characteristics of the wastewater
discharge of that user which may include, but not be limited to, BOD, COD,
suspended solids, ammonia nitrogen, oil and grease, chlorine demand and volume.
(OC, § 5-2-39) (Ord. passed 3-8-88)
§ 52.099 METHOD OF DETERMINING SURCHARGES AND RATES.
   (A)   Surcharges.
      (1)   Mass Emission Rate, MER ( ) = MG x 8.34, where:
         (a)   MER is the mass emission rate in pounds of a particular
constituent.
         (b)   MG is the millions of gallons of wastewater discharged.
         (c)   C is the concentration in mg/l of the particular constituent
being charged for (for example: BOD, SS, ammonia nitrogen, COD and the like),
and 8.34 is equal to the number of pounds/one gallon of water.
      (2)   The amount of the charge in dollars will be calculated as follows:
Ao = R x MER ( ), where:
         (a)   Ao is equal to the amount of the charge in dollars.
         (b)   R is equal to the rate of charge per pound of constituent.
         (c)   MER ( ) is equal to the pounds of a constituent.
   (B)   Rates.
      (1)   The town shall annually review the actual cost of operation and
maintenance of the town’s wastewater collection system and wastewater
transmission and treatment charges, adjust the surcharge rates and the volume
user charge rate (per 1,000 gallons) to reflect the true cost of constituent
collection and treatment. The adjustments, if any, will become effective
following the first day of each new fiscal year. The Board of Commissioners may
review these rates and adjust them accordingly at any time it deems adjustments
are in the best interest of the town.
      (2)   In addition, the town will establish connection charges, or tap-on
charges, for various size service lines and shall review and adjust these
charges annually. Also, the town may establish, review and change from time to
time, other special service charges concerning the sewer system.
(OC, §§ 5-2-40 and 5-2-41) (Ord. passed 3-8-88)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 52.115 ADMINISTRATIVE AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Public Utilities Superintendent shall be designated as the
Administrative Authority and shall have operational control of and
responsibility for the water and sewer system of the town under the general
supervision of the Town Manager.
   (B)   Duly authorized employees and representatives of the town, bearing
proper identification, shall be permitted to enter upon all properties for the
purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing, in
accordance with provisions of this chapter.
(OC, § 5-2-28) (Ord. passed 3-8-88)
§ 52.116 DISCHARGE REPORTS.
   The town may require that any person discharging or proposing to discharge
wastewater of the industrial variety into a sanitary sewer file a periodic
discharge report. The report may include, but not be limited to, nature of
process, volume, rates of flow, mass emission rate, production quantities,
hours of operation, number and classification of employees or other information
which relates to the generation of wastes including wastewater discharge. The
reports may also include the chemical constituents and quantity of liquid or
gaseous materials stored on site even though they are not normally discharged.
In addition to discharge reports, the town may require information in the form
of wastewater discharge permit applications and self-monitoring reports.
(OC, § 5-2-29) (Ord. passed 3-8-88)
§ 52.117 INJUNCTION AND ABATEMENT.
   The violation of this chapter is hereby declared to be a public nuisance,
and this chapter may be enforced by injunction and order of abatement in an
action instituted in the General Court of Justice as provided in G.S. § 160A-
175.
(OC, § 5-2-45) (Ord. passed 3-8-88)
Penalty, see § 52.999
§ 52.118 TERM OF SERVICE.
    If any person violates any provisions of this chapter, the town may do any
of the following:
   (A)   Terminate water or sewer service, or both, to the property in or upon
which the violation occurred;
   (B)   Suspend for a specified period of time or permanently revoke any
permit granted to the use under any provisions of this chapter;
   (C)   Issue a cease and desist order directing the user to do the following:
      (1)   Comply with this chapter forthwith;
      (2)   Comply with this chapter in accordance with a time schedule set
forth by the town;
      (3)   Take appropriate remedial or preventive action;
      (4)   A combination of divisions (C)(2) and (3).
(OC, § 5-2-46) (Ord. passed 3-8-88)
Penalty, see § 52.999
§ 52.119 NOTICE AND HEARING.
   (A)   Water and sewer service shall be terminated, cease and desist orders
shall be issued and permits shall be denied, suspended or revoked by the town
only after the town shall have given written notice to the user of contemplated
action. The notice shall notify the alleged violator that a hearing may be
requested before the Town Board and that if the hearing is requested within ten
days after the town's notice to the user, the hearing shall be held within 30
days after the request for the hearing. At that hearing the Town Board shall
hear evidence from the Town Manager and from the alleged violators and any
other pertinent evidence shall be received by the town and the town shall
render a decision making appropriate findings of fact and conclusions of law
prior to any service being terminated, cease and desist order issued or permit
denied, suspended or revoked.
   (B)   Provided, however, the provisions of this section shall not be
applicable and the town may, without notice and opportunity for hearing to be
had temporarily suspend water or sewer services, or both, to any user, if any
emergency exists or is imminent which threatens the public health, or is likely
to cause severe injury or damage to or interruption of the town's sewer system
or wastewater treatment plant, treatment processes or threatens the lives or
severe injury to the town's employees, agents or other authorized personnel.
(OC, § 5-2-47) (Ord. passed 3-8-88)
§ 52.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person (including any responsible officer(s) or employee(s) of a
corporate violator) who willfully or negligently violates any provisions of the
chapter, or falsifies any information or data in any application, report or
other document given to the town under this chapter, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, and shall be punishable by fine not to exceed $1,000 or
imprisonment not to exceed 30 days, or both, in the discretion of the court.
Each day on which a violation shall occur or continue shall be deemed a
separate and distinct offense subject to a separate and distinct fine.
   (B)   Any person (including any corporation) who violates any provisions of
this chapter shall in addition to the criminal penalties as outlined above be
subject to the imposition by the Board of Commissioners of a civil penalty
payable to the town not to exceed $5,000 for each violation, and in addition,
shall reimburse the town upon demand for any expenses, loss or damage actually
sustained by the town to its sewer system or wastewater treatment plant,
treatment processes or receiving waters as a result of the violation, and in
addition to any civil penalty imposed by the town shall be liable for the
amount of any fine or penalty imposed upon the town by the state or federal
regulatory agency as a result of the violations.
   (C)   The civil penalty shall be assessed only after the town shall have
given the alleged violator notice in writing of the alleged violation. The
notice shall notify the alleged violator that a hearing before the Town Board
will be held at a designated time and place not more than ten days after the
date the notice is sent to the alleged violator. At the hearing the Town Board
shall hear evidence from the Town Manager and Town Engineer and any other
appropriate officials regarding the alleged violation. After hearing the
evidence, the Town Board shall make appropriate findings of fact and
conclusions of law regarding the alleged violation and shall determine whether
or not a civil penalty is to be assessed against the alleged violator. If a
civil penalty is deemed appropriate, the Town Board shall have authority to
assess a civil penalty against the alleged violator in the amounts provided
above.
   (D)   The Town Clerk shall certify in writing to the alleged violator the
decision of the Town Board within ten days after the decision is made by
mailing by certified mail to the alleged violator a copy of the decision
setting forth the findings of fact and conclusions of law as made by the Town
Board.
   (E)   After receiving notice of the Town Board's decision, the alleged
violator shall have the right to appeal that decision to Onslow County Superior
Court and any act on the part of the town to collect the imposed civil penalty
shall be stayed until a decision is either upheld or reversed by the Superior
Court.
   (F)   If the alleged violator does not appeal the decision of the Town Board
within ten days after receipt of the same, then the civil penalty assessed
shall become immediately due and payable and shall be a lien upon all of the
property of the alleged violator located in the town, county, and state. The
town shall have the authority to begin a civil action in the nature of a debt
to recover the civil penalty imposed by the town.
(OC, § 5-2-44)  (Ord. passed 3-8-88)
CHAPTER 53: WATER AND SEWER EXTENSION
Section
   
53.01   Purpose
   
53.02   Extension requirements in general
   
53.03   Administration; compliance with plans and specifications
   
53.04   Service outside corporate limits
   
53.05   Extension methods
   
53.06   Applications for extension
   
53.07   Extensions within the corporate limits
   
53.08   Extension charges
   
53.09   Extensions in subdivisions
   
53.10   Extensions by other units of government
   
53.11   Assessment
   
53.12   Oversized improvements
§ 53.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   This chapter sets forth the conditions under which water and sewer
service may be extended to property which is without service. It is the intent
of this chapter to allocate, to the extent practical, the cost of extensions to
those property owners served by the extensions.
   (B)   The planning and extension of the water and sewer system of the town
shall be accomplished in accordance with the following general principles:
      (1)   Extension shall be made in a manner so as to promote the orderly
growth of the community;
      (2)   An acreage charge shall be established to aid in financing new
major facilities and replacement or enlargement of existing facilities. This
charge shall apply uniformly to all properties to which service is extended.
Revenues from water and sewer acreage fees shall be identified as a separate
capital reserve account and used solely for the purposes identified in this
division (B)(2);
      (3)   Each developer of land, whether subdivided or not, shall be
responsible for all cost associated with the extension and installation of
utilities to and within their own development, including all rights-of-way
costs;
      (4)   All water and sewer extension plans and installations shall meet
all town ordinances and specifications. The town shall be authorized to inspect
at any time the installation of all water and sewer extensions which are to be
connected to the town’s facilities, and all fees for the inspections shall be
borne by the owner or developer;
      (5)   All water and sewer lines and appurtenances connected to the town’s
facilities shall be dedicated to the town and accepted by the town upon
approval of the same by the Town Engineer. The town shall be responsible for
the maintenance, operation and control of all water and sewer facilities when
connected to the town’s systems and dedicated to the town;
      (6)   No water or sewer extensions or service from existing water or
sewer facilities will be provided to property, either inside the city limits or
within the town’s extraterritorial limits, which does not conform to the
requirements of the town’s Planning and Zoning Board. No extension of water or
sewer service will be provided until the property owner has filed a petition of
voluntary annexation with the Town Manager, and the petition has been accepted
by the Town Board;
      (7)   No sewer extensions or service from existing sewers will be made to
any property lying outside the town’s extraterritorial limits. This restriction
may be waived by the Town Board provided the following:
         (a)   The property owner has filed a petition for voluntary annexation
with the Town Manager provided that the petition is legal;
         (b)   The petition has been accepted by the Town Board;
         (c)   The property is developed in accordance with the approved plans.
(OC, § 5-3-1) (Am. Ord. passed 8-11-88; Am. Ord. passed 3-15-06)
§ 53.02 EXTENSION REQUIREMENTS IN GENERAL.
   In extending water and sewer services, the following general requirements
will apply to all properties regardless of the date platted:
   (A)   Each developer of land shall be responsible for providing connections
between his property and an approved public system or an approved individual
system. The developer shall be reimbursed for that portion of the cost of the
installation which is in excess of an acreage charge, the reimbursement to come
from acreage charges levied against property developed subsequent to the
installation of his connection and utilizing the connection;
   (B)   Each developer of land shall be responsible for providing water and
sewer line connections and all necessary pump stations, lift stations, fire
hydrants and looping water mains between his property and the town systems.
Further, if the portion of the water or sewer system to which the development
is to be connected is inadequate for the additional usage, the developer will
be responsible for required system improvements;
   (C)   Extension of both water and sewer mains shall be required when service
is requested. Extension of one utility without the simultaneous extension of
the other shall be permitted only in the event that water or sewer mains are
available and considered adequate by the town;
   (D)   The minimum distance for the extension of water mains or sewer mains
shall be determined by the Town Engineer. In general, the minimum distance for
extensions shall be one platted block, or in the case of water mains, from main
line valve to valve, and in the case of sanitary sewer, from manhole to
manhole;
   (E)   The minimum diameter for a water main shall be 6 inches and the
minimum diameter for a sewer main shall be eight inches. All sewer mains shall
be installed at a maximum depth to ensure service to as large an area as
possible. Pump station wet well depths and volumes shall be sized by the town
to serve as large an area as possible;
   (F)   Within floodway and floodway fringe zones and areas of special flood
hazard, the following requirements shall apply:
      (1)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system;
      (2)   New and replacement sanitary sewer systems shall be designed to
minimize and eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters;
   (G)   The developers, subdividers, owners and the like will provide
easements in the form as the town may require for lines, valves and
appurtenances and for installation and maintenance thereof. The easements will
be furnished prior to any service being furnished;
   (H)   As a condition of providing service to proposed development or
subdivision, the town reserves the right to require the installation of water
and sewer facilities in addition to or different from those which would be
required to serve the proposed development or subdivision. Following completion
and acceptance of water and sewer facilities, the town will reimburse the
developer or subdivider those additional installation and material costs
incurred as a result of the required changes;
   (I)   Prior to the installation of any main extension, the developer shall
enter into a contract with the town setting forth the scope of the proposed
installation, the estimated cost and the plan or schedule for sharing of costs;
   (J)   The Town Board will not be liable for any interest to the developer on
account of any funds advanced or payment to be made to the developer.
(OC, § 5-3-1(a)-(f); (i)-(l)) (Am. Ord. passed 8-11-88)
§ 53.03 ADMINISTRATION; COMPLIANCE WITH PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   The water and sewer extension chapter and all extension requests shall be
administered by the Town Board. Developers, subdividers, owners and others
wishing the service will submit for approval to the town, preliminary plans and
specifications for all the proposed lines which shall comply with all
requirements made by the town for the installations. Preliminary plans must be
approved before final plans are prepared and the Town Engineer shall approve
all final plans and specifications. All installations must comply with the
plans and must be inspected by the town representative during construction and
upon completion. All water and sewer facilities installed by the developer
which are to be owned and maintained by the town shall be installed in
dedicated public streets, dedicated public right-of-way or in easements
provided by the developer in accordance with the requirements of the town. No
water or sewer service shall be provided to a development until the required
water and/or sewer systems have been accepted, fees paid, easements provided,
as-built drawings furnished and final payment statements have been received by
the Town Board. The town shall exercise general supervision over the letting of
the construction contracts to assure the securing of free competition. The
contracts shall be let under statutory procurement regulations for public
bodies.
(OC, § 5-3-2(g)) (Am. Ord. passed 8-11-88)
§ 53.04 SERVICE OUTSIDE CORPORATE LIMITS.
   No water or sewer service shall be provided to any property outside the
corporate limits of the town, except upon compliance with one of the following:
   (A)   If the property is contiguous to the corporate limits of the town, the
property owner(s) shall immediately petition for and obtain annexation of that
property into the corporate limits of the town;
   (B)   If the property is not then contiguous to the municipal limits of the
town, the property owner(s) shall enter into a written agreement with the town
for the annexation thereof at the future date as it is determined by the Town
Board that it is in the best interest of the town to annex the property. The
request for annexation will remain open indefinitely, will bind the heirs,
successors, grantees and assigns of the owner, developer, subdivider and the
like, and may be accepted by the town at any time unless the area involved
becomes annexed to some other municipality. The request for annexation may be
withdrawn if the town does not approve plans for water and sewer services, as
requested by the developer, owner, subdivider and the like, but not if the
action is caused by failure to pay for services rendered or for damages done to
the system or systems by the willful or negligent acts of the developers,
subdividers, owners and the like, or their heirs, successors, grantees or
assigns of the agents, servants, employees, invitees or licensees of any of
them.
(OC, § 5-3-2(h)) (Am. Ord. passed 8-11-88)
§ 53.05 EXTENSION METHODS.
   (A)   There are three methods by which water and sewer extensions can be
accomplished: on written request by residents, on application by property
owners and on action by the Town Board.
   (B)   Steps to accomplish these methods are as follows:
      (1)   On written request by property owners.
         (a)   Extensions of water and/or sewer lines may be accomplished upon
written request to the Town Manager requesting the services. The request shall
be signed by at least 50% in number of the owners of property who also own at
least 50% of the lineal feet of frontage of the lands abutting the proposed
improvements. One hundred percent of the improvements shall be financed by
special assessments against the benefitted property utilizing the procedures
set forth in G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 10. If the property is located outside the
corporate limits, the application will be accompanied by a petition for
voluntary annexation (including satellite annexation). The Town Board shall
have the authority to waive this requirement when in its opinion, annexation
would not be practical, legally impossible or would not be in the best interest
of the town.
         (b)   The town shall assess 100% of the full cost of the water and/or
sewer improvements against the abutting property owner. Town property shall be
assessed on the same basis as any other property. The town shall adopt from
time to time a maximum price per foot for water and/or sewer lines which shall
be assessed against abutting property. The town may adopt an acreage fee to
assess the benefitted property owner in addition to the front foot rate where
the size of the property exceeds the normal building lot size in a particular
zoning district. In any event the maximum front foot rate and the acreage fee
shall be applied uniformly to all projects approved by the Town Board. These
fees shall be in addition to the normal tap fees, usage charges or impact fees
which the town may have already adopted.
         (c)   The Town Board may amend, modify or repeal the maximum
assessment rate and the acreage fee at any time.
      (2)   On application by developer/owner.
         (a)   Any developer(s) or property owner(s) desiring to have water or
sewer services extended to and along any public street or other public way
shall apply in writing to the Town Manager requesting the water and/or sewer
service. The application shall contain plans in sufficient detail in order to
allow the Town Board to determine the adequate size of facilities necessary for
the proposed extension. If the property is located outside of the corporate
limits, the application will be accompanied by a petition for voluntary
annexation (including satellite annexation). The Town Board shall have the
authority to waive this requirement when in its opinion, annexation would not
be practical, legally impossible or would not be in the best interest of the
town.
         (b)   Upon approval of the extension plans by the Town Board, the
developer(s) or property owner(s) shall be responsible for providing 100% of
the full cost of the water and/or sewer improvements including all approved
pump and lift stations, looping water mains and fire hydrants between the
owner's property and the town's water and/or sewer system.
         (c)   If public right-of-way is not available the property owner(s) or
developer(s) shall obtain the necessary rights-of-way and/or easements in favor
of the town.
         (d)   All contracts for the installation of water and/or sewer lines
and the construction and installation of same shall be subject to the
inspection and approval by the town and its Engineer and the fee for the
inspection shall be borne by the owner or developer.
      (3)   Action by the Town Board of Commissioners.
         (a)   In the event that the Town Board determines that a proposed
water and/or sewer project is both necessary and in the public interest of the
citizens of Swansboro, the town may undertake the proposed extension of service
on its own motion.
         (b)   The cost of all or a portion of the extension shall be assessed
against the abutting property; all owners of property abutting the improvements
shall be required to pay a fee at an equitable rate in accordance with G.S. Ch.
160A, Art. 10.
         (c)   These fees shall be in addition to normal tap fees, usage
charges or impact fees which the town has already adopted.
(OC, § 5-3-3) (Am. Ord. passed 8-11-88)
§ 53.06 APPLICATIONS FOR EXTENSION.
      All applications for extending water and/or sewer services outside the
corporate limits of the town shall be financed as follows:
   (A)   If an application is approved by the Town Board, the owner shall be
required to pay 100% of the total cost of all extensions including the cost of
engineering and resident inspection provided by the town, if applicable;
provided the municipality may participate to the extent agreed upon by the Town
Board in the cost of larger-size mains that are in excess of the size mains
required to serve the project. No reimbursement shall be made upon annexation
and all water and/or sewer lines and ancillary facilities connected to the
municipal system and located outside the corporate limits shall become the
property of the municipality at the time the facilities are connected;
   (B)   Prior to the beginning of any construction of water and/or sewer
extension by the town, the owner shall deposit with the municipality funds in
an amount equal to 100% of the total estimated cost of the extensions. Upon
receipt of the funds, a written contract shall be entered into by and between
the municipality and the property owner in accordance with the requirements of
this chapter. The contract shall provide that in the event the funds deposited
exceed the amount of the total extensions costs when completed, that portion in
excess of the total cost will be refunded to the owner without interest. The
contract shall also provide that if the amount deposited is less than the total
cost when completed, the owner shall pay the additional amount to the
municipality. In lieu of depositing funds, the owner may execute a surety bond
or similar document guaranteeing payment for the extension.
(OC, § 5-3-4) (Am. Ord. passed 8-11-88)
§ 53.07 EXTENSIONS WITHIN THE CORPORATE LIMITS.
   All applications for extending water and/or sewer services within the
corporate limits of the town shall be financed as follows:
   (A)   When an application is received requesting the extension of water
service to serve property within the corporate limits which is developed or has
been previously approved as a subdivision, or where streets have previously
been dedicated and accepted by the municipality and where the area is not part
of a new subdivision which has not been approved by the municipality, the
developer or other person designated by the Town Board shall estimate the cost
of the project and present the application for the extension, the estimated
cost and other required information to the Town Board for approval. If the
application is approved by the Town Board and subject to the availability of
funds, the town shall exercise general supervision over the letting of the
construction contracts to assure the securing of free competition. The
contracts shall be let under statutory procurement regulations for public
bodies;
   (B)   When an approved water and/or sewer line extension project has been
completed and the total cost thereof has been determined, a percentage of the
total cost of the water extension may be assessed against the property owners
whose property abuts upon the extension at an equal rate per front foot in
accordance with and under the authority granted to the municipality by G.S. Ch.
160A, Art. 10. The remaining percentage of the total cost of the extension
shall be borne by the municipality from funds appropriated for this purpose;
   (C)   Any property owner shall have the opportunity to pay his/her
proportionate share of the cost of the extension after the assessment roll is
confirmed rather than paying his/her share in equal annual installments with
interest as required by the statute.
(OC, § 5-3-5) (Am. Ord. passed 8-11-88)
§ 53.08 EXTENSION CHARGES.
   For extension of water and/or sewer service, the following charges shall
apply:
   (A)   There shall be a charge for connecting with the water and/or sewer
system of the town, either inside or outside the corporate limits as specified
in § 51.21, the town's rate schedule, per gross acre for all classes of
property to be served by the connection. This fee shall be paid prior to the
town's acceptance of developer installed facilities;
   (B)   The total acreage charge for any tract or lot on which there is but
one residential dwelling unit shall not exceed the charge for two acres.
Provided, in cases covered by this provision, the owner shall designate the two
acres against which the charge is to be credited and the acreage charge against
any remaining acreage shall be made when service is extended to any structure
thereon;
   (C)   The owner of a tract of land which is to be developed in phases may
pay the acreage charge for each phase prior to beginning construction of that
particular phase;
   (D)   GROSS ACRE, as used in this section, is defined to include the entire
area of a subdivision without exception as to areas included within streets,
alleys, private parks, lakes, ponds, floodways or otherwise. However, public
parks, greenways, lakes and recreational areas actually accepted by the town
for public use and actually conveyed to the town by recorded deed shall be
excluded when computing gross acreage. With respect to lots situated upon
streets or roads now existing, the term gross acre shall include all of the
land extending to the center line of any abutting street;
   (E)   Acreage fees for public schools shall be based on the gross acreage of
the tract. If any land subject to the provisions of this chapter is ever
conveyed to a grantee other than a school board or used for any other than
school purposes, it shall be subject to the then applicable acreage fee without
limitation when additional water or sewer capacity is required;
   (F)   Furthermore, no acreage charges shall be imposed upon the following
conditions:
      (1)   Property which is actually tapped onto the town water and sewer
system and which is actually using the system as of the effective date of this
section;
      (2)   Any usable water or sewer line in existence, adjacent to or within
property lying inside the corporate limits to be connected with the system
which was in place prior to the effective date of this section. (A usable
utility line does not include outfalls or water lines where direct service taps
are not permitted);
      (3)   Any other areas for which separate water and sewer contracts have
been made between the town and developers prior to the date of adoption of this
chapter.
(OC, § 5-3-6) (Am. Ord. passed 8-11-88)
§ 53.09 EXTENSIONS IN SUBDIVISIONS.
   With respect to the installation and financing of utilities to serve
subdivisions, the following conditions shall apply in addition to any other
applicable sections:
   (A)   Specifications. All installations shall be made according to the
specifications as may be approved by the town or its engineers, including size
of all lines, their locations, grade and material used. When the municipality
determines that it is advisable to install larger size facilities than are
necessary to serve the property requesting the extension, the difference in the
cost of the larger size facilities over and above the cost of facilities
required to serve the property requesting the extension shall be paid for by
the municipality and excluded from the total cost to the property owner.
   (B)   Ownership and control. All main lines constructed and connected with
the facilities of the town shall become the property of the town upon their
completion. The town shall have exclusive control of all the lines and shall be
responsible for their maintenance, repair and operation.
   (C)   Contracts. All installations made under a reimbursement agreement
shall be accomplished under contracts let under the statutory procurement
regulations for public bodies. The town shall exercise general supervision over
the letting of the contracts in order to assure the securing of free
competition.
   (D)   Reimbursement. 
      (1)   A reimbursement agreement shall be entered into between the town
and each party installing water and/or sewer lines.
      (2)   The cost of installing all lines and ancillary facilities within a
subdivision shall be borne initially by the participating developer(s).
      (3)   Lines subject to reimbursement shall be as follows:
         (a)   Those between a subdivision and the facilities of the town and
which are so located as to serve other properties;
         (b)   Lines within a subdivision which will serve land outside the
subdivision and are of a size in excess of the needs of the subdivision itself
(in this case, the cost subject to reimbursement shall be only the extra cost
incurred by installing lines larger than needed to serve the subdivision
itself);
         (c)   The proportionate cost of lines of any size to which direct
service connections may be made by property other than those by the initial
investor.
      (4)   All reimbursements for cost in division (D)(3) of this section
shall be made from acreage charges collected by the town from acreage initially
and subsequently served by lines installed under a reimbursement agreement and
from these only. Acreage charges due under a reimbursement agreement shall be
paid by the town to the developer within 30 days following the end of each
quarter from collections made during that quarter.
      (5)   Only the actual cost of the lines shall be included in the
calculations of costs subject to reimbursement. No interest on costs pending
reimbursement shall be allowed.
      (6)   No reimbursement of any cost shall be made after ten years from the
date of acceptance by the town of the lines installed under a reimbursement
agreement.
      (7)   Acreage charges collected from properties served by lines installed
under a reimbursement agreement shall be applied so as to satisfy the claims
under the different agreements in the order in which they were entered into.
   (E)   Request for fee assessment. The developer of a parcel of land greater
than ten acres in size which is proposed to be developed in phases, may request
that fees be assessed on the basis of the acreage of each phase as service is
requested. This request may be granted provided that following conditions are
met:
      (1)   All phases are identified on the preliminary plan approved by the
Planning and Zoning Board;
      (2)   Service is to be provided from existing water and/or sewer mains;
      (3)   Each payment must be for one or more complete phase(s) as necessary
such that, except for the final payment, no payment will be made for any area
of less than ten acres;
      (4)   The acreage fee must be paid for a phase prior to service being
provided to any portion thereof.
(OC, § 5-3-7) (Am. Ord. passed 8-11-88)
§ 53.10 EXTENSIONS BY OTHER UNITS OF GOVERNMENT.
   Extensions may be made by another governmental entity when the following
steps are taken:
   (A)   In the event that the town shall permit an extension of its water and/
or sewer lines at the request of and expense of any other governmental unit,
including Onslow County, the extensions shall be at the sole expense of the
party requesting the extensions. Expenses are to include but not be limited to
all labor and materials, engineering fees, any and all sums required for
rights-of-way and/or easements and any and all costs incidental to the
extensions;
   (B)   Upon completion of the water and/or sewer lines, the improvements
shall be dedicated to the town. Properties served by the water and/or sewer
line extensions shall pay to the governmental unit an assessment or payment in
lieu of assessment as established by that governmental unit's extension policy.
In any event, the fee collected shall not be less than the prevailing
assessment or payment had the town installed the improvements.
(OC, § 5-3-9) (Am. Ord. passed 8-11-88)
§ 53.11 ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   Extension. In accordance with the principle that benefitted property
should bear the cost of extending water and sewer lines one or more of the
following methods shall be used in providing for the extension of water and
sewer lines to serve all other properties not located within subdivisions
currently under development. Properties which are annexed by the town based
upon the properties' meeting the necessary standards for annexation as set
forth in the General Statutes (i.e., annexation not based upon a petition
requesting annexation by the property owners) will have services extended to
them with financing arranged by assessments as described as follows. Extensions
made under the following financing methods may be made either by forces of the
town or under contracts let by the town or by private contracts let under the
supervision of the town.
   (B)   Assessments for costs.
      (1)   Water and sewer main extensions will be made by assessment of the
cost thereof against property owners to be benefitted thereby in conformity
with G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 10. In the event it is necessary or desirable to
install water or sewer mains or ancillary facilities larger than those required
for the development, the town will bear the cost of the difference between the
size of the main required for the development and the size of the main
installed.
      (2)   The Town Board shall determine which method of assessment
authorized by G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 10 would be most equitable to be used in an
assessment roll and the distribution cost between the town and property owners.
   (C)   Fees in lieu of assessment. If the property to be served by a utility
connection is to be served by a line constructed on an assessment basis and no
assessment was made against the property for its proportionate part of the cost
of the line because the property was outside the town limits when constructed,
there shall be collected, in addition to all other charges provided herein or
by other law, ordinance or resolution, the amount which would have been
assessed against the property to be served by the connection had the property
been assessable at the time the line was constructed.
   (D)   Reimbursement. The reimbursement procedure outlined in §
53.09(D) shall be available for use by an individual property owner who desires
service at some distance from existing lines and when assessment of, or
contributions from intervening property does not appear feasible. This method
may be used in financing extensions both inside and outside the town
boundaries.
(OC, § 5-3-8) (Am. Ord. passed 8-11-88)
§ 53.12 OVERSIZED IMPROVEMENTS.
   Oversized improvements and reimbursements may be allowed under the following
circumstances:
   (A)   When it is in the best interest of the citizens of the town that
oversized water and/or sewer lines or ancillary facilities be extended from the
existing municipal system, the Town Board may agree to pay the difference of
the cost of construction to serve the area requesting service and the costs of
future areas of construction to be served with the lines accommodating the
increased volume. If any oversized facility is feasible, then a reimbursement
agreement shall be entered into between the town and each party installing
water and/or sewer. Only those water and sewer lines, fire hydrants, looping
water lines, lift stations and pumping stations as may be expressly referred to
and covered by a written contract between the party/parties and the town shall
be considered.
   (B)   The cost of installing all lines on property being connected to and
the cost of installing all lines between the property being developed and the
existing lines of the town shall be borne by the owner, developer or party
being so connected.
   (C)   Oversized improvement costs subject to reimbursement shall be as
follows:
      (1)   The actual cost of water and sewer lines and ancillary facilities
larger than required by the development between the property being developed
and the facilities of the town and which are so located as to serve other
properties;
      (2)   The cost of main lines and ancillary facilities within the property
being developed which will serve other properties and are of a size greater
than required for the development but only to the extent of the extra cost
incurred by installing lines larger than needed to serve the property itself;
      (3)   The proportionate cost of lines of any size to which direct service
connections may be made by property other than those by the initial developer.
   (D)   All reimbursements for oversized improvements costs set forth in
division (C) of this section, shall be made only from acreage fees collected by
the town from properties initially or subsequently served by lines installed
under a reimbursement agreement. Reimbursement costs due from acreage fees
under an oversized improvements agreement shall be paid by the town to the
developer within 30 days following the end of each calendar quarter from any
collections made during that quarter.
   (E)   Only actual costs of the lines together with all necessary looping
water mains, pumping stations and lift stations shall be included in the
calculations of costs subject to reimbursement. No interest on costs pending
reimbursement shall be permitted.
   (F)   No reimbursement of any costs shall be made more than ten years after
the date of acceptance by the town of lines installed under an oversized
improvement agreement.
   (G)   Acreage charges collected from properties served by lines installed
under a reimbursement agreement shall be applied so as to satisfy any claims
under the different reimbursement agreements in the order in which the
agreements were executed.
(OC, § 5-3-10) (Am. Ord. passed 8-11-88)
CHAPTER 54: INFRASTRUCTURE REIMBURSEMENT AGREEMENTS
Section
   
54.01   Reimbursement agreements authorized
   
54.02   Limitations on reimbursement agreements
§ 54.01 REIMBURSEMENT AGREEMENTS AUTHORIZED.
   The town may agree to enter agreements with private developers or property
owners for the design and construction of infrastructure under the following
conditions.
   (A)   The infrastructure may consist of water mains, sanitary sewer lines,
sewer lift stations, stormwater facilities, streets, curbs and gutters,
sidewalks, traffic control devices, or other associated facilities that are
consistent with the town’s capital improvement plan, economic development
needs, or other community plans or needs.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners shall find that the proposed infrastructure
improvements will advance a significant community or economic development need
and/or will more cost effectively or more expeditiously achieve the
installation of needed infrastructure improvements and that the proposed
agreement is in the public interest.
   (C)   The amount of funds reimbursed shall not exceed the appropriately
documented costs of the project and shall be derived from non-local sources,
such as grants or donations.
   (D)   The reimbursement agreement shall be set forth in writing and shall be
consistent with the requirements of state law.
   (E)   The improvements carried out under the agreement shall be conveyed or
dedicated to public use by the town or to use by another public entity approved
by the town.
(Ord. 2011-06, passed 1-18-11)
§ 54.02 LIMITATIONS ON REIMBURSEMENT AGREEMENTS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not be used to circumvent, avoid, or
alter any infrastructure improvement requirements set forth in the Unified
Development Ordinance or in other provisions of the town code, or for the
specific purpose and intent of circumventing the competitive bidding
requirements for public contracts.
(Ord. 2011-06, passed 1-18-11)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
Chapter
   
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
   
72.   STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
   
73.   BICYCLES
   
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
   
75.   PARKING SCHEDULES
   
76.   GOLF CARTS
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Authority of police and Fire Department officials
   
70.03   Obedience to police and Fire Department officials
   
70.04   Authorized emergency vehicles
Traffic Control Devices
   
70.20   Obedience to signs, markers or devices
   
70.21   Signs as prerequisite to enforcement
   
70.22   Traffic control signal legend
   
70.23   Flashing signals
   
70.24   Interference with official traffic control devices, signs or signals
   
70.25   Traffic lanes
   
70.26   Zone of quiet
   
70.27   School zones
   
70.28   Yield signs
   
70.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Municipal authority to regulate traffic generally, see G.S. § 160A-300
   Motor vehicles, see G.S. Ch. 20
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A thoroughfare through the middle of a block.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Vehicles of the Fire Department, police
vehicles and ambulances and emergency vehicles of municipal departments of
public service corporations as are designed or authorized by the Chief of
Police.
   BICYCLE. Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may
ride, having two tandem wheels either of which is over 20 inches in diameter;
for purposes of this title, this term shall also include adult tricycles.
   BLOCK. A portion of any street located between any two intersections of any
two streets or public alleyways adjacent to each other.
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE. Every vehicle designed, maintained or used primarily for
the transportation of property.
   CROSSWALK. That portion of any street or roadway ordinarily included within
the prolongation or connection of the lateral lines of sidewalks at
intersections. Any portion of a roadway or street distinctly indicated for
pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface of the street or
roadway.
   CURB LOADING ZONE. A space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use
of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or materials.
   DRIVER. Every person who shall drive or who shall be in actual physical
control of the operation of any vehicle.
   FREIGHT CURB LOADING ZONE. A space adjacent to a curb for the exclusive use
of vehicles during the loading of freight or passengers.
   INTERSECTION. The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of the two highways which join one another at or approximately at
right angles or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different
highways joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
   LANED ROADWAY. A roadway which is divided into two or more clearly marked
lanes for vehicular traffic.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle
designed to travel, on not more than three wheels in contact with the ground,
but excluding a tractor.
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle having a saddle for the use of the rider and
designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the ground,
but excluding a tractor.
   OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD. Whenever certain hours are named herein they shall
mean standard time or daylight saving time as may be in current use in this
town.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE. Any sign, signal, marking or device, not
inconsistent with this chapter, placed or erected by authority of the governing
body by a designated official having jurisdiction through authority given by
the governing body, for the purpose of regulating, warning, prohibiting or
guiding traffic upon the public streets and thoroughfares of the town.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC SIGNALS. Any device, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated, whereby traffic is alternately directed to stop and to
proceed, or to turn or to proceed with caution.
   PARK. The standing of any vehicle, whether occupied or unoccupied, otherwise
than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or
unloading passengers or cargo.
   PASSENGER CURB LOADING ZONE. A place adjacent to a curb reserved for the
exclusive use of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   PERSON. Every natural person, firm, co-partnership, association or
corporation.
   POLICE OFFICER. Every peace officer of the town, including every employee of
the town authorized and empowered to regulate traffic and to make arrests for
any violations of the provisions of this chapter.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY. Every way or place in private ownership and used
for vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied
permission from the owner but not by other persons.
   PUBLIC CONVEYANCE. Any vehicle other than a taxicab or railroad train for
transporting persons for a fare.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the street or roadway.
   ROADWAY. That portion of a street or highway improved, designed or
ordinarily used for vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. In the
event a highway includes two or more separate roadways, the term ROADWAY as
used herein shall refer to any roadways separately but not to all roadways
collectively.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of a street between the curb lines or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   STANDING. Any stopping of any vehicle, whether or not the vehicle is
occupied during the period of stopping.
   STOP. When required means the complete cessation of the movement of any
vehicle.
   STOP OR STOPPING. When prohibited, means any stopping of any vehicle, except
when the stopping means that it shall be necessary to stop the vehicle to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with direction of any peace
officer of the town or by reason of any traffic control sign or signal or by
reason of any emergency.
   STREET AND HIGHWAY. The entire width between property lines of every way or
place of whatever nature, when any part thereof is open to the use of the
public as a matter of right for the purposes of vehicular traffic.
   THROUGH HIGHWAY. Every street or highway or portion thereof at the entrances
to which vehicular traffic from intersecting streets or highways is required by
law to stop before entering or crossing the same and when stop signs are
erected as provided in the chapter.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles of all kinds,
conveyances, tractors, bicycles, motorcycles and their like, either singly or
together, while using any street or alleyway for travel, including the
operation of, the loading or unloading of or the parking of any vehicle upon
any of the public streets of the town.
   VEHICLE. Every device used in, upon or by which any person or property is or
may be transported or drawn upon any street within the corporate limits, and
for the purposes of this chapter any bicycle shall be deemed a vehicle.
(OC, § 7-1-1)
§ 70.02 AUTHORITY OF POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the officers of the Police Department to
enforce all street traffic laws and all of the state vehicle laws applicable to
street traffic.
   (B)   Officers of the Police Department are hereby authorized to direct all
traffic by voice, hand or signal in conformance with traffic laws; provided,
that in the event of a fire or other emergency, or to expedite traffic or to
safeguard pedestrians, officers of the Police Department may direct traffic as
conditions may require notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws.
   (C)   Officers of the Fire Department, when at the scene of a fire, may
direct or assist the police in directing traffic thereat or in the immediate
vicinity.
(OC, § 7-1-11)
§ 70.03 OBEDIENCE TO POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS.
   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of a Police Officer or Fire Department official.
(OC, § 7-1-12)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.04 AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   The provisions of this chapter regulating the operation, parking and
standing of vehicles shall apply to authorized emergency vehicles as defined in
this chapter, except as provided under state law.
(OC, § 7-1-13)
Statutory reference:
   Emergency vehicles; exceptions to right-of-way rules, see G.S. § 20-156
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.20 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNS, MARKERS OR DEVICES.
   Any person failing or refusing to comply with the directions indicated on
any sign, marker or device for the control or direction of traffic erected or
placed in accordance with the provisions of this article when so placed or
erected shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. This section shall not be construed
to apply when the driver of a vehicle is otherwise directed by a police officer
or when an exception is granted to the driver of an authorized emergency
vehicle under §
70.04.
(OC, § 7-1-21)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.21 SIGNS AS PREREQUISITE TO ENFORCEMENT.
   No provisions of this chapter for which signs are required shall be enforced
against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the alleged violation,
an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently legible to an
ordinarily observant person.
(OC, § 7-1-22)
§ 70.22 TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND.
   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic control signals exhibiting the
words, “Go,” “Caution” or “Stop,” or exhibiting different colored lights
successively one at a time, or with arrows, the following colors only shall be
used and the terms and light shall indicate and apply to drivers of vehicles
and pedestrians as follows:
   (A)   Green alone or “Go.”
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed straight through or
turn right or left unless a sign at the place prohibits either turn. But
vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left, shall yield the
right-of-way to other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the
intersection or an adjacent crosswalk at the time the signal is exhibited.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed cross the roadway within
any marked or unmarked crosswalk.
   (B)   Yellow alone or “Caution” when shown following the green or “Go”
signal.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal is thereby warned that the red
of “Stop” signal will be exhibited immediately thereafter and the vehicular
traffic shall not enter or be crossing the intersection when the red or “Stop”
signal is exhibited.
      (2)   No pedestrian facing the signal shall enter the roadway until the
green or “Go” is shown alone unless authorized to do so by a pedestrian “Walk”
signal.
   (C)   Red alone or “Stop.” Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop
before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if none,
then before entering the intersection and shall remain standing until green or
“Go” is shown alone. Provided, however, that if a sign is not erected
prohibiting turns on red lights, the vehicles may turn right on red lights
after coming to a complete stop. Streets on which right turns on red are not
allowed may be designated by the town from time to time, and will be set forth
in Ch. 74 of this code.
   (D)   Red with green arrow.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal may cautiously enter the
intersection only to make the movement indicated by the arrow but shall yield
the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within a crosswalk and to other
traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      (2)   No pedestrian facing the signal shall enter the roadway until the
green or “Go” is shown alone unless authorized to do so by a pedestrian “Walk”
signal.
   (E)   In the event an official traffic control signal is erected and
maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions of this
section shall be applicable except as to those provisions which by their nature
can have no application. Any stop required shall be made at a sign or marking
on the pavement indicating where the stop shall be made, but in the absence of
any sign or marking, the stop shall be made at the signal.
(OC, § 7-1-23)
§ 70.23 FLASHING SIGNALS.
   Whenever flashing red or yellow signals are used, they shall require
obedience by vehicular traffic as follows:
   (A)    Flashing red (Stop signal). When a red lens is illuminated by rapid
intermittent flashes, driver of vehicles shall come to a complete stop before
entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or a limit line when marked,
and the right to proceed shall be subject to the rules applicable after making
a stop at a stop sign. In no event shall the vehicle be driven into the
crosswalk unless and until the entry can be made with safety to other persons
and property at the place.
   (B)   Flashing yellow (Caution Signal). When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers or operators of vehicles may proceed
through the intersection past the signal only with caution.
(OC, § 7-1-24)
Cross-reference:
   For specific locations for flashing yellow signals, see
Ch. 74, Sch. II.
§ 70.24 INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES, SIGNS OR SIGNALS.
   No person shall without lawful authority attempt to, or in fact alter,
deface, injure, knock down or remove any official traffic control device, sign
or signal or any inscription, shield or insignia thereon, or any other part
thereof.
(OC, § 7-1-25)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.25 TRAFFIC LANES.
   Where traffic lanes have been marked, it shall be unlawful for the operator
of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep the vehicle within the boundaries of
any lane except when lawfully passing another vehicle or preparatory to making
a lawful turning movement.
(OC, § 7-1-26)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.26 ZONE OF QUIET.
   Whenever authorized signs are placed indicating a zone of quiet, the person
operating a motor vehicle within the zone shall not sound the horn or any other
warning device, except in an emergency.
(OC, § 7-1-27)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.27 SCHOOL ZONES.
   Whenever authorized signs are placed designating any street or part thereof,
as a school zone, drivers of motor vehicles using the street shall exercise the
greatest care for the protection of children.
(OC, § 7-1-28)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.28 YIELD SIGNS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign erected at those
intersections described in Ch. 74, Sch. III hereof, shall, and in obedience to
the sign, slow down and yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian crossing the
roadway on which he is driving and to any vehicle in movement on the main
traveled or through highway or street which is approaching so as to arrive at
the intersection at approximately the same time as the vehicle entering the
main traveled or through street or highway.
   (B)   The driver of the vehicle approaching a yield sign, if required to
stop, shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection, or in the event there is no crosswalk at a clearly marked stop
line; but if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the
driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway.
   (C)   In accordance with the above, and when signs are erected giving notice
thereof, drivers of vehicles, when entering designated or main traveled or
through streets from intersecting streets in the direction or directions shown,
shall yield the right-of-way to approaching pedestrians or vehicles.
(OC, § 7-1-29)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   If any person shall violate an ordinance regulating the operation or parking
of vehicles, the person shall be responsible for an infraction and shall be
required to pay a penalty of not more than $50.
(G.S. § 14-4(b))
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
Speed Regulations
   
71.01   Speed limit
   
71.02   Exceptions
Turning Movements
   
71.10   Turning markers
   
71.11   Authority to place restricted turn signs
   
71.12   Obedience to no-turn signs
One-Way Streets and Alleys
   
71.20   Authority to sign one-way streets and alleys
   
71.21   One-way streets and alleys
Special Stops Required
   
71.30   Through streets designated
   
71.31   Authority to erect stop signs
   
71.32   Intersections where stop required
   
71.33   Signs to bear the word “stop”
   
71.34   Vehicles to stop at stop signs
Miscellaneous Driving Rules
   
71.40   Operation of through trucks restricted
   
71.41   Regulation of the use of Webb Street and Main Street
SPEED REGULATIONS
§ 71.01 SPEED LIMIT.
   Except as otherwise provided in the article, it shall be unlawful to operate
a vehicle in excess of 35 miles per hour inside the town corporate limits.
(OC, § 7-1-41)
Statutory reference: 
   Speed limits within municipal corporate limits, G.S. § 20-141
§ 71.02 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle in excess of the speeds
designated, upon the street or portions of streets of the state highway system
listed in Ch. 74, Sch. VI(A) of this code.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle in excess of the speeds
designated, upon the streets or portion of streets, not a part of the state
highway system, listed in Ch. 74, Sch. VI(B) of this code.
(OC, § 7-1-42) (Am. Ord. passed 11-10-88)
TURNING MOVEMENTS
§ 71.10 TURNING MARKERS.
   When authorized markers, buttons or other indications are placed within an
intersection indicating the course to be traveled by vehicles turning thereat,
no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of the indications.
(OC, § 7-1-51)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.11 AUTHORITY TO PLACE RESTRICTED TURN SIGNALS.
   The Board shall determine those intersections at which drivers of vehicles
shall not make a right, left or U-turn and shall place proper signs at these
intersections. The making of the turns may be prohibited between certain hours
of any day and permitted at other hours, in which event the hours shall be
plainly indicated on the signs or they may be removed when the turns are
permitted. Restrictions on turning movements shall be as specified in Ch. 74,
Sch. IV of this code.
(OC, § 7-1-52)
§ 71.12 OBEDIENCE TO NO-TURN SIGNS.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left or U-
turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of any
sign.
(OC, § 7-1-53)
Penalty, see § 70.99
ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS
§ 71.20 AUTHORITY TO SIGN ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   Whenever any ordinance designates any one-way street or alley there shall be
signs giving notice thereof, and no regulation shall be effective unless the
signs are in place. Signs indicating the direction of lawful traffic movement
shall be placed at every intersection where movement of traffic in the opposite
direction is prohibited.
(OC, § 7-1-61)
§ 71.21 ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   Upon those streets and parts of streets and in those alleys described in Ch.
74, Sch. V of this code, vehicular traffic shall move only in the indicated
direction when signs indicating the direction of traffic are erected and
maintained at every intersection where movement in the opposite direction is
prohibited.
(OC, § 7-1-62)
SPECIAL STOPS REQUIRED
§ 71.30 THROUGH STREETS DESIGNATED.
   Those streets and part of streets that may be declared through streets by
the town from time to time, and will be set forth in Ch. 74 of this code.
(OC, § 7-1-71)
§ 71.31 AUTHORITY TO ERECT STOP SIGNS.
   Whenever any ordinance designates and describes a through street, there
shall be a stop sign on each and every street intersecting the through street
or intersection portion thereof described and designated as such by any
ordinance unless traffic at any intersection is controlled at all times by
traffic control signals provided, however, that at the intersection of two
through streets or at the intersection of a through street and a heavy traffic
street not so designated, stop signs shall be erected at the approaches of
either of the streets.
(OC, § 7-1-72)
§ 71.32 INTERSECTIONS WHERE STOP REQUIRED.
   The Board may determine and designate intersections where particular hazard
exists upon other than through streets and may determine whether vehicles shall
stop at one or more entrances to any stop intersection, and shall erect a stop
sign at every place where a stop is required. These places are specified in Ch.
74, Sch. I of this code.
(OC, § 7-1-73)
§ 71.33 SIGNS TO BEAR THE WORD “STOP.”
   Every sign erected pursuant to this subchapter shall bear the word “Stop” in
letters not less than eight inches in height and the signs shall at nighttime
be rendered luminous by steady or flashing internal illumination, or by a fixed
floodlight projected on the face of the sign or by efficient reflecting
elements on the face of the sign. Every stop sign shall be located as near as
practicable at the nearest line of the crosswalk on the side of the
intersection or, if none, at the nearest line of the roadway.
(OC, § 7-1-74)
§ 71.34 VEHICLES TO STOP AT STOP SIGNS.
   (A)   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic control
signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop intersection described in
Ch. 74, Sch. I of this code or a through street where stops are required as may
be designated from the town, and indicated by a stop sign shall stop before
entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or, in the event
there is no crosswalk shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, or if known
then, at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view
of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering the
intersection.
   (B)   The driver having stopped in obedience to a stop sign at an
intersection shall proceed cautiously yielding the right-of-way to all vehicles
not so obliged to stop which are approaching the intersection.
(OC, § 7-1-75)
Penalty, see § 70.99
MISCELLANEOUS DRIVING RULES
§ 71.40 OPERATION OF THROUGH TRUCKS RESTRICTED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate any truck in excess of the size of a
three-quarter ton pick-up truck on the public streets and highways of the town
which are listed as follows:
      (1)   Broad Street;
      (2)   Shore Drive;
      (3)   Church Street; and
      (4)   Main Street.
   (B)   Except, it shall be lawful to operate any truck of any size on the
aforesaid streets for the purpose of picking up or delivering articles of
merchandise, goods, or personal property to or from any of the residences or
businesses located on these streets.
(OC, § 7-1-81) (Ord. passed 6-3-66)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.41 REGULATION OF THE USE OF WEBB STREET AND MAIN STREET.
   It shall be unlawful for any operator of any motor vehicle to operate said
motor vehicle directly from Webb Street onto Main Street or from Main Street
onto Webb Street.
(Ord. passed 10-19-99)
CHAPTER 72: STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
Section
Method of Parking
   
72.01   Standing or parking close to curb
   
72.02   Unattended vehicles
   
72.03   Parking spaces for mobility handicapped persons
Stopping, Standing or Parking Prohibited in Specified Places
   
72.10   Stopping, standing or parking prohibited; no signs required
   
72.11   Parking not to obstruct traffic
   
72.12   Parking in alleys
   
72.13   Standing or parking for certain purposes prohibited
   
72.14   No stopping, standing or parking near hazardous or congested places
   
72.15   Stopping, standing or parking for primary purpose of advertising,
prohibited
   
72.16   Time limit parking
   
72.17   Improper parking and storage
Stopping for Loading or Unloading
   
72.30   Loading and unloading zones
   
72.31   Loading zones for freight and goods
   
72.32   Public carrier stops and stands
Restriction or Prohibitions on Certain Streets
   
72.40   Application of subchapter
   
72.41   Parking prohibited at all times on certain streets
   
72.42   Parking time limited on certain streets
   
72.43   Parking signs required
METHOD OF PARKING
§ 72.01 STANDING OR PARKING CLOSE TO CURB.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle in a roadway other than parallel
with the edge of the roadway headed in the direction of lawful traffic movement
and with the right hand wheels of the vehicle within 18 inches of the curb or
edge of the roadway except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
(OC, § 7-1-121)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.02 UNATTENDED VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave running the engine or motor of
any unattended motor vehicle while it is standing parked upon the streets.
(OC, § 7-1-122)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.03 PARKING SPACES FOR MOBILITY HANDICAPPED PERSONS.
   For every 20 parking places in front of or adjacent to any public buildings,
there shall be one space marked distinctly “Parking for Persons With a Mobility
Handicap or Those Using Wheelchairs.” It shall be unlawful for any persons
without a mobility handicap or using a wheelchair to park in any space reserved
for such handicapped persons; provided, however, a driver of a vehicle used in
transporting such handicapped persons may park in those spaces.
(OC, § 7-1-123) (Ord. passed 5-3-84)
Penalty, see § 70.99
STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES
§ 72.10 STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING PROHIBITED; NO SIGNS REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary
to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with law or the
directions of a police officer or traffic control device, in any of the
following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk or parkway;
      (2)   At any place where a vehicle would block the use of a public or
private driveway;
      (3)   In any intersection or within 15 feet of any intersection;
      (4)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
      (5)   On a crosswalk or within 15 feet of any crosswalk;
      (6)   Within 15 feet of a crosswalk or an intersection;
      (7)   Within 15 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign
or traffic control signal located at the side of the roadway;
      (8)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of a
point on the curb immediately opposite the end of a safety zone, unless signs
or markings indicate a different length;
      (9)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and on
the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station, or within 75
feet of the entrance when properly sign posted;
      (10)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
      (11)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (12)   On a roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of the street;
      (13)   Upon any bridge, viaduct or other elevated structure upon a
highway or within a highway tunnel, subway or the approach thereto;
      (14)   At any place where official signs prohibit parking or stopping;
      (15)   Along any curb painted with a yellow, red or white paint to
signify a “No Parking” zone;
      (16)   At any place where the standing of a vehicle will reduce the
usable width of the roadway for moving traffic to less than 18 feet;
      (17)   Within 15 feet of a traffic signal, beacon or sign on the
approaching side.
   (B) No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his control into any
prohibited area or away from a curb any distance as is unlawful.
(OC, § 7-1-131) (Am. Ord. passed 5-3-84)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.11 PARKING NOT TO OBSTRUCT TRAFFIC.
   No person shall park any vehicle upon a street, other than an alley, in a
manner or under any conditions as to leave available less than ten feet of the
width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular traffic.
(OC, § 7-1-132)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.12 PARKING IN ALLEYS.
   No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in such a manner or under
such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet of the width of the
roadway for free movement of vehicular traffic, and no person shall stop, stand
or park a vehicle within an alley in a position as to block the driveway
entrance to any abutting property.
(OC, § 7-1-133)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.13 STANDING OR PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stand or park a vehicle upon any
street of the town for the principal purposes of the following:
   (A)   Displaying for sale;
   (B)   Washing, greasing or repairing a vehicle, except repairs made
necessary by a bona fide emergency;
   (C)   Storing by garages, dealers or other persons when the storing is not
incident to the bona fide use and operation of the automobile or other vehicle;
   (D)   Storing of any detached trailer or van when the towing unit has been
disconnected or for the transferring merchandise or freight from one vehicle to
another;
   (E)   Peddling of merchandise from vehicle; or
   (F)   Parking or storing any towable equipment, boats, other non-self-
propelled vehicles, or vehicles not eligible for motor vehicle licenses or not
properly licensed or tagged.
(OC, § 7-1-134) (Am. Ord. passed 5-3-84; Am. Ord. 2011-08, passed 2-15-11
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.14 NO STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING NEAR HAZARDOUS OR CONGESTED PLACES.
   When official signs are erected at hazardous or congested places no person
shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in any designated place.
(OC, § 7-1-135)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.15 STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING FOR PRIMARY PURPOSE OF ADVERTISING,
PROHIBITED.
   No person shall stand or park, on any street, any vehicle for the primary
purpose of advertising.
(OC, § 7-1-136)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.16 TIME LIMIT PARKING.
   Except on Sundays or holidays, it shall be unlawful to park any vehicle for
a longer consecutive period of time than that designated between the hours of
8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. in any area designated and marked as a limited parking
area.
(OC, § 7-1-137) (Am. Ord. passed 5-3-84)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.17 IMPROPER PARKING AND STORAGE.
   It shall be unlawful to park construction vehicles or equipment - other than
for brief periods of unloading or delivery - on streets with less than 32 feet
of paved width. (Vehicles and equipment of governmental entities and public
utilities that are actively involved in construction or maintenance work shall
be exempt from this provision.) It shall be unlawful to place or store
construction supplies or materials on public streets or sidewalks.
(Ord. 2011-08, passed 2-15-11)
Penalty, see § 70.99
STOPPING FOR LOADING OR UNLOADING
§ 72.30 LOADING OR UNLOADING ZONES.
   (A)   Whenever vehicle loading and unloading zones are designated and
described by this subchapter and when signs are placed, erected or installed,
giving notice thereof, it shall be unlawful for any person to stop, stand or
park any vehicle for any purpose or period of time except in accordance with
the requirements of this subchapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a vehicle to stand a passenger
vehicle for a period of time longer than is necessary for the loading or
unloading of passengers, not to exceed three minutes, and for the driver to
stand any freight carrying vehicles for a period of time longer than is
necessary to load, unload and deliver materials, not to exceed 30 minutes, in
any place designated by the president and board of trustees as a loading zone
and marked as such or in any of the following designated places:
      (1)   At any time not to exceed 75 feet along the curb before the
entrance to any hospital or hotel at any time;
      (2)   At any place not to exceed 75 feet along the curb before the
entrance to a public building between 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. except on Sunday.
(OC, § 7-1-141) (Ord. passed 5-3-84)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.31 LOADING ZONES FOR FREIGHT AND GOODS.
   The streets, or parts thereof, that may be designated as freight loading and
unloading zones by the town from time to time, will be set forth in Ch. 75 of
this code. No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle therein during the
hours of 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. for any purpose other than the expeditious
loading or unloading of freight, equipment or other goods and then only for a
period not to exceed one hour. Loading or unloading of freight shall also be
conducted consistent with the requirements of § 72.30.
(OC, § 7-1-142) (Am. Ord. passed 5-3-84)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.32 PUBLIC CARRIER STOPS AND STANDS.
   Bus stands, taxicab stands and stands for other passenger common carrier
motor vehicles, designated by appropriate signs, shall be as specified by the
town from time to time and set forth in Ch. 75 of this code. No person shall
stop, stand or park a vehicle other than a bus in a bus stop, or other than a
licensed taxicab in a taxicab stand when any stop has been officially
designated and appropriately signed, except that the driver of a passenger
vehicle may temporarily stop therein for the purpose of and while actually
engaged in loading or unloading passengers when stopping does not interfere
with any bus or taxicab waiting to enter or about to enter the zone.
(OC, § 7-1-143)
Penalty, see § 70.99
RESTRICTION OR PROHIBITIONS ON CERTAIN STREETS
§ 72.40 APPLICATION OF SUBCHAPTER.
   The provisions of this subchapter prohibiting the standing or parking of a
vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times herein specified or as
indicated on official signs, except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or official traffic control device.
(OC, § 7-1-151)
§ 72.41 PARKING PROHIBITED AT ALL TIMES ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
at any time upon any of the streets described in Ch. 75, Sch. I.
(OC, § 7-1-152)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.42 PARKING TIME LIMITED ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   When signs are erected in each block giving notice thereof, no person shall
park a vehicle for longer than the times specified within the district or upon
any of the streets as the town may designate from time to time.
(OC, § 7-1-153)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.43 PARKING SIGNS REQUIRED.
   Whenever by this or any other section, any parking time limit is imposed or
parking is prohibited in designated streets, there shall be appropriate signs
giving notice thereof. No regulations shall be effective unless the signs are
erected and in place at the time of any alleged offense.
(OC, § 7-1-154)
CHAPTER 73: BICYCLES
Section
   
73.01   Effect of regulations
   
73.02   Traffic laws apply to persons riding bicycles
   
73.03   Obedience to traffic control devices
   
73.04   Riding on bicycles
   
73.05   Riding on roadways and bicycle paths
   
73.06   Speed
   
73.07   Carrying articles
   
73.08   Riding on sidewalks
§ 73.01 EFFECT OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The parent of any child and the guardian of any ward shall not
authorize or knowingly permit any child or ward to violate any of the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   These regulations applicable to bicycles shall apply whenever a
bicycle is operated upon any street or upon any public path set aside for the
exclusive use of bicycles, subject to those exceptions stated herein.
(OC, § 7-1-101)
§ 73.02 TRAFFIC LAWS APPLY TO PERSONS RIDING BICYCLES.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the
rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle by the laws of this state declaring rules of the road applicable to
vehicles or by this title applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except as to
special regulations in this chapter and except as to those provisions of laws
and ordinances which by their nature can have no application.
(OC, § 7-1-102)
§ 73.03 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the instructions of official
traffic control signals, signs and other control devices applicable to
vehicles, unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   (B) Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left
or U-turn is permitted, no person operating a bicycle shall disobey the
direction of any sign, except where the person dismounts from the bicycle to
make any turn, in which event the person shall obey the regulations applicable
to pedestrians.
(OC, § 7-1-103)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 73.04 RIDING ON BICYCLES.
   (A)   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than astride a
permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
   (B)   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number of which it is designed and equipped.
(OC, § 7-1-104)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 73.05 RIDING ON ROADWAYS AND BICYCLE PATHS.
   (A)   Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride as near to
the right-hand side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when
passing a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
   (B) Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two
abreast except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles.
   (C) Whenever a usable path for bicycles has been provided adjacent to a
roadway, bicycle riders shall use the path and shall not use the roadway.
(OC, § 7-1-105)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 73.06 SPEED.
   No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under the conditions then existing.
(OC, § 7-1-106)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 73.07 CARRYING ARTICLES.
   No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle or article
which prevents the rider from keeping at least one hand upon the handlebars.
(OC, § 7-1-107)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 73.08 RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   No person shall ride a bicycle upon a sidewalk within a business
district.
   (B)   The Chief of Police is authorized to erect signs on any roadway
prohibiting the riding of bicycles thereon by any person and when the signs are
in place, no person shall disobey the signs.
   (C) Whenever a person is riding a bicycle upon a sidewalk, the person shall
yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian and shall give audible signal before
overtaking and passing the pedestrian.
(OC, § 7-1-108)
Penalty, see § 70.99
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.     Stop intersections
   
II.   Traffic control signals
   
III.    Yield signs
   
IV.   Left turns; right turns
   
V.   One-way streets
   
VI.   Speed limits
SCHEDULE I. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   Intersections at which “stop” is required before entering.
Intersection Ord. No. Date Passed
Intersection                                               Ord. No. Date Passed
Bonita Lane at both of its approaches westwardly toward    –      7-20-93
Oyster Bay Drive
Bonita Lane proceeding eastwardly toward Oyster Bay Drive  –      7-20-93
Broad Street East and Shore Drive                          –      –
Broad Street West and Walnut Street                        –      –
Century Court proceeding toward Pirates Cove Drive         –      3-21-00
Chestnut Street North and Broad Street                     –      –
Church Street proceeding northwardly at Elm Street         –      9-19-95
Church Street proceeding northwardly at Walnut Street      –      9-19-95
Church Street with its intersection with N.C. Highway 24   –      9-19-95
Church Street proceeding southwardly at Elm Street         –      9-19-95
Church Street proceeding southwardly at Walnut Street      –      9-19-95
Corbett Avenue South and Sabiston Drive                    –      –
Crush Court proceeding toward Pirates Cove Drive           –      3-21-00
Elm Street North and Corbett Avenue                        –      –
Elm Street North and Main Street                           –      –
Elm Street and Spring Street                               –      –
Elm Street proceeding eastwardly at Church Street          –      9-19-95
Elm Street proceeding westwardly at Church Street          –      9-19-95
Elm Street South and Main Street                           –      –
Fifth Street North and Sabiston Drive                      –      –
Fifth Street South and Shore Drive                         –      –
Front Street and Corbett Avenue                            –      –
Hokum Lane proceeding toward Lisk Drive                    –      3-21-00
Holly Lane at Pineland Drive                               2014-O19 10-21-14
Lisk Drive and Corbett Avenue going south                  –      –
Main Street and Water Street East                          –      –
Main Street and Corbett Avenue West                        –      –
Main Street East and Park Lane                             –      –
Moore Street and Elm Street West                           –      –
Moore Street and Water Street East                         –      –
Moore Street and Water Street West                         –      –
North Dogwood Street proceeding toward Holly Lane          –      11-16-93
North Dogwood Street proceeding toward Holly Lane          –      11-16-93
Oyster Bay Drive proceeding northwardly toward S.R. 1444   –      7-20-93
(Swansboro Loop Road)
Oyster Bay Drive proceeding southwardly toward S.R. 1448   –      7-20-93
(Mt. Pleasant Road)
Park Lane North and Main Street                            –      –
Park Lane South and Corbett Avenue                         –      –
Phillips Drive East and Holly Lane                         –      –
Pineland Drive East and Holly Lane                         –      –
Pirates Cove Drive proceeding toward NCSR 1509, also known –      3-21-00
as Queens Creek Road
Port West and Phillips Loop Road                           –      11-10-88
Russell Street East and Park Lane                          –      –
Russell Street East and Lisk Drive                         –      –
S.R. 1512 South                                            –      –
S.R. 1512 North and S.R. 1513                              –      –
Sabiston Drive proceeding westwardly at Church Street      –      9-19-95
Sabiston Drive proceeding eastwardly at Church Street      –      9-19-95
Shore Drive West and Broad Street                          –      –
South Dogwood Street proceeding toward Holly Street        –      11-16-93
South Dogwood Street proceeding toward Holly Lane          –      11-16-93
Spring Street West and Fifth Street                        –      –
Spring Street West and Elm Street                          –      –
Spring Street East and Elm Street                          –      –
Spring Street East and Shore Drive                         –      –
Spring Street East and Fifth Street                        –      –
Spring Street West and Chestnut Street                     –      –
Spring Street West and Water Street                        –      –
Spring Street East and Walnut Street                       –      –
Taylor Drive and Corbett Avenue                            –      –
Walnut Street proceeding eastwardly at Church Street       –      9-19-95
Walnut Street proceeding westwardly at Church Street       –      9-19-95
Water Street and Corbett Avenue                            –      –
Water Street proceeding eastwardly at Church Street        –      9-19-95
Water Street proceeding westwardly at Church Street        –      9-19-95
Water Street and Main Street                               –      –
Webb Street proceeding westwardly at Church Street         –      9-19-95
Webb street proceeding eastwardly at Church Street         –      9-19-95
Whistling Heron Way and Little Egret Lane                  –      8-22-22
 
(OC, App. I § 125) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II. TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNALS.
   (A)   Traffic control signals shall be installed at the following locations.
 
Location                        Ord. No. Date Passed
N.C. 24 at S.R. 1512            –      11-10-88
N.C. Highway 24 and Main Street –      3-21-00
 
(OC, App. I § 101)
Penalty, see § 70.99
   (B)   Flashing yellow caution signal lights shall be installed at the
following locations.
 
Location                                             Ord. No. Date Passed
N.C. 24 and Main Street (for school crossing)        –      –
N.C. 24 and Phillips Loop Road (for school crossing) –      11-10-88
 
(OC, App. I § 103)
Penalty, see § 70.99
SCHEDULE III. YIELD SIGNS.
   Yield right-of-way signs shall be posted at the following locations:
Location                                                   Ord. No. Date Passed
Broad Street and Fifth Street                              –      –
Broad Street at Water Street                               –      –
Elm Street and Broad Street                                –      –
First Street (Hotel Street), facing the traffic            –      4-6-60
Russell Street and Park Lane                               –      –
Spring Street at Walnut Street                             –      –
Stillwater Drive proceeding southwardly toward Bonita Lane –      7-20-93
 
(OC, App. I § 104)
Penalty, see § 70.99
SCHEDULE IV. LEFT TURNS; RIGHT TURNS.
   (A)   There shall be no left turns at following intersections.
 
Location                                                   Ord. No. Date Passed
From Webb Street (proceeding east) onto Main Street        –      –
From Church Street (proceeding southeast) onto S. Sabiston 2022-O3  3-28-22
Drive
From Main Street (proceeding southeast) onto Front Street  2022-O3  3-28-22
From Water Street (proceeding southwest) onto Moore Street 2022-O3  3-28-22
 
(OC, App. I § 120)
Penalty, see § 70.99
   (B)   There shall be no right turns at following intersections.
Location Ord. No. Date Passed
Location                                                   Ord. No. Date Passed
From Webb Street (proceeding west) onto Main Street        2022-O3  3-28-22
From Church Street(proceeding northwest) onto S. Sabiston  –      11-10-88
Drive                                                      2022-O3  3-28-22
From Front Street (proceeding southwest) onto Main Street  2022-O3  3-28-22
From Water Street (proceeding northeast) onto Church       2022-O3  3-28-22
Street
From Water Street (proceeding northeast) onto Moore Street 2022-O3  3-28-22
From Elm Street (proceeding northeast) onto Moore Street   2022-O3  3-28-22
From Moore Street (proceeding northwest) onto Front Street 2022-O3  3-28-22
From Main Street (proceeding northwest) onto Front Street  2022-O3  3-28-22
 
(OC, App. I § 121)
Penalty, see § 70.99
SCHEDULE V. ONE-WAY STREETS.
 
Location                                                   Ord. No. Date Passed
Church Street from Front Street to Walnut Street           2022-O2; 1-10-22;
                                                           2022-O16 12-12-22
Front Street from N.C. Highway 24 to Church Street         2022-O2  1-10-22
Main Street from Water Street to Front Street              2022-O2  1-10-22
Moore Street, traveling northwest, from Water Street to
Elm Street (all hours)
Moore Street, traveling northwest, from Front Street to    2022-O2; 1-10-22;
Water Street, from 5:00 a.m. to 11:00 a.m.                 2023-O2  7-10-23
Moore Street, traveling southeast, from Water Street to
Front Street, from 11:00 a.m. to 5:00 a.m.
Sabiston Drive from N.C. Highway 24 to Church Street       –;     10-11-88;
                                                           2022-O2  1-10-22
Water Street along Ward Shore Park (westbound) from Spring 2019-O1  1-22-19
Street to Elm Street
 
(OC, App. I § 123) (Am. Ord. 2022-O2, passed 1-10-22) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE VI. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle in excess of the speeds
designated upon the following streets or portions of streets of the state
highway system.
      (1)   Twenty mile per hour speed limit.
 
Location         Ord. No. Date Passed
Bonita Lane      –      7-20-93
Stillwater Drive –      –
 
(OC, App. I § 105)
      (2)   Twenty-five mile per hour speed limit.
 
  Location                                               Ord. No. Date Passed
Corbett Avenue beginning at a point 500 feet east of S.R.
1447, between the hour of 7:30 A.M. to 8:30 A.M. and 2:30 –      1-4-68
P.M. to 3:30 P.M. on each day that school is in session
Oyster Bay Drive                                          –      7-20-93
 
(OC, App. I § 106)
      (3)   Thirty-five mile per hour speed limit.
 
Location                                       Ord. No. Date Passed
Corbett Avenue (Highway 24) within town limits 2022-O3  3-28-22
 
(OC, App. I § 108)
      (4)   Forty-five mile per hour speed limit.
 
Location                                                  Ord. No. Date Passed
Hammocks Beach Road (S.R. 1511), from N.C. 24 to its
southern terminus at Wind Dance Lane - all those portions 2012-01  1-17-12
that are within the town limits
 
(OC, App. I § 110) (Am. Ord. 2012-01, passed 1-17-12)
Penalty, see § 70.99
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle in excess of the speeds
designated on the following town streets or subdivisions.
      (1)   Twenty mile per hour speed limit.
         (a)   Streets.
Location Ord. No. Date Passed
Location                                      Ord. No. Date Passed
Broad Street                                  –      –
Century Court                                 –      3-21-00
Church Street from Water Street to Highway 24 –      –
                                              2022-O3  3-28-22
Crush Court                                   –      3-21-00
East Sabiston Drive                           –      –
Elm Street                                    –      –
Fifth Street                                  –      –
Main Street East                              –      –
Moore Street East                             –      –
Pirates Cove Drive                            –      3-21-00
Shore Drive                                   –      –
South Chestnut Street                         –      –
South Water Street                            –      –
South Sabiston Drive                          –      –
Spring Street                                 –      –
Walnut Street                                 –      –
Webb Street                                   –      –
 
         (b)   Subdivisions.
Subdivisions Ord. No. Date Passed
Subdivisions           Ord. No. Date Passed
Charleston Park        2022-O12 8-22-22
Deer Island Harbor     2022-O12 8-22-22
Deer Run               2022-O12 8-22-22
Edgewater Heights      2022-O12 8-22-22
Forest Brook           2022-O12 8-22-22
Foster Creek           2022-O12 8-22-22
Halls Creek I, II, III 2022-O12 8-22-22
Oyster Bay             2022-O12 8-22-22
Park Place             2022-O12 8-22-22
Pickett Bay            2022-O12 8-22-22
River Reach            2022-O12 8-22-22
River Reach West       2022-O12 8-22-22
Russell Park           2022-O12 8-22-22
Seashore Estates       2022-O12 8-22-22
Shadow Creek           2022-O12 8-22-22
Shipwrights Point      2022-O12 8-22-22
Swan Harbour           2022-O12 8-22-22
Swansboro Acres        2022-O12 8-22-22
Swansboro Heights      2022-O12 8-22-22
Swansboro Park         2022-O12 8-22-22
The Villages           2022-O12 8-22-22
Ward Farm              2022-O12 8-22-22
Westwood               2022-O12 8-22-22
 
(OC, App. I § 113) (Am. Ord. 2006-05, passed 1-17-06)
      (2)   Thirty-five mile per hour speed limit.
 
Location                                                   Ord. No. Date Passed
Main Street Extension from Hammock Road westwardly to N.C. –      8-20-96
Highway 24
 
(OC, App. I § 116)
Penalty, see § 70.99
      (3)   Fifteen mile per hour speed limit.
 
Location       Ord. No. Date Passed
Recreation Way 2015-O4  10-20-15
 
(Ord. 2015-O4, passed 10-20-15)
      (4)   Ten mile per hour speed limit.
 
Location                                        Ord. No. Date Passed
Front Street in its entirety                    2022-O10 7-11-22
Church Street from Front Street to Water Street 2022-O10 7-11-22
 
CHAPTER 75: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Parking prohibited at all times
   
II.   Parking prohibited at designated times
   
III.   Overnight parking prohibited
SCHEDULE I. PARKING PROHIBITED AT ALL TIMES.
   Parking shall be prohibited at all times on the following streets.
Location Ord. No. Date Passed
Location                                                                  Ord.  Date
                                                                          No.   Passed
Church Street from Webb Street to Sabiston Drive                          –   11-10-
                                                                                88
                                                                          2011- 6-21-
Church Street, southwest side, from Front Street northwest to Webb Street O19;  11;
                                                                          2013- 8-20-
                                                                          O16   13
Water Street, east side, from Church Street to Drudy Lane                 2013- 8-20-
                                                                          O16   13
North side of Main Street from the entrance to Second Wind on Main Street
West to the easternmost entrance to the First Citizen’s Bank and Trust  –   5-3-84
Company parking lot on Main Street
On that part of Elm Street between Church Street and Highway 24           –   5-3-84
The northern part of Main Street from the mean high water mark of the           11-10-
White Oak River a distance of fifty feet towards the intersection of Main 2013- 88;
Street and Front Street                                                   O16   8-20-
                                                                                13
South side of Moore Street to the dead end                                2005- 6-21-
                                                                          O7    05
The west side of Water Street, south from the intersection with Spring    2014- 4-15-
Street for approximately 466 feet to the intersection with Elm Street     O8    14
(OC, App. I § 128) (Am. Ord. 2005-07, passed 6-21-05; Am. Ord. 2011-019, passed
6-21-11; Am. Ord. 2013-O16, passed 8-20-13; Am. Ord. 2014-O4, passed 2-18-14;
Am. Ord. 2014-O18, passed 4-15-14) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II: PARKING PROHIBITED AT DESIGNATED TIMES.
   Designated parking times will be in effect for the following areas.
 
Location                                               Ord. No. Date passed
Moore Street, from Front Street to Water Street, daily 2023-O8  7-10-23
from 5:00 a.m. to 11:00 a.m.
 
(Ord. 2023-O8, passed 7-10-23)
SCHEDULE III. OVERNIGHT PARKING PROHIBITED.
   Overnight parking shall be prohibited in the following areas.
 
Location                         Ord. No. Date passed
All municipal parks/parking lots 2007-8   11-20-07
 
(Ord. 2007-8, passed 11-20-07; Am. Ord. 2023-O8, passed 7-10-23)
CHAPTER 76: GOLF CARTS
Section
   
76.01   Purpose and authority
   
76.02   Statement of policy
   
76.03   Definitions
   
76.04   Regulations
   
76.05   Areas prohibited for use
   
76.06   Registration
   
76.07   Enforcement
 
   
76.99   Penalty
§ 76.01 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate the operation of golf carts on
any public street, road, or highway within the boundaries of the Town of
Swansboro, under the authority of G.S. § 160A-300.6, in order to provide
certain limited safety protections relating to golf cart operators, golf cart
passengers, and other users of streets and highways.
(Ord. 2010-031, passed 9-21-10)
§ 76.02 STATEMENT OF POLICY.
   While the town finds that regulations governing the operation of golf carts
is necessary to address certain public safety issues, the town notes that golf
carts are not designed or manufactured for use on streets and roads and do not
possess the same safety features required of motor vehicles. The town does not
advocate or endorse their operation on streets and roads, and specifically
advises that the adoption of these regulations does not constitute a
determination that the use of golf carts on streets or roads is safe or
advisable. All persons who operate or ride in golf carts on streets or roads do
so at their own risk and peril, are advised to be attentive to motorists,
bicyclists, pedestrians, these regulations, and the motor vehicle laws of the
state and the town, and are urged to use appropriate personal safety equipment,
including seat belts and child restraints.
(Ord. 2010-031, passed 9-21-10)
§ 76.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GOLF CART. A vehicle designed and manufactured for operation on a golf
course for sporting or recreational purposes and that is not capable of
exceeding speeds of 20 miles per hour. GOLF CARTS do not include “low speed
vehicles”, as defined by state law, which are subject to the registration,
inspection, and other laws of the state relating to motor vehicles. GOLF CARTS
also do not include utility vehicles or motorized all-terrain vehicles, which
are not eligible for use on public roads or for registration as motor vehicles
under state law, or vehicles originally designed as golf carts which have been
modified to operate at speeds greater than 20 miles per hour.
Statutory reference:
   see G.S. § 20-4.01(12a)
   PUBLIC STREETS, ROADS, AND HIGHWAYS. “Public streets, roads, and highways”
include the following roadways and rights-of-way:
      (1)   Municipal streets maintained by the town;
      (2)    Streets generally open to public use; and
      (3)   Public vehicular areas, the last as defined by G.S. § 20-219.4.
(Ord. 2010-031, passed 9-21-10)
§ 76.04 REGULATIONS.
   Golf carts may be operated on public streets, roads, and highways (as
defined herein) within the town and on property owned or leased by the town
only in accordance with the following requirements and regulations.
   (A)   Driver’s license required. Golf cart operators must have a valid
driver’s license, issued in their name, and the license must be in their
possession when operating a golf cart.
   (B)   Minimum operator age. Persons operating a golf cart must be at least
16 years of age.
   (C)   Basic safety equipment. Golf carts must be equipped with a rear view
mirror and either (1) triangle reflector at least 12 inches high designed to
designate a slow moving vehicle or (2) two reflectors, at least three inches in
diameter, mounted on the rear of the vehicle.
   (D)   Operating hours. Golf carts may be operated on public streets,
highways, or roadways only from dawn to dusk unless the golf cart is equipped
with the following equipment: (1) two operating headlights on each side of the
front of the cart, capable of illuminating for a distance of 200 feet and
capable of being seen for a distance of 500 feet under normal atmospheric
conditions; (2) two operating tail lights, one on each side of the rear of the
cart, capable of being seen from 500 feet under normal atmospheric conditions.
   (E)   Vehicle laws compliance. Golf cart operators shall observe and comply
with all state and municipal laws and regulations relating to the operation of
motor vehicles, including those relating to the possession and use of alcoholic
beverages and illegal substances. No golf cart containing any open container of
alcohol may be operated on public streets, roads, or highways.
   (F)   Operation on roadway. Golf carts shall be operated at the far right
edge of the roadway and shall yield the right-of-way to overtaking motor
vehicles at all times.
   (G)   Passenger limitations. The number of persons in a golf cart may not
exceed the designed, maximum capacity specified by the manufacturer. No person
may, and the operator shall not allow, any person to ride in or on any part of
a golf cart not designed to carry passengers, including portions designed for
storage or carrying of golf bags or other items. The operator and all occupants
shall remain seated while the golf cart is in operation, and no part of an
operator or occupant’s body shall extend outside the golf cart while it is in
motion, other than necessary hand signals by the operator to indicate turns.
   (H)   Speed; proper operation. Golf carts shall not be operated at a speed
greater than 20 miles per hours, shall not (in any case) be operated at a speed
greater than is reasonable and prudent for existing conditions, shall not be
operated in a careless or reckless or in a manner that endangers other persons,
and shall at all times be operated in compliance with the instructions of
police officers who are controlling traffic.
   (I)   No operation on sidewalks. Golf carts shall not be operated on
sidewalks at any time.
   (J)   Private property. Golf carts shall not be operated on private
property, including but not limited to parking lots and other private vehicular
areas, without the permission of the owner(s).
   (K)   Public vehicular areas. If golf carts are operated within public
vehicular areas (as defined by state law), they shall comply with any
provisions of state or local law and any posted traffic controls that apply to
the operation of motor vehicles within such areas.
   (L)   Registration. Golf carts must be properly registered as required by
this section and must display, in the lower corner of the windshield on the
driver’s side or in the nearest feasible location, a current, valid
registration sticker issued by the Town of Swansboro.
   (M)   Permitted operational locations. Golf carts may be operated only on
streets with a posted speed limit of 20 miles per hour or less.
   (N)   Crossings. Golf carts may not travel upon or cross streets, roads, or
highways with a speed limit greater than 20 miles per hour, provided that golf
carts may cross streets with speed limits up to 35 miles per hours if the
crossing is a direct crossing, the road being crossed is no more than two lanes
in width, and the distance of the crossing is no greater than 30 feet.
   (O)   Parking. Golf carts may be parked in the same manner and in the same
places designated for parking of motor vehicles only.
   (P)   Special situations. In special circumstances such as emergency
situations, special events, or other unusual circumstances, the Police Chief or
his or her designee may temporarily authorize, direct, allow, or prohibit the
operation of golf carts in a manner different from the normal regulations of
this chapter.
   (Q)   Handicapped parking. Golf carts may park in handicapped parking spaces
only if the operator or at least one passenger has a valid handicapped parking
authorization issued by the state.
(Ord. 2010-031, passed 9-21-10) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.05 AREAS PROHIBITED FOR USE.
   (A)   The use or operation of golf carts along all streets, roads, and
highways with speed limits higher than 20 miles per hour, except for those road
crossings specifically permitted, is prohibited.
   (B)   The use or operation of golf carts on the following streets, roads, or
highways within the Town of Swansboro is specifically prohibited:
      (1)   NC Highway 24 (Corbett Avenue)         (8)   Norris Road
      (2)   Main Street Extension               (9)   Deer Island Road
      (3)   Mount Pleasant Road               (10)   Phillips Road
      (4)   Swansboro Loop Road            (11)   Dr. Corbett Road
      (5)   Old Hammocks Beach Road            (12)   Richard Riggs Road
      (6)   Hammocks Beach Road            (13)   School Road
      (7)   Queen’s Creek Road
   (C)   The use or operation of golf carts in festival areas without police
permission is prohibited.
(Ord. 2010-031, passed 9-21-10) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.06 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Applications. All golf cart owners must annually complete a
registration application in a proper manner, pay any applicable application,
inspection, and/or registration fees, provide the required proof of liability
insurance, and submit their golf carts for inspection by the Police Department.
The registration application shall also include signed confirmation that the
applicant has read, understands, and agrees to comply with town regulations
regarding the operation of golf carts. Upon a determination that the
application and the cart meet town requirements, the Police Department shall
issue a registration sticker to the owner, accompanied by a copy of the
requirements and regulations of this section.
   (B)   Insurance and liability. All golf cart owners shall provide proof of
ownership, required proof of liability insurance, and a waiver of liability (in
terms prepared by the town) releasing the town from any and all liability that
may arise from the operation of the golf cart within the town. The required
liability insurance coverage shall be in an amount not less than that required
by North Carolina law for motor vehicles operated on public highways.
   (C)   Fees. Fees for golf cart applications, inspections, and/or
registrations shall be as determined annually by the Board of Commissioners.
Such fees shall be non-refundable and shall not be prorated for partial years.
   (D)   Registration period. Golf cart registrations shall be valid for no
more than one year and shall expire on June 30 of each year. Registrations may
be issued at any time during the year, but all registrations shall expire on
the following June 30.
(Ord. 2010-031, passed 9-21-10)
§ 76.07 ENFORCEMENT.
   Any act constituting a violation of this chapter or a failure to comply with
any of its requirements shall constitute an infraction under the provisions of
G.S. Chapter 20. Notwithstanding the foregoing, persons who, while operating
golf carts on streets, roads, and highways within the town, violate the “rules
of the road” applicable to motor vehicles under the North Carolina General
Statutes shall be subject to the same enforcement measures and penalties as
those applicable to operators of motor vehicles. Each day that any of the
provisions of this chapter is violated shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2010-031, passed 9-21-10)
§ 76.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Civil penalties. Any act constituting a violation of this chapter
shall subject the offender to a civil penalty of $50, plus any attorney fees,
court costs, or other collection expenses incurred by the town. If the offender
fails to pay the penalty within 30 days of receiving written notice of the
violation, the amount owed may be recovered by the town in a civil action in
the nature of debt, in addition, failure to pay a civil penalty shall
constitute grounds for revocation of a golf cart registration.
   (B)   Registration revocation. Three violations of this chapter within any
12-month period shall constitute cause for revocation of a golf cart
registration for a period of one year.
   (C)   Misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter shall also be guilty
of a Class 3 misdemeanor and shall be subject to penalties as set forth in §
10.99 of the town code. Notwithstanding the foregoing, violators may be subject
to greater penalties if such penalties are provided under the motor vehicle
laws of the state.
(Ord. 2010-031, passed 9-21-10)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
Chapter
   
90.   ANIMALS
   
91.   FIRE PREVENTION
   
92.   NUISANCES; HEALTH
   
93.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
   
94.   PARKS
   
95.   TREES
   
96.   TOWN MARINA
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Cruelty to animals
   
90.02   Animals at large
   
90.03   Keeping and feeding of waterfowl prohibited
   
90.04   Bird sanctuary
   
90.05   Keeping of livestock prohibited
   
90.06   Chickens
Dogs
   
90.20   Definitions
   
90.21   Compliance with state law
   
90.22   Inoculation of pets
   
90.23   Running at large
   
90.24   Nuisances
   
90.25   Cruelty and abandonment
   
90.26   Female dogs in heat
   
90.27   Dog waste cleanup
   
90.28   Removing tags or collars; molesting dog
 
   
90.98   Violations
   
90.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate domestic animals, see G.S. § 160A-186
Editor’s note:
   As the county is responsible for impoundment and disposing of impounded
dogs, these sections have been deleted from the town code.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful to mistreat any animals or to willfully frighten them,
to attend or stage any animal or fowl fight or to poison any animal.
(OC, § 8-2-1) (Am. Ord. passed 3-9-89)
Penalty, see § 90.99
Statutory reference: 
   Cruelty to animals generally, see G.S. §§ 14-360 et seq.
   Municipal authority to prevent the abuse of animals, see G.S. § 160A-182
§ 90.02 ANIMALS AT LARGE.
   No horses, goats, cattle, chickens, or other animals, shall be permitted to
run at large within the town limits, unless otherwise allowed in areas
designated by the town. All animals unless claimed within four days shall be
disposed of as the town shall deem best.
(OC, § 8-2-2) (Am. Ord. 2014-O3, passed 2-18-14; Am. Ord. 2017-012, passed 11-
14-17) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 KEEPING AND FEEDING OF WATERFOWL PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to keep or
maintain any duck, goose or other waterfowl on any lot or within any pen or
other enclosure or building within the corporate limits of the town.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provision of division (A) of this section it shall
be lawful to maintain ducks, geese and waterfowl on private property which
directly abuts the White Oak River and which is in an area zoned B-1, B-2, or
Historic Business District Overlay; provided, however, that the ducks, geese
and waterfowl shall not be kept within any pen or other enclosure or building
upon the property.
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided it shall be unlawful to feed any duck,
goose or other waterfowl within the corporate limits of the town, or to scatter
or otherwise place any material edible by the ducks, geese or other waterfowl
in a manner intended or clearly likely to attract the ducks, geese or other
waterfowl within the corporate limits of the town.
   (D)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (C) of this section, it
shall be lawful to feed ducks, geese and waterfowl on private property which
directly abuts the White Oak River, and which is zoned either B-1, B-2, or
Historic Business District Overlay.
   (E)   Where the duck, goose or other waterfowl is an animal used for therapy
documented by a medical professional.
(OC, § 8-2-3) (Ord. passed 3-16-93; Am. Ord. 2016-05, passed 5-10-16) Penalty,
see §
90.99
§ 90.04 BIRD SANCTUARY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to trap, hunt, shoot or attempt to shoot or
molest in any manner any bird or wild fowl or to rob bird nests or wild fowl
nests. Provided, however, if starlings or similar birds or domestic fowl are
found to be congregating in such numbers in a particular locality that they
constitute a nuisance or a menace to health or property in the opinion of the
proper authorities of the town or county then in that event the authorities
shall meet with representatives of the Audubon Society, bird club, garden club
or humane society or as many of these clubs as are found to exist in the town
after having given at least three days actual notice of the time and place of
the meeting to the representatives of the clubs.
   (B)   If as a result of the meetings no satisfactory alternative is found to
abate the nuisance, then the birds or domestic fowl may be removed or destroyed
in such numbers and in the manner as is deemed advisable by the authorities
under the supervision of the Chief of Police of the town.
(OC, § 8-2-4) (Ord. passed 2-14-57; Am. Ord. passed 3-9-89)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.05 KEEPING OF LIVESTOCK PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to keep or maintain any cow, hog, horse, pony, mule,
sheep, goat or other livestock on any lot or within any pen, stable or other
enclosure or building within the corporate limits with the exception of
chickens, see §
90.06.
(OC, § 8-2-5) (Am. Ord. passed 3-9-89; Am. Ord. 2014-O3, passed 2-18-14)
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 CHICKENS.
   Chickens are permitted for personal domestic use in the corporate limits as
provided herein:
   (A)   No more than six hens are allowed per single family parcel in the
corporate limits. Roosters are not permitted.
   (B)   Chickens shall be confined on the property within an enclosure. Such
enclosure shall be restricted to the rear yard, and shall meet the accessory
structure setback requirements of the prevailing zoning district, refer to the
Unified Development Ordinance, Article 10, Zoning Districts and Zoning Map.
Enclosures shall allow for a minimum of three square feet per fowl. A building
permit will be required, but there shall be no fee.
   (C)   Slaughter is not permitted.
   (D)   Other domestic fowl, such as (but not limited to) peacocks, geese, and
turkey, are prohibited.
   (E)   Nuisance conditions shall be abated through the provisions of §
92.25.
(Ord. 2014-O3, passed 2-18-14) Penalty, see §
90.99
DOGS
§ 90.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONMENT. Allowing a dog to provide its own resources in finding shelter,
food or water; leaving a dog for more than 36 hours without human attention or
supervision.
   DOG. A male or female dog of any age.
   OFFICER. Shall be intended to mean any police officer, animal control
officer or any other person authorized or employed by the town or county whose
duty it is to preserve the peace, to make arrests or to enforce the law.
   OWNER. Any person or persons, firm, association or corporation owning,
feeding, keeping or harboring a dog.
   RUNNING AT LARGE. Any dog while roaming, running or hunting for itself off
the property of its owner or custodian and not under its owner's or custodian's
immediate control.
(OC, § 8-2-11) (Ord. passed 7-1-71; Am. Ord. passed 3-9-89)
§ 90.21 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAW.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any animal owner or other person to fail to
comply with the state laws relating to the control of rabies.
   (B)   It is the purpose of this subchapter to supplement the state laws by
providing a procedure for the enforcement of state laws relating to rabies
control, in addition to the criminal penalties provided by state law.
(OC, § 8-2-12) (Ord. passed 7-1-71; Am. Ord. passed 3-9-89)
Penalty, see § 90.99
Statutory reference:
   State provisions for rabies control, see G.S. §§ 130A-184 through 130A-200
§ 90.22 INOCULATION OF PETS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for an owner to fail to provide current
inoculation against rabies (hydrophobia) for any dog or cat four months of age
or older. Should it be deemed necessary by the Town Board of Commissioners,
County Health Director, Board of County Commissioners, or State Public Health
Veterinarian that other pets be inoculated in order to prevent a threatened
epidemic or to control an existing epidemic, it shall be unlawful for an owner
to fail to provide current inoculation against rabies for that pet.
   (B)   A rabies inoculation shall be deemed current for a cat if the
inoculation has been given within the preceding 12 months. A rabies inoculation
shall be deemed current for a dog if two inoculations have been given one year
apart and booster doses of rabies vaccine administered every three years
thereafter.
(OC, § 8-2-13) (Ord. passed 7-1-71; Am. Ord. passed 3-9-89)
Penalty, see § 90.99
Statutory reference:
   For state law provisions, see G.S. § 130A-185
§ 90.23 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   No owner shall allow his dog to run at large in the town unaccompanied
by the owner or by some member of the owner’s family or some other person by
the owner’s permission, unless otherwise allowed in areas designated by the
town.
   (B)   Duties of the owner to control the animal(s) shall include:
      (1)   All animals within the city shall remain under the immediate
control of their owner or keeper, unless otherwise allowed in areas designated
by the town. For the purpose of this section, immediate control by owner or
keeper shall be construed to mean:
         (a)   Restrained upon or within the property of the owner or keeper of
the animal either by being tied, chained, within the confines of a fence
designed to restrain the animal, or within an electronically operated fence
sufficient to restrain the animal upon the property.
         (b)   While being walked or exercised off the premises or property of
the owner or keeper, the animal must be restrained by a leash connected to a
collar or harness, sufficient to restrain the animal from breaking loose,
unless otherwise allowed in areas designated by the town.
   (C)   Cats shall be exempt from this section.
(OC, § 8-2-14) (Ord. passed 7-1-71; Am. Ord. passed 3-9-89; Am. Ord. 2008-07,
passed 3-18-08; Am. Ord. 2017-012, passed 11-14-17) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.24 NUISANCES.
   (A)   Any person keeping within the corporate limits of the town one or more
dogs which by prolonged and habitual barking, howling or whining, cause serious
annoyance to the neighboring residents and thereby interfere with the
reasonable use and enjoyment of the premises occupied by those residents, shall
be guilty of maintaining a nuisance.
   (B)   Any person keeping within the corporate limits of the town one or more
dogs and who fails to maintain its premises or enclosure in a sanitary
condition and thereby creates obnoxious odors or serious annoyance to the
neighboring residents shall be guilty of maintaining a nuisance.
   (C)   Upon written and signed complaint being made to the Police Department
by any resident or residents referred to in this section, a representative of
the Police Department shall notify that person against whom the complaint is
directed that a complaint has been received and thereupon that person shall
abate the nuisance declared in divisions (A) and (B) above within 24 hours from
time of notification.
(OC, § 8-2-15) (Ord. passed 7-1-71)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.25 CRUELTY AND ABANDONMENT.
   It shall be unlawful to intentionally dump, dispose, turn free or abandon
any dog for the purpose of total abandonment with the town. A law enforcement
officer in the performance of their duties may find it necessary to take action
against the animal. A person is guilty of a misdemeanor who maliciously kills,
maims, wounds or beats an animal which is the property of others, or who having
charge or custody of an animal as owner or otherwise tortures, deprives of
necessary sustenance, drink or shelter, beats, mutilates or kills an animal or
inflicts unnecessary cruelty upon an animal.
(OC, § 8-2-16) (Ord. passed 3-9-89)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.26 FEMALE DOGS IN HEAT.
   No owner of any female dog in heat shall keep the animal within the town
during that period, except when securely confined to the premises of the owner
or other person with that person’s consent.
(OC, § 8-2-17)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.27 DOG WASTE CLEANUP.
   No owner, keeper, or other person in charge, possession, custody, or control
of any dog shall cause or allow the dog to defecate on any street, sidewalk,
public right-of-way, publicly-owned or leased area, park, or private property
without the permission of the owner, agent, or lawful occupant of the property;
unless the excrement is immediately removed by the owner, keeper, or person in
charge of the dog, placed in a sealed container, and disposed of in an approved
sewage collection system or in an appropriate container designed for solid
waste disposal.
(Ord. 2008-015, passed - - 08)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.28 REMOVING TAGS OR COLLARS; MOLESTING DOG.
   (A)   It shall be a misdemeanor for any person, other than the owner or
lawful possessor to do any of the following:
      (1)   To remove the collar or rabies vaccination tag from the neck of the
dog or to entice any dog out of the enclosure or house on the premises of its
owner or lawful possessor;
      (2)   To seize or molest any dog while held or led by its owner or lawful
possessor.
   (B)   Upon conviction thereof punishment shall be as prescribed in §
90.99 of this chapter.
(OC, § 8-2-19) (Am. Ord. passed 3-9-89)
§ 90.98 VIOLATIONS.
   Any owner found violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be punished in accordance with
state statute.
(OC, § 8-2-18) (Am. Ord. 2008-15, passed - - 08) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is otherwise provided shall be subject to the penalty in §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of
Chapter 90 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than
$100 or imprisoned for not more than 30 days.
(OC, § 8-2-3(e)) (Ord. passed 3-16-93; Am. Ord. 2014-O3, passed 2-18-14)
CHAPTER 91: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Objectives
   
91.03   Compliance required
   
91.04   Application of Fire Prevention Code
   
91.05   Police power; liberally construed
   
91.06   Conflicting ordinances
   
91.07   Fire districts
Adoption of Fire Code; Regulations
   
91.20   NPFA appendices adopted
   
91.21   Secured key access
   
91.22   Fire alarm systems
   
91.23   New development and construction in town limits
Administration and Enforcement
   
91.35   Authority to enforce; Division of Loss/Control Investigation
   
91.36   Duties of officers
   
91.37   Preparation of instructions
   
91.38   Investigation of fires; report required
   
91.39   Permit required
   
91.40   Inspections
   
91.41   Compliance with order of Fire Department
   
91.42   Records
   
91.43   Annual reports
   
91.44   Fire Chief to recommend amendments
   
91.45   Schedule of fees
   
91.46   Notice of violation
   
91.47   Right to enter premises
   
91.48   Appeals
 
   
91.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Fire Department, see
Ch. 34
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CURRENT. The term used to describe the NFPA code or any portion thereof
shall mean the version in effect at the time of any violation, alleged
violation, occurrence or other incident subject thereto or affected thereby.
   FIRE DISTRICT. The Town Board of Commissioners may pass one or more
ordinances establishing and defining fire limits, which shall include the
principal business portions of the city and which shall be known as primary
fire limits. In addition, the Town Board of Commissioners may also establish
and define one or more separate areas within the town as secondary fire limits.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. This term includes but is not limited to flammable
solids and liquids, pyroxylin plastics, combustible metals, oxidizing agents,
organic peroxides, materials or mixtures of materials which are toxic,
corrosive, poisonous, radioactive and any other materials or products that are
life-threatening or present a fire hazard as determined by the Fire Marshal.
   HAZ-MAT TEAM. A team of Fire Department members trained to handle and
contain hazardous materials as defined in this section.
   INSURANCE SERVICES OFFICE (ISO). A commercial risk assessment service which
provides fire insurance ratings based upon the adequacy of fire protection
services covering a given area.
   NATIONAL FIRE PROTECTION ASSOCIATION (NFPA). The NFPA was organized in 1896
to promote the science and improve the methods of fire protection and
prevention, to obtain and circulate information on these subjects and to secure
the cooperation of its members in establishing proper safeguards against loss
of live and property by fire.
   SPECIAL EVENT. A onetime event involving any process or activity known or
determined to be life-threatening or to constitute a fire hazard. A special
event permit shall be issued by the Code Enforcement Fire Prevention Official
on any event-by-event or activity-by-activity basis upon demonstration of
compliance with applicable Fire Prevention Code rules, provisions and
regulations.
(OC, § 3-2-2)
§ 91.02 OBJECTIVES.
   This Fire Prevention Code provides the town with rules and regulations to
improve public safety by promoting the control of fire hazards; regulating the
installation, use and maintenance of equipment; regulating the use of
structures, premises and open areas; providing for the abatement of fire
hazards; establishing the responsibilities and procedures for code enforcement;
and setting forth the standards for compliance and achievement of these
objectives. The provisions hereof shall be controlling within the limits of the
town and will apply to such areas as are within one mile beyond the corporate
limits or on properties owned individually or jointly by the town.
(OC, § 3-2-12)
§ 91.03 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate this chapter, to permit or
maintain a violation, to refuse to obey any provisions thereof or to fail or
refuse to comply with any provisions or regulations except as variation may be
allowed by the action of the Code Enforcement Fire Prevention Official in
writing. Proof of an unlawful act or failure shall be deemed prima facie
evidence that the act is that of the owner or other person in control of the
premises. Prosecution or lack thereof of either the owner, occupant or the
person in charge shall be deemed to relieve any of the others.
(OC, § 3-2-13)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.04 APPLICATION OF FIRE PREVENTION CODE.
   The provisions of the Fire Prevention Code shall apply equally to both
public and private property, and it shall apply to all structures and their
occupants, except as otherwise specified.
(OC, § 3-2-24)
§ 91.05 POLICE POWER; LIBERALLY CONSTRUED.
   This chapter and the current NFPA Fire Appendices as adopted in §
91.20 shall be deemed to be within the exercise of the police powers of the
town for the preservation and protection of the public health, peace, safety
and welfare; and all the provisions of the Fire Prevention Code shall be
liberally construed for that purpose.
(OC, § 3-2-25)
§ 91.06 CONFLICTING ORDINANCES.
   All formal ordinances or parts thereof conflicting or inconsistent with the
provisions of this chapter or of the Code adopted in §
91.20 are repealed.
(OC, § 3-2-31)
§ 91.07 FIRE DISTRICTS.
   A Primary Fire District is hereby established consisting of all of the
property located within the boundary described as follows:
Beginning at the Point in the Town of Swansboro, Onslow County, North Carolina
where the centerline of Front Street intersects the extended eastern property
line of Thelma Rowe, said property having the street address of 119 Water
Street, Swansboro, North Carolina, said property being further described in the
deed recorded at Book 894, Page 60, Onslow County Registry, the description
contained therein being hereby incorporated herein by reference; thence
proceeding eastwardly along the centerline of Front Street to its intersection
with the centerline of Main Street, thence proceeding northwardly along the
centerline of Main Street to its intersection with the centerline of Water
Street; thence proceeding eastwardly along the centerline of Water Street to
its intersection with the centerline of Moore Street; thence proceeding
southwardly along the centerline of Moore Street to the centerline of Front
Street; thence proceeding eastwardly along the centerline of Front Street to
its intersection with North Carolina Highway 24; thence proceeding southwardly
along the right-of-way line of North Carolina Highway 24 to the White Oak
River; thence proceeding along the White Oak River westwardly to the eastern
property line of Thelma Rowe as described above; thence proceeding northwardly
along the eastern property line of Thelma Rowe to the Point of Beginning.
(OC, § 3-2-32) (Am. Ord. passed 8-11-88; Am. Ord. passed 4-15-96)
Statutory reference:
   Establishment of fire limits, see G.S. § 160A-435
   Restrictions within fire limits, see G.S. § 160A-436
ADOPTION OF FIRE CODE; REGULATIONS
§ 91.20 NPFA APPENDICES ADOPTED.
   (A)   Except as hereinafter amended, the provisions of the North Carolina
Fire Prevention Code with all included Appendixes, current edition, adopted by
the North Carolina Building Code Council is hereby adopted and made applicable
as the Fire Prevention Code of the Town of Swansboro. A copy of such Code shall
be maintained in the office of the Fire Department, and in the Office of the
Town Clerk. The specific provisions of the aforesaid state building code herein
referred to as the fire prevention code are hereby incorporated into this
section as fully as if set out herein verbatim.
   (B)   The listed standards and publications which comprise a part of the
Fire Prevention Code, as the same may be periodically revised and updated,
shall be applicable and enforced within the town.
   (C)   Amendments to the North Carolina Fire Prevention Code, which are
adopted and published by the North Carolina State Building Code Council, shall
be effective on the date prescribed by the North Carolina State Building Code
Council.
   (D)   The North Carolina State Building Code volume that is titled
Administration and Enforcement Requirements is hereby referenced for the
administration of the North Carolina Fire Prevention Code, current edition for
periodic inspection of building altered, repaired or rehabilitated in
accordance with the Existing Building Code.
(Ord. 2018-015, passed 12-11-18)
Statutory Reference:
   State Building Code including Fire Code mandatory throughout the state, G.S.
143-138(e)
§ 91.21 SECURED KEY ACCESS.
   (A)   Any building, other than a residential building with less than four
units, shall have installed an approved secure key box for access by the Fire
Department in case of emergency. The key box shall contain master keys
necessary for access to all portions of the premises and such supplemental
information as floor plans and lists of chemicals and hazardous materials
located within the building, as may be specified by the Fire Department.
   (B)   The key box shall be installed in a location accessible to and
designated by the Fire Department and shall be a type of master key box
approved by the Fire Department.
   (C)   Buildings existing as of the date of adoption of this section shall be
exempt from this section until such time as any such building is sold; the
building is improved, renovated, or added to such that the improvements exceed
50% of the tax or appraised value of the property; or a new occupancy permit is
otherwise required for the property.
(Ord. 2018-015, passed 12-11-18)
§ 91.22 FIRE ALARM SYSTEMS.
   (A)   No person shall interfere carelessly or willfully with any fire alarm
system or injure the poles, wires, boxes or other apparatus connected
therewith.
   (B)   No person shall give or cause to be given any false alarm of fire by
means of the fire alarm system or otherwise.
(OC, §§ 3-2-10 and 3-2-11) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.23 NEW DEVELOPMENT AND CONSTRUCTION IN TOWN LIMITS.
   (A)   The town hereby directs and authorizes the Fire Chief or his appointee
to review any submissions or applications to the town concerning new and
proposed developments and construction in the town limits or in the one-mile
extraterritorial jurisdiction area, for the purpose insuring that any proposed
developments comply with the provisions of this section as listed herein. The
Fire Chief or his appointee are further instructed to hold periodic inspections
during construction of any developments, to insure compliance with this section
and other ordinances as adopted by the town.
   (B)   It is hereby required that the Fire Chief or his appointee approve any
development plans and to withhold approval if necessary until the provisions of
this section and other applicable ordinances are met. Contractors and
developers are to refrain from starting construction until the approval of
plans has been received.
      (1)   Fire lanes and hydrant access will be provided as directed by the
Fire Chief. Existing structures are to provide unrestricted access to buildings
and hydrants as directed by the Fire Chief or his appointee. Inspections are to
be held periodically to insure this provision is met.
      (2)   New and existing commercial structures are required to comply with
all federal and state laws concerning the use and storage of hazardous
materials. Inspections will be held by the Fire Chief or his appointee, and may
be unannounced.
      (3)   New and existing structures will be required to install and protect
fuel storage facilities as directed by state and federal laws. Propane and
liquid fuel storage cannot be installed closer than required by the NC Fire
Prevention Code. Exception to this will be considered by the Fire Chief or his
appointee where lot size or other structures prevent the required clearance.
Propane storage on commercial property will be protected by a minimum of eight-
inch steel post filled with concrete and anchored in concrete, located on all
four sides of the storage unit(s).
      (4)   It shall be the developer’s responsibility to provide hydrants that
meet the distance requirements of the NC Fire Prevention Code. Cut offs for
each hydrant will be provided by the developer. Cut offs will be installed in
the street where water mains are under the street and within six feet of the
hydrant where mains are not under the street. In addition, a master cut off
will be installed at the entrance to each street in a manner allowing shutdown
of only one street if needed. All water mains, hydrants and placement of these
will be inspected by the Fire Chief or his appointee, for compliance with this
section, and state and federal laws and material standards, before mains,
valves and hydrants can be covered.
      (5)   All hydrants and valves are to be of a type consistent with those
in use in the town. Exceptions are subject to approval of the Fire Chief or his
appointee. All fire hydrants shall be engineered fire hydrants approved by the
State of North Carolina.
      (6)   It shall be the developer’s responsibility to notify the Fire
Department through the Town Manager, as soon as the water and hydrant system is
serviceable, so that a test of the system can be conducted by the Fire
Department. Water pressure must be consistent with the main tied to and water
volume must not be restricted by design or construction, below that of the main
prior to the connection. Fire flows must be consistent with the NC Fire
Prevention Code.
      (7)   The provisions of this section do not preclude or eliminate any
required inspections or requirements of other agencies, local, county, state or
federal.
      (8)   This section deals with fire protection aspects of development, and
does not preclude or direct any change in other aspects of construction or
development covered by existing laws or ordinances.
   (C)   Violations of this section are subject to citations by the Fire Chief
or his appointee and fines may be levied for delay or refusal to correct
violations.
(Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. 2012-017, passed 12-18-12) Penalty, see §
91.99
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 91.35 AUTHORITY TO ENFORCE; DIVISION OF LOSS/CONTROL INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   The Fire Chief shall be responsible for the enforcement of the Fire
Prevention Code. The Chief may detail qualified members of the Fire Department
as Inspectors as shall, from time to time, be necessary. To assist in the
performance of the responsibilities and duties placed upon the Fire Chief, a
Division of Loss Control/Investigation in the Fire Department is hereby
created.
   (B)   This Division shall operate under the supervision of the Fire Chief.
The Chief shall designate a fire official of the Fire Department as Fire
Marshal. The Fire Marshal shall be the administrator of the Division of Loss
Control/Investigation. The Fire Marshal shall be responsible for the direct
administration and enforcement of the Fire Prevention Code as may be set forth
by the Fire Chief. The Fire Marshall shall be appointed on the basis of
examination or other method for determining qualifications. The Fire Chief may
also designate the number of Technical Inspectors as shall from time to time be
authorized by the Board of Commissioners. The Technical Inspectors shall be
selected through an examination to determine their fitness for the position.
(OC, § 3-2-14)
§ 91.36 DUTIES OF OFFICERS.
   It shall be the duty of the officers of the Division of Loss Control/
Investigation to enforce all laws and ordinances of the town, covering the
following:
   (A)   The prevention of fires;
   (B)   The storage, sale and use of combustible, flammable or explosive
materials;
   (C)   The installation and maintenance of automatic and other fire alarm
systems and fire extinguishing equipment;
   (D)   The maintenance and regulation of fire escapes;
   (E)   The means and adequacy of exit in case of fire from factories,
schools, hotels, lodging houses, hospitals, churches, halls, theaters,
amphitheaters and all other places in which numbers of persons work, live or
congregate, from time to time, for any purpose;
   (F)   The investigation of the cause, origin and circumstances of fires;
   (G)   The maintenance of fire cause and loss records;
   (H)   The officers shall have other powers and perform other duties as are
set forth in other sections of this chapter, and as may be conferred and
imposed from time to time by law. The Fire Chief may delegate any powers or
duties under this chapter to the Fire Marshal.
(OC, § 3-2-16)
§ 91.37 PREPARATION OF INSTRUCTIONS.
   The Fire Chief or his designee shall prepare instructions and forms for the
Fire Marshal and the Fire Marshal's assistants for their use in the reports
required by this chapter.
(OC, § 3-2-15)
§ 91.38 INVESTIGATION OF FIRES; REPORT REQUIRED.
   The Division of Loss Control/Investigation shall investigate the cause,
origin and circumstances of every fire occurring in the town which is of
suspicious nature, or which involves serious injury or loss of life to persons,
and where property has been destroyed or substantially damaged and, so far as
possible, shall determine whether the fire is the result of carelessness or
design. The investigations shall begin immediately upon the occurrence of a
fire. The Fire Marshal shall take charge immediately of the physical evidence,
shall notify the proper authorities designated by law to pursue the
investigation of the matter and shall further cooperate with the authorities in
the collection of evidence and in the prosecution of the case. Every fire shall
be reported in writing to the Division of Loss Control/Investigation within one
day after the occurrence of the same by the Fire Department officer in charge
of the firefighting operation at the fire. The report shall be in the form as
shall be prescribed by the Fire Chief or the Fire Marshal of the Fire
Department and shall contain a statement of all facts relating to the cause,
origin and circumstances of the fire, the extent of the damage thereof, the
insurance upon the property and other information as may be required, including
the injury, death or rescue of persons.
(OC, § 3-2-17)
§ 91.39 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Before any permits may be issued as required by this chapter and the Fire
Prevention Code, the Fire Marshal or the Fire Marshal's assistants shall
inspect and approve the receptacles, processes, vehicles, buildings or storage
spaces to be used for any purposes requiring permits hereunder.
(OC, § 3-2-18)
§ 91.40 INSPECTIONS.
   The Fire Marshal shall inspect or cause to be inspected all premises on a
periodic basis and shall make orders as may be necessary for the enforcement of
the laws and ordinances governing the same and for the safeguarding of life and
property from fire.
(OC, § 3-2-19)
§ 91.41 COMPLIANCE WITH ORDER OF FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Whenever any Technical Inspector shall find in any building, or upon
any premises or other places, combustible or explosive matter or dangerous
accumulation of waste paper, boxes, shavings or any highly flammable materials
especially liable to ignition, combustion or fire and which is so situated as
to endanger property; or shall find obstructions to or on fire escapes, stairs,
passageways, doors or windows liable to interfere with the operation of the
Fire Department or egress of occupants in case of fire, the Inspector shall
order the same to be removed or remedied and the order forthwith be complied
with by the owner or occupant of the premises or buildings, subject to the
appeals procedure provided for in the Fire Prevention Code.
   (B)   Any owner or occupant failing to comply with the order within a
reasonable period after the service of the order shall be liable to penalties
as provided in § 91.99.
   (C)   The service of any order may be made upon the owner or occupant of the
premises to whom it is directed, either by personally delivering a copy of same
to the owner or occupant, leaving it with any person in charge of the premises,
or, in case no person is found upon the premises, by affixing a copy thereof in
a conspicuous place on the door to the entrance of the premises. Whenever it
may be necessary to serve an order upon the owner of the premises, the order
may be served either by delivering to and leaving with the person a copy of the
order, or, if the owner is absent from the jurisdiction of the officer making
the order, by mailing the copy by certified mail to the owner's last known post
office or street address.
(OC, § 3-2-20)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.42 RECORDS.
   The Fire Marshal shall compile and keep a record of all fires and of all the
facts concerning the same, including injuries, deaths, rescue of persons and
statistics as to the extent of the fires and the damage caused thereby, and
whether the losses were covered by insurance, and if so, in what amount. The
record shall be daily from the reports made by the Technical Inspectors under
the provisions of this chapter. All of the records shall be public.
(OC, § 3-2-21)
§ 91.43 ANNUAL REPORTS.
   The Fire Marshal shall make an annual report of the activities of the
Division of Loss Control/Investigation and shall transmit this report to the
Board of Commissioners of the town through the Fire Chief of the Fire
Department. The report shall contain all proceedings under the Fire Prevention
Code with such statistics as the Fire Chief may wish to include therein. The
Fire Chief will also make an annual report of the Fire Department's activities
to the Mayor.
(OC, § 3-2-22)
§ 91.44 FIRE CHIEF TO RECOMMEND AMENDMENTS.
   The Fire Chief shall recommend any amendments to the Fire Prevention Code or
Ordinance which shall be desirable and in the best interest of the citizens of
the town.
(OC, § 3-2-23)
§ 91.45 SCHEDULE OF FEES.
   The Town Board of Commissioners may establish and amend a schedule of fees
for the permits, certificates, approvals and other functions performed under
this chapter which shall be payable to the town. The fees shall accompany each
application for the permit, approval, certificate or other fee-related code
provision.
(OC, § 3-2-30)
§ 91.46 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Fire Inspectors of the Division of Loss Control/ Investigation and
fire officers of the rank of Captain or above are empowered to issue notices of
violation when the Inspector or officer has reasonable cause to believe that
any person has violated any provision of the current NFPA Code or of this
chapter. A copy of the notice will be filed with the town Finance Officer.
   (B)   The written notice of violation may be delivered in person to the
violator, or, if the violator cannot be readily found, the written notice of
violation may be mailed by certified mail to the violator's last known address.
The notice of violation shall specify the civil penalty to be imposed upon the
violator and shall direct the violator to appear before the town's Finance
Officer within 15 days to pay the penalty or, alternatively, to pay the penalty
by mail. The penalty imposed shall be $100 for violations of NFPA 101 Life
Safety Code, as the same may be modified by this chapter, and $25 for other
violations of the NFPA Code or of this chapter.
   (C)   The written notice of violation may specify a period of time during
which the violator must correct the violation. If the violation is not
corrected within the specified time, the violator shall be guilty of a new and
separate offense for each day the violation remains uncorrected.
   (D)   If the violator does not pay the civil penalty within 15 days after
issuance of the written notice of violation, a delinquency charge of $10 shall
be added to the amount specified in the notice of violation and notice of the
delinquency charge shall be mailed to the violator. The delinquency notice
shall also inform the violator that a civil summons will be issued against him/
her if the specified penalty and the delinquency charge are not paid within
five days after the date of the delinquency notice.
   (E)   If the penalty and delinquency charge are not paid within the time
allowed, the Fire Marshal may have a civil summons issued against the violator
for the violation of the NFPA Code or of this chapter. Upon finding a
violation, the violator shall be subject to the penalty specified in the notice
of violation, the delinquency charge and costs of court, including attorney
fees expended by the town in collection of the penalty, in addition to the
civil penalty the court imposes.
   (F)   Nothing in this section shall preclude the issuance of an arrest
warrant where appropriate.
(OC, § 3-2-26)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.47 RIGHT TO ENTER PREMISES.
   To the extent permitted by law, any fire official engaged in fire prevention
and inspection activities is authorized at all reasonable times to enter and
examine any building, vehicle or premises for the purpose of making fire safety
inspections. Before entering a private building or dwelling, the fire official
shall obtain the consent of the owner or occupant thereof or obtain a search
warrant authorizing his/her entry for the purpose of inspection. The fire
official may enter without a warrant when he/she has probable cause to believe
that circumstances or conditions exist in the structure which reasonable may
constitute immediate and substantial danger to life or property.
(OC, § 3-2-26)
§ 91.48 APPEALS.
   Section 1-5 of the current NFPA, Fire Prevention Code, is hereby deleted and
in lieu thereof the following substituted:
   (A)   In the event any person is dissatisfied with a decision of the Fire
Marshal involving the application of the above sections, the person may request
a hearing within five working days of the receipt of notice of violation. The
request shall be in writing and directed to the Chief of the Fire Department
who shall hear the complaints of the parties concerned.
   (B)   Pending final decision of the appeal, the order of the Fire Marshal
shall be stayed unless there is a distinct fire hazard to life or the property
of others based upon available data.
   (C)   After a full and complete hearing, the Chief of the Fire Department
shall render his opinion in writing, within five working days, either
affirming, overruling or modifying the decision of the Fire Marshal and/or
Inspector, as may be proper under the existing circumstances and the factual
evidence presented.
(OC, § 3-2-27)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of the code hereby
adopted; or shall fail to comply therewith; or shall violate or fail to comply
with any order made thereunder; or shall build in violation of any details,
statements, specifications or plans submitted or approved thereunder; or shall
operate not in accordance with the provisions of any certificate, permit or
approval issued thereunder, and from which no appeal has been taken; or who
shall fail to comply with such an order as affirmed or modified by the Fire
Marshal or by a court of competent jurisdiction with the time fixed herein
shall, for each and every violation and noncompliance, respectively, be guilty
of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not more than $50, or by imprisonment
for not more than 30 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment. The
imposition of a penalty for any violation shall not excuse the violation nor
shall the violation be permitted to continue. All persons shall be required to
correct or remedy the violations or defects within a reasonable time, and when
not otherwise specified, the application of the above penalty shall not be held
to prevent the enforced removal of prohibited conditions and the costs thereof
assessed against the property in violation as a lien against the property.
(OC, § 3-2-26)
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES; HEALTH
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Noise control
   
92.02   Purpose of noise control
   
92.03   Noise definitions
   
92.04   Noise exceptions
   
92.05   Noise permits
   
92.06   Noise penalty
Health and Sanitation
   
92.10   County health regulations; health officer
   
92.11   Privies and septic tanks regulated
   
92.12   Depositing human waste
   
92.13   Stagnant water
   
92.14   Food and eating establishments
   
92.15   Construction projects; requirements
   
92.16   Unlawful to release balloons within the town’s corporate limits
Weeds and Refuse
   
92.25   Conditions causing a nuisance
   
92.26   Complaint and investigation
   
92.27   Notice to abate
   
92.28   Hearing
   
92.29   Removal by town
   
92.30   Cost incurred by owner
   
92.31   Unpaid charges become a lien
   
92.32   Alternative remedies
Abandoned Vehicles
   
92.45   Definitions
   
92.46   Abandoned or junked vehicles prohibited
   
92.47   Duty of owner to remove
   
92.48   Failure of owner to remove
   
92.49   Removal authorized; notice
   
92.50   Disposition of vehicle; procedures
   
92.51   Disposal of vehicle with owner’s consent
   
92.52   Immunity
   
92.53   Exceptions
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 NOISE CONTROL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to create or
assist in creating any unreasonably loud, disturbing sound levels in the town,
taking into consideration volume, duration, frequency and other characteristics
of the sound. For the purposes of this section, a noise disturbance shall be
presumed to exist where the sound or noise caused by any activity described
herein is plainly audible within any occupied structure not the source of the
sound or noise, such that a reasonably prudent person would recognize as likely
to unreasonably disturb persons in the vicinity.
   (B)   The following activities are hereby declared to be unreasonably loud,
disturbing sound levels; this enumeration shall be deemed to be illustrative
and shall not be deemed to be exclusive:
      (1)   General prohibitions. It shall be unlawful to create, cause, or
allow the continuance of any unreasonably loud, disturbing, or frightening
noise, which substantially interferes with neighboring businesses and/or
residents' reasonable use and enjoyment of their properties and plainly audible
from any distance from the property on which the sound originates.
      (2)   Instruments; sound amplifiers. The playing of any musical
instrument or electronic sound amplification equipment including any
reverberation caused by such instruments are prohibited during the hours
between 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. on Friday and Saturday except legal holidays
and between 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. Sunday through Thursday except legal
holidays.
      (3)   Garbage disposal. The dumping or emptying of garbage contains into
garbage trucks; operating exterior mechanical trash compactor; or placing or
removing of garbage containers with motor vehicles shall be prohibited between
the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
      (4)   Horns and signaling devices. The intentional sounding of any horn
or signaling device of a motor vehicle on any street, public right-of-way or
public place of the town.
      (5)   Animals. The keeping of any animal or bird which makes frequent or
long, continued sounds that would unreasonably disturb persons of ordinary and
reasonable sensibilities in the vicinity.
      (6)   Construction activities. The erection (including excavation),
repair, assembly, alteration, landscaping or demolition of any building in a
residential or business district and use of any power equipment from other than
between the hours of sunset to 7:00 a.m., except in the case of emergency work
or urgent necessity in the interest of public safety.
      (7)   Vehicles. The use of any automobile, motorcycle or vehicle so out
of repair, or in such a condition as to create unreasonably loud, disturbing
sounds.
      (8)   Garages. The operating of any garage or service station in any
residential area so as to cause unreasonably loud, disturbing sounds to be
emitted on any day.
      (9)   Explosives. The use of firing of explosives, firearms, fireworks,
or similar devices which create an explosive sound.
      (10)   Power equipment. Operating or permitting the operation of any
power saw, sander, drill, grinder, leaf blower, lawn mower, or other garden
equipment, or tools of a similar nature, outdoors from sunset until 7:00 a.m.
      (11)   Specific locations. The creation of unreasonably loud, disturbing
sound levels adjacent to any school, educational facility, church or court
during normal operating hours or adjacent to any hospital which a person of
ordinary and reasonable sensibilities would recognize as likely to unreasonably
interfere with the working of such institutions; provided that, conspicuous
signs are displayed indicating that such area is a school, educational
facility, church, court or hospital area.
   (C)   Scope. This subchapter shall apply to all sound, vibration and noise
originating within the corporate limits of the town. Nothing in this subchapter
shall be construed to limit or prevent the town or any person from pursuing any
other legal remedies for damages or the abatement of noises in the town.
(OC, § 8-6-1) (Am. Ord. passed 12-17-96; Am. Ord. 2019-O2, passed 2-12-19)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.02 PURPOSE OF NOISE CONTROL.
   (A)   It is recognized that excessive and unnecessary noise endangers the
physical and emotional health and welfare of the people, interferes with
legitimate business and recreational activity, increases construction costs,
depresses property values, offends the senses, creates public nuisances and in
other respects reduces the quality of life.
   (B)   Furthermore, control of excessive and unnecessary noise that may
jeopardize human health or welfare or substantially degrade the quality of life
is well within the purview of the town police powers, it is declared to be the
purpose of this subchapter to prevent, prohibit and provide for the control and
abatement of excessive and unnecessary noise which may injure the physical and
emotional health or welfare of its citizens or degrade the quality of life.
(Ord. 2019-O2, passed 2-12-19)
§ 92.03 NOISE DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of §§
92.01 through
92.06 (which sections are referred to herein as “this subchapter”), the
following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
      AMPLIFIED SOUND. Any sound or noise, including the human voice that is
increased in volume or intensity by means of electrical power.
      BASS. Sound considered at the lower half of the whole vocal or
instrumental tonal range; vocal or instrumental that produces a very deep
sound.
      CONSTRUCTION. Erection, repair, assembly, alteration, landscaping or
demolition of any building or buildings in sight.
      DISTURBING. Noise which is perceived by a person of ordinary
sensibilities as interrupting the normal peace and calm of the area.
      EMERGENCY WORK. Any work performed for the purposes of preventing or
alleviating physical trauma or property damage threatened or caused by an
existing or imminent peril.
      EVENT. A gathering of people for the purpose of recreation,
entertainment, worship, fundraising, or cultural activity outdoors on a zoning
lot, or other property, where amplified sound is emitted from the property.
      NOISE. Any sound that is undesirable because it interferes with speech
and hearing, or is intense enough to damage hearing, or is otherwise annoying.
Any sound that is unwanted and/or unwanted sound not occurring in the natural
environment and that causes or tends to cause an adverse psychological or
physiological effect on human beings. Noise can also be one or a group of loud,
harsh, non-harmonious sounds or vibrations that are present and irritating to
the ear and any undesired plainly audible sound.
      NOISE IMPACT. The extent to which a level of noise interferes with the
full utilization of land.
      NOISE POLLUTION. Continuous or episodic excessive noise in the human
environment; any sound which endangers or injures the safety or health of human
beings or annoys or is objectionable to a reasonable person of normal
sensitivity.
      NOISE SOURCE. The activity responsible for the noise in question or noise
which in fact exceeds [said] standards.
      PERSON. Any individual, association, firm, partnership or corporation.
      PERSON RESPONSIBLE. An owner, occupant, employee, agent or any other
person who is or appears to be responsible for a premises, dwelling, or
business or a noise-producing machine or device.
      PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any street, avenue, boulevard, road, highway,
sidewalk, alley or easement  that is owned, leased, or controlled by a
governmental entity.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any public way, park, cemetery or open space adjacent
thereto; any public lake or stream; and any place or business open to the use
of the public in general, open to public view or to which the public has
access.
      OFFENDER. A person who commits an illegal act.
      OUTDOOR AMPLIFIED SOUND. Any sound using sound amplifying equipment where
such equipment is located outside of a residential or commercial structure or
within such structures where it is obvious that the sound emitted from the
amplifying equipment is intended to be transmitted to the outside through open
doors or windows or other openings in the structure.
      PLAINLY AUDIBLE. Able to be detected by a person using his or her unaided
hearing faculties. As an example, if the sound source under investigation is a
portable or personal vehicular sound amplification or reproduction device, the
detection of the rhythmic bass component of the music is sufficient to verify
plainly audible sound. The officer need not determine the title, specific
words, or the artist performing the song. Simply, words or phrases need not be
discernible and bass reverberations are included.
      REVERBERATION. Created when a sound or signal is reflected causing a
larger number of reflections to build up and then decay as the sound is
absorbed by the surfaces of objects in the space which could include furniture,
people and air.
      SOUND AMPLIFYING EQUIPMENT. Any device for the amplification of the human
voice, music, or any other sound, including televisions, electronic loud
speakers, jukeboxes, stereos, compact disc players and radios.
      UNNECESSARY NOISE. Any excessive or unusually loud sound which disturbs
the peace and quiet of any neighborhood or which does annoy, disturb, injure or
endanger the comfort, repose, health, peace or safety of any reasonable person
of ordinary sensibilities or causes damage to property.
      UNREASONABLY LOUD, DISTURBING OR EXCESSIVE NOISE. Noise which is
substantially incompatible with the time and location where created to the
extent that is creates and actual or imminent interference with peace or good
order. Any sound which because of its volume, level, duration or character
disturbs, discomforts, injures or endangers the health, peace or safety of a
reasonable person with normal sensitivities.
(Ord. 2019-O2, passed 2-12-19)
§ 92.04 NOISE EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Generally. The following exceptions may be considered from the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   Sound emanating from regularly scheduled outdoor athletic events on
the campuses of local schools and/or permitted sport/local government
recreation departments/athletic complexes;
      (2)   Construction activities from 7:00 a.m. to sunset for which building
permits have been issued or for construction operations not requiring permits;
provided that all equipment is operated with mufflers or other noise-reducing
equipment as recommended by the equipment manufacturer's instructions;
      (3)   Noises of safety signals, warning devices, emergency pressure
relief valves, and all church bells;
      (4)   Noises resulting from any authorized emergency vehicle when
responding to any emergency call or acting in time of emergency;
      (5)   Any other noise resulting from activities of temporary duration
permitted by law, and for which a license or permit has been granted by the
town in accordance with this section. Regulations of noises emitting from
operations under permit shall be according to the conditions and limits stated
on the permit and consistent with this section;
      (6)   Unamplified and amplified sound at street festivals and parades,
lawful picketing or other public demonstration protected by the U.S.
Constitution or Federal law, or for which a local permit has been granted or
sanctioned by the town pursuant to this section;
      (7)   All noises coming from the normal operations of properly equipped
aircraft (but not scale model aircraft or other types of model flying aircraft;
      (8)   All noise coming from normal operation of motor vehicles properly
equipped with the mufflers according to the motor vehicle manufacturer's
specifications and in good working order;
      (9)   Noise from lawful fireworks and noisemakers on legal holidays and
at religious ceremonies;
      (10)   Lawn mowers, agricultural equipment, and landscape maintenance
equipment used between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and sunset when operated with
mufflers or other noise-reducing equipment as recommended by the equipment
manufacturer's instructions;
      (11)   Musical accompaniment or firearm discharge related to military
ceremonies;
      (12)   Sound amplification equipment used in conjunction with
telecommunications systems on business properties to notify employees of that
business incoming phone calls, provided that this system be used only between
the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m. and that any speakers attached to the
system be oriented toward the interior of the property;
      (13)   Emergency work necessary to restore property to a safe condition
following a fire, accident or natural disaster, or to restore public utilities,
or to protect persons or property from an imminent danger;
      (14)   Noises resulting from the provision of government services and
military operations and exercise;
      (15)   Normal and customary sounds emanating from a non-recurring
community event conducted by a governmental entity, school, church or similar
noncommercial entity will not be considered noises or activities that violate
this ordinance, so long as the event with which the noise is associated begins
no earlier than 6:00 a.m. and ends no later than 10:00 p.m. For the purposes of
this division, non-recurring shall refer to an event which occurs no more than
four times during any calendar year. However, an event can lose its status as a
community event under this section if multiple complaints from different
sources are received about the noise level emanating from the event, and upon
investigation, the police determine that the noise levels at the property
boundary of the property upon which the event is conducted closest to the noise
source, or with respect to events such as parades which utilize public right-
of-way. If an event loses its status as a “community event” it shall no longer
enjoy the presumption under this section that it does not violate the chapter.
(Ord. 2019-O2, passed 2-12-19)
§ 92.05 NOISE PERMITS.
   (A)   Persons wishing to engage in activities regulated by this chapter may
do so when a specific permit is approved by the Chief of town Police Department
or his designee. Applications shall be submitted on forms supplied by the town.
The permit shall not be unreasonably withheld, and may contain appropriate
conditions, including maximum decibel levels, designed to minimize the
disruptive impact. Permits for such activities, significantly for religious or
political purposes, shall be granted, subject only to reasonable time, place
and manner restrictions. Permits issued under this section may specify that the
permission granted will continue for a stated period or until revoked after
actual notice. Persons shall not be held in violation of this section when
acting in conformity with permit conditions, but any permit may be revoked if
it is determined that the authorized activity has resulted in generation of
unreasonably loud, disturbing sound levels.
   (B)   If any application under §
92.05 is denied, approved with conditions unacceptable to the applicant, or if
any permit issued hereunder is revoked, the applicant or permit holder shall be
entitled to a prompt, informal hearing with the Town Manager or his designee,
upon submission of a written request. Any person aggrieved by a matter
regulated in this section may submit to the Town Manager or his designee
written comments, including requests for appropriate relief.
(Ord. 2019-O2, passed 2-12-19)
§ 92.06 NOISE PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of any provision of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor as
provided by G.S. § 14-4.
   (B)   (1)   Any violation of this chapter and sections of this subchapter
shall subject the offender to a civil penalty in the amount of $300 for the
first offense; $400 for second offense; $500 for third offense and any
subsequent offense within the same 12-month period as the first offense.
      (2)   Each day's continuing violation shall be a separate and distinct
offense.
      (3)   Notwithstanding division (B)(1) above, provisions of this section
may be enforced through equitable remedies issued by a court of competent
jurisdiction.
      (4)   In addition to or in lieu of remedies authorized in divisions (B)
(1) through (B)(3) above, violations of this chapter may be prosecuted as a
misdemeanor in accordance with G.S. § 160A-175.
      (5)   A property owner shall be liable for the cost of abating the
nuisance or remedying the health or safety hazard created by a tenant for a
third or subsequent violation of this chapter. A property owner shall be liable
for the actual cost of abatement/remedy taking into account the cost of law
enforcement personnel salaries, law enforcement equipment, administrative
overhead, law enforcement recordkeeping, mailing and notification costs and
other costs directly or indirectly attributable to the cost of abating the
nuisance or remedying the health or safety hazard. In no case shall the cost
assessed under this provision be less than $100 for the third violation by the
tenant (initial assessment of property owner), or less than $75 for any
subsequent assessment for the same-tenant violation. If costs assessed pursuant
to this division (B) are not paid by the property owner within 30 days of
receipt of a statement of costs from the town, the cost may be placed as a lien
on the property the hazard existed.
(Ord. 2019-O2, passed 2-12-19)
HEALTH AND SANITATION
§ 92.10 COUNTY HEALTH REGULATIONS; HEALTH OFFICER.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to violate
any lawfully adopted rule or regulation of the county board of health. The
enforcement of this section shall be under the supervision of the county health
officer.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, obstruct or delay the
health officer or any of his/her assistants in the lawful discharge of their
duties.
   (C)   With appropriate warrant or permission of the home owner, the county
health officer or any of his/her assistants shall have the right to enter any
premises at any reasonable hour for the purpose of making the inspections or
investigations.
(OC, §§ 8-5-1, 8-5-2 and 8-5-3)
§ 92.11 PRIVIES AND SEPTIC TANKS REGULATED.
   (A)   No privy of any kind shall be permitted in the town where a town sewer
is reasonably accessible. When privies are permitted they shall be constructed
in accordance with the regulations of the state board of health. Privies
altered or reconstructed shall also conform to these regulations.
   (B)   Septic tanks may be installed where sewer is not reasonably
accessible, provided, such tank is constructed in accordance with the
specifications of the state board of health, and a permit therefore is issued
by the county sanitarian and the town (within town limits).
(OC, §§ 8-5-4 and 8-5-5) (Am. Ord. passed 3-9-89)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.12 DEPOSITING HUMAN WASTE.
   No person shall urinate or deposit any human waste of any kind on any
street, lot or premises, or discharge human wastes in public waters except in
approved sanitary facilities.
(OC, § 8-5-6) (Am. Ord. passed 3-9-89)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.13 STAGNANT WATER.
   No person or occupant of any property shall allow stagnant water to
accumulate or remain in cellars or anywhere on their property.
(OC, § 8-5-7)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.14 FOOD AND EATING ESTABLISHMENTS.
   All persons, firms or corporations selling food of any kind or serving
prepared meals shall comply with all requirements pertaining thereto of the
state board of health.
(OC, § 8-5-8)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.15 CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All refuse, lumber and debris remaining both as a result of the repair
of any new buildings or of the erection and completion of any new building,
shall be removed by the property owner within ten days from the completion of
the aforesaid work.
   (B)   Portable sanitation facilities associated with permitted construction
projects may be maintained on the construction site not in excess of 20 days
after the project has received its final building inspection. Violation of this
section shall be a misdemeanor.
(OC, §§ 8-5-9 and 8-5-10) (Ord. passed 3-9-89)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.16 UNLAWFUL TO RELEASE BALLOONS WITHIN THE TOWN’S CORPORATE LIMITS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to litter by releasing inflated balloons
or by discarding balloons in or on any property within the town’s corporate
limits. Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be subject to
a civil penalty, in accordance with G.S. § 160A-175, in the amount of $250 to
be recovered by the town in a civil action in the nature of debt if the
offender does not pay the penalty within ten days after having been cited for
violation of this section.
(Ord. 2018-O10, passed 8-14-18)
WEEDS AND REFUSE
§ 92.25 CONDITIONS CAUSING A NUISANCE.
   The existence of any of the following conditions on any vacant lot or other
parcel of land within the corporate limits is hereby declared to be dangerous
and prejudicial to the public health or safety and to constitute a public
nuisance:
   (A)   The uncontrolled growth of noxious weeds or grass to a height in
excess of ten inches causing or threatening to cause a hazard detrimental to
the public health or safety;
   (B)   Any accumulation of rubbish, trash or junk causing or threatening to
cause a fire hazard, or causing or threatening to cause the accumulation of
stagnant water, or causing or threatening to cause the inhabitation therein of
rats, mice, snakes or vermin of any kind which is or may be dangerous or
prejudicial to the public health;
   (C)   Any accumulation of animal or vegetable matter that is offensive by
virtue of odors or vapors or by the inhabitance therein of rats, mice, snakes
or vermin of any kind which is or may be dangerous or prejudicial to the public
health;
   (D)   Any condition detrimental to the public health which violates the
rules and regulations of the county health department.
(OC, § 8-4-1) (Am. Ord. passed 3-9-89)
Penalty, see § 10.99
Statutory reference:
   Abatement of public health nuisances, see G.S. § 160A-193
§ 92.26 COMPLAINT AND INVESTIGATION.
   The Town Manager, upon notice from any person of the existence of any of the
conditions described in § 92.25, shall cause to be made by the appropriate
county health department official or town official, an investigation as may be
necessary to determine whether, in fact, the conditions exist as to constitute
a public nuisance as declared in § 92.25.
(OC, § 8-4-2) (Am. Ord. passed 3-9-89)
§ 92.27 NOTICE TO ABATE.
   (A)   Upon a determination that the conditions constituting a public
nuisance exist, the Town Manager shall notify by certified mail and regular
mail, the owner, occupant or person in possession of the premises in question
of the conditions constituting the public nuisance and shall order the prompt
abatement thereof within 15 days of the date of the written notice.
   (B)   In the event that the written notice is returned to the town
undelivered, the town may provide notice by posting the notice on the property
for 15 days.
(OC, § 8-4-3) (Am. Ord. passed 3-9-89; Am. Ord. 2020-O9, passed 6-22-20)
§ 92.28 HEARING.
   Within seven days of the date of the notice provided for in §
92.27 above, the owner, occupant or person in possession of the premises may
request a hearing before the Town Board of Commissioners. The Town Manager
shall fix a time for the hearing and the initial abatement order shall be
temporarily suspended pending the hearing. At the hearing, the individual
affected by the order shall be given the opportunity to present evidence to
refute the findings which supported the abatement order. Upon completion of the
hearing, the Town Board shall consider the evidence before them and shall
either revoke the initial order, issue a final order which differs from the
initial order or reinstate the initial order as a final abatement order.
(OC, § 8-4-4) (Am. Ord. passed 3-9-89; Am. Ord. 2020-O9, passed 6-22-20)
§ 92.29 REMOVAL BY TOWN.
   (A)   Upon occurrence of either of the conditions set forth in division (B),
the Town Manager or his or her designee shall cause the condition to be removed
or otherwise remedied by having employees of the town, contractors, or other
available and appropriate resources go upon the premises and remove or
otherwise abate the nuisance under the supervision of the Public Works
Director. Any person who has been finally ordered to abate a public nuisance
may within the time allowed by this subchapter request the town in writing to
remove the condition, the cost of which shall be paid by the person making the
request.
   (B)   The conditions for removal by the town are as follows:
      (1)   A hearing is requested and held under §
92.28 resulting in either a final order with modifications or the reinstatement
of the initial order as a final order, and the order is not complied with;
      (2)   No hearing is requested or held, and the person having been ordered
to abate the public nuisance fails, neglects or refuses to abate or remove the
condition constituting the nuisance within 15 days of the date of the order.
(OC, § 8-4-5) (Am. Ord. passed 3-9-89; Am. Ord. 2008-35, passed 11-18-08; Am.
Ord. 2020-O9, passed 6-22-20) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.30 COST INCURRED BY OWNER.
   The actual cost incurred by the town, or the fee as prescribed in the Town
of Swansboro Schedule of Fees, whichever is greater, in removing or otherwise
remedying a public nuisance, and any administrative fees applicable, shall be
charged to the owner of the lot or parcel of land, and it shall be the duty of
the Town Manager, or his designee, to mail a statement of the charges to the
owner or other person in possession of the premises with instructions that the
charges are due and payable within 30 days from the date of the statement.
(OC, § 8-4-6) (Am. Ord. passed 3-9-89; Am. Ord. 2013-O14, passed 6-18-13; Am.
Ord. 2020-O9, passed 6-22-20)
§ 92.31 UNPAID CHARGES BECOME A LIEN.
   In the event the charges for the removal or abatement of a public nuisance
are not paid within 30 days after the date of a statement of charges as
provided for in §
92.30 of this subchapter, the charges shall become a lien upon the land or
premises where the public nuisance existed and shall be collected as unpaid
taxes as provided in G.S. § 160A-193.
(OC, § 8-4-7) (Am. Ord. 2020-O9, passed 6-22-20)
§ 92.32 ALTERNATIVE REMEDIES.
   The procedure set forth in this subchapter shall be in addition to any other
remedies that may now or hereafter exist under law for the abatement of public
nuisances and this subchapter shall not prevent the town from proceeding in a
criminal action against any person, firm or corporation violating the
provisions of this chapter as provided in G.S. § 14-4.
(OC, § 8-4-8)
Penalty, see § 10.99
ABANDONED VEHICLES
§ 92.45 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. A vehicle which meets any of the following requirements:
      (1)   Has been left upon a street or highway in violation of a law or
ordinance prohibiting parking;
      (2)   Is left on property owned or operated by the town for longer than
24 hours;
      (3)   Is left on private property without the consent of the owner,
occupant or lessee thereof for longer than two hours;
      (4)   Is left on any public street or highway of the town for longer than
seven days.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE. An abandoned motor vehicle which meets any of the
following requirements:
      (1)   Is partially dismantled or wrecked;
      (2)   Cannot be self-propelled or moved in the manner in which it was
originally intended to move;
      (3)   Is more than five years old and worth less than $500;
      (4)   Does not display a current license plate.
   NUISANCE VEHICLE. A junked motor vehicle on public or private property that
is determined and declared to be a health or safety hazard, a public nuisance
or unlawful, including a vehicle found to be any of the following:
      (1)   A breeding ground or harbor for mosquitoes, other insects, rats,
snakes or other pests;
      (2)   A point of heavy growth of weeds or other noxious vegetation over
eight inches in height;
      (3)   A point of collection of pools or ponds of water;
      (4)   A point of concentration of quantities of gasoline, oil or other
flammable or explosive materials as evidenced by odor;
      (5)   One which has areas of confinement which cannot be operated from
the inside, such as trunks, hoods and the like;
      (6)   So situated or located that there is a danger of it falling or
turning over;
      (7)   Any other vehicle specifically declared a health and safety hazard
and a public nuisance by the Town Board;
      (8)   So offensive to the sight as to damage the community neighborhood
or area appearance.
(OC, § 8-3-1) (Ord. passed 3-9-89)
§ 92.46 ABANDONED OR JUNKED VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to abandon any vehicle coming under the provisions of
this chapter within the town; and no person shall leave or allow to remain any
abandoned, junked or otherwise discarded vehicle on property under this
control. Violation of this section shall be a misdemeanor punishable by fine or
imprisonment, or both; provided, however, that no person controlling privately-
owned property shall be criminally liable for the abandonment of motor vehicles
thereupon by others.
(OC, § 8-3-2)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.47 DUTY OF OWNER TO REMOVE.
   If a motor vehicle is abandoned on a public street or upon property owned or
operated by the municipality, it shall be the duty and responsibility of the
owner of the vehicle, after due notice, to cause the removal or the vehicle
immediately and pay all costs incidental to the removal.
(OC, § 8-3-4) (Ord. passed 3-9-89)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.48 FAILURE OF OWNER TO REMOVE.
   Any junked or abandoned motor vehicle located upon any occupied or
unoccupied private property with the town which has not been removed after ten
days' notice from the town to the owner of occupant, upon being declared a
health or safety hazard by the town building inspector, may be removed to a
garage or storage area and disposed of, pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter and G.S. § 160A-303 and amendments thereto.
(OC, § 8-3-5) (Ord. passed 3-9-89)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.49 REMOVAL AUTHORIZED; NOTICE.
   (A)   Removal authorized.
      (1)   Any abandoned, junked or nuisance vehicle found to be in violation
of this subchapter may be removed to a storage area for safekeeping by or under
the direction of the Police Department or other person, firm or corporation so
designated by the town.
      (2)   No vehicle shall be removed from private property without the
written request of the owner, lessee, occupant of the premises unless the Town
Board or a duly authorized town official or employee has declared it to be a
health or safety hazard or a public nuisance and has ordered its removal.
      (3)   The town may require any person requesting the removal of a junked
or abandoned motor vehicle from private property to indemnify the town against
any loss, expense or liability incurred because of the removal, storage or sale
thereof.
(OC, § 8-3-5) (Am. Ord. passed 3-9-89)
   (B) Notice. When any junked or abandoned motor vehicle is removed under the
provisions of this subchapter, the town shall give written notice of the
removal to the registered owner at his last known address according to the last
registration certificate or certificate of title on file with the department of
motor vehicles. The notice shall inform the owner of the possible sale or other
disposition that can be made of the vehicle under this subchapter. Notice need
not be given to the registered owner of the vehicle when it does not display a
license plate and the vehicle identification numbers have been removed or
defaced so as to be illegible.
(OC, § 8-3-5) (Ord. passed 3-9-89)
§ 92.50 DISPOSITION OF VEHICLE; PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The owner of any removed vehicle, before obtaining possession thereof,
shall pay to the agent of the town storing the vehicle all reasonable costs
incidental to the removal, storage and locating of the owner.
   (B)   Should the owner fail or refuse to pay the costs, or should his
identity or whereabouts be known and unascertainable after a diligent search
and after notice as herein prescribed, the stored vehicle may be sold after 30
days' notice has been given to the state division of motor vehicles before the
date of the sale and after the vehicle has been held for not less than 30 days.
   (C)   The vehicle may be sold by public or private sale, but no vehicle may
be sold until its value has been determined by three disinterested dealers or
garagemen.
   (D)   A vehicle of an appraised value of less than $100 may be disposed of
any means in the discretion of the storing agent of the town.
   (E)   The proceeds of any sale shall be forwarded to the Town Clerk, who
shall pay from the proceeds of the sale the cost of removal, storage,
investigation as to ownership and sale, and liens in that order. If, after the
sale, the ownership at the time of the removal is established satisfactorily to
the Clerk, the owner shall be paid so much of the proceeds as remains after
payment of the foregoing costs and liens. Otherwise, any remaining proceeds
shall be deposited in the general fund of the town.
   (F)   An unclaimed junk vehicle may be destroyed or otherwise disposed of
after 15 days. Notice shall be given within 15 days after final disposition to
the division of motor vehicles that it was deemed a junk vehicle and disposed
of as such. This notice shall fully and accurately describe the vehicle.
   (G)   Any proceeds derived from the disposition of junk vehicles shall be
deposited in the general fund of the town.
(OC, § 8-3-7)
§ 92.51 DISPOSAL OF VEHICLE WITH OWNER’S CONSENT.
   With the owner's consent, the town may remove and dispose of any vehicle as
a junk vehicle regardless of value or condition of the vehicle and without
waiting the aforesaid 15-day period.
(OC, § 8-3-8)
§ 92.52 IMMUNITY.
   Neither the town nor any person shall be held to answer in any civil or
criminal action to any owner, lienholder or other person legally entitled to
the possession of any abandoned, junked, lost or stolen vehicle for disposing
of such vehicle as contemplated by this subchapter.
(OC, § 8-3-9) (Am. Ord. passed 3-9-89)
§ 92.53 EXCEPTIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall apply to any motor vehicle in an enclosed
building, any authorized automobile dealer, or to authorized junk dealers in
the operation of a bona fide automobile graveyard or junkyard as defined in
G.S. § 136-143, or to any motor vehicle that is used on a regular basis for
business or personal use.
(OC, § 8-3-10) (Am. Ord. passed 3-9-89)
CHAPTER 93: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
93.001   Board approval of new streets
   
93.002   Assembly on streets and sidewalks
   
93.003   Display of goods
   
93.004   Obstructing streets or sidewalks
   
93.005   Construction near sidewalk
   
93.006   Repair of motor vehicle on street
   
93.007   [Reserved]
   
93.008   Use of skateboards restricted
   
93.009   Littering
   
93.010   Maintenance of public area; receptacles
   
93.011   Drainage and utility easements
   
93.012   Right-of-way maintenance
   
93.013   Utility poles
Excavations and Repairs
   
93.025   Excavation permit required
   
93.026   Application for permit; fees
   
93.027   Liability for excavations
   
93.028   Responsibility for street repair and damage
   
93.029   Maintaining safety of excavation area
   
93.030   Sidewalk construction
   
93.031   Damage to town property
   
93.032   Supervision and control
   
93.033   Negligent excavations on contiguous lots
   
93.034   Driveways
   93.035   Sight distance obstructions
House Moving
   
93.045   [Reserved]
   
93.046   Definitions
   
93.047   License requirement
   
93.048   Permit requirements and procedures
   
93.049   Conditions for voiding permit
   
93.050   Liability of mover
   
93.051   Proof of financial responsibility
   
93.052   Removal and replacement of obstructions
   
93.053   Loading, unloading or parking on street
Property Numbering System
   
93.065   Purpose
   
93.066   Property numbering document adopted by reference
   
93.067   Numbering system
   
93.068   Property owners to purchase numbers
   
93.069   Numbers for future buildings
   
93.070   Altering or defacing number prohibited
   
93.071   Number specifications
   
93.072   Street prefix schedule
Parades and Demonstrations
   
93.085   Definitions
   
93.086   Permit required
   
93.087   Standards
   
93.088   Requirements and issuance of permits
   
93.089   Certain activities restricted
   
93.090   Revocation of permit
   
93.091   Interference prohibited
   
93.092   Additional regulations applicable to picketing
Events and Festivals
   
93.105   Purpose
   
93.106   Definitions
   
93.107   Permit required
   
93.108   Animals
   
93.109   Sound equipment
   
93.110   Alcoholic beverage
   
93.111   Sexually explicit material
   
93.112   Off-duty town personnel
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.001 BOARD APPROVAL OF NEW STREETS.
   (A)   Board approval of new streets consists of two elements, an offer of
dedication on the part of a property owner to dedicate his property or an
interest therein to some public use and an acceptance of that offer by some
appropriate public authority.
   (B)    Before any new street offered for dedication to the town is accepted
as such and officially recognized as a town-maintained street, the Board must
give its approval, finding that the street complies with engineering standards
set by the Board and that the best interests of the town would be served by
accepting the street as a town street.
(OC, § 4-1-1) (Am. Ord. passed 11-10-88)
§ 93.002 ASSEMBLY ON STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   Except as provided in §§
93.085 et seq. of this chapter, it shall be unlawful for crowds or assemblages
of persons to congregate on the streets or sidewalks of the town in such a way
as to unnecessarily interfere with pedestrian or vehicular traffic. Any person
refusing to disperse upon being so ordered by a police officer shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor.
(OC, § 6-2-1)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.003 DISPLAY OF GOODS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to place or set out
for exhibition any goods, wares or merchandise directly connected with the
business transacted by him/her, on a public sidewalk or right-of-way in front
of a place of business, store or building owned, controlled or occupied by him/
her.
(OC, § 6-2-2)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.004 OBSTRUCTING STREETS OR SIDEWALKS.
   No brick, stone or wood or other substances obstructing the free passage of
persons and vehicles shall be placed or suffered to lie in any of the
alleyways, streets or other routes of the town, nor shall any person place on
or in any of the streets, sidewalks or alleyways of the town any boxes, crates,
casks or barrels of any description or any other obstruction of any kind.
Provided, that any person erecting a building, may with permission place
building materials for immediate use on the streets in such a way as to not
interfere with the usual traffic.
(OC, § 6-2-3)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.005 CONSTRUCTION NEAR SIDEWALK.
   Before building or remodeling at any place where the same is in close
proximity to the sidewalk, a passageway shall be constructed so as to leave the
sidewalk unobstructed and provide safe and easy passage.
(OC, § 6-2-4)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.006 REPAIR OF MOTOR VEHICLE ON STREET.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to repair a motor
vehicle on a paved street of the town except in case of emergency.
(OC, § 6-2-5)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.007 RESERVED.
§ 93.008 USE OF SKATEBOARDS RESTRICTED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to skate upon or ride upon any
skateboard at any place within the town between the hours beginning one hour
before sunset and ending one hour after sunrise.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to skate upon or ride upon any
skateboard at any time upon any of the following streets: Church Street, Main
Street, Front Street, Webb Street and Sabiston Drive.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, the term SPECIAL EVENTS shall be defined
to include the following:
      (1)   The Saturday portion of the festival customarily known as “Art by
the Sea” generally celebrated during the second weekend in the month of May
each year;
      (2)   The Saturday portion of the festival customarily known as “The
Mullet Festival” during the second weekend in the month of October each year;
      (3)   Independence Day (July 4).
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to skate (whether upon roller
skates or upon “roller glides” or “roller gliders” or any similar appliance) or
to ride upon any skateboard on any street, sidewalk or other public way in the
area from N.C. Highway 24 southward and westward to the White Oak River at any
time during special events as defined in division (C) of this section. This
prohibition shall be effective even if the special event occurs at some time
other than the times described herein provided the Board of Commissioners of
the town has officially recognized the special event by proclamation or
otherwise.
(OC, § 8-6-10) (Ord. passed 6-1-78; Am. Ord. passed 2-1-79; Am. Ord. passed 9-
82; Am. Ord. passed 3-9-89)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.009 LITTERING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, organization or private
corporation to throw or deposit upon any street or sidewalk or upon any private
property, except with written permission of the owner or occupant of the
private property any trash, refuse, garbage, building materials, cans, bottles,
broken glass, paper or any type of litter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person while a driver or a passenger in a
vehicle to throw or deposit litter upon any street or other public place within
the town or upon private property.
(OC, §§ 6-2-21 and 6-2-22)
Penalty, see § 10.99
Cross reference:
   Additional littering provisions, see
Ch. 50
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate littering, see G.S. § 160A-303.1
§ 93.010 MAINTENANCE OF PUBLIC AREA; RECEPTACLES.
   (A)   Every owner, lessee, tenant, occupant or other person in charge on any
commercial establishment or premises which maintains any paved or unpaved areas
for the use of the public, either for parking or as access areas and incident
to the carrying on of the principal business of any commercial establishment or
premises and which parking or access areas abut or lie within ten feet of any
public street or other public way, shall keep and maintain the areas clean and
free from trash, litter, rubbish and any materials liable to be blown,
deposited or cast upon the street or other public way.
   (B)   Suitable receptacle may be provided in parking or access areas within
the meaning of division (A) of this section. The receptacles shall be plainly
marked and constructed to prevent scattering of any trash, litter, rubbish or
other materials deposited therein.
(OC, §§ 6-2-23 and 6-2-24)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.011 DRAINAGE AND UTILITY EASEMENTS.
   Easements for installation and maintenance of utilities and street drainage
facilities are reserved as shown on recorded property plats. Within these
easements , no structures, planting or other materials should be placed or
permitted to remain which may damage or interfere with the installation and
maintenance of utilities, or which may change the direction of flow of drainage
channels in the easements , or which may obstruct or retard the flow of water
through the drainage channels in the easements . The easements area of each lot
and all improvements in it shall be maintained continuously by the owner of the
lot, except for those specific improvements for which a public authority or
utility company is responsible. Any drainage ditch which alters the natural
flow of water must be reviewed and approved by the designated town engineer.
(OC, § 4-1-31) (Ord. passed 11-10-88)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.012 RIGHT-OF-WAY MAINTENANCE.
   That portion of the street right-of-way not in active town use, either by
installation of roadway, sidewalks, or other improvements or services, shall be
maintained by the abutting property owner.
(OC, § 4-1-32) (Ord. passed 11-10-88)
§ 93.013 UTILITY POLES.
   (A)   Permit required. No poles for electric, telegraph, telephone or other
purposes shall be placed on any street right-of-way without a permit issued by
the zoning officer or some other officer of the town vested with that
authority.
(OC, § 4-3-1)
   (B)   Use of poles by others. Whenever any electric, telephone or telegraph
company shall desire to place a line of wires along any particular street upon
which it does not have a line of poles, but upon which street there exists a
line of poles owned by another company, then such companies may maintain their
wires upon the same poles. If an agreement cannot be reached between the
companies owning the poles and the companies desiring to place wires thereon,
then the companies may submit the question of compensation to three
disinterested persons for arbitration or they may submit the same to the Board
of Commissioners for determination. This section shall apply to poles owned by
the town as well as poles owned by companies operating under franchises.
(OC, § 4-3-2)
   (C)   Duty to keep in safe condition. It shall be the duty of the owners of
all poles supporting electric, telephone or telegraph wires to keep the same in
a safe condition, and for that purpose inspect the same once every three
months.
(OC, § 4-3-3)
   (D)   Use by town. One duct in all underground conduit systems shall be
provided, free of charge, for the town police or fire alarm telegraph system
when required, and the town shall have the use of any and all poles on streets
for the same purposes.
(OC, § 4-3-4)
   (E)   Cutting, painting and the like, utility poles prohibited; exception.
It shall be unlawful for any person to deface, injure by cutting, painting,
posting of bills or other materials on, any telegraph, telephone, electric
light or power pole on any street or public place in town; provided that
nothing herein shall be construed to apply to any officer or employee of the
town, or of the utility company removing any pole in the discharge of his duty.
(OC, § 4-3-5)
(Ord. passed 11-10-88)
Penalty, see § 10.99
EXCAVATIONS AND REPAIRS
§ 93.025 EXCAVATION PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make any excavation or opening or dig
any ditch, trench, tunnel or hole in, along, across or under any street,
sidewalk or other public place in the town for the purpose of laying or placing
therein any pipe, wires or poles or for any other purposes unless a written
permit therefor has been issued by the Town Manager or some other officer of
the town vested with that authority.
(OC, § 4-1-11) (Am. Ord. passed 11-10-88)
Statutory reference:
   Establishment and control over municipal streets, see G.S. § 160A-296
§ 93.026 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; FEES.
   (A)   All persons desiring a permit to make an opening in any street or
sidewalk, as set forth in §
93.025, shall make written application therefor. The application shall specify
the location, character and extent of the proposed work as set forth in §
93.025, the applicant’s name and the name of the person who is to conduct the
work. The application shall be accompanied by a fee as set forth in the
published rate schedule of the town.
   (B)   The permit shall specify a time period within which the work shall be
started and completed and shall further specify that it shall become void if
the work authorized therein is not conducted within the specified time period.
Notice of the proposed work shall be given to the police department 24 hours in
advance of beginning the work. In an emergency the notice shall be given as
soon as possible. The permit shall further provide that it is subject to
revocation at any time by the Board of Commissioners, director of public works
or Town Manager. It shall be unlawful for any person to neglect or refuse to
comply with the provisions of the permit, or to conduct or continue any work
after the expiration or revocation of the permit.
(OC, § 4-1-12) (Am. Ord. passed 11-10-88)
§ 93.027 LIABILITY FOR EXCAVATIONS.
   Any person obtaining a permit as provided for in §§
93.025 and
93.026 agrees as a condition of the issuance of the permit, to indemnify the
town against any claims or expenses, including attorney's fees for bodily
injury or property damage for accidents or occurrences arising out of the
person’s operations, excluding only the liability of the town for its sole
negligence.
(OC, § 4-1-13)
§ 93.028 RESPONSIBILITY FOR STREET REPAIR AND DAMAGE.
   (A)   When any part of any street, sidewalk, alley or other public place of
the town shall be torn or dug up for any purpose, the person making the
excavation or opening shall, immediately upon completion of the work and as
speedily as practicable, refill the excavation or opening in accordance with
town standards and specifications and to the satisfaction of the Director of
Public Works and the Town Manager. Any person neglecting, refusing or failing
to comply with any provision of this section shall be guilty of a violation,
and where the neglect, refusal or failure is continued, after notice from the
Town Manager, everyday's continuance shall constitute a separate and distinct
offense.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to drag or
run, or cause to be dragged or run any implement, engine, machine or tool upon
any asphalt, or other type of permanently paved street of the town which shall
be liable in any way to injure or cut the surface thereof.
   (C)   When any street, sidewalk, alley, or other public place is excavated,
cut, or damaged, the person causing such excavation, cut, or damage shall
restore the facility to its previous condition (including patching or re-paving
with asphalt or concrete as required by the town) as soon as possible, but in
no case later than 60 days, unless an extension of this period is granted, due
to weather or other reasonable conditions, by the Town Manager or Public Works
Director.
   (D)   In addition to any other penalties set forth for violations of this
code, persons who fail to obtain a proper permit for a street excavation, who
fail to speedily re-fill or maintain an excavation, and/or who fail to properly
patch or re-pave an excavation shall be liable to civil penalties as follows.
      (1)   Failure to obtain an excavation or encroachment permit: $50 per
day.
      (2)   Failure to speedily re-fill or maintain fill in an excavation: $50
per day.
      (3)   Failure to patch or re-pave an excavation, cut, or damage within 60
days: $50 per day.
(OC, §§ 4-1-14 and 4-1-16) (Am. Ord. passed 11-10-88; Am. Ord. 2010-016, passed
6-15-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.029 MAINTAINING SAFETY OF EXCAVATION AREA.
    It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation who obtains a
permit under this subchapter to do any excavation of any kind which may create
or cause a dangerous condition in or near any street, alley, sidewalk or public
place of the town without placing and maintaining proper guard rails three feet
from the ground and signal lights or other warnings sufficient to warn the
public of the excavation or work, and to protect all persons using reasonable
care from injuries.
(OC, § 4-1-15)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.030 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide for and promote the
safety and welfare of the public through the provision of safe and adequate
routes of pedestrian access and movement along public rights-of-way and to
affected properties.
   (B)   Sidewalks required. Any person, firm or corporation that engages in
any development of vacant property, in the redevelopment of property, or in
substantial additions to property, shall construct, or cause to be constructed
upon the property, sidewalks that comply with the specifications of the town.
Such sidewalks shall extend for the entire length of the property’s frontage
along any public street or highway abutting the property, unless the Town
Manager finds that the public interest does not require construction of a
sidewalk to provide for the adequate safety and convenience of pedestrians
(e.g., a service street or alley). If sidewalk alignments are permitted that
extend outside the public right-of-way, appropriate easements  for the sidewalk
area shall be provided to the town. No certificates of occupancy for buildings
shall be issued until these requirements are met or guaranteed by a town-
approved bond.
      (1)   VACANT PROPERTY shall include property without a principal
structure, property on which the principal structures are razed, dismantled or
removed, and property on which the principal structure or structures have been
found to be unfit or unsafe for occupancy.
      (2)   REDEVELOPMENT OF PROPERTY shall include construction or development
in which major changes are made to the use, design or construction of existing
buildings or site features (such as driveways and parking areas).
      (3)   SUBSTANTIAL ADDITIONS TO PROPERTY shall include construction of
structures and structural additions of at least 1,000 square feet (aggregate)
and structures and structural additions equal (in aggregate) to at least 50% of
the first floor area of existing structures.
   (C)   Alternative requirements. If the Town Manager determines that the
construction of sidewalks along any street area is, at the time of development
or construction, impractical or unreasonable due to right-of-way
considerations, drainage facilities, topography, utility structures, the
absence of potential connections to other sidewalks in the foreseeable future,
or other significant construction feasibility considerations, the sidewalk
construction requirement may be waived (for the affected area only) provided
that an amount of money equivalent to the normal cost of sidewalk construction
for the area is contributed to a town reserve fund for the construction of
sidewalks. The amount of the alternative contribution is subject to approval by
the Town Manager or his or her designee.
   (D)   Appeals. The Town Board of Commissioners shall be the reviewing
authority for any appeals of administrative decisions related to these
requirements. Notice of appeal of an administrative determination and a request
for a hearing shall be addressed to the Town Manager in writing and shall
detail the basis of the appeal. The appellant shall be given notice of the time
and place at which the appeal will be heard. The decision of the Town Board of
Commissioners following the hearing shall be final and inclusive and shall be
conveyed to the appellant in writing.
(OC, § 4-1-17) (Am. Ord. passed 11-17-98; Am. Ord. passed 5-18-99; Am. Ord.
passed 12-21-99; Am. Ord. 2005-02, passed 2-15-05; Am. Ord. 2005-05, passed 4-
19-05; Am. Ord. 2005-11, passed 7-19-05; Am. Ord. 2009-19, passed 10-21-09; Am.
Ord. 2011-020, passed 6-21-11)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.031 DAMAGE TO TOWN PROPERTY.
   No person shall injure, tamper with, remove, paint upon or deface any
bridge, culvert, ditch and drain, sign, sign post, street light, traffic
signal, bulletin board or other municipal property upon the streets and
sidewalks or elsewhere, or shall place any obstruction in any culvert, ditch or
drain, to prevent the free flow of water on or over the streets of the town.
(OC, § 4-1-19) (Am. Ord. passed 11-10-88)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.032 SUPERVISION AND CONTROL.
   All excavation and work in the streets, sidewalks, alleys or places of the
town shall be under the supervision and control of the Director of Public
Works, whose duty it shall be to inspect the same from time to time during the
progress thereof. Upon completion, the Director of Public Works shall make a
final inspection and shall see to it that the street, sidewalk or public place
is restored to a condition as good in all respects as before the excavation or
work was made or done, and that all debris, material, tools and equipment are
removed. Any person refusing or failing to comply with any provision of this
section shall be guilty of a violation, and where the failure or refusal is
continued after notice from the Director of Public Works, everyday's
continuance shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(OC, § 4-1-20) (Ord. passed 11-10-88)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.033 NEGLIGENT EXCAVATIONS ON CONTIGUOUS LOTS.
   Every person is forbidden to make or cause to be made any excavations on any
lot contiguous to any street or sidewalk so negligently that the same, by
caving in or otherwise, may in any manner endanger or injure the street or
sidewalk, or persons using the same.
(OC, § 4-1-21) (Ord. passed 11-10-88)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.034 DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   Permit required. No person shall begin to construct, reconstruct,
repair, alter or grade any driveway on the public streets, unless a written
permit therefor has been issued by the Zoning Officer or some other officer of
the town vested with that authority.
   (B)   Application. All persons desiring a driveway permit shall make
application therefor, which application shall show the following:
      (1)   The name and address of the owner or agent in charge of the
property abutting and proposed work area;
      (2)   The name and address of the party doing the work;
      (3)   The location of the work area;
      (4)   Attached plans showing details of the proposed alteration;
      (5)   The estimated cost of the alteration; and
      (6)   Other information as the issuing town officer shall find reasonably
necessary to the determination of whether a permit should be issued hereunder.
   (C)   Fees. The application shall be accompanied by a fee which shall be
established by the Board and set forth in the published rate schedule of the
town.
   (D)   Standards. The issuing town officer shall issue a permit hereunder
when he finds the following:
      (1)   The plans for the proposed operation have been approved by the
appropriate official of the town;
      (2)   The work shall be done according to the standard specifications of
the town for public work of like character;
      (3)   The operation will not unreasonably interfere with vehicular and
pedestrian traffic, the demand and necessity for parking spaces and the means
of egress to and from the property affected and adjacent properties; and
      (4)   The health, welfare and safety of the public will not be
unreasonably impaired.
(OC, §§ 4-1-22, 4-1-23 and 4-1-24) (Am. Ord. passed 11-10-88)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.035 SIGHT DISTANCE OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   General. No person owning and/or having legal control of any property
within the corporate limits of the town shall maintain or permit upon any such
land any shrubbery, tree, other landscaping growth, natural growth, fence,
sign, billboard, mailbox, earthen berm, object, parked vehicle, or any other
obstruction or combination thereof which obstructs the view of motorists using
any street or approach to any street intersection in a manner that constitutes
a traffic hazard, interferes with the visibility of traffic control or warning
signs, interferes with a view of intersecting traffic, or creates a condition
dangerous to public safety. Conditions in violation of this prohibition shall
constitute a public nuisance.
   (B)   Obstruction of traffic signs. The view of traffic control and warning
signs along public streets and roadways shall be unobstructed for a distance in
feet equal to at least six times the speed limit on the street or roadway.
   (C)   Obstruction of sight distances. The restrictions of this section
regarding obstructions that interfere with views of intersecting traffic shall
apply to a triangular area at each intersection defined as follows: one side is
bounded by the curb line (or the edge-of-pavement line where there is no curb)
on the minor (stop) street approaching an intersection for a distance of 20
feet to a point intersecting the curb line of the intersecting major (non-stop)
street, a second side is bounded the distance (from the point of intersection)
along the major (non-stop, or through) street set forth in the table below, and
the third side is a straight line hypotenuse connecting the other two sides of
the triangle. Within this triangular area, it shall be unlawful to install, set
out maintain, allow, grow, or maintain any plant, feature, or object of any
kind that obstructs visibility at a level between two and a half feet and eight
feet above the average grade of the adjacent street.
Second Side of Sight Distance Triangle Length:
Major Street Speed Limit of 20 mph 100 feet
Major Street Speed Limit of 25 mph 150 feet
Major Street Speed Limit of 30 mph 200 feet
Major Street Speed Limit of 35 mph 250 feet
Major Street Speed Limit of 35 mph 300 feet
Major Street Speed Limit of 40 mph 350 feet
Major Street Speed Limit of 45 mph 400 feet
Major Street Speed Limit of 50 mph 450 feet
Major Street Speed Limit of 55 mph 500 feet
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1679.jpg]
 
   (D)   Exceptions. The provisions of this section shall not apply to legally-
site permanent structures or roadway features (such as legally-sited buildings,
bridge railings, and roadway retaining walls), to natural topography that
rises, and to fire hydrants, public utility poles, street markers, government
signs, and traffic control signs or devices.
   (E)   Remedies. Upon identification of a sight distance obstruction by the
police chief or the public works director, a notice shall be left at the
property on which the obstruction exists, identifying the obstruction that
needs to be trimmed or removed and advising the property owner or occupant that
the obstruction needs to be remedied within ten days. If the sight obstruction
has not been removed within ten days, the property owner shall be issued a
written order of abatement by registered or certified mail or by witnessed hand
delivery of the notice. If the sight obstruction remains unabated ten days
after issuance of the order of abatement, the Public Works Director or his or
her designee(s) is authorized to enter upon the premises and cause the removal
and abatement of the obstruction with municipal personnel or by the work of a
contractor. In addition to any other remedies provided in this section, the
town shall be entitled to seek an injunction, order of abatement, or other
equitable remedy to secure enforcement.
   (F)   Emergencies. The normal notice procedures set forth in this section
shall not apply in instances when the Police Chief or the Public Works Director
finds that a condition exists that may constitute an immediate danger to the
life or safety of any person or to the safety of property. Upon such a finding,
the Public Works Director may deliver a written notice to abate at the property
and may, if the obstruction or nuisance is not remedied within 48 hours,
proceed to remedy the condition and charge the costs to the property owner as
set forth herein.
   (G)   Appeals. Any person who receives a written notice or order under this
section may request, in writing within seven days of receiving such notice, a
hearing before the Town Manager, which hearing shall be held in a reasonably
expeditious manner. If, following the hearing, the Town Manager finds that a
prohibited obstruction exists within the meaning of this section, the appellant
shall remedy the condition as ordered within ten days or shall be subject to
the other remedies, costs, and penalties, described in this section.
   (H)   Costs and penalties. Any person who maintains or permits a prohibited
public nuisance in the form described in this section or who fails, refuses, or
neglects to remove or abate such a public nuisance within the period described
in written notices or order shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
subject to prosecution and penalties under the provisions of law for
misdemeanor violations. If the town is obliged to remedy the condition after
failure, refusal, or neglect of the property owner to do so, the property owner
shall be billed for the labor, materials, and equipment cost incurred by the
town to effect a remedy, plus a $50 fee to cover the administrative costs and
expenses of notifications. Such billing shall be given to the tax collector for
collection and shall become a lien on the property.
(Ord. 2010-023, passed 7-20-10)
HOUSE MOVING
§ 93.045 [RESERVED].
§ 93.046 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HOUSE.  A dwelling, building or other structure in excess of 14 feet in
width.
   PERMIT. A permit issued by the Code Enforcement Department Official of the
town pursuant to this chapter.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, partnership, association or any other
business entity.
   WORKING DAYS. Monday through Friday of each week except for official
holidays during which the town offices are not open for business.
(OC, § 4-1-18(a))
§ 93.047 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   No person may move a house along or over the streets, sidewalks or other
public ways of the town without first being licensed as a house mover by the
North Carolina Department of Transportation or its successor agency as provided
in G.S. Ch. 20, Art. 16 as it presently exists or shall be hereafter amended.
Provided, however, that a license shall not be required for individuals moving
their own buildings from or to property owned individually by those persons.
This subchapter shall not relieve an individual of the requirement of obtaining
a permit as hereinafter provided, nor shall it relieve an individual of the
requirement that the applicant prove its financial responsibility as
hereinafter provided.
(OC, § 4-1-18(b))
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.048 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS AND PROCEDURES.
   No person may move a house along or over the streets, sidewalks or other
public ways of the town without first obtaining a permit from the Code
Enforcement Department Official of the town. Any person wishing to so move a
house shall apply to the Building Inspector on a form approved by the Code
Enforcement Department Official for a permit at least two working days prior to
the date that the person wishes to move the house. The Code Enforcement
Department Official may waive the two-day period for good cause shown. A travel
plan shall accompany the application. The applicant shall provide the Code
Enforcement Department Official with proof that the applicant has made
satisfactory arrangements with any person or other entity whose power,
telephone, cable television or other lines will be affected by the move. The
travel plan shall show the proposed route, the time estimated for each segment
of the move and a plan to handle traffic and power, telephone, cable television
or other lines so that delays to other street users and utilities consumers are
minimized. The Code Enforcement Department Official shall review the travel
plan with the Chief of the Police Department or his designee and if the route
cannot accommodate the move due to roadway weight limits, or will cause undue
interruption of traffic flow or will otherwise create an unduly hazardous
condition, the permit shall not be issued. The Code Enforcement Department
Official shall review the application with the Director of the Public Works
Department to determine that the applicant has made satisfactory arrangements
for the disconnection of all public utilities under the control of the town and
that the disconnections have been accomplished in an appropriate manner.
Nothing contained herein shall be interpreted to require the Code Enforcement
Department Official to issue a permit if, in his judgment, the proposed move
cannot be made safely or if, in his judgment, the applicant has not made
appropriate arrangements with power, telephone, cable television or other
utility suppliers or if, in his judgment, the applicant has not made
appropriate arrangements with the town for the disconnection of public
utilities under the control of the town. An applicant shall have the right to
appeal the denial of his application to the Board of Commissioners within ten
days of the mailing of notification of the denial of the permit to the address
given in the application. Any such denial shall be without prejudice to the
applicant’s rights to submit another application with alternate plans until an
acceptable route is determined, if such an acceptable route exists.
(OC, § 4-1-18(c) and (i)) (Am. Ord. passed 1-10-91)
§ 93.049 CONDITIONS FOR VOIDING PERMIT.
   The permit may be voided by the Code Enforcement Department Official or any
police officer of the town if any conditions of the permit are violated. Upon
any violation, the permit must be surrendered upon demand of the Code
Enforcement Department Official or police officer and a new permit obtained
before proceeding. Misrepresentation of information on application to obtain a
permit, fraudulently obtaining a permit, alteration of a permit or unauthorized
use of a permit will render the permit void.
(OC, § 4-1-18(h))
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.050 LIABILITY OF MOVER.
   The permittee assumes all responsibility for injury to persons or damage to
property of any kind and by accepting the permit agrees to hold the town
harmless for any claims arising out of his conduct, actions or omissions.
(OC, § 4-1-18(d))
§ 93.051 PROOF OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   No permit may be approved unless the applicant has satisfactorily proved its
financial responsibility. Proof of insurance coverage equivalent to that
required for licensed house movers by G.S. § 20-359.1 as it presently exists or
may be hereafter recodified shall be considered satisfactory proof of financial
responsibility and the fact that an applicant is licensed as a house mover by
the department of transportation shall be sufficient to prove his compliance
with this section. In the case of an individual not required to be licensed,
the applicant may prove its financial responsibility by providing the Building
Inspector or the Board, as the case may be, with documentation satisfactory to
the building inspector or the Board that the applicant has appropriate and
adequate insurance coverage or that the applicant has posted a bond or other
adequate surety for the benefit of any person filing a claim for personal
injury, death, or property damage arising from the movement of a house pursuant
to this section. The adequacy of the insurance coverage, bond, or other surety
shall be determined in the reasonable discretion of the issuing officer or
Board.
(OC, § 4-1-18(e))
§ 93.052 REMOVAL AND REPLACEMENT OF OBSTRUCTIONS.
   All obstructions, including traffic signals, signs and utility lines will be
removed immediately prior to and replaced immediately after the move at the
expense of the mover, provided that arrangements for and approval from the
owner of such signals, signs and lines is obtained by the applicant.
(OC, § 4-1-18(f))
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.053 LOADING, UNLOADING OR PARKING ON STREET.
   The house to be transported shall not be loaded, unloaded or parked, day or
night, on any town street, sidewalk or other public way without specific
provisions therefor in the permit.
(OC, § 4-1-18(g))
Penalty, see § 10.99
PROPERTY NUMBERING SYSTEM
§ 93.065 PURPOSE.
   It is necessary for the town to adopt a comprehensive property numbering
system and to designate prefixes for certain streets in the town. This street
designation and numbering system is intended to promote public convenience and
general welfare of the citizens of the town.
(OC, § 7-2-1) (Ord. passed 6-28-78)
§ 93.066 PROPERTY NUMBERING DOCUMENT ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The property numbering document entitled “Property Numbering System, dated
September, 1976, Town of Swansboro, NC,” is hereby adopted as the official
property numbering system for the town, and all property numbers assigned,
shall be assigned in accordance with the numbering system herein, and no other
property numbers shall be displayed in the town, except those assigned in
accordance with the official property numbering system. The property numbering
system shall be kept on file in the office of the Town Clerk.
(OC, § 7-2-11) (Ord. passed 6-28-78)
§ 93.067 NUMBERING SYSTEM.
   (A)   On the property numbering system, Corbett Avenue and Church Street is
hereby designated as the North-South axis, and Fifth Street as the East-West
axis, and all avenues, streets, alleys or other public ways running generally
north and south shall be numbered from the East-West axis consecutively to the
corporate limits of the extremity of the avenue, street, alley or public way.
Likewise, streets, avenues alleys or public ways running generally east and
west shall be numbered from the North-South axis in the same manner. Wherever
possible, one hundred block numbers shall be allowed to each block so that the
number of each consecutive block shall commence with consecutive hundreds and
one.
   (B)   One whole number shall be assigned for every 50 feet of ground whether
improved property or vacant lot on every street within the corporate limits,
excluding the business district in which case one whole number shall be
assigned for every 25 feet whether improved property or vacant lot.
   (C)   Odd numbers shall be assigned to the West side of all North streets,
and even numbers on the East side. Odd numbers shall be assigned to the East
side of all South streets and even numbers to the West side. Odd numbers shall
be assigned to the South side of all West streets and even numbers to the North
side. Odd numbers shall be assigned to the North side of all East streets and
even numbers to the South side.
(OC, § 7-2-12)
§ 93.068 PROPERTY OWNERS TO PURCHASE NUMBERS.
   Every property owner of improved property shall, on or before October 1,
1978, purchase and display in a conspicuous place on the property, the number
assigned, which shall be of the type approved by the Board of Commissioners.
(OC, § 7-1-13)
§ 93.069 NUMBERS FOR FUTURE BUILDINGS.
   All residences and business buildings erected after the adoption of this
chapter shall be assigned a number by the Town Manager in accordance with the
property numbering system, and shall purchase and display such numbers as
provided in §
93.068 of this chapter.
(OC, § 7-2-14)
§ 93.070 ALTERING OR DEFACING NUMBER PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to alter, deface or take down any number
placed on any property in accordance with this chapter, except for repair or
replacement of the numbers.
(OC, § 7-2-15)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.071 NUMBER SPECIFICATIONS.
   All house numbers shall be at least three inches high, and be of a
contrasting color to the house in order to make the numbers more visible from
the street. The numbers shall be located on the front of the house in proximity
to the front doorway.
(OC, § 7-2-16)
§ 93.072 STREET PREFIX SCHEDULE.
   Prefixes for the following names of streets or parts thereof are designated
as follows:
   (A)   North and south prefix designation.  That portion of the streets named
below that are lying north of Fifth Street and N.C. State Road number 1449 (Dr.
Corbett Lane) are designated or renamed with the prefix North and the portion
of the streets named below and lying south of Fifth Street and N.C. State Road
number 1449 (Dr. Corbett Lane) are designated or renamed with the prefix South.
      (1)   Broad Street;
      (2)   Corbett Avenue;
      (3)   Main Street;
      (4)   Shore Drive;
      (5)   Spring Street;
      (6)   Pineland Drive;
      (7)   Phillips Drive;
      (8)   Dogwood Lane.
   (B)   East and west prefix designation. That portion of the streets that are
named below and lying east of Corbett Avenue and Church Street are designated
or renamed with the prefix East and the portions of the streets named below and
lying west of Corbett Avenue and Church Street are designated or renamed with
the prefix West.
      (1)   Elm Street;
      (2)   Fifth Street;
      (3)   Hammock Road;
      (4)   Walnut Street;
      (5)   Water Street;
      (6)   Webb Street;
      (7)   Holly Lane;
      (8)   Glancy Street;
      (9)   Taylor Terrace;
      (10)   Lisk Drive;
      (11)   Park Lane
(OC, § 7-2-2) (Am. Ord. passed 11-10-88)
PARADES AND DEMONSTRATIONS
§ 93.085 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BLOCK. That portion of any street lying between its intersections with other
streets.
   GROUP DEMONSTRATIONS. Any assembly together or concert of action between or
among two or more persons for the purpose of protesting any matter or of making
known any position or promotion of the persons, or of or on behalf of, any
organization or class of persons, or for the purpose of attracting the
attention of the assembly.
   PARADE. Any assemblage of two or more persons participating in or operating
any vehicle in any march, ceremony, show, exhibition or procession of any kind
in or upon the public streets, sidewalks, alleys, parks or other public grounds
of places.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, corporation, partnership, association or other
organization, whether formal or informal.
   PICKET LINE. Any two or more persons formed together for the purpose of
making known any position or promotion of the persons or on behalf of any
organization or class of persons.
(OC, § 6-2-31)
§ 93.086 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to organize, conduct or participate in
any parade, picket line or group demonstration in or upon any street, sidewalk,
alley or other public place within the town unless a permit therefor has been
issued by the town in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
(OC, § 6-2-32)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.087 STANDARDS.
   The Chief of Police shall not issue a permit for the proposed parade if he
finds any of the following:
   (A)   The parades, picket lines or group demonstrations are to commence
before 6:00 a.m. or terminate after 5:00 p.m.;
   (B)   The parades or group demonstrations are to be held at the same time
and place as those designated in a permit issued pursuant to a written
application previously received by the Chief of Police or designee;
   (C)   The conduct of the parade will substantially interrupt the safe and
orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
   (D)   The concentration of persons, animals and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will substantially interfere with adequate fire and police
protection of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to the assembly areas;
   (E)   The conduct of the parade is reasonably likely to result in violence
to persons or property causing serious harm to the public;
   (F)   The parade is to be held for the primary purposes of advertising a
product, good or event, and is designed to be held primarily for private
profit;
   (G)   The conduct of the parade will interfere with the movement of
firefighting equipment to such an extent that adequate fire protection cannot
be provided to the town.
(OC, § 6-2-33)
§ 93.088 REQUIREMENTS AND ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.
   The Chief of Police or his designee shall issue permits as required in §
93.086 and in the issuance thereof shall require the following:
   (A)   A written application for a permit to be filed not less than 24 hours
in advance of the parade, picket line or group demonstration which application
shall specify the time and place for the commencement of any picket line and
the time, place, route and duration of any parade or group demonstration;
   (B)   That the application for a permit specify whether or not minors below
the age of 18 years will be permitted to participate;
   (C)   That the application for a permit shall specify and the permit shall
designate the person or persons in charge of the activity. The person shall be
required to accompany the parade, picket line or group demonstration and shall
carry the permit with him/her at that time. The permit shall not be valid in
the possession of any other person.
(OC, § 6-2-34)
§ 93.089 CERTAIN ACTIVITIES RESTRICTED.
   The following acts or activities, when performed or undertaken in
conjunction with, or as a part of, any parade, picket line or group
demonstration are hereby prohibited and declared unlawful:
   (A)   The carrying on or about the person any firearm or any weapon or
article, including but not limited to blackjacks, night sticks or flashlights
which by their use might constitute a deadly weapon;
   (B)   The taking or keeping of any dog or other vicious animal, whether
leashed or unleashed.
(OC, § 6-2-35)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.090 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police shall revoke any permit granted for a parade, picket
line or group demonstration for any of the following causes:
   (A)   The violation by any participant of §
93.089 of this subchapter;
   (B)   The failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the permit.
(OC, § 6-2-36)
§ 93.091 INTERFERENCE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall hamper, obstruct, impede or interfere with any parade,
picket line or group demonstration being conducted under authority of a permit
duly issued by the Chief of Police.
(OC, § 6-2-37)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.092 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS APPLICABLE TO PICKETING.
   Picket lines and picketing shall be subject to the following additional
regulations:
   (A)   Picketing may be conducted only on the sidewalks reserved for
pedestrian movement, and may not be conducted on the portion of a street used
primarily for vehicular traffic;
   (B)   Not more than ten pickets promoting the same objective shall be
permitted to use either of the two sidewalks within a single block at any one
time.;
   (C)   Pickets may carry written or printed placards or signs not exceeding
two feet in width and two feet in length promoting the objective for which the
picketing is done; provided, the words used are not derogatory, profane,
blatantly sexual or defamatory in nature;
   (D)   Pickets must march in single file and not abreast and must not march
closer together than 15 feet, except in passing one another.
(OC, § 6-3-38)
Penalty, see § 10.99
EVENTS AND FESTIVALS
§ 93.105 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to ensure that all events and festival
shows held in the town shall be conducted in an orderly, well-planned manner,
benefitting the people and enhancing the image of the town.
(OC, § 6-2-41)
§ 93.106 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EVENT. Any organized gathering for the purpose of entertainment, fund-
raising or celebration activities, which is not sponsored by the town or any of
its agencies. Events shall include, but not be restricted to, parades,
festivals, fairs, dances, exhibitions or shows of any kind held on a public
right-of-way or involving the use of town property or personnel. Activities not
included in this definition shall be commemorative ceremonies, which are
nonprofit in nature, church or civic functions not held on town property, or
sidewalk sales or outdoor sales of merchandise held by merchants or residents
on private property.
   FESTIVAL AREA. The area of the town designated by a permit applicant and
approved in the permit issued by the Board of Commissioners pursuant to §
93.107. The permit may delineate the festival area by attachment of a map, by
setting out the streets that border the festival area or in any other manner
reasonably calculated to accurately define the festival area.
   NONPROFIT. An incorporated organization chartered for other than profit-
making activities. Most such organizations are engaged in charitable,
educational or other civic or humanitarian activities although they are not
restricted to such activities.
   PERMITTEE. A person, corporation, partnership, unincorporated association or
other entity who is issued a permit for any event pursuant to §
93.107.
   SATELLITE EVENT. Any function or display which operates independently from
the event or festival but which takes place in conjunction with the event or
festival.
   SEXUALLY EXPLICIT MATERIAL. This definition includes SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL
AREAS and SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.
      (1)   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS refers to less than completely and
opaquely covered human genitals or pubic region, buttocks and female breasts
below a point immediately above the top of the areola; and human male genitals,
even if completely covered.
      (2)   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES refers to human genitals in a state of
sexual stimulation or arousal; acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse
or sodomy; and fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals or pubic
region, buttocks or female breasts.
(OC, § 6-2-42) (Am. Ord. passed 12-16-97; Am. Ord. 2006-24, passed 10-17-06)
§ 93.107 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall engage in, participate in, aid, form or commence any
event or festival in or upon any street, sidewalk or other public place in the
town unless an event application is submitted to town staff and approved.
   (B)   No permit shall be issued unless the event or festival is conducted
solely by a nonprofit organization with the proceeds from the event or festival
being used for charitable, educational or religious purposes. No sale of arts,
crafts, food or other tangible items shall be permitted within the street or
sidewalk area during the event or festival except under the auspices and
control of the organization receiving the permit. The organization shall be
fully responsible for compliance with rules, regulations and ordinances of the
town with respect to the event or festival being conducted pursuant to a permit
issued thereunder.
   (C)   Application for a permit for an event or festival shall be filed with
the Town Manager on forms provided by the town. An application for an event or
festival permit shall be filed with the Town Manager not less than 60 days
prior to the event or festival. The application for an event or festival shall
set forth the following information:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the organization applying
for a permit;
      (2)   The names and addresses of its principal officers and management;
      (3)   The purpose for which any receipts derived from the event or
festival are to be used;
      (4)   The name and address of the person(s) who will be in direct charge
of the event or festival and will be present at the event;
      (5)   A description of the type of event or festival and the dates and
hours of operation;
      (6)   A statement of the character and extent to the charitable,
religious or educational work being done by the applicant organization within
the town;
      (7)   The name(s) and portion(s) of the street or streets to be closed
for the purpose of placing displays and conducting the event, the name and
areas of any town park or other public place in which the event is to be
conducted and a description of any other areas, whether privately- or publicly-
owned, which the applicant proposed to include in the festival area;
      (8)   A copy of a security and traffic control plan prepared by the
applicant and approved by the Chief of Police and Fire Chief;
      (9)   The event or festival shall secure liability insurance effective
during the course of the festival or event. Limits of the policy shall be
determined by the Town Attorney. The kind of insurance required shall include
but not be limited to comprehensive general liability including: personal
injury, blanket contracting and non-owned auto;
      (10)   Any additional information which the town staff shall find
reasonable and necessary to a fair determination as to whether a permit should
be issued.
   (D)   (1)   The Town Manager shall issue a permit for an event or festival
upon approval of the application. Approval of the application shall be based
upon a finding that the application meets the requirements herein, that the
event or festival will not unduly inconvenience or interfere with the orderly
movement of traffic in the area involved, that property owners in the area are
not unduly deprived of access to their property, that an individual exhibition
booth will not unduly interfere with normal business activity within the area
of the street occupied by the exhibition, that emergency vehicles will not be
denied access to any person or property and that adequate clean-up arrangements
have been made. In addition, if the event or exhibition is to be located in a
park or other public place, the Board of Commissioners shall be satisfied that
adequate provisions and accommodations can be made for conducting the event or
festival.
      (2)   A permit to conduct an event or festival shall not be transferred
from the applicant to any other individual. The sponsor shall maintain sole
responsibility for all satellite events associated with the event or festival
and shall be responsible for any damage done to town property during an event.
   (E)   The town staff shall review the application for an event or festival
at the time the application is submitted. The application will be distributed
to all department heads for comment. If the application is disapproved, the
applicant will be notified by the Town Manager stating the reasons for the
denial of the permit. A permit issued hereunder may be withdrawn in the event
of any violation of conditions, misstatement of fact in the application or in
instances where the health or safety of the citizens will be adversely
affected, and the town shall be held harmless.
   (F)   Where the event or festival is to be conducted pursuant to a permit
issued hereunder, the festival may not extend for more than seven successive
days without an intervening period of at least one week.
   (G)   No vendor of goods or services may participate in the festival area of
any event controlled by this chapter without the written permission of the
permittee; provided, however, this division (G) shall not apply to the
operation of a bona fide business permanently located within the festival area.
   (H)   Once a permit for an event or festival is issued by the Town Board,
the Board may appoint one of its members or town employees to serve as a
liaison to the sponsor. The sponsor, in turn, shall provide monthly progress
reports to the Town Board for their review and shall coordinate plans with
appropriate town departments.
(OC, § 6-2-43) (Am. Ord. passed 6-8-89; Am. Ord. passed 12-16-97; Am. Ord.
2015-O5, passed 10-20-15) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.108 ANIMALS.
    Not withstanding any other provision of this code to the contrary, no
animal except for appropriately restrained seeing-eye dogs, shall be permitted
in the event or festival area as set out in the permit issued pursuant to this
subchapter unless the animal is part of a bona fide exhibit being operated at
the event or festival.
(OC, § 6-2-44) (Ord. passed 12-6-97)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.109 SOUND EQUIPMENT.
   Not withstanding any other provision of this code to the contrary, no
portable radios, tape recorders or other sound equipment, other than the
equipment being operated as part of a bona fide exhibit of the event or
exhibition show pursuant to this subchapter, shall be permitted on any street
or sidewalk area closed for an event or exhibition show pursuant to this
subchapter unless the equipment is being operated so that the sound from such
equipment may be heard only through earphones.
(OC, § 6-2-45)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.110 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE.
   No sale or consumption of any alcoholic beverage is permitted on public
streets, parks or sidewalks by exhibitors or patrons of any exhibit, nor shall
alcoholic beverages be displayed or given free of charge by exhibitors to
patrons.
(OC, § 6-2-46)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.111 SEXUALLY EXPLICIT MATERIAL.
   No sexually explicit materials may be sold, displayed or dispensed by
exhibitors. This includes overt sexual statements, displays of nudity in a
blatant sexual manner, demonstrations of sexual material and overt sexual acts.
(OC, § 6-2-47)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.112 OFF-DUTY TOWN PERSONNEL.
   Off-duty town personnel may be employed by the event sponsor to assist with
event activities or arrangements. The personnel include but are not limited to
police and public works department personnel.
(OC, § 6-2-48)
CHAPTER 94: PARKS
Section
   
94.01   Parks; general
   
94.02   Park use regulations
   
94.03   Hours of use
   
94.04   Definitions
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 PARKS; GENERAL.
   (A)   Applicability. The rules and regulations of this chapter shall apply
to all park facilities owned, leased, controlled, or operated by the Town of
Swansboro.
   (B)   Enforcement. The provisions of this chapter may be enforced by law
enforcement officers, the Town Manager, the Public Works Director, and/or any
other municipal employee to whom the Town Manager delegates park supervision
responsibilities.
(Ord. 2008-019, passed 9-16-08)
§ 94.02 PARK USE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Alcohol.
      (1)   No person shall possess or consume alcoholic beverages in any park
area. No person in a park shall be in an intoxicated or impaired condition due
to the use of alcohol or illegal substances.
      (2)   Exception. Alcoholic beverages may be allowed for the use of events
in the leased/rental space of the Recreation Center if General Policy Number
3a, Meeting Room Use, terms and conditions are met.
   (B)   Animals. No person shall bring dogs or other pets into parks, unless
such pets are (a) kept on leashes and under restraint by their owners or
handlers, (b) kept in carriers, or (c) kept in owners’ vehicles. Dogs are to be
kept leashed until entering the transition zone of the dog park. Pet owners
must collect and properly dispose of any waste from their pets. No person shall
bring pets, other than service dogs trained to assist disabled persons, into
park buildings, including restrooms. No animal, wild or domestic, shall be
harassed or molested by people or pets while on park property.
   (C)   Basketball goals. No person shall climb basketball goals or hang on
basketball goal rims.
   (D)   Boat launching. No person shall launch or retrieve, from any park or
waterfront access facility, any boat or watercraft designed to carry human
operators or passengers, unless the location is specifically marked to allow
such activity.
   (E)   Camping. No person shall day camp, overnight camp, set up tents or
shelters, or use vehicle or trailer-based campers or recreational vehicles in
any park area without special permission in writing from the Town Manager or
his/her authorized designee.
   (F)   Child supervision. No child under 11 years of age shall be in a town
park without adult supervision.
   (G)   Closed areas. No person shall enter or be in any areas posted as
“Closed”, “Closed to Public”, “No Trespassing”, or “Authorized Persons Only”
within any park.
   (H)   Damage/displacement/removal. No person shall willfully mark, deface,
disfigure, injure, tamper with, displace, or remove any structure, equipment,
facilities, signs or other property of the town, either real or personal.
   (I)   Disturbances. No person shall engage in threatening, abusive,
insulting, indecent, or unreasonably loud or boisterous language or behavior,
and no person shall engage in disorderly conduct or behavior constituting a
breach of the public peace.
   (J)   Diving/swimming. No person shall swim, bathe, or wade in any waters or
waterways in or adjacent to any park, unless (a) the waters are specifically
designated for such purpose and (b) the activity is conducted in compliance
with any posted regulations. No person shall jump or dive from piers, docks,
elevated walkways, bridges, or seawalls.
   (K)   Dock use and protection. Boat docking is permitted only at facilities
designed and marked for that purpose and upon payment of any applicable fee. No
person shall permit or intentionally cause any boat or watercraft to collide
with or damage municipal pier or dock facilities.
   (L)   Dock walks and boardwalks. Dock walks and boardwalks are intended
primarily for the movement of pedestrians or as observation areas. No person
shall fish from dock walks or board walks.
   (M)   Dumping. No person shall bring into a park or dump, deposit, or leave
in a park any bottles, broken glass, ashes, paper, boxes, cans, dirt, rubbish,
garbage, refuse, trash, or other waste generated from outside a park site.
   (N)   Fires and fire safety. No person shall build, set, or attempt to start
a fire except in grills or pits specifically and safely designed for that
purpose. Grills shall be kept at least ten feet from any flammable structure or
vegetation. No bonfires, campfires, or ground fires are allowed. No person
shall drop, throw, or otherwise scatter lighted matches, burning cigarettes or
cigars, or other ignited or flammable materials within any park area or any
abutting highway, road, right-of-way, grassed, or vegetated areas. No person
shall leave a fire before it is completely extinguished.
   (O)   Fireworks. No person shall bring in, possess, ignite, discharge, or
otherwise cause to explode, discharge, or burn any fireworks or explosives in
any park area or any adjoining streets or private properties.
   (P)   Fishing. Fishing is permitted only from facilities and areas
specifically designed for that purpose and in areas marked to allow fishing. No
person shall gut or clean fish or other marine catches on docks, in restrooms,
or in any other park location not specifically designed and provided for that
purpose.
   (P1)   Golf. No driving or chipping of golf balls shall be permitted within
any park, unless an area is specifically designed and designated for that
purpose.
   (Q)   Improper use. No person shall use park facilities for other than their
designed and intended purpose. All equipment and facilities shall be used in an
age-appropriate and size-appropriate manner.
   (R)   Interference/harassment. No person shall disturb, harass, or
unreasonably interfere with any person or persons (a) lawfully occupying a park
area, (b) participating in any authorized recreational use of a park area, or
(c) participating in a town-sponsored or town-authorized recreational program
or activity.
   (S)   Landscaping damage. No person shall damage, cut, carve, transplant, or
remove any tree or plant, injure the bark or pick the seeds or flowers of any
tree or plant, dig or otherwise damage or disturb any grass area, or in any
other way injure or impair the landscaping, natural beauty, or usefulness of
any planted area. No person shall excavate, dig, or remove soil from the parks
except town maintenance personnel.
   (T)   Livestock. No person shall bring horses or other livestock into parks
unless part of an event or exhibition for which written permission has been
given by the Town Manager or his or her designee.
   (U)   Loitering. No person shall sleep or loiter, for extended periods of
time, on park seats, benches, tables, floors, grounds, or other facilities.
   (V)   Noise. No person shall generate noise or music that is audible more
than 50 feet from its source, except (a) for special events sponsored by the
town or (b) for events for which special permits have been issued for a higher
level of sound.
   (W)   Obedience to officials. All persons shall obey the instructions of
police officers or other persons authorized by the town to supervise park
facilities, operate recreational programs, or direct parking or traffic in the
parks. Any person shall immediately leave the premises if so directed by a
police officer or other authorized person with park supervision responsibility.
   (X)   Obstructions. No person shall obstruct or interfere with the designed
use of any walkway, path, driveway, parking drive, or play facility.
   (Y)   Parking. No person shall park a vehicle in any location other than
established or designated parking areas. No vehicles shall be parked in parks
or park areas overnight.
   (Z)   Performances. Performance events require reservations and approval by
the Town Manager or his/her designee.
   (AA)   Picnicking. No person shall possess or consume food or beverages in
any areas with posted prohibitions.
   (BB)   Piers and docks. No vehicles (including bicycles, scooters, or other
vehicles) are allowed on piers, docks, dock walks, or boardwalks, except
motorized wheelchairs or chair-scooters operated by persons with ambulatory
disabilities.
   (CC)   Priority of use. Park users shall observe, in use of facilities, the
general rule that facilities are available on a first-come, first-served basis,
unless a specific reservation has been made for the use of facilities.
Residents of the town shall, in general, have priority in the use and
reservation of municipal park facilities, and the Town Manager or his/her
designee may, if needed, limit the extent of non-resident use in order to
preserve use opportunities for town residents.
   (DD)   Reservations. Persons who desire to reserve the use of a park
facility (such as a shelter or athletic field) must make applications and
receive written approval for same from the Town Manager or his/her designee.
Reservations are subject to any adopted board or administrative policies,
including any required fees. Persons with approved reservations shall have
priority in the use of the designated park facility.
   (EE)   Safety. No person shall fail to observe and obey any posted safety
regulations within a park.
   (FF)   Signs/advertisements. No person shall post, place, or distribute
signs, banners, or advertisements within any park without specific written
authorization from the Town Manager or his/her designee.
   (GG)   Skateboards. No persons shall use skateboards or scooters on tennis
courts, basketball courts, picnic tables, picnic shelters, parking stops, or
benches. If an area is provided within a park for the specific use of
skateboards, skateboards shall not be used in any area of that park except
within the designated area. Within any facility that is provided for the use of
skateboards, any person riding a skateboard at the facility is required to wear
a helmet, elbow pads, and knee pads.
   (HH)   Smoking. Smoking is not permitted within any area of a park, except
the designated parking areas.
   (II)   Traffic regulations and safety. No person shall fail to obey all
traffic signs posted in the park indicating speed, direction, caution, use,
stopping, parking, or other instructions posted for proper control and/or
protection of life and property. The speed limit on any roadways or drives
within park areas shall be ten miles per hour.
   (JJ)   Trails and walkways. Pedestrians have the right-of-way on trails and
walkways at all times. Other users (such as skaters, skateboarders, and
bicyclists) shall yield to pedestrians and shall maneuver and control their
movement in a manner that protects pedestrian safety and avoids collisions and
accidents. Motorized vehicles are not permitted on trails, except motorized
wheelchairs or chair-scooters operated by persons with ambulatory disabilities,
authorized maintenance vehicles, and low-speed vehicles involved in special
events authorized by the town.
   (KK)   Vehicle use. No person, except for park maintenance workers, public
safety personnel, and emergency service personnel, shall drive any vehicle in
any area except paved park roads, driveways, or parking areas. No person may
use off-road vehicles (such as all-terrain vehicles, golf carts, off-road motor
scooters, motorized bikes, mini-bikes, or go carts) in the parks, except (a)
town employees engaged in maintenance, supervision, or patrol functions or (b)
persons who have received written permission from the Town Manager or his/her
designee for use of such vehicles in connection with special events or
maintenance.
   (LL)   Vending and solicitations. No person or organization shall sell food,
beverages, or merchandise in the parks, except through concessions operated or
authorized by the town. No person shall solicit donations within parks without
permission in writing from the Town Manager or his/her designee.
   (MM)   Water protection. No person shall engage in actions that degrade or
pollute waterways, including throwing foreign objects into the waters or
introducing substances which pollute or degrade water quality or harm fisheries
or other aquatic life. No person shall introduce any non-native animal, plant,
or organism into waterways.
   (NN)   Waste disposal. No person shall deposit any refreshment waste, picnic
waste, litter, garbage, or other waste in any location except in waste
containers specifically designed for that purpose. All trash, litter, refuse,
garbage, and containers are to be placed in proper waste receptacles. If waste
receptacles are unavailable or lack additional capacity, such refuse and trash
shall be carried away from the park and properly disposed of elsewhere.
   (OO)   Weapons.
      (1)   No person shall carry, use, or possess firearms or other dangerous
weapons of any kind (such as but not limited to knives, bows and arrows,
crossbows) within any park, except for law enforcement officers engaged in the
discharge of their duties. No archery activities are permitted except by
special permission of the Town Manager or his/her designee.
      (2)   (a)   Due to pre-emptive provisions of state law, the carrying of
concealed handguns is prohibited at the following recreational facilities only:
            1.   Athletic fields, including any appurtenant facilities such as
restrooms, during an organized athletic event if the field has been scheduled
for use with the Town of Swansboro Parks and Recreation Department.
            2.   Any facility used for athletic events, including, but not
limited to, a gymnasium.
         (b)   The term RECREATIONAL FACILITIES does not include any greenway,
designated biking or walking path, an area that is customarily used as a
walkway or bike path although not specifically designated for such use, open
areas or fields where athletic events may occur unless the area qualifies as an
“athletic field” pursuant to division (OO)(2)(a)(1) above, and any other area
that is not specifically described in this division. See also, G.S. §§ 14-
415.23; 14-409.40(f).
      (3)   The Town Manager or his or her designee shall maintain lists and/or
maps identifying those recreational facilities on which the carrying of
concealed handguns is prohibited. The lists or maps shall also be filed with
the Town Clerk. These facilities shall include, at a minimum, the Town of
Swansboro Recreation Center.
      (4)   The Town Manager or his designee shall post, as soon as
practicable, information in the affected parks that specifically identifies
those areas in which the carrying of concealed handguns is prohibited.
   (PP)   Wildlife and habitat. Natural areas of parks are habitat areas for
animals, birds, reptiles, and insects. Users of such areas shall exercise care
and vigilance in, and adjacent to, natural areas to avoid harming wildlife and
to avoid damaging or destroying habitat areas for wildlife. No person shall
hunt, trap, wound, injure, or kill any bird or animal in any park. No person
shall release any animal in a park area unless such release is authorized by
the Town Manager.
(Ord. 2008-019, passed 9-16-08; Am. Ord. 2011-027, passed 8-16-11; Am. Ord.
2011-031, passed 11-15-11; Am. Ord. 2011-032, passed 12-7-11; Am. Ord. 2013-
O19, passed 11-19-13; Am. Ord. 2017-012, passed 11-14-17; Am. Ord. 2018-O13,
passed 7-24-18) Penalty, see §
94.99
Statutory reference:
   Possession of firearms in public parks and recreation areas, see G.S. § 14-
409.40(f)
   Posting prohibitions against carrying concealed handguns, see G.S. § 14-
415.23
§ 94.03 HOURS OF USE.
   (A)   Permitted hours. No person shall enter, use, or remain within park
facilities between the hours of dusk and dawn unless (a) they are using a
facility specifically lighted for after-dark use within the hours posted for
its use, (b) a special permit for after-hours use has been issued by the Town
Manager or his/her designee, or (c) the facility is a fishing pier.
   (B)   Fishing piers. Fishing piers and any related support facilities may be
used, in the manner and for the purpose for which they were designed, at all
hours.
(Ord. 2008-019, passed 9-16-08) Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DESIGNEE. A person designated by the Town Manager, in writing, to supervise
parks and/or carry out park supervision and/or administration duties.
   PARK FACILITIES. All structures, equipment, play areas, and other lands and
improvements within parks and park areas.
   PARK OR PARK AREA. A tract of land set aside for public recreational use,
whether owned, leased, controlled, or operated, including appurtenant
structures, and waterfront recreational areas.
   TOWN-SPONSORED. A town-sponsored recreational program or activity is a
program or activity: (a) that has received an official endorsement from the
town or an authorized town official; (b) that utilizes town personnel or
funding; and/or (c) that is provided in partnership with the town.
(Ord. 2008-019, passed 9-16-08)
§ 94.99 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Administrative penalties.
      (1)   Suspension of use privileges. Any person found to be in violation
of these rules and regulations may be prohibited, by the Town Manager, from
using a specific park facility or all park facilities for a period of up to one
year. Use of park facilities in violation of such a prohibition shall be
regarded as trespassing.
      (2)   Restitution and community service. With the approval of the Town
Manager, a person found to be in violation of these rules and regulations may
be allowed to perform community service and/or provide restitution in lieu of
prosecution.
   (B)   Civil penalties. Any person found to be in violation of this chapter
may, in addition to other remedies, be subject to civil fines of up to $100 per
violation.
   (C)   Criminal penalties. Any person found to be in violation of these
provisions is guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor, punishable as set forth in §
10.99 of this code.
   (D)   Separate violations. Each day or instance of violation shall be a
separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. 2008-019, passed 9-16-08)
CHAPTER 95: TREES
Section
   
95.01   Purpose
   
95.02   Definitions
   
95.03   Community Tree Board
   
95.04   Public tree care
   
95.05   Application and conflicts
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to promote and protect the public health,
safety and general welfare by encouraging and providing for well-planned tree
planting improvements within the town, by encouraging proper care and
maintenance of public and private trees, by controlling or eliminating tree-
related hazards, by improving and maintaining community appearance, by
improving the quality of life for residents, and by protecting the value of
property and the related municipal revenue base.
(Ord. 2012-06, passed 5-15-12)
§ 95.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARK TREES. Trees in municipal parks and on the grounds of other municipal
facilities, owned or under the control of the town, to which the public has
general access.
   STREET TREES. Trees located on land lying between the property lines on
either side of all streets, alleys, avenues, or public ways within the town.
   TOPPING. Severe cutting or pruning, down to stubs larger than three inches
in diameter, within the tree crown, to the extent of removing the normal canopy
and disfiguring the tree.
(Ord. 2012-06, passed 5-15-12)
§ 95.03 COMMUNITY TREE BOARD.
   (A)   Creation. There is hereby created a Swansboro Community Tree Board.
   (B)   Composition and appointment. The Community Tree Board shall consist of
three to five citizens who shall reside within the town’s planning
jurisdiction, provided that a majority of the members shall reside within the
town and that no more than one member may, due to special qualifications in
thefields of forestry, silviculture, or horticulture, reside outside this area.
The members shall, if feasible, include persons with experience, education, or
special interest in fields related to forestry or horticulture. Each member
shall be appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the Board of
Commissioners, and shall serve staggered two-year terms as specified at the
time of appointment. All members shall serve at the pleasure of the Board of
Commissioners. The members shall serve without compensation, except for any
reimbursement of town-approved expenses incurred in carrying out their duties.
   (C)   Organization and operation. The Board shall select its own officers,
adopt its own rules of procedure, and keep minutes of its proceedings. A
majority of its members shall be a quorum for the conduct of business.
   (D)   Duties and responsibilities. The Community Tree Board shall have the
following duties and responsibilities:
      (1)   To develop a plan for the care, preservation, growth, planting,
management, and removal of trees within street rights-of-way, municipal parks,
and other municipal properties.
      (2)   To support and facilitate the planting, growth, and protection of
trees within the town, utilizing available public and private resources.
      (3)   To periodically conduct and analyze surveys of street trees and
other trees within the community to determine the composition and condition of
the urban forest.
      (4)   To provide, sponsor, and facilitate the dissemination of
information to the public, tree companies, public utilities, and state agencies
concerning the proper care, pruning, protection, planting, and removal of
trees, particularly street trees and other trees on public property. This
effort may include the organization of workshops and the preparation of
publications.
      (5)   To develop official street tree species recommendations to guide
plantings on public rights-of-way and public properties.
      (6)   To provide advisory assistance to private property owners
concerning the appropriate care, planting, and removal of trees.
      (7)   To provide recommendations regarding the development, adoption, and
revisions of ordinances and policies relating to community trees.
      (8)   To assist in the administration of public tree care regulations as
may be separately provided by law.
      (9)   To annually submit, no later than April 15 of each year, a written
report of its activities and accomplishments, as well as the use of any funds
appropriated for its use.
   (E)   Resources. The Board shall have such financial resources as may be
appropriated in the annual budget and such staffing assistance as may be
approved by the Town Manager. Any non-municipal resources that the Board
desires to utilize shall be approved by the Town Manager or, if the Manager
regards it as necessary, by the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 2010-08, passed 2-16-10; Am. Ord. 2012-06, passed 5-15-12)
§ 95.04 PUBLIC TREE CARE.
   The regulations of this section shall apply to all street and park trees
within the town.
   (A)   Planting. After official street species recommendations are prepared
and adopted to guide tree plantings, street trees and park trees may be planted
only in accordance with the species list and guidelines. Planting at variance
with the list or guidelines requires special permission from the Community Tree
Board.
   (B)   Pruning. Town departments and public utilities and their agents may
undertake pruning of trees to protect public safety, protect utilities
facilities and public improvements, and enhance the beauty of street trees and/
or public grounds, provided that pruning personnel have attended an
instructional workshop or can present proof of similar acceptable instruction
in the proper care and pruning of trees. Town departments, public utilities,
their agents, and any other person conducting major trimming of street or park
trees shall notify the Town Manager of their plans before beginning work.
   (C)   Topping. It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person,
firm or corporation to top any street tree, park tree, or other tree on public
property. Trees severely damaged by storms or other causes, or certain trees
under utility lines or other obstructions where other pruning practices are
impractical, may be exempted from this chapter at the determination of the
Public Works Director.
   (D)   Removal. The town may remove, or cause or order the removal of, any
tree or part thereof that is in an unsafe condition or that, by reason of its
nature or condition, is injurious to sewers, electric power lines, gas lines,
water lines, sidewalks, streets, or other public improvements, or that is
affected with any injurious fungus, insect, or other pest. The town shall
replant a tree for each tree removed from the public right-of-way by the town.
Such replanting may be done in the public right-of-way or on private property
adjoining the right-of-way with the properly owner's permission, if it is
impractical to replant in the public right-of-way. This section does not
prohibit the planting of street trees by property owners, provided that the
selection and location of trees are compatible with existing utilities and any
adopted street tree species guidelines.
   (E)   Stumps. All stumps of street and park trees shall be removed so that
the top of the stump does not project above the surface of the ground.
   (F)   Pruning for safe clearances. Every owner of any tree overhanging any
street or right-of-way within the town shall prune the branches so that they do
not obstruct the light from any street lamp or obstruct the view of any street
intersection, and so that there shall be a clear space of eight feet above the
surface of the street or sidewalk. Owners shall remove all dead, diseased, or
dangerous trees, or broken or decayed limbs that the Town Manager, Police
Chief, or Public Works Director finds to be a menace to the safety of the
public. The town shall have the right to prune any tree or shrub on private
property when it interferes with the proper spread of light along the street
from a street light, obstructs sight distances at intersections, obstructs an
eight-foot clearance above streets or sidewalks, or interferes with visibility
of any traffic control device or sign.
   (G)   Dead or diseased tree removal on private property. The town shall have
the right to cause the removal of any dead or diseased trees on private
property within the town when they constitute a hazard to life and property, or
harbor insects or disease that constitute a potential threat to other trees
within the town. The town will notify, in writing, the owners of such trees.
Removal of such trees shall be carried by owners at their own expense within 60
days after the date of service of notice. In the event of failure of an owner
to comply with such provisions, the town shall have the authority to remove
such trees and charge the cost of removal to the owner. Such costs shall, if
unpaid, become a lien on the property.
(Ord. 2012-06, passed 5-15-12) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.05 APPLICATION AND CONFLICTS.
   This chapter shall be in effect within the municipal boundaries of the town.
All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict with this chapter, or
inconsistent with its provisions or amendments thereto, are hereby superseded
to the extent necessary to give this chapter full force and effect; provided
that, if any provisions of this chapter should be found to be inconsistent with
any landscaping regulations contained in the town's Unified Development
Ordinance, the more stringent provisions (the higher standard) shall prevail.
(Ord. 2012-06, passed 5-15-12)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be, upon
conviction or a plea of guilty, subject to a fine not to exceed $100 or 30 days
in jail for each offense.
   (B)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall also be
subject to civil penalties not exceeding $100 for the first offense, $200 for
the second offense, and $300 for a third or additional offenses. Each day and
instance or violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2012-06, passed 5-15-12)
CHAPTER 96: TOWN MARINA
Section
   
96.01   Regulations at Church Street Dock
§ 96.01 REGULATIONS AT CHURCH STREET DOCK.
   The following rules and regulations are applicable to all vessels docking at
Church Street Dock.
   (A)   Priority will be given to transient vessels at all times. Fees as
listed in the Fee Schedule.
   (B)   No boat shall be left unattended overnight at the town dock for more
than five days.
   (C)   No fishing or cleaning fish.
   (D)   No boisterous conduct and loud music.
   (E)   No maintenance, painting or repair of vessels is permitted.
   (F)   No swimming, windsurfing, jet skiing or diving.
   (G)   No open fires and barbeques at the town dock.
   (H)   No discharge of raw sewage or other waste into the water.
   (I)   Pets shall be leashed at all times while on the town dockand other
town property, unless otherwise allowed in areas designated by the town.
   (J)   Violation of any of these rules and regulations and/or other improper
conduct by a vessel owner and/or his or her guest may be cause for immediate
removal from the marina .
   (K)   The town shall not be held liable for any loss, damage or injury
suffered by persons and vessels while docking at the town dock.
   (L)   The town shall have the authority to interpret and enforce these rules
and regulations in its best interests.
(Ord. 2014-O20, passed 10-29-14; Am. Ord. 2015-O6, passed 10-20-15; Am. Ord.
2017-012, passed 11-14-17)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Chapter
   
110.   BEER AND WINE LICENSES
   
111.   TAXICABS
   
112.   PEDDLING AND SOLICITING
   
113.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
CHAPTER 110: BEER AND WINE LICENSES
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   License tax levied
   
110.03   Tax collector; duties
   
110.04   License; due date
   
110.05   Application; false statement
   
110.06   Proration of tax; seasonal businesses
   
110.07   Multiple businesses
   
110.08   Separate places of business
   
110.09   Display of license
   
110.10   Change in place of business
   
110.11   No abatement of tax
   
110.12   Effect of license
   
110.13   Exemptions
   
110.14   Unlawful to sell beer and/or wine without a license
   
110.15   Collection of unpaid tax
   
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/
IMAGES/0-0-0-13.gif]Statutory reference:
   Privilege license taxes, see G.S. § 105-113.68 through 105-113.77
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABC COMMISSION. The North Carolina Alcoholic Beverage Control Commission
established under G.S. § 18B-200.
   ABC PERMIT(S). Any written or printed authorization issued by the Commission
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, other than a purchase-
transportation permit. Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, as in the
provisions concerning applications for permits, ABC PERMIT or PERMIT means a
presently valid permit.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Any beverage containing at least 0.5% alcohol by volume,
including malt beverages, unfortified wine, fortified wine, spirituous liquor,
and mixed beverages.
   BUSINESS. Each trade, occupation, profession, business, or franchise of any
kind, subject by the provisions of this chapter to a license tax.
   ENGAGED (OR ENGAGING) IN BUSINESS WITHIN THIS TOWN. A person is engaged in
business within the town when he engages in business activity of any type,
either as owner or operator of the business, by one or more of the following:
      (1)   Maintaining a business location within the town;
      (2)   Soliciting business within the town;
      (3)   Performing services within the town.
   FORTIFIED WINE. Any wine, of more than 16% and no more than 24% alcohol by
volume, made by fermentation from grapes, fruits, berries, rice, or honey; or
by the addition of pure cane, beet, or dextrose sugar; or by the addition of
pure brandy from the same type of grape, fruit, berry, rice, or honey that is
contained in the base wine and produced in accordance with the regulations of
the United States.
   MALT BEVERAGE. Beer, lager, malt liquor, ale, porter, and any other brewed
or fermented beverage except unfortified or fortified wine as defined by this
chapter, containing at least 0.5%, and not more than 15%, alcohol by volume.
Any malt beverage containing more than 6% alcohol by volume shall bear a label
clearly indicating the alcohol content of the malt beverage.
   PERSON. Any individual, trustee, executor, other fiduciary, corporation,
association, partnership, company, firm or other legal entity or agent thereof.
   SEASONAL IN NATURE. A business is seasonal in nature when it is taxed under
this chapter on an annual basis, but is operated within the town for less than
six months of the year.
   UNFORTIFIED WINE. Any wine of 16% or less alcohol by volume, made by
fermentation from grapes, fruits, berries, rice, or honey; or by the addition
of pure cane, beet, or dextrose sugar; or by the addition of pure brandy from
the same type of grape, fruit, berry, rice, or honey that is contained in the
base wine and produced in accordance with the regulations of the United States.
(OC, § 2-4-11) (Am. Ord. 2018-12, passed 8-14-18)
§ 110.02 LICENSE TAX LEVIED.
   A license tax is hereby levied on a business holding any of the following
retail ABC permits. Any establishment located in Swansboro shall obtain a
license for that activity. The annual tax for each license is as stated.
 
License Tax
ABC permit                                  Tax for corresponding license
On-premises malt beverage                   $15
Off-premises malt beverage                  $5
On-premises unfortified wine, on-premises   $15
fortified wine, or both
Off-premises unfortified wine, off-premises $10
fortified wine, or both
 
(OC, § 2-4-12) (Am. Ord. 2018-12, passed 8-14-18)
§ 110.03 TAX COLLECTOR; DUTIES.
   A)   The Town Clerk is hereby designated as the proper town official to
collect license taxes and to issue beer and wine privilege licenses.
   (B)   The Town Clerk shall make any investigation necessary to determine the
tax liability of persons engaged in business within the town. If necessary, the
Town Clerk is authorized to enter upon the premises of any business during
normal business hours for the purpose of determining whether this chapter has
been complied with.
(OC, § 2-4-13) (Am. Ord. 2018-12, passed 8-14-18)
§ 110.04 LICENSE; DUE DATE.
   A)   Unless otherwise provided in the schedule of taxes in §
110.02, each beer and wine privilege license issued is an annual license for
the period from May 1 to April 30.
   (B)   The beer and wine privilege license tax is due by May 1 of each year.
If, however, a person begins a business after July 1, the tax for that year
must be paid before the business is begun.
(OC, § 2-4-14) (Am. Ord. 2018-12, passed 8-14-18)
§ 110.05 APPLICATION; FALSE STATEMENT THEREON.
   A)   Every person desiring to obtain a license for the privilege of engaging
in a business within this town shall make application therefor in writing to
the tax collector. The application, to be made on a form provided by the tax
collector, shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Name and nature of the business for which the license is sought;
      (2)   The address where the business is conducted, and a mailing address
for the business, if different;
      (3)   The name and address of the person filling out the application, and
his relationship to the business; and
      (4)   Any other information which the tax collector determines to be
necessary.
   (B)   Any person who willfully makes a false statement on a license
application shall be punished as provided in § 10.99 of this code.
(OC, § 2-4-15) (Am. Ord. 2018-12, passed 8-14-18)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 110.06 PRORATION OF TAX; SEASONAL BUSINESSES.
   (A)   If a business is begun after January 31 but before May 1, the tax
shall be one-half of the amount of tax otherwise due.
   (B)   A person engaged in a business which is seasonal in nature is liable
for one-half of the amount of tax otherwise due.
(OC, § 2-4-16) (Am. Ord. 2018-12, passed 8-14-18)
§ 110.07 MULTIPLE BUSINESSES.
   If a person is engaged in more than one business made subject to a license
tax under this chapter, the person shall pay the license tax prescribed in the
tax schedule in §
110.02 of this chapter for each business, even if the businesses are conducted
at the same business location.
(OC, § 2-4-17) (Am. Ord. 2018-12, passed 8-14-18)
§ 110.08 SEPARATE PLACES OF BUSINESS.
   Unless otherwise provided by state law or by the tax schedule provided for
in §
110.02 of this chapter, if a person engages in a business in two or more
separate places, a separate license tax shall be required for each place of
business. For purposes of this section, if a person engages in the same
business at two or more locations within the town, which locations are
contiguous, communicate with and open directly into each other and are operated
as a unit, the person is liable for only one license tax.
(OC, § 2-4-18) (Am. Ord. 2018-12, passed 8-14-18)
§ 110.09 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Each person issued a license under this chapter shall post the license in a
conspicuous place in the regular place of business. If there is no regular
place of business, the license shall be kept where it may be inspected at
appropriate times by the town tax collector. If a machine or other item of
personal property is licensed, the license shall be affixed to the machine or
item.
(OC, § 2-4-19)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 110.10 CHANGE IN PLACE OF BUSINESS.
   If a person who has obtained a license for a business taxed under this
chapter desires to move from one business location to another within the town,
the license which has been issued shall be valid for the remainder of the
license year at this new location, and no additional tax need be paid. Within a
reasonable time after the change in location, however, the person shall inform
the tax collector of the change in address.
(OC, § 2-4-20)
§ 110.11 NO ABATEMENT OF TAX.
   If a licensee discontinues a business before the end of the period for which
the license was issued, the license tax shall not be abated nor shall a refund
of any part of the license tax be made.
(OC, § 2-4-21)
§ 110.12 EFFECT OF LICENSE.
   The issuance of a license under this chapter does not authorize the carrying
on of a business for which additional licenses or qualifications are required
by state or local law, nor does the issuance of a license prevent the town from
enacting additional regulations applicable to the licensee.
(OC, § 2-4-22)
§ 110.13 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this section or by state law, no
person is exempt from the payment of a beer and wine privilege license tax
levied by this chapter.
   (B)   Any person who engages in business within this town for religious,
educational or charitable purposes shall be exempt from paying any beer and
wine privilege license tax levied by this chapter.
   (C)   A person exempt from paying a beer and wine privilege license tax
levied by this chapter shall nevertheless obtain a license from the tax
collector. The license shall state that the licensee is exempt from paying the
privilege license tax.
(OC, § 2-4-23) (Ord. passed 4-13-89; Am. Ord. 2018-12, passed 8-14-18)
§ 110.14 UNLAWFUL TO SELL BEER AND/OR WINE WITHOUT A LICENSE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in a business within
this town upon which a beer and wine privilege license tax is imposed by this
chapter, without having paid the license tax specified in §
110.02 herein. Violators shall be punished as provided in §
10.99 of this code. Each day that a person engages in business in violation of
this section constitutes a separate offense.
   (B)   The town may seek an injunction against any person engaging in
business in violation of this chapter.
   (C)   A conviction under this chapter does not relieve a person of his
liability for the license tax or taxes imposed by this chapter.
(OC, § 2-4-24) (Am. Ord. 2018-12, passed 8-14-18)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 110.15 COLLECTION OF UNPAID TAX.
   (A)   If a person begins or continues to engage in a business taxed under
this chapter without payment of the required beer and wine privilege license
tax, the tax collector may use either of the following methods to collect the
unpaid tax:
      (1)   The remedy of levy and sale or attachment and garnishment, in
accordance with G.S. § 160A-207;
      (2)   The remedy of levy and sale of real and personal property of the
taxpayer in accordance with G.S. § 105-109(d).
   (B)   Any person who begins or continues to engage in a business taxed under
this chapter without payment of the tax is liable for an additional tax of 5%
of the original tax due for each 30 days or portion thereof that the tax is
delinquent.
(OC, § 2-4-25) (Am. Ord. 2018-12, passed 8-14-18)
CHAPTER 111: TAXICABS
Section
   
111.01   Purpose
   
111.02   Definitions
   
111.03   Permit required
   
111.04   Application
   
111.05   Permit issuance criteria
   
111.06   Burden of proof
   
111.07   Issuance of permits
   
111.08   Duration of taxicab permit
   
111.09   Driver qualifications
   
111.10   Vehicle regulations
   
111.11   Operating requirements
   
111.12   Transfer
   
111.13   Revocation
   
111.14   Substitution of vehicles
   
111.15   Number of permits limited
   
111.16   Rates
   
111.17   Appeals
 
   
111.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Regulation of taxicabs, see G.S. § 160A-304
§ 111.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to license and regulate all taxicabs operated
for hire in the town, in order to promote and protect the safety and welfare of
persons who use hired transportation. These regulations shall apply to all
persons operating taxicabs who pick up passengers within the town, but not to
taxicabs who are only delivering passengers from a starting point outside the
town or taxicabs passing through the town without picking up or delivering
passengers.
(Ord. 2011-018, passed 6-21-11)
§ 111.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. A person, as defined herein, who has applied for a taxicab
permit.
   DRIVER PERMIT. A permit issued to allow a person to drive a taxicab.
   HOLDER. A person who holds a current taxicab permit.
   PERSON. Shall include both singular and plural, and shall mean any natural
person, firm, corporation, partnership, association, or any combination of the
preceding or any other legal entity.
   TAXICAB. Any motor vehicle seating not more than 15 passengers, operated for
hire upon any street or highway within the town on call or on demand, accepting
or soliciting passengers indiscriminately for hire between points along said
streets or highways or between points within the town and outside the town, as
may be directed by the passenger or passengers so being transported, but shall
not include “motor carriers” as defined by G.S. § 62-3(18).
   TAXICAB PERMIT. A taxicab permit requested or issued (as the context
requires) pursuant to this chapter. Permits do not constitute franchises and
are non-exclusive.
(Ord. 2011-018, passed 6-21-11)
§ 111.03 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a taxicab or other vehicle
for hire upon and over the streets of the town, if the passenger was picked up
within the town limits, without first having applied for and secured from the
Town Manager a permit as hereinafter set forth.
(Ord. 2011-018, passed 6-21-11) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 APPLICATION.
   (A)   The application for a taxicab permit shall be in a form approved by
the Town Manager and shall contain at least the following information, provided
at the applicant’s expense:
      (1)   The full name, physical address, mailing address, electronic mail
address, and business telephone number of each applicant;
      (2)   A certified true copy of a criminal record check and a certified
true copy of a complete driving history check (Division of Motor Vehicles
“Master Check”) on the applicant and each proposed driver of any taxicab
operated by the applicant’s business;
      (3)   Proof of liability insurance coverage on all vehicles to be
operated in the business, with coverage limits of at least $500,000 per person
per accident and $50,000 property damage per accident;
      (4)   Legible photocopies of the current year’s North Carolina State
Inspection certificate for the vehicle, with no discrepancies for each taxicab
to be operated under the certificate; upon request of the Chief of Police, the
applicant shall produce the original of any such Inspection Certificate for
inspection by the Chief;
      (5)   An affidavit or affirmation that neither the applicant nor any
driver of any taxicab to be operated under the subject certificate is subject
to any of the disqualifying conditions set out in G.S. § 160A-304(a); and
      (6)   Any other information required by the Chief of Police and
reasonably related to the health, safety, and welfare of the town’s residents
and other potential taxicab users.
   (B)   Applications shall be submitted at least 30 days in advance of the
desired issuance date or renewal date and shall be accompanied by an
application fee established by the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 2011-018, passed 6-21-11)
§ 111.05 PERMIT ISSUANCE CRITERIA.
   In determining a permit should be issued for taxicab or taxicabs, the Town
Manager may take into consideration, among other things, the following factors:
   (A)   Whether or not the public convenience and necessity require the
proposed or additional taxicab service within the town;
   (B)   The experience of the applicant in the taxicab business;
   (C)   The financial responsibility of the applicant and the likelihood of
the proposed service being permanent, responsible, and satisfactory;
   (D)   The number of taxicabs to be operated and the condition of such
taxicabs and all appurtenances;
   (E)   The number of taxicabs already permitted and the demand for increased
service, if any, and whether or not the safe use of the streets by the public,
both vehicular and pedestrian, will be preserved or enhanced, and whether or
not adequate provision has been made for off-street parking of the cabs;
   (F)   The schedule of rates proposed to be charged; and
   (G)   Any other relevant information that may be deemed necessary by the
Town Manager.
(Ord. 2011-018, passed 6-21-11)
§ 111.06 BURDEN OF PROOF.
   The burden of proof shall be upon the applicant to establish the existence
of public convenience and necessity for the operation of the taxicab or
taxicabs specified in the application, and all other facts required for the
granting of a permit.
(Ord. 2011-018, passed 6-21-11)
§ 111.07 ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.
   Any application for a taxicab permit or permits shall be reviewed by the
Chief of Police and the Town Manager. After due consideration of the
application as provided in this chapter, the Town Manager shall determine
whether, in his or her judgment and discretion, public convenience and
necessity require that the application be denied, allowed, or allowed in part.
If the application is allowed or allowed in part, then a written permit or
permits shall be issued to the applicant.
(Ord. 2011-018, passed 6-21-11)
§ 111.08 DURATION OF TAXICAB PERMIT.
   A taxicab permit shall constitute a license from the town for the operation
of the number of taxicabs set out therein, within the town and subject to the
provisions of this chapter, for a period of one year from the date of issuance,
unless a shorter period of time is specified in the permit. Applications for
renewal shall be made annually. Applications for renewal shall contain all of
the information required for original applications pursuant to §
111.04. Approvals of taxicab driver applications are separate from taxicab
permits.
(Ord. 2011-018, passed 6-21-11)
§ 111.09 DRIVER QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Taxicab driver permits may be issued by the Chief of Police upon a
determination that a proposed taxicab driver has made proper application and
meets the requirements of this section. Such permits may be revoked for failure
to continuously meet the requirements of this section.
   (B)   All taxicab driver applicants shall provide to the Chief of Police a
certified true copy of a criminal record check and a certified true copy of a
complete driving history check (Division of Motor Vehicles “Master Check”).
   (C)   The following conditions and circumstances are grounds for refusal or
revocation of a taxicab driver permit:
      (1)   The driver does not possess a “C” class North Carolina driver’s
license (not a limited driver’s privilege) or is not at least 18 years old; the
driver has accumulated a sufficient number of points against his or her driving
record to justify suspension or revocation of his or her driver’s license under
North Carolina law.
      (2)   The driver has been convicted of driving while impaired, unless the
driver has completed a substance abuse treatment program or an alcohol and drug
education school approved by the Chief of Police; conviction of or a prayer for
judgment for driving a taxicab or other commercial vehicle while impaired in a
three-year period prior to the application.
      (3)   Conviction of, pleading of no contest, or having a prayer for
judgment continued of a state felony, Class 1 misdemeanor, or violation of
federal criminal statutes; conviction, plea of no contest, or prayer for
judgment continued at any time for murder, manslaughter, rape, sexual assault,
sexual offense, armed robbery, kidnapping, or abduction.
      (4)   Determination by a physician that, due to a physical or mental
condition, it would be unsafe to passengers or the general public for the
driver to operate a taxicab.
   (D)   Taxicab driver permits shall be valid for a period of one year and may
be renewed after application for same, based on the same criteria listed above.
Driver permits shall be displayed in the taxicab while it is in service and, if
revoked, shall be promptly surrendered to the Chief of Police.
   (E)   Persons to whom taxicab permits have been issued have an affirmative
responsibility to insure that all persons driving taxicabs under their permit
have a valid taxicab driver permit from the town and to promptly notify the
Chief of Police of any circumstance of which they become aware, related to the
grounds for revocation of a driver permit listed above, that might change a
driver’s qualifications to operate a taxicab.
(Ord. 2011-018, passed 6-21-11)
§ 111.10 VEHICLE REGULATIONS.
   Every vehicle used for transportation of passengers under a taxicab permit
issued by the town shall meet the following requirements at all times and shall
be subject to inspection by the Police Department at all times to determine
compliance with the taxicab regulations.
   (A)   The vehicle must comply at all times with the safety inspection
requirements of the State of North Carolina and all interior safety equipment,
including seat belts, must be functioning properly.
   (B)   The taxicab must be maintained in good condition, relatively free of
interior or exterior damage or deterioration, must be kept clean and sanitary,
and must be kept in good operating order.
   (C)   Each taxicab shall be equipped with a functioning heater and air
conditioner.
   (D)   Each taxicab shall display current and correct information identifying
the name of the taxicab company.
(Ord. 2011-018, passed 6-21-11) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.11 OPERATING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Each taxicab for which a permit has been issued shall display, in a
clear and legible manner, the following information in a location easily
visible to passengers: the taxicab permit, the name and photographic
identification of the driver, the approved rates, and the name and contact
telephone number for the taxicab company owner.
   (B)   Each taxicab for which a permit has been issued shall be operated in
accordance with state law and this chapter and with due regard to the safety,
comfort, and convenience of passengers and for the safety of the general
public. Taxicabs shall never be operated in a careless or reckless manner.
   (C)   Taxicab drivers and operators shall conduct themselves in a manner
that is orderly, civil, legal, and in compliance with this chapter at all
times. Drivers shall practice good personal hygiene and shall be dressed in
clean and suitable clothing at all times.
   (D)   Taxicab drivers may not carry weapons in their vehicles or on their
person while on duty.
   (E)   Taxicab drivers shall comply with all reasonable and lawful requests
of passengers regarding speed and routes to be taken. No driver shall deceive
or attempt to deceive any passenger regarding fares, destinations, or routes to
be taken.
   (F)   Taxicab drivers shall search their taxicab at the conclusion of each
trip to discover any articles that may have been left by passengers. Any
personal articles or property found shall be immediately returned to the
rightful owner (if known) or reported and submitted to the Chief of Police.
   (G)   No taxicab driver shall permit more persons (including the driver and
passengers) to occupy a taxicab than the rated seating capacity of the vehicle.
(Ord. 2011-018, passed 6-21-11) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.12 TRANSFER.
   A permit is not transferable or assignable without the consent and approval
of the Town Manager. Applications for a permit to transfer shall be filed in
the same manner as an application for a taxicab permit. The proceedings upon
the application for a transfer shall be the same as those prescribed for the
issuance of a permit, except that the question of public convenience and
necessity need not be proved. No permit will be issued to any applicant unless
the applicant is the holder in due course and for value of the title to the
taxicab.
(Ord. 2011-018, passed 6-21-11)
§ 111.13 REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Town Manager may at any time, after a hearing, revoke and render
null and void any taxicab permit issued by authority of this chapter for any
one, or more, of the following causes:
      (1)   Failure by the applicant to begin operations within 120 days after
the issuance of the permit;
      (2)   Failure to operate the taxicabs specified in the certificate in a
manner as to serve the public adequately and efficiently;
      (3)   Failure to maintain motor equipment in good repair;
      (4)   Failure to carry liability insurance or bond as required by law;
      (5)   Failure to pay any lawfully imposed taxes or license fees;
      (6)   Repeated and persistent violation by the taxicab drivers of traffic
and safety ordinances, or violation of state laws relating to alcoholic
beverages or prostitution;
      (7)   Failure to report accidents;
      (8)   Willful failure to comply with provision of this chapter or other
ordinances or state laws relating to the operation of taxicabs, whether such
ordinances and laws be now in force or hereafter enacted;
      (9)   Any grounds for revocation of a certificate set out in G.S. § 160A-
304 as it is presently written or may hereafter be amended; or
      (10)   Operation of a taxicab by any person who has not obtained a
taxicab driver permit or by any person who is disqualified by this chapter from
operating a taxicab with the actual or constructive knowledge of the holder of
the permit.
   (B)   If a taxicab permit is revoked no refund of any amount paid by the
applicant will be made by the town.
   (C)   The town shall give the holder of any taxicab permit being considered
for revocation notice and an opportunity to be heard at a hearing. The notice
shall consist of either personal service or a written notice of the time,
place, and purpose of the hearing or the mailing by registered, certified, or
first class mail of such a notice to the holder of the permit at the address
stated by the holder in his or her application for a certificate. If notice is
by personal service, or registered or certified mail, the hearing may not be
held until at least five days after such service as indicated on the return
receipt of the United States Postal Service. If notice is by first class mail,
the hearing may not be held until at least eight days after the mailing of such
notice as certified by the town official or employee who mailed the notice. If
the Town Manager finds that grounds for revocation of the certificate exist,
then he or she shall either revoke the certificate or may, in his or her
discretion, impose a revocation but suspend the revocation upon such conditions
as he or she believes will ensure compliance of the holder with all applicable
laws and regulations.
(Ord. 2011-018, passed 6-21-11)
§ 111.14 SUBSTITUTION OF VEHICLES.
   The person to whom a certificate has been issued may substitute a vehicle
for any vehicle covered by the certificate. Prior to putting the substitute
vehicle into operation, such person shall submit an application to substitute a
vehicle and shall comply with all provisions of this chapter with respect to
that vehicle just as if it had been included in his or her original
application.
(Ord. 2011-018, passed 6-21-11) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.15 NUMBER OF PERMITS LIMITED.
   No person shall hold more than one permit at any one time, although permits
may include authorization for more than one taxicab.
(Ord. 2011-018, passed 6-21-11)
§ 111.16 RATES.
   (A)   The rates that may be charged by the holder of a taxicab permit shall
initially be those set forth in the application for the certificate, or
approved by the Town Manager in the issuance of the permit (if different from
the proposed).
   (B)   (1)   If a certificate holder desires a change in the rates that may
be charged, the holder shall:
         (a)   Make application for such change to the Town Manager; and
         (b)   Provide written justification for the proposed change.
      (2)   If the Town Manager finds that there is adequate justification for
the proposed change, the Manager shall approve or deny the change, with any
conditions or terms deemed appropriate, and report the action to the Town
Board. Rate schedule actions taken by the Town Manager may be made effective
immediately, but shall remain provisional for 45 days, during which time the
Town Manager’s decisions may be:
         (a)   Appealed by the permit holder to the Town Board; or
         (b)   Reviewed and adjusted by the Town Board at its own initiative.
   (C)   Fares shall apply on a per-trip basis. Any additional charges if
multiple passengers consensually share a ride from one starting point to the
same destination shall not be unreasonable. Additional charges may apply if the
remaining passengers desire to hire the taxicab to an additional destination.
(Ord. 2011-018, passed 6-21-11)
§ 111.17 APPEALS.
   Decisions by the Town Manager with respect to the issuance of taxicab
permits, driver permits, revocation of permits, or approval of rates may be
appealed to the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 2011-018, passed 6-21-11)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Violations of this section may result in revocations of permits, as set
forth in this chapter, and are subject to civil penalties of $50 per violation
as well as other penalties set forth in §
10.99 of the town code.
(Ord. 2011-018, passed 6-21-11)
CHAPTER 112: PEDDLING AND SOLICITING
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Itinerant merchants prohibited
   
112.03   Peddlers and itinerant salesmen prohibited
   
112.04   Non-profit and service organizations
   
112.05   Peddlers and itinerant salesmen prohibited: exceptions
   
112.06   Mobile ice cream vending regulations
   
112.07   Town Manager’s issue of certificate
   
112.08   Duration of certificate
   
112.09   Certificate of revocation
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. A person as defined herein who has applied for a certificate of
convenience and necessity.
   CALENDAR QUARTER. Each of the following time periods shall be deemed to be a
calendar quarter for purposes of this chapter: January 1 through March 31;
April 1 through June 30; July 1 through September 30; and October 1 through
December 31.
   CERTIFICATE.  A certificate of convenience and necessity requested or issued
(as the context requires) pursuant to this chapter.
   HOLDER. The person who holds a current certificate of convenience and
necessity for the use described thereon.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. A person, other than a person who owns or operates an
established retail store in the town, or within its extraterritorial zoning
jurisdiction area who transports an inventory of goods to a building, vacant
lot or other location in the town and who, at that location, displays the goods
for sale and sells the goods at retail or offers the goods for sale at retail.
Provided, however, the definition of an ITINERANT MERCHANT shall not include a
bona fide resident of the town or its extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction area
who, in conjunction with any other bona fide resident(s) conducts a sale of
used household furnishing, clothing, decorations or similar items in the manner
commonly described as a yard sale or garage sale, upon the residential premises
of one or more of bona fide  residents, no more than once in any calendar
quarter. Provided further, that this definition shall not be construed to
prohibit the owner or operator of an established retail store from selling his
or her usual inventory on a sidewalk, parking lot or other similar area
immediately adjacent to his or her store no more than once in a calendar year.
   MOBILE FOOD TRUCK VENDOR. A person or persons who sells food and/or
beverages from a mobile food truck or trailer.
   MOBILE ICE CREAM VENDOR.  A person or persons who sells ice cream products
from a mobile van.
   PEDDLER. Any person who transports goods from place to place and sells or
offers for sale the goods, or who, without traveling from place to place, sells
or offers for sale any goods from any vehicle or device; provided that any
person who separates the acts of sale and delivery for the purpose of evading
the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed a peddler.
   PERSON.  This term shall include the singular and the plural and shall also
mean and include any person, firm corporation, association, club co-partnership
or society, or any other organization.
   TRANSIENT VENDOR.  Any person who engages in a temporary business of selling
and delivering goods and who, for this purpose, uses or occupies any building
or premises; provided, that no person shall be relieved from complying with the
provisions of this chapter merely by conducting a transient business in
association with any permanently established merchant.
(Ord. passed 3-18-03; Am. Ord. passed 6-17-03; Am. Ord. 2021-O7, passed 7-26-
21)
§ 112.02 ITINERANT MERCHANTS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No itinerant merchant shall be permitted to engage in any of the
activities described in this chapter at any location within the town or its
extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction area.
   (B)   Provided, however, that this section shall not apply to:
      (1)   Itinerant merchants duly authorized by the sponsoring agency of any
event, exhibition, or show duly permitted pursuant to the terms of §
112.05(A) of this chapter during such event, exhibition, or show; or
      (2)   Any person licensed and/or approved to sell agricultural or
horticultural products, handmade products, art work, or other products within a
municipally-operated public market; or
      (3)   Push cart and food truck vendors where allowed by the underlying
zoning district or otherwise exempted.
(Ord. passed 3-18-03; Am. Ord. 2010-010, passed 4-20-10; Am. Ord. 2021-O7,
passed 7-26-21)
§ 112.03 PEDDLERS AND ITINERANT SALESMEN PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No peddler or itinerant salesman shall be permitted to engage in any
of the activities described in this chapter upon any private residence and the
premises thereof, unless such peddler or itinerant salesman has been requested
or invited to do so by the owner or occupant of the private residence and
premises.
   (B)   No peddler or itinerant salesman shall be permitted to engage in any
of the activities described in this chapter upon any public park, street,
highway, alley, sidewalk, or other public way, or upon any property owned or
leased by the town unless otherwise specifically exempted.
   (C)   Violation of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 3-18-03; Am. Ord. 2021-O7, passed 7-26-21)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prohibit peddling and soliciting, G.S. 160A-178
§ 112.04 NON-PROFIT AND SERVICE ORGANIZATIONS.
   Recognized non-profit and service organizations are exempt from this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-18-03; Am. Ord. 2021-O7, passed 7-26-21)
§ 112.05 PEDDLERS AND ITINERANT SALESMEN PROHIBITED: EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Peddlers or itinerant salesmen duly authorized by the sponsoring
agency of any event or exhibition show under town’s approval;
   (B)   Mobile ice cream vendor with certificate of convenience and necessity
issued through the Police Chief or his or her designee following approval by
the Board of Commissioners; or
   (C)   Special events or sales conducted by businesses on their property not
to exceed three days in duration.
(Ord. passed 3-18-03; Am. Ord. 2021-O7, passed 7-26-21)
Cross-reference:
   Regulations for mobile ice cream vending, see §
112.06
§ 112.06 MOBILE ICE CREAM VENDING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a mobile ice cream vending business within the
town’s regulatory limits unless the person has first applied for and obtained a
certificate of convenience and necessity.
   (B)   The application for a certificate of convenience and necessity shall
be in a form approved by the Police Chief and the form shall contain at least
the following, provided at the applicant’s expense:
      (1)   The full name, physical address and mailing address of applicant.
      (2)   A certified true copy of a complete driving history check (Division
of Motor Vehicles “Master Check”) on the applicant and each proposed driver of
any mobile ice cream vending van operated by the applicant’s business.
      (3)   Proof of liability insurance coverage on all vehicles to be
operated in the business, with coverage limits of at least $500 per person per
accident.
      (4)   Legible photocopies of the current year’s North Carolina State
Inspection certificate with no discrepancies for each mobile ice cream vending
van to be operated under the certificate request of the Police Chief, the
applicant shall produce the original of any such inspection certificate for
inspection.
      (5)   That the van will have external safety equipment such as:
         (a)   Visible flashing lights from the front and rear of vehicle when
stopped.
         (b)   Caution arm that is extended on the traffic side of vehicle when
stopped.
         (c)   Signage on vehicle must be readable from at least 50 feet away
“watch for children.”
      (6)   The route that the mobile ice cream vendor will be taking while in
the town’s jurisdiction.
      (7)   All sales are prohibited within 100 feet of any school property
line.
      (8)   The mobile ice cream vendor cannot sale within any business
district of the town.
      (9)   Sales shall be conducted during daylight hours.
      (10)   The duration of vendor in an area shall not exceed 60 minutes. An
AREA means subdivision, apartment complex or other housing type complexes.
      (11)   All necessary permits and license shall be obtained prior to
commencement of any sales.
      (12)   The number of mobile ice cream vending vans to be operated and the
condition of such vans and all appurtenances.
      (13)   The Police Chief will also review all application information
prior to submittal of application to the Town Manager.
      (14)   Prior to putting a substitute van into operation, such person
shall submit an application to substitute a van and shall comply with all
provisions of this chapter except the need of Board approval.
      (15)   Any other information required by the Police Chief or the Town
Manager deemed reasonably related to the health, welfare and safety of the
town’s residents.
(Ord. passed 3-18-03; Am. Ord. 2012-013, passed 9-18-12)
§ 112.07 TOWN MANAGER’S ISSUE OF CERTIFICATE.
   The Town Manager shall review the application for certificate as provided
for convenience and necessity. After due consideration of the application, the
Town Manager shall determine whether, at the Town Manager’s judgment and
discretion, public convenience and necessity require that the application be
denied, allowed or allowed in part. The Town Manager shall supply a written
certificate to the applicant documenting the Town Manager’s action, if the
application is allowed, allowed in part or denied.
(Ord. passed 3-18-03; Am. Ord. 2012-013, passed 9-18-12)
§ 112.08 DURATION OF THE CERTIFICATE.
   A certificate shall constitute a non-exclusive franchise from the town for
the operation of the number of mobile ice cream vending vans set out within the
town subject to the provisions of this chapter for one year, unless a shorter
period of time is specified in the certificate. Application for renewal shall
be filed annually prior to the anniversary date of certificate and a hearing
conducted as provided in this chapter. Application for renewal shall contain
all of the information required for the original application pursuant to §
112.05.
(Ord. passed 3-18-03)
§ 112.09 CERTIFICATE OF REVOCATION.
   The town shall give the holder of any certificate being considered for
revocation notice and an opportunity to be heard by the Board of Commissioners.
The notice shall consist of either personal service of written notice of the
time, place and purpose of the hearing or the mailing by registered, certified
or first class mail of such a notice to the holder to the certificate at the
address stated by the holder in his or her application for the certificate. If
notice is by personal service, or registered or certified mail, the hearing may
not be held for at least five days after such service as indicated on the
return receipt of the United States Postal Service. If notice is by first class
mail, the hearing may not be held until at least 20 days after the mailing of
such notice as certified to the Board of Commissioners by the town official or
employee who mailed the notice. If the Board of Commissioners finds that ground
for revocation of the certificate exist, then the Board shall either revoke the
certificate or may, in its discretion impose a revocation but suspend the
revocation upon such conditions as the Board believes will ensure compliance of
the holder with all applicable laws and regulations.
(Ord. passed 3-18-03)
CHAPTER 113: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
113.01   Sunday sales
§ 113.01 SUNDAY SALES.
   The sale of malt beverages, unfortified wine, fortified wine and mixed
beverages shall be allowed within the town's corporate limits at any premises
licensed pursuant to G.S. § 18B-1001 on Sundays beginning at 10:00 a.m.
(Ord. 2017-09, passed 8-8-17)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
Chapter
   
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST TOWN REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST TOWN REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
130.01   Damaging ordinances prohibited
   
130.02   No smoking in town buildings or vehicles
   
130.03   Fishing regulations
   
130.04   Boat launching at Ward’s Shore prohibited
Conduct
   
130.15   Prostitution
   
130.16   Exposure of female breasts in public
   
130.17   Public disturbances
   
130.18   Drinking in public places
Property Offenses
   
130.30   Injury to private or town property
   
130.31   Posting regulations
   
130.32   Damaging utility poles
Weapons; Explosives
   
130.45   Discharge of firearms and other weapons
   
130.46   Carrying concealed handguns on public property
   
130.47   Explosive devices
   
130.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 130.01 DAMAGING ORDINANCES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall tear or deface any of the town ordinances.
(OC, § 1-1-9)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.02 NO SMOKING IN TOWN BUILDINGS OR VEHICLES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      TO SMOKE and/or SMOKING. The inhaling, exhaling, burning, carrying or
possessing of a lighted pipe, cigar, cigarette or other combustible tobacco
product.
      NONSMOKER. A person who does not smoke or who objects to smoking in his
or her presence.
   (B)   Smoking prohibited in municipal buildings. It shall be unlawful for
any person to smoke in any building or facility or portion of a building or
facility now or hereafter owned, leased, operated, occupied, managed or
controlled by the town; provided, however, that smoking shall be permitted in
the fire engine parking bay area of the Fire Department building and in any
municipal facility that is leased to another party and used for non-
governmental purposes.
   (C)   Smoking prohibited in municipal vehicles. It shall be unlawful for any
person to smoke in any vehicle now or hereafter owned or leased by the town;
provided, however, smoking shall be permitted in vehicles in which the person
who is smoking is the only occupant and in vehicles in which no nonsmoker is
present.
   (D)   Penalty. Violation of this section shall constitute a misdemeanor
punishable in accordance with §
130.99 of this chapter.
   (E)   Conflict of laws. If any portion of this section or the enforcement
thereof is found to be preempted by state or federal law, such preemption shall
not operate to invalidate the rest of the section and the same shall remain in
full force and effect. All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict with
this section are hereby repealed.
(OC, § 8-6-12) (Ord. passed 10-4-93; Am. Ord. 2011-021, passed 7-19-11)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.03 FISHING REGULATIONS.
   (A) Fishing from the bridges over White Oak River. Fishing from the two
bridges on N.C. Highway 24 crossing the White Oak River is prohibited. This
division (A) shall be effective after signs are posted on the bridges by the
highway department.
(Ord. passed 7-2-71)
   (B) Fishing from Bicentennial Park. It shall be unlawful for any person to
fish from the walkway under the N.C. Highway 24 bridge at the Bicentennial Park
and from any other area in the Bicentennial Park in which fishing is
prohibited.
(Ord. passed 3-9-89)
   (C)   Fishing from the Dock Walk. It shall be unlawful for any person to
fish from any point along the Dock Walk.
   (D)    Violation. Violation of this section shall be a misdemeanor.
(OC, §§ 8-6-7 and 8-6-8) (Am. Ord. 2006-25, passed 12-19-06)
Penalty, see § 130.99
Statutory reference:
   Special authority of this section, see Related Local Laws, Sess. Laws 1971,
Ch. 443
§ 130.04 BOAT LAUNCHING AT WARD’S SHORE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to launch or retrieve any motorboat,
canoe, jet-ski, wave-runner or any other water craft designed to carry a human
operator or passengers at the property located near the western terminus of
Water Street in the town and commonly known as Ward's Shore.
(OC, § 8-6-11)
Penalty, see § 130.99
CONDUCT
§ 130.15 PROSTITUTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to solicit for purposes of prostitution
on any of the streets or public places or to keep, set up, maintain or operate
any place, structure, building or conveyance for the purpose of prostitution or
assignation.
(OC, § 8-1-1) (Am. Ord, passes 3-9-89)
Penalty, see § 130.99
Statutory reference: 
   Prostitution, see G.S. Ch. 14, Art. 27
§ 130.16 EXPOSURE OF FEMALE BREASTS IN PUBLIC.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any female person over the age of 13 years,
or any other physically developed female person, to expose her breast or
breasts in such a manner that they may be seen from any street or highway, any
place of entertainment, including any restaurant, club or any other public
place of any kind by any male person.
   (B)   The phrase EXPOSE HER BREAST OR BREASTS as used in this section is
hereby defined as the revealing of the female breast or breasts with less than
a fully opaque covering on any portion or portions thereof below the top of any
part of the areola.
   (C) It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of any place of
entertainment, including any restaurant club, dance hall or any other public
establishment of any kind to allow or permit any waitress, dancer entertainer
or other employee of such establishment to publicly expose her breast or
breasts to male persons therein.
(OC, § 8-1-8) (Ord. passed 9-21-93)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.17 PUBLIC DISTURBANCES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use loud, boisterous or profane
language in any public place in a manner as to create a public disturbance.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to behave in a boisterous or indecent manner or
to create any disturbance at or near any public entertainment or meeting.
(OC, §§ 8-1-2 and 8-1-5)
Penalty, see § 130.99
Statutory reference:
   Offenses against the public peace, see G.S. Ch. 14, Art. 35
§ 130.18 DRINKING IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   No person shall consume alcoholic beverages or unfortified wine, as defined
by G.S. § 18B-101, on or within the rights-of-way of the municipal streets,
boulevards, alleys and sidewalks, in municipal parks and buildings or on any
other property owned or occupied by the town.
(OC, § 8-1-4)
Penalty, see § 130.99
PROPERTY OFFENSES
§ 130.30 INJURY TO PRIVATE OR TOWN PROPERTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to injure any property belonging to another.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to injure, damage, deface, trespass upon, break
or injure any property belonging to the town.
(OC, §§ 8-1-6 and 8-1-7)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.31 POSTING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to post,
nail, stick or otherwise affix bills, posters, advertisements, notices or any
other printed or graphic matter upon public property in the town. This division
shall not apply to notices, signs or advertisements required to be posted by
law, signs or plates on residential premises giving the name or address of the
occupant, mail boxes or newspaper tubes, municipal, county, state and federal
traffic signs, historical markers, monuments or signs erected by public
authority, temporary displays as a part of customary holiday decorations and
signs denoting the location of underground utilities and political materials
during the 30 days prior to elections.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to nail,
stick or otherwise affix bills, posters, advertisements, notices or other
printed or graphic matter upon private property within the town without the
consent of the owner.
(OC, §§ 8-6-4 and 8-6-5) (Am. Ord. passed 3-9-89)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.32 DAMAGING UTILITY POLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deface, injure by cutting, painting,
posting of bills or other materials on any telegraph, telephone, electric light
or power pole on any street or public place in the town provided that nothing
herein shall be construed to apply to any officer or employee of the town, or
of the utility company removing any pole in the discharge of duty.
(OC, § 8-6-6) (Ord. passed 8-1-68)
Penalty, see § 130.99
WEAPONS; EXPLOSIVES
§ 130.45 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS AND OTHER WEAPONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to fire or shoot a gun or pistol of any
kind, air gun, bow shooting an arrow or any device shooting or propelling a
bullet, shot, arrow or any missile which is likely to cause injury or damage to
persons or property within the corporate limits of the town. This section shall
not apply to any law officer in the discharge of duty or to any person in the
defense of his/her home or person or to any act done in order to prevent the
commission of a felony.
(OC, § 8-1-3)
Penalty, see § 130.99
Statutory reference: 
   Authority to regulate and restrict firearms and pellet guns, see G.S. §§
160A-189 and 160A-190
§ 130.46 CARRYING CONCEALED HANDGUNS ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   The definitions set out in G.S. § 14-415.10 are hereby incorporated by
reference.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to carry a concealed handgun in
any local government building owned, leased or used by the town, upon any
premises appurtenant to such buildings, or in any recreational facility owned,
leased, used or operated by the town.
   (C)   The Town Manager or designee is hereby permitted to direct the posting
of conspicuous notices or statements setting out the prohibition against
carrying a concealed handgun upon any location described in division (B).
   (D)   If any part of this section shall be determined to be invalid or
unenforceable, the determination shall not affect the remaining portion of this
section which shall remain in full force and effect.
(OC, § 8-1-9) (Ord. passed 9-19-95; Am. Ord. 2013-O18, passed 11-19-13)
Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prohibit handguns on town-owned property, G.S. § 14-415.23
§ 130.47 EXPLOSIVE DEVICES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      FIREBOMB OR SIMILAR EXPLOSIVE DEVICE. Any type of object designed or
constructed so that upon being propelled it will explode or ignite its area of
impact.
      MOLOTOV COCKTAIL. Any breakable container or any container which is
filled with an inflammable fluid or substance and filled with a fuse or wick,
which is designed in a manner that upon being propelled it will on impact empty
its contents.
   (B) It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to manufacture, possess,
transport or use any Molotov cocktail, firebomb or similar explosive device.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person or group of persons to possess all
the items or materials needed to manufacture Molotov cocktails or other
firebombs other than on his/her or their premises. The provisions of this
section shall be cumulative and in addition to any other ordinance or state law
on this subject.
   (D)   The Chief of Police shall be authorized to enforce this section for
the periods of time as shall be deemed necessary.
(OC, §§ 8-6-2 and 8-6-3) (Am. Ord. passed 3-9-89)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is otherwise provided shall be subject to the penalty in §
10.99.
   (B)   The penalty for a violation of §
130.04 shall be imprisonment for not more than 30 days or a fine of not more
than $100 or both.
(Ord. passed 8-18-92)
   (C)   Violation of §
130.16 shall be a misdemeanor punishable upon conviction by a fine not
exceeding $500, imprisonment not exceeding 30 days or by both such fine and
imprisonment. Violations on separate days shall constitute separate offenses.
(Ord. passed 9-21-93)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
Chapter
   
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
   
151.   REPAIR, CLOSING, AND/OR DEMOLITION OF NON-RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OR
STRUCTURES
   
152.   UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Adoption of Regulatory Codes
   
150.01   Scope
   
150.02   Building Code adopted
   
150.03   Administration and Enforcement Code adopted
   
150.04   Accessibility Code adopted
   
150.05   Plumbing Code adopted
   
150.06   Mechanical Code adopted
   
150.07   Electrical Code adopted
   
150.08   Fire Prevention Code adopted
   
150.09   Gas Code adopted
   
150.10   Residential Code adopted
   
150.11   Modular Construction Requirements Code adopted
   
150.12   Existing Building Code adopted
   
150.13   Energy Code adopted
   
150.14   Manufactured/mobile homes
   
150.15   Amendments to codes
   
150.16   Compliance with codes
   
150.17   Copies of codes filed with Town Clerk
Inspection Department
   
150.30   Duty of Inspection Department
   
150.31   Building Inspector
   
150.32   Conflicts of interest
   
150.33   Failure to perform duties
Permits
   
150.45   Permits required
   
150.46   Permit fees
   
150.47   Revocation of building permits
 
   
150.99   Penalty
ADOPTION OF REGULATORY CODES
§ 150.01 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this chapter and of the regulatory codes adopted shall
apply to the following:
   (A)   The location, design, materials, equipment, construction,
reconstruction, alteration, repair, maintenance, moving, demolition, removal,
use and occupancy of every building or structure or any appurtenances connected
or attached to the building or structure;
   (B)   The installation, erection, alteration, repair, use and maintenance of
plumbing systems consisting of house sewers, building drains, waste and vent
systems, hot and cold water supply systems and all fixtures and appurtenances
thereof;
   (C)   The installation, erection, alteration, repair, use and maintenance of
mechanical systems consisting of heating, ventilating, air conditioning, and
refrigeration systems, fuel burning equipment and appurtenances thereof;
   (D)   The installation, erection, alteration, repair, use and maintenance of
electrical systems and appurtenance thereof.
(OC, § 9-1-1) (Am. Ord. passed 10-17-95; Am. Ord. 2005-03, passed 3-15-05; Am.
Ord. 2005-04, passed 4-13-05)
§ 150.02 BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   The most current edition of the North Carolina State Building Code (Volume
I, General Construction) as adopted by North Carolina Building Code Council and
as amended, is adopted by reference as fully as though set forth herein.
(OC, § 9-1-2) (Am. Ord. passed 10-17-95; Am. Ord. 2005-03, passed 3-15-05; Am.
Ord. 2005-04, passed 4-13-05)
§ 150.03 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT CODE ADOPTED.
   The most current edition of the North Carolina Administration and
Enforcement Code (North Carolina Building Code, Volume I-A, Administration and
Enforcement) as adopted by North Carolina Building Code Council and as amended,
is adopted by reference as fully as though set forth herein.
(OC, § 9-1-3) (Am. Ord. passed 10-17-95; Am. Ord. 2005-03, passed 3-15-05; Am.
Ord. 2005-04, passed 4-13-05)
§ 150.04 ACCESSIBILITY CODE ADOPTED.
   The most current edition of the North Carolina Accessibility Code ( North
Carolina State Building Code, Volume 1-C, Accessibility) as adopted by North
Carolina Building Code Council and as amended is adopted by reference as fully
as though set forth herein.
(OC, § 9-1-4) (Am. Ord. passed 10-17-95; Am. Ord. 2005-03, passed 3-15-05; Am.
Ord. 2005-04, passed 4-13-05)
§ 150.05 PLUMBING CODE ADOPTED.
   The most current edition of the North Carolina Plumbing Code (North Carolina
State Building Code, Volume II, Plumbing) as adopted by the North Carolina
Building Code Council and as amended, is adopted by reference as fully as
though set forth herein.
(OC, § 9-1-5) (Am. Ord. passed 10-17-95; Am. Ord. 2005-03, passed 3-15-05; Am.
Ord. 2005-04, passed 4-13-05)
§ 150.06 MECHANICAL CODE ADOPTED.
   The most current edition of the North Carolina Mechanical Code (North
Carolina State Building Code, Volume III, Mechanical) as adopted by North
Carolina Building Code Council and as amended, is adopted by reference as fully
as though set forth herein.
(OC, § 9-1-6) (Am. Ord. passed 10-17-95; Am. Ord. 2005-03, passed 3-15-05; Am.
Ord. 2005-04, passed 4-13-05)
§ 150.07 ELECTRICAL CODE ADOPTED.
   The most current edition of the North Carolina Electrical Code (North
Carolina State Building Code, Volume IV, Electrical) as adopted by the North
Carolina Building Code Council and as amended, is adopted by reference as fully
as though set forth herein.
(OC, § 9-1-7) (Am. Ord. passed 10-17-95; Am. Ord. 2005-03, passed 3-15-05; Am.
Ord. 2005-04, passed 4-13-05)
§ 150.08 FIRE PREVENTION CODE ADOPTED.
   The most current edition of the North Carolina Fire Prevention Code (North
Carolina State Building Code, Volume V, Fire Prevention) as adopted by North
Carolina Building Code Council and as amended, is referenced as fully as though
set forth herein.
(OC, § 9-1-8) (Am. Ord. passed 10-17-95; Am. Ord. 2005-03, passed 3-15-05; Am.
Ord. 2005-04, passed 4-13-05)
§ 150.09 GAS CODE ADOPTED.
   The most current edition of the North Carolina Gas Code (North Carolina
State Building Code, Volume VI, Gas) as adopted by North Carolina Building Code
Council and as amended, is referenced as fully as though set forth herein.
(OC, § 9-1-9) (Am. Ord. passed 10-17-95; Am. Ord. 2005-03, passed 3-15-05; Am.
Ord. 2005-04, passed 4-13-05)
§ 150.10 RESIDENTIAL CODE ADOPTED.
   The most current edition of the North Carolina Residential Code (North
Carolina State Building Code, Volume VII, Residential) as adopted by North
Carolina Building Code Council and as amended, is referenced as fully as though
set forth herein.
(OC, § 9-1-10) (Am. Ord. passed 10-17-95; Am. Ord. 2005-03, passed 3-15-05; Am.
Ord. 2005-04, passed 4-13-05)
§ 150.11 MODULAR CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS CODE ADOPTED.
   The most current edition of the North Carolina Modular Construction
Requirements Code (North Carolina State Building Code Council, Modular
Construction Requirements) as adopted by North Carolina Building Code Council
and as amended, is referenced as fully as though set forth herein.
(OC, § 9-1-11) (Am. Ord. passed 10-17-95; Am. Ord. 2005-03, passed 3-15-05; Am.
Ord. 2005-04, passed 4-13-05)
§ 150.12 EXISTING BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   The most current edition of the North Carolina Existing Building Code (North
Carolina State Building Code, Volume IX, Existing Buildings) as adopted by
North Carolina Building Code Council and as amended, is referenced as fully as
though set forth herein.
(OC, § 9-1-12) (Am. Ord. passed 10-17-95; Am. Ord. 2005-03, passed 3-15-05; Am.
Ord. 2005-04, passed 4-13-05)
§ 150.13 ENERGY CODE ADOPTED.
   The most current edition of the North Carolina Energy Code (North Carolina
State Building Code for Commercial and Residential Buildings, Volume X) as
adopted by North Carolina Building Code Council and as amended, is referenced
as fully as though set forth herein.
(OC, § 9-1-13) (Am. Ord. passed 10-17-95; Am. Ord. 2005-03, passed 3-15-05; Am.
Ord. 2005-04, passed 4-13-05)
§ 150.14 MANUFACTURED/MOBILE HOMES.
   The most current edition of the North Carolina Regulations for Manufactured/
Mobile Homes Code (North Carolina State Building Code Council, HUD,
Manufactured/Mobile Home requirements) as adopted by North Carolina Building
Code Council and as amended, is referenced as fully as though set forth herein.
(OC, § 9-1-14) (Am. Ord. passed 10-17-95; Am. Ord. 2005-03, passed 3-15-05; Am.
Ord. 2005-04, passed 4-13-05)
§ 150.15 AMENDMENTS TO CODES.
   Amendments to the regulatory codes adopted by reference herein, which are
from time to time adopted and published by the agencies or organizations
referred to herein, shall be effective in the town at the time the amendments
are filed with the Town Clerk or Code Enforcement Superintendent.
(OC, § 9-1-15) (Am. Ord. 2005-03, passed 3-15-05; Am. Ord. 2005-04, passed 4-
13-05)
§ 150.16 COMPLIANCE WITH CODES.
   (A)   All buildings or structures which are hereafter constructed,
reconstructed, erected, altered, extended, enlarged, repaired, demolished or
moved shall conform to the requirements, minimum standards and other provisions
of the North Carolina State Building Codes, General Construction, Volume I,
Administration Code, Volume 1-A, Accessibility Code, Volume 1-C, Fire
Prevention Code, Volume V, Existing Buildings, Volume IX, and Energy Code for
Commercial and Residential Buildings, Volume X, whichever is applicable or all,
if applicable.
   (B)   Every building or structure intended for human habitation, occupancy
or use shall have plumbing, plumbing systems or plumbing fixtures installed,
constructed, altered, extended, repaired or reconstructed in accordance with
the minimum standards, requirements and other provisions of the North Carolina
Plumbing Code (North Carolina State Building Code, Volume II, Plumbing).
   (C)   All mechanical systems consisting of heating, ventilating, air
conditioning and refrigeration systems, fuel burning equipment and
appurtenances shall be installed, erected, altered, repaired, used and
maintained in accordance with the minimum standards, requirements and other
provisions of the North Carolina Mechanical Code (North Carolina State Building
Code, Volume III, Mechanical), and provisions of the North Carolina Gas Code
(North Carolina State Building Code, Volume VI, Gas), whichever is applicable
or all, if applicable.
   (D)   All electrical wiring, installations and appurtenances shall be
erected, altered, repaired, used and maintained in accordance with the minimum
standards, requirements and other provisions of the North Carolina Electrical
Code (North Carolina State Building Code, Volume IV, Electrical).
(OC, § 9-1-16) (Am. Ord. passed 10-17-95; Am. Ord. 2005-03, passed 3-15-05; Am.
Ord. 2005-04, passed 4-13-05)
§ 150.17 COPIES OF CODES FILED WITH TOWN CLERK.
   An official copy of each regulatory code adopted herein, and official copies
of all amendments thereto, shall be kept on file in the office of the Town
Clerk or the Code Enforcement Superintendent. These copies shall be the
official copies of the amendments.
(OC, § 9-1-17) (Am. Ord. passed 10-17-95; Am. Ord. 2005-03, passed 3-15-05; Am.
Ord. 2005-04, passed 4-13-05)
INSPECTION DEPARTMENT
§ 150.30 DUTY OF INSPECTION DEPARTMENT.
   The Inspection Department shall be charged with enforcing the provisions of
G.S. §160D-1104, relating to the construction of buildings and other
structures, the installation of plumbing systems, electrical systems, heating
systems, refrigeration systems, and air-conditioning systems, the maintenance
of buildings and other structures in a safe, sanitary, and healthful condition,
and other matters that may be specified by the Board of Commissioners.
(OC, §9-1-31) (Am. Ord. 2005-03, passed 3-15-05; Am. Ord. 2005-04, passed 4-13-
05; Am. Ord. 2021-O3, passed 5-24-21)
§ 150.31 BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   The officer or employee that the Board may appoint shall be the Building
Inspector of the town and he/she shall possess all the powers conferred and
perform all the duties prescribed by statutes applicable thereto. He/she shall
possess the further power and perform the further duties as may be prescribed
by this chapter. He/she shall receive the fees allowed by statute. With consent
of the occupant or appropriate warrant, the Inspector or his/her deputy shall
have the right to enter, at all reasonable times, any building structure or
premises within the town for the purpose of inspecting or in the performance of
his/her duties. He/she shall make, or cause to be made, the inspection of all
chimneys, flues, steam and fire openings within the town. He/she may, when
occasion requires, appoint a deputy or deputies to perform any part of his/her
duties.
(OC, § 9-1-21) (Am. Ord. 2005-03, passed 3-15-05; Am. Ord. 2005-04, passed 4-
13-05)
§ 150.32 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   No officer or employee of the Inspection Department shall be financially
interested or employed by a business that is financially interested in the
furnishing of labor, material or appliances for the construction, alteration or
maintenance of any building within the town’s planning and development
regulation jurisdiction or any part or system thereof, or in the making of
plans or specifications therefor, unless he is the owner of the building. No
officer or employee of the Inspection Department shall engage in any work which
is inconsistent with his/her duties or with the interests of the town.
(OC, § 9-1-24) (Am. Ord. 2005-03, passed 3-15-05; Am. Ord. 2005-04, passed 4-
13-05; Am. Ord. 2021-O3, passed 5-24-21)
§ 150.33 FAILURE TO PERFORM DUTIES.
   If any member of an inspection department shall willfully fail to perform
the duties required by law, or willfully shall improperly issue a building
permit, or shall give a certificate of compliance without first making the
inspections required by law, or willfully shall improperly give a certificate
of compliance, the member shall be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2021-O3, passed 5-24-21)
PERMITS
§ 150.45 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Building permits. No person shall commence construction, addition,
alteration , reconstruction, extensive repairs, reconstruction after damage,
moving, demolition or change of use of any type of building without first
securing from the Inspector a permit to engage in the work.
   (B)   Plumbing permits. No person shall commence with the installation,
extension, alterations or general repairs of any plumbing system without first
securing from the Inspector a permit to engage in the work.
   (C)   HVAC permits. No person shall commence with the installation, erection
or alteration of any mechanical systems consisting of heating, ventilating, air
conditioning and refrigeration systems, fuel burning equipment and
appurtenances, without first securing from the Inspector a permit to engage in
the work.
   (D)   Commercial sign permits. No person shall commence with the erection,
construction, alteration or maintenance (except as provided in the North
Carolina State Building Code) of any commercial sign without first securing
from the Inspector a permit to engage in the work.
   (E)   Electrical permits. No person shall commence or proceed with the
installation, erection, alteration or substantial repair of electrical systems
and appurtenances thereof, without first securing from the Inspector a permit
to engage in the work.
   (F)   Zoning permits. No person shall commence or proceed with any new
development without first securing the Planner a permit to engage in the work.
(OC, § 9-1-22) (Am. Ord. 2005-03, passed 3-15-05; Am. Ord. 2005-04, passed 4-
13-05; Am. Ord. 2024- O15, passed 8-13-24)
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 150.46 PERMIT FEES.
   Fees for the required permits shall be charged according to a schedule
adopted by the Board of Commissioners and maintained on file in the office of
the Building Inspector.
(OC, § 9-1-23) (Am. Ord. 2005-03, passed 3-15-05; Am. Ord. 2005-04, passed 4-
13-05)
§ 150.47 REVOCATION OF BUILDING PERMITS.
   The inspector may revoke and require the return of any building permit by
notifying the permit holder in writing stating the reason for the revocation.
Building permits shall be revoked for any substantial departure from the
approved application, plans, or specifications; for refusal or failure to
comply with the requirements of any applicable state or local laws; or for
false statements or misrepresentations made in securing the permit. Any
building permit mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable state or local
law may also be revoked.
(Ord. 2021-O3, passed 5-24-21)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   General penalty. Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for
which no specific penalty is otherwise provided, shall be subject to the
penalty contained in §
10.99.
   (B)   Civil penalties.  
      (1)   Generally. Any act or omission constituting a violation of this
chapter or of any of the construction codes described or incorporated therein,
shall subject the offender to a civil penalty in the amount of $50 to be
recovered by the town in a civil action in the nature of a debt or as otherwise
provided herein or by statute if the offender fails to pay the penalty within
48 hours after the receipt of a citation of a violation.
      (2)   Citation contents. Any citation issued pursuant to this chapter may
contain such information as the Code Enforcement Superintendent deems
appropriate, and shall at least do the following:
         (a)   State upon its face the specific violation(s) being cited and
the amount of the penalty for each specific violation if the penalty or
penalties is/are paid within 48 hours after the issuance of the citation;
         (b)   Notify the offender that a failure to pay the penalty or
penalties within the prescribed time shall subject the offender to a civil
action in the nature of debt for the stated penalty or penalties plus any
additional penalties assessed pursuant to this section or otherwise, together
with interest and the costs of the action to be taxed by the court;
         (c)   Provide that the offender may answer the building code citation
by mailing the citation and the stated penalty or penalties to POB 368,
Swansboro, North Carolina 28584, or may pay the amount at the Town Hall, corner
of Webb and Church Streets, Swansboro, North Carolina;
         (d)   State that the penalty or penalties must be paid or the failure
to pay must be cleared with the Code Enforcement Director, Town Hall, within 48
hours of the issuance of the citation. The notice shall further state that
court action may be taken if the building code violation citation is not
cleared within 48 hours after issuance of the citation. As used in this
section, the word CLEARED shall mean one of the following:
            1.   Payment of the penalty or penalties in full;
            2.   Arrangement for payment of the penalty or penalties in full
and correction of the code violation(s); or
            3.   A prima facie showing to the Code Enforcement Director that
the citation was received as a result of mistake, inadvertence or excusable
neglect.
   (3)   Settlement of civil claim. The Code Enforcement Director is authorized
to accept payment in full and final settlement of the claim or claims, right or
rights of action which the town may have to enforce the penalty by civil action
in the nature of debt only if the act(s) or omission(s) which gave rise to the
violation(s) is/are abated or otherwise made lawful.
   (4)   Additional civil penalty. If any penalty or penalties prescribed by
this section is/are not cleared within 48 hours after issuance of a citation
therefor, then beginning on the third day after issuance of the citation, an
additional penalty of $50 per day per violation shall be imposed until each
respective cited violation is cleared and either abated, or otherwise made
lawful. The imposition of additional civil penalties as provided shall be
subject to the terms of division (B) of this section.
   (5)   Continuing violations. After the initial 48-hour period after issuance
of a citation, each day's continuing violation shall be a separate offense, but
no civil penalty shall be levied against the same person for the same
continuing violation at the same location more than once unless and until the
Code Enforcement Director or his designee has delivered a written notice by
personal service or by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested,
to the person responsible for the violation indicating the nature of the
violation and ordering corrective action. The notice shall also set forth the
time period within which corrective measures must be completed. The notice
shall state that failure to correct the violation within the specified time
will result in the assessment of additional civil penalties and other
enforcement action. If, after the allotted time period has expired and after
the hearing of any appeal, the corrective action has not been completed, the
civil penalty shall be assessed in the amount of $100 per day of continuing
violation.
   (6)   Continuing violations a misdemeanor. Violation of any provision of
this section or any of the codes incorporated therein by reference, and
violation of any stop work order issued by the Code Enforcement Director or his
designee shall be a misdemeanor.
(OC, § 9-1-40) (Am. Ord. passed 9-17-96; Am. Ord. 2005-03, passed 3-15-05; Am.
Ord. 2005-04, passed 4-13-05)
CHAPTER 151: REPAIR, CLOSING, AND/OR DEMOLITION OF NON-RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OR
STRUCTURES
Section
   
151.01   Finding
   
151.02   Intent
   
151.03   Definitions
   
151.04   Conflicts
   
151.05   Standards and responsibilities
   
151.06   Occupancy
   
151.07   Administration
   
151.08   Investigation
   
151.09   Notices; administrative hearings
   
151.10   Administrative orders
   
151.11   Limitations on orders
   
151.12   Failure to comply with order
   
151.13   Abandonment of intent to repair
   
151.14   Service of complaints and orders
   
151.15   Liens
   
151.16   Salvage
   
151.17   Occupant removal
   
151.18   Nuisance abatement authority
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 FINDING.
   The town finds that there are or may exist non-residential buildings or
structures that are injurious to public health, safety, and welfare the
standards of maintenance, sanitation, and/or safety as a result of their
failure to meet the standards of maintenance, sanitation, and/or safety set
forth herein.
(Ord. 2011-05, passed 1-18-11)
§ 151.02 INTENT.
   The intent of this chapter is to establish minimum standards of maintenance,
sanitation, and safety for all non-residential buildings and structures within
the corporate limits of the Town of Swansboro, in order to address conditions
that are injurious to public health, safety, and welfare. The provisions of
this chapter shall apply to all existing and future buildings and structures in
use for, and/or intended for use for, non-residential purposes.
(Ord. 2011-05, passed 1-18-11)
§ 151.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARTIES IN INTEREST. All individuals, associations, and/or corporations who
have interests of record in a non-residential building or structure and any who
are in possession of such building or structure.
   PREMISES. A lot, parcel, or tract of land, including the buildings and
structures thereon, under control by the same owner or operator, devoted to, or
zoned for, non-residential use.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected which requires location on the
ground or attachment to something having a fixed location on the ground,
including, but not limited to, principal and accessory buildings, manufactured
homes or offices, trailer units, signs, fences, walls, bridges, monuments,
flagpoles, antennas , transmission poles, towers, and cables, above and below
ground storage tanks, or other manmade facilities or infrastructures.
   VACANT INDUSTRIAL WAREHOUSE. Any building or structure that was previously
used for the storage of goods or equipment in connection with manufacturing
processes, that has not been used for that purpose for at least one year, and
that has not been converted to another use.
   VACANT MANUFACTURING FACILITY. Any building or structure that was previously
used for the lawful production or manufacturing of goods, that has not been
used for that purpose for at least one year, and that has not been converted to
another use.
(Ord. 2011-05, passed 1-18-11)
§ 151.04 CONFLICTS.
   In the event that any provision, standard, or requirement of this chapter is
found to be in conflict with any provision of any other ordinance or code of
the town, the provision that establishes the higher standard or more stringent
requirement for the promotion and protection of public health, safety, and/or
welfare shall prevail.
(Ord. 2011-05, passed 1-18-11)
§ 151.05 STANDARDS AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The parties in interest of non-residential buildings and structures shall
have responsibility for, and shall ensure that such buildings and structures
under their ownership or control are maintained in compliance with the
following minimum standards of maintenance, sanitation, and safety.
   (A)   The premises shall be kept free of all nuisances and any hazards to
the safety of occupants, customers, and other persons utilizing the premises
and to pedestrians and/or vehicles passing thereby, including but not limited
to the following conditions in or about such building or structure.
      (1)   Interior walls or vertical studs that list, lean, or buckle to such
an extent as to render the building unsafe.
      (2)   Supporting member(s) that show 20% or more damage or deterioration
or non-supporting enclosing or outside wails or coverings that show 25% or more
damage or deterioration.
      (3)   Floors or roofs that have improperly distributed loads, which are
overloaded, or which insufficient strength to be reasonably safe for the
purpose used.
      (4)   Damage by fire, wind, or other causes that renders the building
unsafe.
      (5)   Dilapidation, decay, unsanitary conditions, or disrepair that is
dangerous to the health, safety, or general welfare of the occupants or other
persons within the community.
      (6)   Inadequate or obstructed facilities for egress in case of fire or
panic.
      (7)   Defects that significantly increase the hazards of fire, accident,
or other calamities.
      (8)   Lack of adequate ventilation, light, heating, or sanitary
facilities to an extent that may endanger the health, safety, or welfare of the
occupants or other persons in the community.
      (9)   Lack of proper electrical, heating, or plumbing facilities that
create a health or safety hazard.
      (10)   Violation of the Fire Code or other conditions that constitute a
fire hazard in the building or on the premises, such as (by way of example and
not limitation) the accumulation of garbage, rubbish, hazardous liquids, or
other combustible material.
      (11)   Garbage, trash, or rubbish in or near the building, structure, or
premises that is likely to attract or become a breeding place for rodents,
insects, or other vermin.
   (B)   The premises are free of loose and overhanging or leaning objects that
constitute a danger of falling on persons on the premises or in the vicinity
thereof.
   (C)   The premises are free of holes, excavation, breaks, projections, or
obstructions within buildings or other structures and on walks, driveways,
parking lots, parking areas, and other parts of the premises that are
accessible to and used by persons on the premises.
   (D)   The exterior of the building, structure, and/or premises is in good
repair and free from deterioration, so as not to constitute a nuisance.
   (E)   All surfaces are maintained free of cracked or broken glass, loose
shingles, loose wood, crumbling stone or brick, loose or broken plastic or
vinyl, other dangerous objects, or similar hazardous conditions.
   (F)   All floors, interior walls, and ceilings of every building or
structure are structurally sound and are maintained in a good condition
compatible with the intended use and in a manner that does not constitute a
hazard to the public.
   (G)   There are no structures attached or unattached to the principal
structure that are found to be hazardous, in poor repair, or structurally
deficient.
   (H)   There are no objects or elements on or protruding from building walls
or roofs or the surrounding premises, such as empty electrical or other
conduits, open pipes, unused sign brackets, which constitute potential safety
hazards.
   (I)   All foundation walls are kept structurally sound and capable of
bearing loads safely.
   (J)   Building walls that have become exposed as a result of the demolition
of adjacent buildings (a) have all doors, windows, vents, or similar openings
secured with material of the same type comprising the wall, (b) have no
protrusions or loose material that constitute a hazard, (c) are painted,
stuccoed, or bricked so as not to detract from the adjacent property, and (d)
are weatherproofed to prevent deterioration of the wall.
   (K)   All windows are tight fitting, have sashes of proper size and design,
do not have rotten wood, broken joints, or broken or loose mullions, and do not
have broken or missing glazing.
   (L)   All windows are maintained free of broken glass, in a manner that
insures that at least 80% of the total surface of the glass is free of
cracking.
   (M)   All openings originally designed as windows are maintained as windows,
complete with sills, lintels, frame, and glass, unless the fire chief approves
enclosure of the window in a manner that appropriately fills the space and is
weatherproof.
   (N)   All exterior surfaces that require painting or dealing to protect the
underlying surface from deterioration are kept properly painted or sealed.
   (O)   All exterior surfaces that have been painted are maintained free of
peeling and flaking paint or stucco and entire walls are scraped and repainted
or recovered if 30% or more of the aggregate area of any painted or stuccoed
wall has peeling or flaking paint or stucco that is worn away.
   (P)   All doors or other pedestrian or service openings are maintained in
good repair, capable of being safely secured, all door frames have
appropriately designed and installed doors, and no openings are left open or
unsecured after hours in a manner that may constitute an attractive nuisance to
persons (adults or children), animals, or vermin.
   (Q)   All advertising structures and their supporting members are maintained
in good condition and do not constitute a nuisance or safety hazard. All signs,
active or inactive, and their supporting members are kept in sound repair (or
if not, removed). All sign surfaces are maintained in legible condition, free
of cracks, rips, holes, or other deterioration that diminishes their function
or creates unsightly conditions.
   (R)   All light poles or other vertical poles or frames and their supporting
members are maintained in sound condition, do not constitute a nuisance or
safety hazard, and have their exterior surfaces maintained in a properly
painted or sealed condition to avoid peeling, flaking, or rust.
   (S)   All washrooms and water closet compartment floors are surfaced with
water-resistant materials, kept in a dry and sanitary condition, and are
provided with permanently installed artificial lighting with a switch and wall
plate located in a manner that does not create a danger of short circuiting.
   (T)   Flammable or combustible liquids or substances are not kept in a
container and a location in compliance with the codes of the National Fire
Protection Association.
   (U)   Chimneys, flues, and vent attachments are maintained in a structurally
sound manner, are durable, are smoke-tight, are capable of withstanding the
action of flue gases, and provide sufficient draft.
   (V)   Exterior porches, landings, balconies, stairs, ramps and fire escapes
are provided with properly designed, structurally sound, defect-free and
properly maintained banisters or railings. Interior stairs and landings are
properly maintained and structurally sound.
   (W)   Gutters and downspouts are securely installed and appropriately
located in a manner that does not create hazards to pedestrians or vehicular
traffic.
   (X)   Parking lots and all curbing, surfacing, sidewalks, and other
appurtenances are maintained free of broken or cracked surfaces, holes, or
other hazardous conditions; repairs are made with appropriate materials. Curb
cuts that are abandoned due to new construction, changes in access, or other
causes are closed and replaced with curb and gutter compatible with adjoining
curb areas and sidewalks are installed in accordance with municipal design
standards.
   (Y)   Any required landscaping is maintained consistent with the original
landscaping plan. Landscaping is kept in good condition, does not obstruct
pedestrian walkways, vehicle movement areas, or signs, and does not constitute
a vehicle sight distance obstruction, a safety hazard, or a place of
potentially dangerous concealment.
(Ord. 2011-05, passed 1-18-11)
§ 151.06 OCCUPANCY.
   The provisions of this chapter apply to non-residential buildings and
structures whether they are occupied or vacant. All unoccupied or vacant
buildings and structures shall be secured by any party in interest to prevent
entry by unauthorized persons and to prevent occurrences of activities not
permitted by law.
(Ord. 2011-05, passed 1-18-11)
§ 151.07 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Town Manager shall designate one or more employees to serve as the
enforcement officer(s) for the administration of these requirements and
standards. The enforcement officer is authorized to exercise any powers
necessary or convenient to carry out and implement the purpose and provisions
of this chapter, including the following powers:
   (A)   To investigate non-residential buildings and structures in the town to
determine whether they have been properly maintained in compliance with the
minimum standards, so that the safety or health of the occupants and/or members
of the general public are not jeopardized;
   (B)   To administer oaths and affirmations, examine witnesses, and receive
evidence;
   (C)   To enter upon premises with the permission of the owner or other
authorized person or under an administrative search warrant for the purpose of
making examinations in a manner that will do the least possible inconvenience
to the persons in possession; and
   (D)   To delegate and assign to subordinates or agents those duties and
responsibilities necessary to carry out the purposes of ordinances adopted by
the board of commissioners.
(Ord. 2011-05, passed 1-18-11)
§ 151.08 INVESTIGATION.
   Whenever it appears to a designated enforcement officer that a non-
residential building or structure has not been maintained in accordance with
the standards of this chapter, or when a designated enforcement officer
receives a complaint of same, the officer shall undertake a preliminary
investigation. If entry upon the premises is necessary, the officer may obtain
the permission of the owner or other authorized person or may obtain an
administrative search warrant under the provisions of G.S. § 27.2.
(Ord. 2011-05, passed 1-18-11)
§ 151.09 NOTICES; ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS.
   If the preliminary investigation discloses evidence of a violation of the
required standards, the enforcement officer shall issue and cause to be served
a complaint to the owner of, and any known parties in interest in, the building
or structure, setting forth the charges of violations and containing notice
that an administrative hearing will be held before the enforcement officer (or
his or her agent) at a specific place within a period ten to 30 days following
the serving of the complaint. The owner and/or parties in interest shall be
given the opportunity to appear in person or otherwise at the time and place of
the hearing and to give testimony regarding the matters in the complaint. The
rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law or equity shall not be
controlling in such administrative hearings.
(Ord. 2011-05, passed 1-18-11)
§ 151.10 ADMINISTRATIVE ORDERS.
   If, following the investigation, notice, and hearing, the enforcement
officer determines that the non-residential building or structure has not been
maintained in accordance with the minimum standards of maintenance, sanitation,
and safety set forth in this chapter, the enforcement officer shall make
written findings of fact in support of the determination and shall issue and
cause to be served on the owner of the property an order requiring the owner to
take remedial action within a reasonable, specified time period.
(Ord. 2011-05, passed 1-18-11)
§ 151.11 LIMITATIONS ON ORDERS.
   Orders to take remedial action are subject to the following limitations
[G.S. § 160A-439(e)].
   (A)   Orders may require the owner to repair, alter, or improve the building
or structure in order to bring it into compliance with the minimum standards of
this chapter or to vacate and close the building or structure for any use.
   (B)   Orders may require the owner to remove or demolish the building or
structure if the cost of repair, alteration, or improvement would exceed 50% of
its then current value. If the building or structure is designated as a local
historic landmark, is listed in the National Register of Historic Places, or
located in a designated historic district and the board of commissioners
determines, after a public hearing, that the building or structure is of
individual significance or contributes to the character of the district, and
the building or structure has not been condemned as unsafe, the order may
require that the building or structure be vacated and closed until it is
brought into compliance with the minimum standards.
   (C)   Orders may not require repairs, alterations, or improvements to be
made to vacant manufacturing facilities or vacant industrial warehouse
facilities to preserve the original use. The order may require the building or
structure to be vacated and closed, but repairs may be required only when
necessary to maintain structural integrity or to abate a health or safety
hazard that cannot be remedied by ordering the building or structure closed for
any use.
(Ord. 2011-05, passed 1-18-11)
§ 151.12 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ORDER.
   If the owner fails to comply with the order of the enforcement officer, the
following procedures shall apply [G.S. § 160A-439(f)].
   (A)   Orders to repair, alter, improve, vacate, or close. If an owner fails
to comply with an order to repair, alter, or improve or to vacate or close the
non-residential building or structure, the Board of Commissioners may adopt an
ordinance ordering the enforcement officer to implement the purpose of this
chapter with respect to the property. The property shall be described in the
ordinance, which shall be recorded in the Office of the Register of Deeds and
indexed to the name of the property owner(s) in the grantor index. Following
adoption of the ordinance, the enforcement officer may cause the building or
structure to be repaired, altered, or improved or to be vacated or closed. The
enforcement officer may post on the main entrance of the building or structure
that is closed a placard advising that “This building is unfit for any use; the
use or occupation of this building for any purpose is prohibited and unlawful”.
   (B)   Orders to remove or demolish. If an owner fails to comply with an
order to remove or demolish the building or structure, the board of
commissioners may adopt an ordinance ordering the enforcement officer to
implement the purpose of this chapter with respect to the building or
structure. No ordinance shall be adopted to require demolition of a building or
structure until the owner has been given a reasonable opportunity to bring it
into conformity with the minimum standards. The property shall be described in
the ordinance, which shall be recorded in the office of the register of deeds
and indexed in the name of the property owner(s) in the grantor index.
Following adoption of the ordinance, the enforcement officer may cause the
building or structure to be removed or demolished.
(Ord. 2011-05, passed 1-18-11)
§ 151.13 ABANDONMENT OF INTENT TO REPAIR.
   If the Board of Commissioners or the enforcement officer has issued an order
requiring the building or structure to be repaired or vacated and closed and
the building or structure has been vacated and closed for a period of two years
pursuant to such ordinance or order, the Board of Commissioners may find that
that the owner has abandoned the intent and purpose to repair, alter, or
improve the building or structure and that the continuation of the building or
structure in a vacated and closed status would be inimical to the health,
safety, and welfare of the town, in that it would continue to deteriorate,
would create a fire or safety hazard, would be a threat to children or
vagrants, would attract persons intent on criminal activities, or would cause
or contribute to blight and the deterioration of property values in the area.
Upon such findings, the Board of Commissioners may enact an ordinance and serve
such ordinance on the owner. If the cost to repair the building or structure to
bring it into compliance with minimum standards is 50% or less of its then-
current value, the ordinance shall require the owner to either repair or
demolish and remove the building or structure within 90 days. If the cost to
repair the building or structure to bring it into compliance with minimum
standards exceeds 50% of its then-current value, the ordinance shall require
the owner to demolish and remove the building or structure within 90 days.
Vacant manufacturing facilities or vacant industrial warehouses must have been
vacated and closed pursuant to an order of ordinance for five years before the
Board of Commissioners may take action under this section. The ordinance shall
be recorded in the office of the register of deeds, indexed in the name of the
property owner in the grantor index. If the owner fails to comply with the
ordinance, the enforcement officer shall implement the purpose of the
ordinance.
(Ord. 2011-05, passed 1-18-11)
§ 151.14 SERVICE OF COMPLAINTS AND ORDERS.
   Complaints or orders issued by the enforcement officer pursuant to an
ordinance adopted under this chapter shall be served upon persons either
personally or by registered or certified mail, as long as the means are
reasonably designed to achieve actual notice. Copies may also be sent by
regular mail. Service shall be deemed sufficient if the registered or certified
mail is refused, but the regular mail is not returned by the post office within
ten days after the mailing. If regular mail is used, a notice of the pending
proceedings shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the affected premises. If
the identities of any owners or the whereabouts of persons are unknown and
cannot be ascertained by the enforcement officer in the exercise of due
diligence, and the enforcement officer makes an affidavit to that effect,
serving of the complaint or order may be made by publication, at least once no
later than the time that personal service would be required, in a newspaper
having general circulation in the town. When service is made by publication, a
notice of the pending proceedings shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the
affected premises.
(Ord. 2011-05, passed 1-18-11)
§ 151.15 LIENS.
   The cost of repairs, alterations, or improvements, or of vacating and
closing, or of removal or demolition by the enforcement officer under the
provisions of this chapter shall be a lien against the real property upon which
the cost was incurred. The lien shall have the same priority and shall be
collected as a lien for special assessment under G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 10. The
costs shall also be a lien on any other real property of the owner located
within the town except for the owner’s primary residence; this additional lien
is inferior to prior liens and shall be collected as a money judgment.
(Ord. 2011-05, passed 1-18-11)
§ 151.16 SALVAGE.
   If a non-residential building is removed or demolished by the enforcement
officer, he or she shall offer for sale any recoverable building materials and
any personal property, fixtures, or appurtenances found in or attached to the
building or structure and shall credit the net proceeds of the sale, if any,
against the cost of the removal or demolition. Any balance remaining shall be
deposited in the superior court, secured in a manner directed by the court, and
disbursed by the court to the persons found to be entitled thereto.
(Ord. 2011-05, passed 1-18-11)
§ 151.17 OCCUPANT REMOVAL.
   If any occupant fails to comply with an order to vacate a non-residential
building or structure, the enforcement officer may file, with the approval of
the Board of Commissioners, a civil action in the name of the town to remove
the occupant. Such proceedings shall be carried out in accordance with the
requirements of G.S. § 160A-439(j).
(Ord. 2011-05, passed 1-18-11)
§ 151.18 NUISANCE ABATEMENT AUTHORITY.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to impair or limit the power of
the Board of Commissioners to define and declare nuisances and to cause their
removal or abatement by summary proceedings or otherwise.
(Ord. 2011-05, passed 1-18-11)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   In addition to other remedies provided in this chapter, any violation of
this chapter may subject the offender to a civil penalty in the amount of $50
for each day the violation(s) continue to exist.
(Ord. 2011-05, passed 1-18-11)
CHAPTER 152: UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Title
   
152.002   Purpose
   
152.003   Authority
   
152.004   Jurisdiction
   
152.005   Effective date
   
152.006   Prerequisite to plat recordation
   
152.007   Relationship to existing zoning and subdivision ordinances
   
152.008   Relationship to the Town of Swansboro Comprehensive Plan and Land Use
Plan
   
152.009   Official zoning map
   
152.010   Miscellaneous regulations
   
152.011   No use or sale of land or buildings except in conformity with
ordinance provisions
   
152.012   Fees
   
152.013   Severability
   
152.014   Computation of time
   
152.015   Word interpretation
   
152.016   Definitions of basic terms
   
152.017   Rules for interpretation of zoning district boundaries
Administrative Mechanisms
   
152.030   Board of Adjustment
   
152.031   Land Use Administrator
   
152.032   Board of Commissioners
   
152.033   Planning Board
Appeals, Variances, Interpretations
   
152.045   Appeals
   
152.046   Variances
   
152.047   Interpretations
   
152.048   Request to be heard expeditiously
   
152.049   Burden of proof in appeals and variances
   
152.050   Board action on appeals and variances
   
152.051   Continuity of action
Hearing Procedures
   
152.065   Quasi-judicial decisions
   
152.066   Notice of hearing
   
152.067   Evidence
   
152.068   Modification of application at hearing
   
152.069   Voting
   
152.070   Written decision
   
152.071   Judicial review
   
152.072   Legislative hearings
   
152.073   Moratoria
   
152.074   Notice of an administrative decision
   
152.075   Citizen comments
Nonconformities
   
152.085   Purpose
   
152.086   Nonconforming uses
   
152.087   Nonconforming lots
   
152.088   Extension or enlargement of nonconformities
   
152.089   Change in kind of nonconforming use
   
152.090   Abandonment or discontinuance a nonconformity
   
152.091   Completion of nonconforming projects
Development Approvals
   
152.105   Approvals required
   
152.106   No occupancy, use, or sale of lots until requirements fulfilled
   
152.107   Who may submit permit applications
   
152.108   Applications to be complete
   
152.109   Staff consultation after application submitted
   
152.110   Zoning permits
   
152.111   Authorizing use or occupancy before completion of development under
zoning permit
   
152.112   Effect of permits on successors and assigns
   
152.113   Amendments to and modifications of permits
   
152.114   Reconsideration of Board action
   
152.115   Applications to be processed expeditiously
   
152.116   Maintenance of common areas, improvements, and facilities
   
152.117   Completing developments in phases
Enforcement and Review
   
152.130   Complaints regarding violations
   
152.131   Persons liable
   
152.132   Procedures upon discovery of violations
   
152.133   Civil penalties; availability of remedy
   
152.134   Permit revocation
   
152.135   Judicial review
Vested Rights, Permit Choice and Development Agreements
   
152.150   Purpose
   
152.151   Establishment of vested rights
   
152.152   Permit choice
   
152.153   Duration and types of statutory vested rights
   
152.154   Subsequent changes prohibited; exceptions
   
152.155   Miscellaneous vested rights provisions
   
152.156   Development agreements
Zoning Districts and Zoning Map
   
152.170   Establishment of zoning districts, and the purpose thereof
   
152.171   Zoning Map is a part of this chapter
   
152.172   Replacement of the Official Zoning Map
   
152.173   Maintenance of the Official Zoning Map
   
152.174   Only one main building, one main use on lot, and orientation of a
building
   
152.175   Minimum yards
   
152.176   Lot subdivision
   
152.177   Improvements bond
   
152.178   Manufactured office buildings
   
152.179   Table of permitted/special uses
   
152.180   Notes to the table of permitted/special uses/conditional use
districts
Table of Area, Yard, and Height Requirements
   
152.195   Table of area, yard, and height requirements
   
152.196   Notes to the table of area, yard, and height requirements
Special Uses
   
152.210   Procedure for special use permits
   
152.211   Specific criteria for certain special uses
   
152.212   Use standards
Residential Cluster Development Regulations
   
152.225   Purpose and intent; definition
   
152.226   Area; permitted districts, exemption; street access; open space(s);
density; dimensional standards
   
152.227   Maximum density requirements
   
152.228   Minimum dimensional standards
   
152.229   Zero (0) side and/or rear yard setbacks
   
152.230   Private streets
   
152.231   Compliance with subdivision standards
Planned Unit Development (PUD)
   
152.245   Minimum size
   
152.246   Maximum overall density
   
152.247   Open space requirement
   
152.248   Residential development
   
152.249   Commercial development
   
152.250   Industrial development
   
152.251   Procedure
   
152.252   Homeowners’ association
   
152.253   Amendment to site plan special use permit
Signs
   
152.265   Purpose
   
152.266   Application
   
152.267   Computation of sign area
   
152.268   Signs requiring neither permit nor fee
   
152.269   Signs requiring permit but no fee
   
152.270   Signs requiring a permit and fee
   
152.271   Reserved
   
152.272   Projection into street rights-of-way and side yards
   
152.273   Prohibited signs
   
152.274   Nonconforming signs
   
152.275   Permits for signs
   
152.276   Maintenance
   
152.277   Permitted signs
Off-Street Parking and Off-Street Loading Requirements
   
152.290   Purpose
   
152.291   General
   
152.292   Minimum Parking Requirements
   
152.293   Driveways
   
152.294   Off-Street Loading Requirements
   
152.295   Parking Lot Interconnections
   
152.296   Design Standards for Off-Street Parking and Off-Street Loading
Traffic Impact Study
   
152.310   Purpose
   
152.311   Conduct
   
152.312   Applicability
   
152.313   General requirements and standards
   
152.314   Submission and implementation
Subdivision Regulations
Part I: General Provisions
   
152.325   Title
   
152.326   Conformance prerequisite to acceptance of streets, extension of
public services, and the like
   
152.327   Conformance with official plans
   
152.328   Amendments
   
152.329   Variances
   
152.330   Enforcement and penalties
   
152.331   Administrator
   
152.332   Effect of plat on dedication
   
152.333   Thoroughfare plan
   
152.334   School sites on land use plan
   
152.335   Unified development ordinance and other plans
   
152.336   Exclusions and exceptions
   
152.337   Procedures for plat approval
   
152.338   Sight line of intersection
Part II: Standards of Design
   
152.350   General
   
152.351   Suitability of the land
   
152.352   Lots
   
152.353   Streets
   
152.354   Blocks
   
152.355   Utilities and stormwater management
   
152.356   Sidewalks
   
152.357   Pedestrian access easements
   
152.358   Townhouses
   
152.359   Planned unit developments
   
152.360   Manufactured home subdivision
   
152.361   Campground subdivisions
   
152.362   Buffer areas
   
152.363   Sites for public uses
   
152.364   Placement of monuments
   
152.365   Coordination with zoning requirements and other official municipal
ordinances and plans
   
152.366   Coordination with state and federal requirements
   
152.367   Parks and recreation space requirements
Part III: Information Required With Subdivision Applications
   
152.380   Number of review and filing copies to be submitted
   
152.381   Required information on minor, sketch, and major subdivisions
   
152.382   Documents and written information in addition to maps and plans
   
152.383   Certificates and endorsements
   
152.384   Warranties, sureties and improvements guarantees
   
152.385   Wording for map certificates and statements
Flood Damage Prevention
Part I: General Provisions
   
152.400   Statutory authorization
   
152.401   Findings of fact
   
152.402   Statement of purpose
   
152.404   Objectives
   
152.405   Definitions
   
152.406   Lands to which this subchapter applies
   
152.407   Basis for establishing the special flood hazard areas
   
152.408   Establishment of the floodplain development permit
   
152.409   Compliance
   
152.410   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
152.411   Interpretation
   
152.412   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
152.413   Penalties of violation
Part II: Administration
   
152.425   Designation of Floodplain Administrator
   
152.426   Floodplain development application, permit and certification
requirements
   
152.427   Duties of and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
   
152.428   Corrective procedures
   
152.429   Variance procedures
Part III: Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
152.440   General standards
   
152.441   Specific standards
   
152.442   Standards for floodplains without established base flood elevations
   
152.443   Standards for riverine floodplains with BFE but without established
floodways or non-encroachment areas
   
152.444   Floodways and non-encroachment areas
   
152.445   Coastal high hazard areas (Zones VE and V1-30)
   
152.446   Standards for Coastal A Zones (Zone CAZ) LiMWA
   
152.447   Standards for areas of shallow flooding (Zone AO)
   
152.448   Standards for areas of shallow flooding (Zone AH)
Part IV: Legal Status Provisions
   
152.460   Effect on rights and liabilities under the existing flood damage
prevention ordinance
   
152.461   Effect upon outstanding floodplain development permits
   
152.462   Effective date
Historic District
   
152.475   Purpose
   
152.476   Historic District
   
152.477   Swansboro Historic Preservation Commission
   
152.478   Certificate of appropriateness
   
152.479   Certificate of appropriateness list
   
152.480   Appeals of decisions
   
152.481   Zoning ordinance compliance
   
152.482   Review criteria
   
152.483   Certain changes not prohibited
   
152.484   Demolition
   
152.485   Demolition by neglect
   
152.486   Procedural remedies when demolition by neglect is determined
   
152.487   Compliance and enforcement
   
152.488   Municipally owned property
Lighting
   
152.500   Intent and purpose
   
152.501   Lighting plan required
   
152.502   Light measure technique
   
152.503   General standards for outdoor lighting
   
152.504   Lighting in parking lots and outdoor areas
   
152.505   Lighting for vehicular canopies
   
152.506   Outdoor sports field/outdoor performance area lighting
   
152.507   Lighting of outdoor display areas
   
152.508   Sign lighting
   
152.509   Lighting of buildings and landscaping
   
152.510   Timer devices
   
152.511   Permits
   
152.512   Nonconformities
Regulations for Landscaping
   
152.525   Purpose and applicability
   
152.526   General provisions
   
152.527   Alternative methods of compliance
   
152.528   Perimeter and streetscape buffer yards
   
152.529   Landscaping for parking areas
   
152.530   Trees and shrubbery in or along streets and sidewalks
   
152.531   Tree planting on public property
   
152.532   Other landscaping requirements
   
152.533   Tree protection during construction
   
152.534   Time limit, installation guarantees, inspections and certificate of
occupancy
   
152.535   Maintenance responsibility
   
152.536   Replacement of disturbed and damaged vegetation
   
152.537   Compliance
   
152.538   Tree preservation and replacement
   
152.539   Trash containment areas
   
152.540   Maintenance
   
152.541   Trees/shrubs causing problems with safe traffic movement or
pedestrian movement
   
152.542   Pruning requirements
   
152.543   Recommended types of vegetation/planting
   
152.544   Appeal process
Building Design and Compatibility
   
152.555   Section purpose and intent
   
152.556   Applicability
   
152.557   Building design standards
   
152.558   Avoiding monotony of design
   
152.559   Harmony of design
   
152.560   Architectural character
   
152.561   Compatibility standards
   
Appendix I Regulated Trees/Approved Plant List
   
Appendix II Recommended Road Connection
   
Appendix III Historic District Design Standards
   
Appendix IV Information Required with Applications, Site Plans, Subdivision
Plats
   
Appendix V Table of Amendments
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Town of Swansboro
Unified Development Ordinance.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 152.002 PURPOSE.
   (A)   For the purpose of promoting the health, safety, morals, and general
welfare, this chapter is adopted by the Board of Commissioners to regulate and
restrict the height, number of stories, and size of buildings and other
structures; the percentage of lots that may be occupied; the size of yards,
courts, and other open spaces ; the density of population; and the location and
use of buildings, structures, and land for trade, industry, residence, or other
purposes. Additionally, it establishes procedures and standards for the
development and subdivision of land within the planning jurisdiction of the
Town of Swansboro.
   (B)   The zoning regulations in this chapter are in accordance with a
comprehensive plan and are designed to lessen congestion in the streets ; to
secure safety from fire, panic, and other dangers; to promote health and the
general welfare; to provide adequate light and air; to prevent the overcrowding
of land; to avoid undue concentration of population; and to facilitate the
adequate provision of transportation, water, sewerage, schools , parks , and
other public requirements. The regulations have been made with reasonable
consideration, among other things, as to the character of the jurisdiction and
its areas and their peculiar suitability for particular uses, and with a view
to conserving the value of buildings and encouraging the most appropriate use
of land throughout the town’s planning jurisdiction.
   (C)   The chapter is further designed to provide for the orderly growth and
development of the town; for the coordination of streets and highways within
proposed subdivisions with existing and planned streets and highways and with
other public facilities; for the dedication or reservation of recreation areas
serving residents of the immediate neighborhood within the subdivision and of
rights-of-way or easements for street and utility purposes; and for the
distribution of population and traffic in a manner that will avoid congestion
and overcrowding and will create conditions essential to public health, safety,
and the general welfare. This chapter is also designed to further facilitate
adequate provision of water, sewerage, parks , schools , and playgrounds, and
also to facilitate the further re-subdivision of larger tracts into smaller
parcels of land.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 152.003 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   This chapter is adopted pursuant to the authority contained in G.S.
§160A-381 which states that a town may, by ordinance, regulate and restrict the
height, number of stories, and size of buildings and other structures, the
percentage of lots that may be occupied, the size of yards, courts, and other
open spaces , the density of population, and the location and use of buildings,
structures, and land for trade, industry, residence, or other purposes and to
provide density credits or severable development rights for dedicated rights-
of-way pursuant to G.S. §136-66.10 or G.S. §136-66.11.
   (B)   Whenever any provision of this chapter refers to or cites a section of
the North Carolina General Statutes (NCGS) and that section is later amended or
superseded, the chapter shall be deemed amended to refer to the amended section
or the section that most nearly corresponds to the superseded section.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 152.004 JURISDICTION.
   (A)   This chapter shall be effective throughout the town’s planning
jurisdiction. The town’s planning jurisdiction comprises the area within the
town as shown on the “Official Zoning Map” for the Town of Swansboro. Such
planning jurisdiction may be modified from time to time in accordance with G.S.
§§ 160D-201 through 160D-204.
   (B)   In addition to other locations required by law, a copy of the official
zoning map showing the boundaries of the town’s planning jurisdiction shall be
available for public inspection in the Town of Swansboro Town Clerk’s Office.
   (C)   The provisions of this chapter shall in no way regulate or prohibit
any bona fide farm  and its related accessory uses within the town’s
Extraterritorial Jurisdiction (ETJ) .
   (D)   No land owned by the State of North Carolina may be included within an
overlay district or conditional zoning district  without approval by the
Council of State or its delegate as required by G.S. § 160D-913.0
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005) (Am. Ord. 2006-11, passed 4-18-2006; Am. Ord.
2014-O9, passed 4-15-2014; Am. Ord. 2021-O3, passed 5-24-2021)
§ 152.005 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The provisions in this chapter were originally adopted and became effective
on March 15, 2005.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 152.006 PREREQUISITE TO PLAT RECORDATION.
   (A)   After the effective date of this chapter, each individual plat of land
within the town’s planning jurisdiction shall be approved by the Town of
Swansboro Planning Board or the Administrator .
   (B)   Any final plat , either major or minor, shall be recorded with the
Register of Deeds within six months from the date of approval by the
Administrator .
   (C)   If the final plat is not recorded within this period, it shall expire.
The plat may be resubmitted for review and it shall be reviewed against the
ordinance in effect at that time.
   (D)   Final plats that have been officially approved by the Administrator
prior to adoption of this chapter, but not recorded in the Onslow County
Register of Deeds Office, shall be deemed grandfathered from this deadline.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 152.007 RELATIONSHIP TO EXISTING ZONING AND SUBDIVISION ORDINANCES.
   To the extent that the provisions of this chapter are the same in substance
as the previously adopted provisions that they replace in the town’s zoning and
subdivision ordinances, they shall be considered as continuations thereof and
not as new enactments unless otherwise specifically provided. In particular, a
situation that did not constitute a lawful, nonconforming situation under the
previously adopted zoning ordinance does not achieve lawful nonconforming
status under this chapter merely by the repeal of the zoning ordinance.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 152.008 RELATIONSHIP TO THE TOWN OF SWANSBORO COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND LAND USE
PLAN.
   It is the intention of the Board of Commissioners that this chapter
implements the planning policies adopted by the Board for the town and its
extraterritorial planning area, as reflected in the Town of Swansboro
Comprehensive Plan and Land Use Plan and other planning documents.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 152.009 OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
   (A)   Swansboro’s planning jurisdiction is hereby divided into districts
whose locations and boundaries are shown on the Official Zoning Map for the
town which is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this
chapter and is herewith attached and recorded in the minutes of the Board of
Commissioners of the Town of Swansboro.
   (B)   The Map shall be identified by the signature of the Mayor, attested by
the Clerk, and bearing the Official Seal of the Town of Swansboro, under the
following words: “This is to certify that this is the Official Zoning Map of
the Zoning Ordinance for the Town of Swansboro, North Carolina.” The date of
adoption shall also be shown.
   (C)   If, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, changes are
made in the zoning district boundaries or other matter shown on the map, such
changes shall be made together with an entry on the map as follows: “On (date)
by official action of the Town of Swansboro Board of Commissioners the
following changes were made in the Official Zoning Map: (brief description of
nature of change).” The entry shall be signed by the Mayor and attested by the
Clerk. No amendment to this chapter which involves matter portrayed on the map
shall become effective until after such change and entry has been made on said
map. The Town Clerk shall give official notice of the zoning change to the
Administrator within 24 hours after passage of said change. Regardless of all
copies of the map which may exist, the Official Zoning Map, which shall be
located in the Administrator ’s Office, shall be the final authority as to the
current zoning status of land, water areas, and buildings in Swansboro’s
planning jurisdiction.
   (D)   Replacement of Official Zoning Map. In the event that the Official
Zoning Map becomes damaged, destroyed, lost, or difficult to interpret, the
Board of Commissioners  may by ordinance adopt a new Official Zoning Map, which
shall be the same in every detail as the map it supersedes. The new map shall
bear the signatures of the current Mayor and Clerk and shall bear the seal of
the town under the following words: “This is to certify that this Official
Zoning Map supersedes and replaces the Official Zoning Map adopted (date of
adoption of Map replaced).” The date of adoption of the new Official Zoning Map
shall be shown also.
   (E)   Maintenance of the Official Zoning Map. The Administrator  shall be
responsible for the maintenance and revision of the Official Zoning Map. Upon
notification by the Town Clerk that a zoning change has been made, the
Administrator  shall make the necessary changes on the Official Zoning Map
within 60 days of notification.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-05; Am. Ord. 2024-O8, passed 4-23-24)
§ 152.010 MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The requirements of this chapter do not apply to roads, water, sewer,
gas, electric, telephone, and similar utility lines except as specifically
mentioned in this chapter.
   (B)   Regulations set forth by this chapter shall be minimum regulations. If
the requirements set forth in this chapter are at variance with the
requirements of any other lawfully adopted uses, regulations, or ordinances,
the more restrictive or higher standard shall govern.
   (C)   Unless restrictions established by covenants with the land are
prohibited by or contrary to the provisions of this chapter, nothing herein
contained shall be construed to render such covenants inoperative.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 152.011 NO USE OR SALE OF LAND OR BUILDINGS EXCEPT IN CONFORMITY WITH
ORDINANCE PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Subject to §§
152.085 through
152.091 (Nonconformities ), no person may use, occupy, or sell any land or
buildings or authorize or permit the use, occupancy, or sale of land or
buildings under his control except in accordance with all of the applicable
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, the “use” or “occupancy” of a building
or land relates to anything and everything that is done to, on, or in that
building or land.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 152.012 FEES.
   (A)   Reasonable fees sufficient to cover the costs of administration,
inspection, publication of notice and similar matters may be charged to
applicants for zoning permits , sign permits, special use permit s, subdivision
 plat approval, zoning amendments, variances and other administrative relief.
This cost shall not apply to Town Boards involved. The amount of the fees
charged shall be as set forth in the town’s budget or as established by
resolution of the Board of Commissioners filed in the office of the Town Clerk.
   (B)   Fees established in accordance with division (A) of this section shall
be paid upon submission of a signed application or notice of appeal.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 152.013 SEVERABILITY.
   It is hereby declared to be the intention of the Board of Commissioners that
the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and phrases of this chapter are
severable, and if any such section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase is
declared unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by any court of competent
jurisdiction in a valid judgment or decree, such unconstitutionality or
invalidity shall not affect any of the remaining sections, paragraphs,
sentence, clauses, or phrases of this chapter since the same would have been
enacted without the incorporation into this chapter of such unconstitutional or
invalid section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 152.014 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   (A)   Unless otherwise specifically provided, the time within which an act
is to be done shall be computed by excluding the first and including the last
day. If the last day is a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, that day shall be
excluded. When the period of time prescribed is less than seven days,
intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays shall be excluded.
   (B)   Unless otherwise specifically provided, whenever a person has the
right or is required to do some act within a prescribed period after the
service of a notice or other paper upon him and the notice or paper is served
by mail, three days shall be added to the prescribed period.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 152.015 WORD INTERPRETATION.
   For the purposes of this chapter, certain words shall be interpreted as
follows. Except as defined herein, all other words used in this chapter shall
have their customary dictionary definition.
   (A)   As used in this chapter, words importing the masculine gender include
the feminine and neuter.
   (B)   Words used in the singular in this chapter include the plural and
words used in the plural include the singular.
   (C)   Words used in the present tense include future tense.
   (D)   The word PERSON includes a firm, association, organization,
corporation, company, trust, and partnership as well as an individual.
   (E)   The word MAY is permissive.
   (F)   The word SHALL is always mandatory and not merely directive.
   (G)   The word USED FOR” shall include the meaning DESIGNED FOR.
   (H)   The words USED or OCCUPIED shall mean “intended, designed, and
arranged to be used or occupied”.
   (I)   The word LOT shall include the words PLOT, PARCEL, SITE, and PREMISES.
   (J)   The word STRUCTURE shall include the word BUILDING.
   (K)   The words BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS shall mean the “Board of
Commissioners of the Town of Swansboro, North Carolina”.
   (L)   The words PLANNING BOARD shall mean the “Town of Swansboro Planning
Board”.
   (M)   The word TOWN shall mean the “Town of Swansboro”, a State of North
Carolina municipality.
   (N)   The words MAP, ZONING MAP, and TOWN OF SWANSBORO ZONING MAP shall mean
the “Official Zoning Map for the Town of Swansboro, North Carolina”.
   (O)   The words BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT shall mean the “Town of Swansboro Board
of Adjustment”.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 152.016 DEFINITIONS OF BASIC TERMS.
   Unless otherwise specifically provided, or unless clearly required by the
context, the words and phrases defined in this section shall have the meaning
indicated when used in this chapter.
   ACCESS EASEMENT. An easement which grants the right to cross property.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A use or structure on the same lot with, but of a
nature customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal use or structure
and which contributes to the comfort, convenience, or necessity of occupants,
business, or industry in the principal building or use being served. No
temporary storage unit (as defined in §
152.016) shall be considered an accessory use or structure. However, structures
which have been manufactured to resemble permanent structures, such as storage
sheds, garden sheds, and similar structures shall be considered accessory uses
or structures, even though they may be capable of being lifted or disassembled
and removed from the property. There are no regulations on the number and/or
location of accessory buildings  located on property used for bona fide farm
purposes.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use incidental to and located on the same lot as a
principal use .
   ADDITION IN FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY AREA (to an existing building ). An
extension or increase in the floor area or height of a building  or structure.
Additions to existing buildings  shall comply with the requirements for new
construction , unless (1) the addition, renovation, or reconstruction  to any
building that was constructed prior to the initial Flood Insurance Study for
that area, and (2) the addition, renovation, or reconstruction does not equal
50% of the present market value of the structure . Where a fire wall is
provided between the addition and the existing building, the addition(s) shall
be considered a separate building and must comply with the standards for new
construction .
   ADMINISTRATIVE DECISION. Decisions made in the implementation,
administration, or enforcement of development regulation s that involve the
determination  of facts and the application of objective standards. These are
sometimes referred to as ministerial decisions or administrative
determinations.
   ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING. A proceeding to gather facts needed to make an
administrative decision .
   ADMINISTRATOR. The Administrator for the Town of Swansboro or his designee.
The person  or persons  responsible for enforcement of the Unified Development
Ordinance.
   ADULT CARE HOME. An assisted living residence in which the housing
management provides 24-hour scheduled and unscheduled personal care services to
two or more residents, either directly or, for scheduled needs, through formal
written agreement with licensed home care or hospice agencies. Some licensed
adult care homes provide supervision to persons  with cognitive impairments
whose decisions, if made independently, may jeopardize the safety or well-being
of themselves or others and therefore require supervision. Medication in an
adult care home may be administered by designated, trained staff. ADULT CARE
HOMES that provide care to two to six unrelated residents are commonly called
family care homes .
   ADULT ESTABLISHMENT Definitions.
      (1)   ADULT ARCADE. An establishment where, for any form of
consideration, one or more motion picture projectors, slide projectors, or
similar machines for viewing by five or fewer persons  each are used to show
films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other photographic
reproductions that are characterized by an emphasis upon the depiction or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas .
      (2)   ADULT BOOKSTORE. An establishment that has as a substantial portion
of its stock-in-trade and offers for sale, for any form of consideration, any
one or more of the following: 1) books, magazines, periodicals, or other
printed matter, or photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes,
slides, or other visual representations that are characterized by an emphasis
upon the depiction or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas ; or 2) instruments, devices, or paraphernalia that are
designed for use in connection with specified sexual activities .
      (3)   ADULT BUSINESS. Any business, activity, club, or other
establishment which permits any employee, member, patron, or guest on its
premises to exhibit any specified anatomical areas before any other person  or
persons .
      (4)   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, restaurant, or similar
establishment that regularly features live performances that are characterized
by the exposure of specified anatomical areas , or films, motion pictures,
video cassettes, slides, or other photographic reproductions in which a
substantial portion of the total presentation time is devoted to the showing of
material that is characterized by an emphasis upon the depiction or description
of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas .
      (5)   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. An establishment where, for any form
of consideration, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or similar
photographic reproductions are shown, and in which a substantial portion of the
total presentation time is devoted to the showing of material characterized by
an emphasis on the depiction or description of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas .
      (6)   ADULT THEATER. A theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar
establishment characterized by activities featuring the exposure of specified
anatomical areas or by special sexual activities.
      (7)   MASSAGE. Manipulating of body muscles or tissues by rubbing,
stroking, kneading, or tapping by hand or mechanical device and the masseuse
typically exposes specific anatomical areas.
      (8)   MASSAGE, BUSINESS. Any establishment or business wherein massage is
practiced including establishments commonly known as health clubs, physical
fitness centers, and massage parlors where the masseuse typically exposes
specific anatomical areas.
      (9)   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER ESTABLISHMENT. An establishment other than a
hotel, motel , or similar establishment offering public accommodations which,
for any form of consideration, provides a place where two or more persons  may
congregate, associate, or consort in connection with specified sexual
activities . This definition does not include an establishment where a medical
practitioner, psychologist, psychiatrist, or similar professional person
licensed by the state engages in sexual therapy.
      (10)   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. Any business, activity, club, or other
establishment, within which the exhibition, showing, rental, or sale of
materials distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on material depicting,
describing, or exhibiting specified anatomical areas or relating to specified
sexual activities is permitted. Regulated businesses shall include, but are not
limited to: adult arcades , adult bookstores , adult motion picture theaters ,
adult theaters . Specified sexual activities , massage parlors, and adult
cabarets are prohibited.
      (11)   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. As used herein, specified anatomical
areas means and includes any of the following: 1) less than completely and
opaquely covered human genitals, pubic region, buttocks, anus, or female
breasts below a point immediately above the top of the areola; or 2) human male
genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if completely and opaquely
covered.
      (12)   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. As used herein, specified sexual
activities means and includes any of the following:
         (a)   The fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus, or female breasts;
         (b)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, or sodomy;
         (c)   Masturbation, actual or simulated; or
         (d)   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in divisions (a) through (c) of this definition.
   AGRICULTURAL - LIVESTOCK. The use of land for dairying, pasturage, animal
and poultry husbandry, and the necessary accessory uses . Intensive livestock
operations as defined by this chapter are excluded.
   AGRICULTURAL - OTHER THAN LIVESTOCK. The use of land for the production of
cash grains, field crops, vegetables, fruits and nuts, and for horticulture and
floriculture.
   AIRPORT. Any area of land which is used for landing and takeoff of aircraft,
and appurtenant land or structures used or intended for airport buildings.
   AIRPORT HAZARD. Any structure or object of natural growth located on or in
the vicinity of a public airport , or any use of land near such airport , which
obstructs the airspace required for the flight of aircraft in landing or
takeoff at such airport or is otherwise hazardous to such landing or takeoff of
aircraft.
   ALLEY. A strip of land, owned publicly or privately, set aside primarily for
vehicular service access to the rear or side of properties otherwise abutting a
street .
   ALTERATIONS. Shall include the following:
      (1)   Any addition to the height or depth of a building; and
      (2)   Any change in the location of any of the exterior walls of a
building.
   AMUSEMENT.
      (1)   AMUSEMENT INDOOR. The provision of entertainment or games for the
general public that is in a wholly enclosed building , including but not
limited to a movie theater, play house, music venue, bowling alley, roller or
ice-rink, billards, pool and related amusements.
      (2)   AMUSEMENT OUTDOOR. Including but not limited to amphitheaters,
driving ranges, miniature golf, water parks and amusement parks.
   ANIMAL AQUACULTURE. A business primarily engaged in the farm raising of
aquatic animals (except finfish and shellfish) including alligator, algae,
frog, seaweed, or turtle production, and/or the farm raising of aquatic plants.
   ANIMAL UNIT. A unit of measurement developed by the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency that is used to compare different types of animal operations.
   ANTENNA. Equipment designed to transmit or receive electronic signals.
   APARTMENT. A room or unit of one or more rooms, each of which have kitchen
facilities, and are designated or intended to be used, as an independent unit,
on a rental basis.
   APPROPRIATE SCREENING. Screening that is suitable to satisfy the purpose for
which screening is intended.
   APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The Board of Commissioners  of the Town of Swansboro,
the Board of Adjustment , Planning Board , or other board or official
designated by this chapter as authorized to grant the specific zoning or land
use permit or approval that constitutes a site specific development plan .
   AREAS OF ENVIRONMENTAL CONCERN (AEC). Areas of an environmentally sensitive
nature designated by the North Carolina Coastal Resources Commission as
required under the Coastal Area Management Act of 1974.
   ASSEMBLY. A joining together of completely fabricated parts to create a
finished product.
   ASSISTED LIVING RESIDENCE. Any group housing and services program for two or
more unrelated adults, by whatever name it is called, that makes available, at
a minimum, one meal a day and housekeeping services and provides personal care
services directly or through a formal written agreement with one or more
licensed home care or hospice agencies. The Department of Health and Human
Services may allow nursing service exceptions on a case-by-case basis. Settings
in which services are delivered may include self-contained apartment units or
single or shared room units with private or area baths. Assisted living
residences are to be distinguished from nursing homes subject to provisions of
G.S. §131E-102. Effective October 1, 1995, there are two types of assisted
living residences: adult care homes and group homes for developmentally
disabled adults. Effective July 1, 1996, there is a third type, multi-unit
assisted housing with services .
   AUCTION SALES. A public sale where items are sold one by one, each going to
the last and highest of a series of competing bidders.
   AUTOMOBILE GRAVEYARD. Any establishment or place of business which is
maintained, used, or operated for storing, keeping, buying, or selling wrecked,
scrapped, ruined, dismantled, or inoperable motor vehicles and which are
currently not being restored to operation, regardless of length of time which
individual motor vehicles are stored or kept at said establishment or place of
business. All such businesses must be registered with the N.C. Department of
Revenue.
   AUTOMOBILE OFF-STREET PARKING (COMMERCIAL LOT). Any building  or premises,
except a building  or premises described as a private garage , used for the
storage of motor vehicles for the public or private businesses.
   AUTOMOBILE WASH or AUTOMATIC CAR WASH. A lot on which motor vehicles are
washed or waxed, either by the patron or by others, using machinery
specifically designed for the purpose.
   B&B/SELF-CONTAINED COTTAGE. Attracts guests who prefer greater privacy and
seclusion. Cottages are often adjacent to a larger B&B or country inn . Such
inns are often constructed in out of the way places where the inn (s) itself is
the primary attraction.
   BED AND BREAKFAST ACCOMMODATIONS, AND INNS. A business containing guest
rooms or suites designed and intended to be rented or hired out for short term
lodging by paying guests and which may provide meals to such guests. BED AND
BREAKFAST ACCOMMODATIONS AND INNS do not include hotels and motels , healthcare
facilities, boarding houses, group homes, halfway houses, hostels, rescue
missions, personal or corporate guest homes, condominiums , or apartments .
   BELFRY. A belfry (also known as a bell tower) is a separate structure - or a
part of a building  - in which bells are hung. Interior improvements shall
consist of only those forms of access and safe standing areas essential to
ringing and maintenance of the bells.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP). As it relates to stormwater plan, a
structural or nonstructural management based practice used singularly or in
combination to reduce nonpoint source inputs to receiving waters in order to
achieve water quality protection goals.
   BLOCK. The land lying within an area bounded on all sides by streets ,
railroads, public parks , bodies of water, or a combination thereof.
   BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT. A semi-judicial body composed of representatives from
the Town of Swansboro and its extraterritorial jurisdiction which is given
certain powers under and relative to this chapter.
   BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS. The governing body of the Town of Swansboro.
   BOARDINGHOUSE. A rooming house or a structure which contains four or more
rooms, each of which have no kitchen facilities, and are designed or intended
to be used for residential occupancy on a rental basis.
   BONA FIDE FARM.
      (1)   Includes the production and activities relating or incidental to
the production of crops, grains, fruits, vegetables, ornamental and flowering
plants, dairy, livestock, poultry, and all other forms of agriculture, as
defined in G.S. § 106-581.1 and § 160D-903.
      (2)   For purposes of determining whether a property is being used for
bona fide farm purposes, any of the following shall constitute sufficient
evidence that the property is being used for bona fide farm purposes:
         (a)   A farm sales tax exemption certificate issued by the Department
of Revenue;
         (b)   A copy of the property tax listing showing that the property is
eligible for participation in the present-use value program pursuant to G.S. §
105-277.3;
         (c)   A copy of the farm owner’s or operator’s Schedule F from the
owner’s or operator’s most recent federal income tax return; or
         (d)   A forest management plan.
   BOTTLING PLANTS. A bottling company is a commercial enterprise whose output
is the bottling of beverages for distribution. This may include franchisees of
corporations who distribute the beverage in a specific geographic region and/or
companies who also bottle other local beverages such as regional beers or
wines.
   BUFFER. An area of natural or planted vegetation through which stormwater
runoff flows in a diffuse manner so that the runoff does not become channelized
and which provides for infiltration of the runoff and filtering of pollutants.
The BUFFER is measured landward from the normal pool elevation of impounded
structures and from the bank of each side of streams and rivers.
   BUFFER STRIP. A solid planted strip composed of deciduous and/or evergreen
trees, or dense shrubs which is being established and maintained by the owners
.
   BUILDABLE AREA. The portion of a lot remaining after required setbacks  have
been made.
   BUILDING, DETACHED. A building  having no party or common wall with another
building  except an accessory building .
   BUILDING, FRONT OF. The linear length of building  facing a public street
 right-of-way or a legal private road.
   BUILDING, HEIGHT OF. The vertical distance from grade to the highest
finished roof surface in the case of flat roofs or to a point from the average
grade around the building  (five feet out) to the highest roof mean height.
   BUILDING LINE. A line located a minimum horizontal distance from the right-
of-way line of a street  or property line parallel thereto between which no
building  or parts of a building  may be erected, altered, or maintained except
as otherwise provided herein.
   BUILDING, MAIN. A building  in which the principal use of the lot on which
the building  is situated is conducted.
   BUILDING MARKER. A sign indicating the name of a building  and data and
incidental information about its construction, which sign is cut into a masonry
surface, or made of bronze or other permanent material.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE. A line establishing the minimum allowable distance
between the principal building and the street  or highway right-of-way line
when measured perpendicularly or radially thereto from the foundation wall.
Covered patios, porches, and carports, whether enclosed or unenclosed, shall be
considered as part of the principal building and shall not project into the
required yard . Unenclosed, uncovered decks may project into the required yard
up to 55% of the required setback .
   BUILDING SITE. Any lot , or portion thereto, of a parcel of land upon which
a building  or buildings  may be erected in conformance with the provisions
contained herein.
   BUILT-UPON AREA. Shall include that portion of a development  project that
is covered by impervious or partially impervious cover including buildings ,
pavement, gravel roads, recreation facilities (e.g., tennis courts), and the
like. (Note: wooden slatted decks and the water area of a swimming pool are
considered pervious.)
   CALENDAR QUARTER. Each of the following time periods shall be deemed to be a
“calendar quarter” for purposes of this chapter: January 1 through March 31,
April 1 through June 30; July 1 through September 30; and October 1 through
December 31.
   CAMPGROUND SUBDIVISION. An area subdivided into lots  for the temporary
location of recreational vehicles, campers, tents, or travel trailers but not
for manufactured homes and permanent structures.
   CEMETERY, PUBLIC. Land used or intended to be used for the burial of the
dead and dedicated for cemetery purposes, including columbarium, crematories,
mausoleums, and mortuaries when operated in conjunction with and within the
boundaries of such cemetery.
   CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY/COMPLIANCE. A statement signed by the Administrator
setting forth that the building , structure, or use complies with the zoning
ordinance and any applicable construction codes, and that the same may be used
for the purposes stated herein.
   CIRCULATION AREA. That portion of the vehicle accommodation area used for
access to parking or loading areas or other facilities on the lot .
Essentially, driveways and other maneuvering areas (other than parking aisles )
comprise the circulation area.
   CLEAR-CUTTING. The alteration and/or improvement of a site when it results
in the removal of regulated trees in excess of 15 per acre and causes the loss
of forestland.
   CLOSE FAMILIAL RELATIONSHIP. A spouse, parent, child, brother, sister,
grandparent, or grandchild. This term also includes step, half, and in-law
relationships.
   CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT. The grouping of buildings  in order to conserve land
resources and provide for innovation in the design of the project. This term
includes nonresidential development as well as single-family residential
subdivisions and multi-family  developments that do not involve the subdivision
of land.
   CLUSTERED DETACHED SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLINGS. A dwelling in which the lot size
may be reduced, but the unit is not attached to another unit.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL. The person , official, and his authorized
representatives, whom the Town Board of Commissioners  have designated as their
agents for the administration and enforcement of the town building  codes.
   COLLECTOR STREET. A street  whose principal function is to carry traffic
between cul-de-sac , local, and sub-collector streets , and streets  of higher
classification, but which may also provide direct access to abutting
properties.
   CO-LOCATION. The installation of wireless antennas or small wireless
facilities on, under, or within existing wireless towers, utility poles, water
towers, buildings, and other structures. The term does not include the
installation of new utility poles or wireless support structures.
   COMMERCIAL USE. Refer to §§
152.179 and
152.180, Table of Permitted Uses for definition of allowed commercial uses.
    COMMON AREA(S). All areas, including private streets , conveyed to an
owners’ association within a development , or owned on a proportional undivided
basis in a condominium  development .
    COMMUNITY. A group of people who live in the same area (such as a
neighborhood). For the purposes of meeting the requirement of the community
meetings before public hearing for a conditional zoning district , the area
shall be defined as a one mile radius from the center of the applicant’s
proposed request.
   COMPOSTING FACILITY. A facility in which only stumps, limbs, leaves, grass,
and untreated wood collected from land clearing and landscaping operations are
deposited.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The comprehensive plan, CAMA land-use plan, small area
plans, neighborhood plans, transportation plan, capital improvement plan, and
any other plans regarding land use and development that have been officially
adopted by the Board of Commissioners .
   CONCEALED WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITY. A structure that is
fabricated in a manner that aesthetically masks its appearance as a
communication facility that is installed within or on an existing structure.
Examples include church steeples, bell towers, light standard, signs, utility
poles, flag poles, building  facades , water tanks, and other structures which
conceal telecommunication antennas and equipment from visibility. A
communications tower shall not be considered a concealed wireless
telecommunication facility.
   CONDITIONAL ZONING DISTRICT (CZ). A legislative zoning map amendment with
site-specific conditions incorporated into the zoning map amendment.
    CONDOMINIUM. A dwelling unit in which the ownership of the occupancy rights
to the dwelling unit is individually owned or for sale to an individual and
such ownership is not inclusive of any land.
   CONSERVATION RESERVATION. The owner of the tract of land agrees that the
land shall remain in a vegetated or natural state and that no use shall be made
of the tract that would be detrimental to drainage, flood control, water
conservation, erosion control, or soil conservation. There shall be no dredging
or removal of loam, peat soil, rock, or other mineral substances from the
surface of the tract , and the surface use shall remain intact for
agricultural, forest, or outdoor recreational purposes only. Other than
permanent structures necessary to further the use of said tract for
agriculture, forest, or outdoor recreational purposes, no building , public
road, sign, or billboard shall be allowed to remain above the ground. All
surface use of said tract shall be carried on in such a manner as to allow the
land and water areas to remain predominantly in their natural state. This
conservation easement shall run with the land and shall be binding upon the
grantee, its successors in title, and all subsequent owners of this parcel of
land.
   CONTRACTOR, GENERAL. One who is engaged in one or more aspects of building
construction and/or land development  through a legal agreement.
   CONTRACTOR, TRADES. One who accomplishes work or provides facilities under
contract with another and specifically engages in a specialized trade, such as
plumbing, heating, wiring, sheet metal, and roofing work, and the like.
   CONVENIENCE STORE. A commercial establishment that is traditionally a corner
grocery store; could include the sale of grocery items, includes the quick
pick-up of milk and bread, and the like. Such a commercial establishment can
also include the sale of gasoline, but not the repair of automobiles. Such an
establishment shall be predominantly for the sale of grocery items and
gasoline.
   CORNER LOT. A lot abutting upon two or more streets  at their intersections.
   COUNTRY CLUBS, PRIVATE OR PUBLIC. Establishments primarily engaged in
operating golf courses (except miniature) and/or other recreational facilities
that are known as country clubs. These establishments often provide food and
beverage services, equipment rental services, and sports instruction services.
   COUNTRY INN. A B&B Inn that serves at least one meal in addition to
breakfast and operates a restaurant for guests and the public. COUNTRY INNS
range in size from six to 30 rooms. Such inns are often constructed in out of
the way places where the inn itself is the primary attraction.
   COURSE. A continuous horizontal layer of similarly-sized building  material
one unit high, usually in a wall. The term is almost always used in conjunction
with unit masonry such as brick, cut stone, or concrete masonry units
(“concrete block”).
   CRATING SERVICES. Establishments primarily engaged in packing, crating, and
otherwise preparing goods for transportation.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A street  with one end open to traffic and the other end of
which is permanently terminated by a vehicular turnaround.
   CUPOLA. A small ornamental structure, normally dome-shaped or spherical in
shape, placed on the top of a larger roof or dome, primarily for the purpose of
architectural embellishment. CUPOLAS may include “lanterns”, structures which
have small windows to illuminate areas below.
    CURTAIN WALL. A continuous, uniform foundation enclosure constructed of
brick or concrete blocks and that is unpierced except for required ventilation
and access.
   CUSTOMARY HOME OCCUPATION. Any use conducted entirely within a dwelling and
carried on by the occupants thereof, which use is clearly incidental and
secondary to the use of the dwelling for residential purposes and does not
change the character thereof. Provided further that no mechanical equipment is
installed or used except as is normally used for domestic or professional
purposes, and that not over 25% of the total floor space of any structure is
used for the occupation. No home occupation shall be conducted in any accessory
building  except for the storage and service of a vehicle that is driven off
site, such as a service repair truck, delivery truck, and the like.
   DAY CARE FACILITY (CHILD/GROUP). Any child care arrangement that provides
day care on a regular basis for more than four hours per day for more than five
children aged 13 and younger at one  time. Child/group day care includes
programs for children known as nursery schools , day nurseries, child care
centers, play groups, day care centers for school age children, after school
programs, infant day care centers, cooperative day care centers, and head start
programs.
   DAY CARE FACILITY (ADULT). The provision of group care and supervision in a
place other than their usual place of abode on a less than 24-hour basis to
adults who may be physically or mentally disabled. The following are exempt
from this definition:
      (1)   Those that care for three people or less;
      (2)   Those that care for two or more persons , all of whom are related
by blood or marriage to the operator of the facility; and
      (3)   Those that are required by other statutes to be licensed by the
Department of Health and Human Services.
   DECISION-MAKING BOARD. A governing board , planning board, board of
adjustment, historic district commission, or other board assigned to make
quasi-judicial decision s.
   DEDICATION. A gift by the owner , or a right to use of land for a specified
purpose or purposes. Because a transfer of property rights is entailed,
dedication must be made by written instrument, and is completed with an
acceptance.
   DEMOLITION LANDFILL. A sanitary landfill that is limited to receiving
stumps, limbs, leaves, concrete, brick, wood, uncontaminated earth or other
solid wastes as approved by the North Carolina Division of Environmental
Management, and permitted by that agency.
   DETENTION FACILITIES. A facility approved to provide secure confinement and
care for juveniles. Detention facilities include state and locally administered
detention homes, centers, and facilities.
   DETERMINATION. A written, final, and binding order, requirement, or
determination regarding an administrative decision .
   DEVELOPER. A person , including a governmental agency or redevelopment
authority, who undertakes any development and who is the landowner of the
property to be developed or who has been authorized by the landowner to
undertake development on that property.
   DEVELOPMENT. Unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, the term means
any of the following:
      (1)   The construction, erection, alteration, enlargement, renovation,
substantial repair, movement to another site, or demolition of any structure;
      (2)   The excavation, grading, filling, clearing, or alteration of land;
      (3)   The subdivision of land as defined in G.S. § 160D-802; or
      (4)   The initiation or substantial change in the use of land or the
intensity of use of land.
   DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT. An agreement entered into between the Board of
Commissioners  and a developer to better structure and manages development
approval s for large scale, multiple-phase developments to ensure their
integration into local capital facilities programs. A DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT is
subject to the approval of a Conditional Zoning (CZ) .
   DEVELOPMENT APPROVAL. An administrative or quasi-judicial approval that is
written and that is required prior to commencing development or undertaking a
specific activity, project, or development proposal. Development approvals
include, but are not limited to, zoning permits, site plan approvals, special
use permit s, variances, and certificates of appropriateness. The term also
includes all other regulatory approvals including plat approvals, permits
issued, development agreements entered into, and building permits issued.
Unless provided otherwise by law, all rights, privileges, benefits, burdens,
and obligations created by development approvals attach to and run with the
land.
    DEVELOPMENT PLAN, PHASED. A plan which has been submitted to the town by a
landowner for phased development  which shows the type and intensity of use for
a specific parcel or parcels.
   DEVELOPMENT PLAN, SITE SPECIFIC. A plan which has been submitted to the
county by a landowner describing the type and intensity of the proposed land
uses for a specific parcel or parcels of property.
   DEVELOPMENT REGULATION. A unified development ordinance, zoning regulation,
subdivision regulation, erosion and sedimentation control regulation,
floodplain or flood damage prevention regulation, mountain ridge protection
regulation, stormwater control regulation, wireless telecommunication facility
regulation, historic preservation or landmark regulation, housing code, State
Building Code, or any other regulation, local act or charter that regulates
land use or development.
   DIMENSIONAL NONCONFORMITY. A nonconforming situation that occurs when the
height, size, or minimum floor space of a structure or the relationship between
an existing building  or buildings  and other buildings  or lot lines does not
conform to the regulations applicable to the district in which the property is
located.
   DISPLAY SURFACE AREA. Sign area which shall be measured by including the
entire area that forms the extreme limits of the writing, representation,
emblem, or other display, forming a square, rectangle, triangle, circle, or
other shape as appropriate together with architectural details including the
background and borders.
   DISTRIBUTION CENTERS. A building where a set of products is warehoused often
with refrigeration which is stocked with products to redistribute to retailers
or wholesalers.
    DOCKS, PIERS (Commercially operated with or without launching facilities).
A fixed or floating structure without launching facilities, including moorings,
used for the purpose of berthing buoyant vessels on a commercial basis. A
commercial dock may exist independently or as an incidental part of a marina ,
boat livery, or boat yard.
   DOCKS, PIERS (Not commercially operated, with or without launching
facilities). A fixed or floating structure, including moorings, used for the
purpose of berthing buoyant vessels and which does not produce income, and does
not serve as an inducement to renting, purchasing, or using accompanying
facilities.
   DRAINAGE EASEMENT. An easement which grants the right of water drainage to
pass in open channels or enclosed structures.
   DRAINAGEWAY. Any natural or man-made channel that carries surface runoff
from precipitation.
   DRIVE-IN (eating or drinking facility). An establishment that provides
employee curb service or accommodations through special equipment or facilities
for the ordering of food or beverages from a vehicle.
   DRIVEWAY. That portion of the vehicle accommodation area that consists of a
travel lane bounded on either side by an area that is not part of the vehicle
accommodation area.
   DWELLING. Any building , structure, manufactured home or mobile home, or
part thereof, used and occupied for human habitation or intended to be so used.
The term does not include any transient residence or recreational vehicle if
used solely for a seasonal vacation purpose.
   DWELLING, FOUR FAMILY. A building  arranged or designed to be occupied by
four families living independently from each other.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE FAMILY. A building  or portion thereof used or designed
as residence of five or more families living independently of each other.
   DWELLING, SINGLE FAMILY. A building  arranged or designed to be occupied by
one family .
   DWELLING, THREE FAMILY. A building  arranged or designed to be occupied by
three families living independently from each other.
   DWELLING, TOWNHOUSE. A single-family attached dwelling situated on its own
individual lot , generally within a development  containing drives, walks, and
open space in common areas. Ownership is passed in fee-simple subject only to
party wall rights by agreements set forth in the restrictive covenants.
   DWELLING, TWO FAMILY. A building  arranged or designed to be occupied by two
families living independently from each other.
   EASEMENT. A grant by the property owner for use by the public, a
corporation, or person (s) of a strip of land for specified purposes.
   EASEMENT, EXCLUSIVE ACCESS. An easement which serves only one single-family
 dwelling and its uninhabited accessory structures . Exclusive easements serve
only lots  without public water and sewer.
   EFFECTIVE DATE OF THE ARTICLE. Whenever this chapter refers to the effective
date of this chapter, the reference shall be deemed to include the effective
date of any amendments to this chapter as originally adopted.
   ELECTRONIC GAMING OPERATIONS. A business activity or enterprise, whether a
principal, partial, or accessory use , in which people utilize electronic
machines, including but not limited to computers and gaming terminals, to
conduct games of chance (including sweepstakes), and in which cash,
merchandise, or other items of value are redeemed or otherwise distributed,
whether or not the value of such distribution is determined by playing
electronic games or by predetermined odds. This term includes, but is not
limited to internet cafes, internet sweepstakes, cyber cafes, or electronic
game parlors in which individuals normally gain access to games of chance, with
prize distributions, through the purchase of internet time, telephone cards, or
other means of qualification.
   EVIDENTIARY HEARING. A hearing to gather competent, material, and
substantial evidence in order to make findings for a quasi-judicial decision
required by a development regulation .
   EXISTING DEVELOPMENT. Those projects that are built or those projects that
at a minimum have established a vested right under North Carolina zoning law as
of the effective date of this chapter based on at least one of the following
criteria:
      (1)   Substantial expenditure of resources (time, labor, money) based on
a good faith reliance upon having received a valid local government approval to
proceed with the project; or
      (2)   Having an outstanding valid building permit as authorized by the
General Statutes (G.S. §153A-344.1 and G.S. §160A-385.1); or
      (3)   Having expended substantial resources (time, labor, money) and
having an approved site specific or phased development plan as authorized by
the General Statutes (G.S. §153A-344.1 and G.S. §160A-385.1).
   EXISTING LOT (LOT OF RECORD). A lot which is part of a subdivision , a plat
of which has been recorded in the office of the Onslow County Register of Deeds
prior to the adoption of this chapter, or a lot described by metes and bounds,
the description of which has been so recorded with the Onslow County Register
of Deeds.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots  on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets , and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete slabs).
   EXTRATERRITORIAL JURISDICTION (ETJ). That portion of the Swansboro planning
jurisdiction that lies outside of the corporate limits of the Town of Swansboro
as allowed by G.S. §160A-360.
    FABRICATION. The processing and/or assemblage of various components into a
complete or partially completed commodity. Fabrication related to stamping,
cutting, or otherwise shaping the processed materials into useful objects. The
refining aspects of manufacturing and other initial processing of basic raw
materials such as metal, ore, lumber, and rubber, and the like, are included.
   FAÇADE. Generally one exterior side of a building , usually, but not always,
the front facing a public or private street .
   FALL ZONE. The area in which a wireless support structure may be expected to
fall in the event of a structural failure, as measured by engineering
standards.
    FAMILY. One or more persons , or groups of two or more persons , living
together and interrelated by bonds of marriage or legal adoption occupying the
whole part of a dwelling as a separate housekeeping unit with a common and
single set of culinary facilities. The persons  thus constituting a FAMILY may
also include two additional guests who occupy rooms for which compensation may
or may not be paid. Any group of persons  not so related but inhabiting a
single housekeeping unit shall be considered to constitute one family for each
five persons  exclusive of domestic employees, contained as one group.
   FAMILY CARE HOME. A home with support and supervisory personnel that
provides room and board, personal care, and habilitation services in a family
environment for not more than six resident persons with disabilities. As
provided in G.S. § 160D-907, a person with disabilities is a person with a
temporary or permanent physical, emotional, or mental disability, including,
but not limited to, mental retardation, cerebral palsy, epilepsy, autism,
hearing and sight impairments, emotional disturbances, and orthopedic
impairments, but does not include mentally ill persons who are dangerous to
others as defined in G.S. § 122C-3(11)b.
    FAMILY FOSTER HOME. The private residence of one or more individuals who
permanently reside as members of the household and who provide continuing full-
time foster care for a child or children who are placed there by a child
placing agency or who provide continuing full-time foster care for two or more
children who are unrelated to the adult members of the household by blood,
marriage, guardianship, or adoption.
   FENCE (PROTECTIVE). A structure of wood, stone, brick, block, steel, or
other metal extending from the surface of the ground to a minimum height of six
feet, and of such materials and construction which creates a physical barrier
(refer to §
152.196(E)).
   FINE ARTS. Individual art pieces, not mass-produced, consisting of one or
more of the following: paintings, drawings, etchings, sculptures, ceramics,
inlays, needlework, knitting, weaving and/or craftwork of leather, wood, metal
or glass.
   FLEA MARKET. A commercial operation held on a regular periodic basis and
patronized by individual entrepreneurs who transport a variety of merchandise
to a common geographical area for the purpose of sale or trade to the general
public. This definition does not include sporadic and infrequent yard sales
held in residential areas.
   FLEXIBLE LOT DEVELOPMENT. A development  option utilized on an area of land
under unified control, to be developed as a single entity for a number and
variety of dwelling and/or commercial units, according to a master plan which
is approved at the time that a conditional zoning or a special use  is
obtained. In return for greater flexibility in site design requirements,
FLEXIBLE LOT DEVELOPMENTS are expected to: deliver community designs that
include items such as low impact design principles or other implementation that
preserve environmental resources; provide above average open space amenities,
incorporate creative design in the layout of buildings , open circulation;
coordinate and unify design elements of the project, including building
materials, signage and architectural compatibility; assure compatibility with
surrounding land uses and neighborhood character; and provide greater
efficiency in the layout and provision of roads, utilities and other
infrastructure.
   FLOOR. The top surface of an enclosed area in a building  (including
basement), e.g., top of slab in concrete slab construction or top of wood
flooring in wood frame construction. The term does not include the floor of a
garage used solely for parking vehicles.
   FLOOR AREA (GROSS). The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several
floors of a building  measured from the exterior face of the exterior walls, or
from the centerline of a wall separating two buildings , but not including
interior parking spaces/loading spaces for motor vehicles.
   FLOOR AREA (NET). The total of all floor areas of a building , excluding
stairwells and elevator shafts, utility and equipment rooms, restrooms,
interior vehicular parking or loading, and basements when not used for human
habitation or service to the public.
   FOOD SALES, FOOD TRUCK. Sales of food and/or beverages from a mobile food
truck, trailer, or other vehicle.
   FOOD SALES, PUSH CART. Sales of ready-to-consume food and/or beverages, such
as hotdogs, ice cream, soft drinks, and snacks, from a mobile push cart,
capable of being propelled by a single person  and with no motorized self-
propelled capability.
    FOSTER CARE. The continuing provision of the essentials of daily living on
a 24-hour basis for dependent, neglected, abused, abandoned, destitute,
orphaned, undisciplined, or delinquent children or other children who, due to
similar problems of behavior or family conditions, are living apart from their
parents, relatives, or guardians in a family foster home or residential child-
care facility . The essentials of daily living include but are not limited to
shelter, meals, clothing, education, recreation, and individual attention and
supervision.
   FRONTAGE. All property abutting one side of a street  measured along the
street  line.
   FRONTAGE ROAD. A local street or road that is parallel to a full or partial
access controlled facility and functions to provide vehicular access to
adjacent land.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. A building  or space used as an accessory to or a part of
the main building permitted in any residential district, that provides storage
space for motor vehicles and in which no business, occupation, or service for
profit is in any way conducted.
   GATE. A door or other device attached to a fence which, when opened,
provides a means of ingress and egress of persons  and things for which it was
intended, and which, when closed, forms a continuous barrier and screen as a
part of the fence to which it is attached.
   GOVERNING BOARD. The Town of Swansboro Board of Commissioners.
   GRADE. A reference plane representing the average of finished ground level
adjoining the building  at all exterior walls. When the finished ground level
slopes away from the exterior walls, the reference plane shall be established
by the lowest points within the area between the building  and the lot line or
between the building  and a point six feet (1,829 mm) from the building ,
whichever is closer to the building .
   HABITABLE FLOOR. Any floor for living purposes, which includes working,
sleeping, eating, cooking, or recreation, or any combination thereof. A floor
used only for storage is not a HABITABLE FLOOR.
   HANDICAPPED PERSON. A person  with a temporary or permanent physical,
emotional or mental disability including but not limited to mental retardation,
cerebral palsy, epilepsy, autism, hearing and sight impairments, emotional
disturbances, or orthopedic impairments, but not including mentally ill persons
who are dangerous to others as defined in G.S. §122-58.2(1)b.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIAL. Any substance listed as such in SARA §302, Extremely
Hazardous Substances, CERCLA Hazarding Substances, or §311 of CWA (oil and
hazardous substances).
   HISTORIC BUILDING CONTRIBUTING. A structure determined to have been
constructed during the period of significance of the Swansboro Historic
District.
   HISTORIC BUILDING NON-CONTRIBUTING. A structure NOT constructed during the
period of significance of the Swansboro Historic District.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is: (a) listed individually in the
National Register of Historic Places (a listing maintained by the US Department
of Interior) or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of Interior as
meeting the requirements for individual listing on the National Register; (b)
certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of Interior as
contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic district
or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as a
registered historic district; (c) individually listed on a state inventory of
historic places; (d) individually listed on a local inventory of historic
places in communities with historic preservation programs that have been
certified (1) by an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
Interior, or (2) directly by the Secretary of Interior in states without
approved programs.
   HOME OCCUPATION. An accessory use of a dwelling unit for gainful employment
which: a) is clearly incidental and subordinate to the use of the dwelling unit
as a residence; b) is carried on solely within the main dwelling and does not
alter or change the exterior character or appearances of the dwelling ; c) is
created and operated as a sole proprietorship; and d) is not over 25% of the
total floor area or 400 square feet, whichever is less, of any dwelling used
for home occupation.
   HOMESTAY, HOST HOME. A one- to four-bedroom, owner -occupied establishment
in a private home where the business of paying guests is secondary to its use
as a private residence.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. Any surface which in whole or in part restricts or
prevents the natural absorption of water into the ground. Such surfaces may
include, but not be limited to, compacted earth, gravel, concrete, asphalt, or
other paving material, and all area covered by buildings  or structures.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE RATIO. The algebraic ratio calculated to determine the
percentage of open land versus built-upon area on any tract (s) of land used
for the purpose of actual or anticipated residential or nonresidential
development .
   IMPROVEMENTS. The addition of any building , accessory building , parking
area , loading area, fence , wall, hedge, lawn or mass planting (except to
prevent soil erosion) to a lot or parcel of property.
   INDOOR RECREATION. A commercial establishment or private club that could
include the following: pool halls, video arcades, bowling alleys, gyms and
exercise studios, and other similar uses.
   INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT. A nonresidential development that requires an NPDES
permit for an industrial discharge and/or requires the use of or storage of any
hazardous material for the purpose of manufacturing, assembling, finishing,
cleaning, or developing any product or commodity, or as described by the Zoning
Ordinance.
   INDUSTRIAL USES. Refer to §
152.179, Table of Permitted Uses, for definition of allowed INDUSTRIAL USES.
    INFILL DEVELOPMENT. The use/reuse of land within a built-upon area for
further construction, it focuses on the reuse and repositioning of existing
buildings  and sites with the optimization and utilization of existing
infrastructure (water, sewer, roads, and the like).
   INN. See BED AND BREAKFAST ACCOMMODATIONS, AND INNS.
   INTENSIVE LIVESTOCK OPERATIONS. Any enclosure, pen, feedlot, building , or
group of buildings  intended to be used or actually used to feed, confine,
maintain, or stable cattle, horses, sheep, goats, turkeys, chickens, swine, or
any combination thereof, with at any time a total of 100 animal units present,
where their dietary needs are met primarily by means other than grazing.
   INTERMEDIATE CARE FACILITY. Facilities licensed pursuant to Article 2 of
Chapter 122C of the General Statutes for the purpose of providing health and
habilitative services based on the developmental model and principles of
normalization for persons  with mental retardation, autism, cerebral palsy,
epilepsy, or related conditions.
    ITINERANT MERCHANT. A person , other than a person  who owns or operates an
established retail store in the Town of Swansboro, or within its
extraterritorial jurisdiction area, who transports an inventory of goods to a
building , vacant lot , or other location in the Town of Swansboro and who, at
that location, displays the goods for sale and sells the goods at retail or
offers the goods for sale at retail. (unless the person  is excepted by other
provisions of this chapter).
      (1)   Provided, however, the definition of an ITINERANT MERCHANT shall
not include a bona fide resident of the Town of Swansboro or its
extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction area who, in conjunction with any other
bona fide resident(s) conducts a sale of used household furnishings, clothing,
decorations, or similar items in the manner commonly described as a “yard sale”
or “garage sale”, upon the residential premises of one or more of such bona
fide residents, no more than once in any calendar quarter .
      (2)   Provided further, that this definition shall not be construed to
prohibit the owner or operator of an established retail store from selling his
or her usual inventory on a sidewalk, parking, or other similar area
immediately adjacent to his or her store more than once in any calendar quarter
.
      (3)   Provided, however, that this section shall not apply to itinerant
merchants duly authorized by the sponsoring agency of any event or exhibition
show duly permitted pursuant to the terms of §§
152.170 through
152.180 during such event or exhibition show.
       (4)   Provided further, that this section shall not apply to a person
licensed and/or approved to sell agricultural or horticultural products,
handmade products, artwork, or other products within a municipally-operated
public market.
    JAIL. A municipal or county operated facility designed for the holding of
individuals for trial, contempt, or punishment when the period is not to exceed
180 days.
   JUNK. Old, scrapped, ruined, or discarded copper, brass, iron, rags, rope,
appliances, wood, batteries, automobiles, trash, machinery, structures, or
similar materials or parts thereof, which are not used for their original
purpose.
   JUNK YARD. The use of more than 300 square feet of any lot where junk ,
waste, discarded or salvage material are bought, sold, exchanged, stored,
baled, disassembled or handled including but not limited to automobile wrecking
yards, house wrecking, structural steel material and equipment, but not
including the purchase or storage of used furniture or used cars in operable
condition.
   KENNEL. An establishment where dogs are bred, raised, boarded, trained,
sold, or exchanged. For the purpose of this chapter, any parcel of land upon
which four or more dogs over three months are kept at any one time shall be
considered as being used as a kennel.
   LANDFILL. A facility for the disposal of solid waste on land in a sanitary
manner in accordance with Chapter 130A, Article 9 of the N.C. General Statutes.
For the purpose of this chapter, this term does not include composting
facilities .
   LANDOWNER.  The holder of the title in fee simple. Absent evidence to the
contrary, the county tax records shall be utilized to determine who is a
landowner. The landowner may authorize a person holding a valid option, lease,
or contract to purchase to act as his or her agent or representative for the
purpose of making applications for development approvals.
   LARGE OPEN SPACE. Shall include public or private golf courses, bodies of
water greater than ten acres, rivers or the floodplain of FEMA (Federal
Emergency Management Administration) class streams, or public or private tracts
of land permanently dedicated to open space use with an area greater than ten
acres.
   LEGISLATIVE DECISION. The adoption, amendment, or repeal of a regulation or
an applicable local act . The term also includes the decision to approve,
amend, or rescind a development agreement.
   LEGISLATIVE HEARING. A hearing to solicit public comment on a proposed
legislative decision.
   LEVEE. A man-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control,
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM. A flood protection system which consists of a levee , or
levees , and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which
are constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
   LEVEL OF SERVICE. As described in the 1965 Highway Capacity Manual,
indicates how well traffic moves on a particular highway facility or through a
specific intersection. There are six levels of servicing ranging from A through
F. Level of service A indicates generally free movement. Level E represents
maximum capacity of the facility. Level F indicates congestion. Level of
Service C is considered the design level of service, representing a stable
traffic flow and a relatively satisfactory travel speed.
   LIGHTING ORDINANCE DEFINITIONS.
      (1)   CUT-OFF FIXTURE. An outdoor light fixture shielded or constructed
in such a manner that no more than 2.5% of the total light emitted by the
fixture is projected above the horizontal plane of the fixture.
      (2)   FLOOD LAMP. A form of lighting designed to direct its output in a
specific direction with a reflector formed from the glass envelope of the lamp
itself. Such lamps are so designated by the manufacturers and are typically
used in residential outdoor area lighting.
      (3)   FLOOD LIGHT. A form of lighting designed to direct its output in a
diffuse, more or less specific direction, with reflecting or refracting
elements located external to the lamp.
      (4)   FOOTCANDLE (FC). A quantitative unit measuring the amount of light
cast onto a given point, measured as one lumen per square foot.
      (5)   FULL CUTOFF FIXTURE. An outdoor light fixture shielded or
constructed in such a manner that it emits no light above the horizontal plane
of the fixture.
      (6)   GLARE. The effect produced by a light source within the visual
field that is sufficiently brighter than the level to which the eyes are
adapted, to cause annoyance, discomfort, or loss of visual performance and
ability.
      (7)   IESNA. The Illuminating Engineering Society of North America, a
non- profit professional organization of lighting specialists that has
established recommended design standards for various lighting applications.
      (8)   INTERNAL REFRACTIVE LENS. A glass or plastic lens installed between
the lamp and the sections of the outer fixture globe or enclosure. Refractive
refers to the redirection (bending) of the light as it goes through the lens,
softening and spreading the light being distributed from the light source
thereby reducing direct glare .
      (9)   LIGHT SOURCE. The element of a lighting fixture that is the point
of origin of the lumens emitted by the fixture.
      (10)   LUMEN. A quantitative unit measuring the amount of light emitted
by a light source .
      (11)   MAINTAINED FOOTCANDLES. Illuminance of lighting fixtures adjusted
for a maintenance factor accounting for dirt build-up and lamp output
depreciation. The maintenance factor used in the design process to account for
this depreciation cannot be lower than 0.72 for high pressure sodium and 0.64
for metal halide and mercury vapor.
      (12)   MEDIUM BASE. The size of lamp socket designed to accept a medium
or Edison base lamp.
      (13)   OUTDOOR SPORTS FIELD. An area designed for active recreation,
whether publicly- or privately-owned, including but not limited to baseball/
softball diamonds, soccer fields, football fields, golf courses and ranges,
tennis courts, racetracks, and swimming pools .
      (14)   OUTDOOR PERFORMANCE AREA. An area permanently dedicated to the
public presentation of music, dance, theater, media arts, storytelling,
oratory, or other performing arts, whether publicly- or privately-owned,
including but not limited to amphitheaters and similar open or semi-enclosed
structures.
      (15)   SEMI-CUTOFF FIXTURE. An outdoor light fixture shielded or
constructed in such a manner that it emits no more than 5% of its light above
the horizontal plane of the fixture, and no more than 20% of its light ten
degrees below the horizontal plane of the fixture.
      (16)   VEHICULAR CANOPY. A roofed, open, drive-through structure designed
to provide temporary shelter for vehicles and their occupants while making use
of a business’ services.
      (17)   WALL PACK. A type of light fixture typically flush-mounted on a
vertical wall surface.
      (18)   WIDE-BODY REFRACTIVE GLOBE. A translucent lamp enclosure used with
some outdoor fixtures to provide a decorative look (including but not limited
to acorn- and carriage light-style fixtures). “Wide-body” refers to a wider
than average size globe (greater than 15.75" in diameter). “Refractive” refers
to the redirection (bending) of the light as it goes through the lens,
rendering the light fixture more effective. WIDE-BODY REFRACTIVE GLOBES are
intended to soften and spread the light being distributed from the light source
thereby reducing direct glare .
   LOADING AND UNLOADING AREA. That portion of the vehicle accommodation area
used to satisfy the requirements of §§
152.290 through
152.296. It provides space for bulk pickups and deliveries, scaled to delivery
vehicles and accessible to such vehicles at all times even when required off-
street parking spaces are filled. Required off-street  loading space is not to
be included as off-street parking space in computation of required off-street
parking space .
   LOCAL ACT. As defined in G.S. § 160A-1(5), an act of the General Assembly
applying to one or more specific cities by name, or to all cities within one or
more specifically named counties. LOCAL ACT is interchangeable with the terms
SPECIAL ACT, PUBLIC-LOCAL ACT, and PRIVATE ACT.
    LOCAL STREET. A street  whose primary function is to provide access to
abutting properties.
   LOT. A parcel of land, of any size, occupied or capable of being occupied by
a principal building together with is accessory buildings , including the open
space required under the terms of this chapter.
   LOT AREA. The total area circumscribed by boundaries of a lot except that
when the legal instrument creating a lot shows the boundary of the lot
extending into a public street or private right-of-way , then the lot boundary
for purposes of computing the lot area shall be the street  right-of-way  
line, or if the right-of-way line cannot be determined, a line running parallel
to and 30 feet from the center of the traveled portion of the street .
   LOT, CORNER. A parcel of land having frontage on more than one street
(road) which abuts an intersection of those streets  (roads).
   LOT COVERAGE. The portion of a lot covered by building (s) and/or structure
(s).
   LOT, DEPTH. The distance measured in the mean direction of the side lines of
the lot from the midpoint of the front line to the midpoint of the opposite lot
line .
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A lot having frontage on two parallel or approximately
parallel streets  that is accessible from both of the streets . In residential
zoning districts, the front yard shall be established by the primary entrance
to the primary structure (Street A in diagram). The rear yard shall be the
opposite of the front yard (Street B in diagram). If a double frontage  lot is
on the corner, then the additional street  frontage shall be established as a
corner side yard (Street C in diagram).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2378.png]
    LOT, FLAG. A lot that is composed of a narrow ‘flagpole’ strip extending
from the street  and much wider ‘flag’ section lying immediately behind a lot
or lots  having the required street  frontage for a conventional lot . In the
case of a FLAG LOT, the lot line at the end of the flag pole lying generally
parallel to the street  to which the flagpole connects shall be considered to
be the front lot line for setback purposes.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot .
   LOT LINE. Any boundary of a parcel of land.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. Any boundary line of a lot running along a street  right-
of-way line.
   LOT LINE, REAR. The property line(s) which is (are) opposite the front
property line. If no property line is deemed to be opposite the front property
line and no minimum building line exists on the final plat  to establish a rear
lot line , then there shall be no rear lot line ; however, the rear yard
 setback shall be maintained from the point of the front line. The rear yard
minimum building line shall be a line perpendicular to a straight line
connecting said apex and the midpoint on the front lot line .
   LOT LINE, SIDE. A boundary line which is not defined as a front or rear lot
line .
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot of any size which is part of a subdivision , a plat  of
which has been recorded in the office of the Register of Deeds of Onslow County
prior to the adoption of this chapter, or a lot described by metes and bounds,
or by adjoining property owners , the description of which has been so recorded
prior to the adoption of this chapter.
   LOT WIDTH. Width of a regular lot shall be determined by measurement across
the rear of the required front setback , provided however that width between
side lot lines at the points where they intersect the street  line shall not be
less than 80% of the required minimum lot width, except in the case of lots  on
the turning circles of cul-de-sacs or at points of street  curvature where the
radius at the right-of-way line and intersecting the foremost points of the
side lot lines is less than 90 feet, in which case the 80% requirement shall
not apply. The following diagrams indicate the relationships involved:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2380.png]
      (1)   Lot “taper” permissible at 90' curve radius (A) or along straight
street (B), with required front setback depth 25', required lot width 60'
(street t line 80% of lot width or measured at rear of required front yard ).
      (2)   Lots with lines radial to a curved street line with curve radius
less than 90' (in this case 70') need not comply with 80% rule. Lot C shows
application with 20' front setback , D with 25' applies in turning circles of
cul-de-sacs, or at sharp bends in streets .
      (3)   On corner lots and through lots , width requirements shall be
considered met if the regular lot has one frontage meeting such requirements
and contains a buildable area of width, depth, and area at least equivalent to
that remaining on a rectangular interior lot of minimum dimensions required in
this district.
   LOW IMPACT DEVELOPMENT (LID). The planning, design, construction, and
management of a development  site to protect, or restore, the natural hydrology
(the scientific study of the properties,  distribution, and effects of water on
the earth’s surface) of the site so that the overall integrity of the watershed
is protected.
   MAJOR REPAIRS AND RENOVATIONS OF PROPERTIES WHERE A NONCONFORMING SITUATION
EXISTS. Work estimated to cost more than 50% of the tax value of the structure
(within the current tax year) to be repaired or renovated and are repairs
renovations completed within a 12 month period not required by the partial or
total destruction of a structure as outlined in §
152.088(E).
   MAJOR SUBDIVISIONS. A subdivision  involving eight or more lots .
   MAJOR THOROUGHFARE STREET. Major thoroughfares consist of interstate, other
freeway, expressway, or parkway links, and major streets  that provide for the
expeditious movement of high volumes of traffic within and through urban areas.
   MANUFACTURED HOME.
      (1)   As defined by G.S. § 143-145(7), a structure, transportable in one
or more sections, which in the traveling mode is eight body feet or more in
width, or 40 body feet or more in length, or, when erected on site, is 320 or
more square feet; and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be
used as a dwelling, with or without permanent foundation when connected to the
required utilities, including the plumbing, heating, air conditioning and
electrical systems contained therein.
      (2)   MANUFACTURED HOME includes any structure that meets all of the
requirements of this definition except the size requirements and with respect
to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a certification required by the
Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and complies with the standards
established under the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety
Standards Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. § 5401 et seq.
      (3)   For manufactured homes built before June 15, 1976, MANUFACTURED
HOME means a portable manufactured housing unit designed for transportation on
its own chassis and placement on a temporary or semi-permanent foundation
having a measurement of over 32 feet in length and over eight feet in width.
MANUFACTURED HOME also means a double-wide manufactured home, which is two or
more portable manufactured housing units designed for transportation on their
own chassis that connect on site for placement on a temporary or semi-permanent
foundation having a measurement of over 32 feet in length and over eight feet
in width.
   MANUFACTURED HOME LOT. A piece of land within a manufactured home park whose
boundaries are delineated in accordance with the requirements of the ordinance.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK PLAN. A plan of a proposed manufactured home park,
prepared by the developer , and presented to the Town of Swansboro Planning
Board  for approval.
   MANUFACTURED HOME/RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK PERMIT. A permit issued by the
Administrator  authorizing the manufactured home park or recreational vehicle
park in accordance with a park plan approved by the Swansboro Planning Board
and, if applicable, the Onslow County Health Department, Environmental Health
Section. (Not to be confused with a building  permit).
   MANUFACTURED HOME/RECREATIONAL VEHICLE SPACE. A plot of land within a MH/RV
park designed for the accommodation of a single manufactured home /recreational
vehicle.
    MANUFACTURED HOME/RECREATIONAL VEHICLE STAND. That portion of the
manufactured home/recreational vehicle space designed for and used as the area
occupied by the MH/RV proper.
   MANUFACTURED HOME SPACE. Any parcel of ground within a manufactured home
park designated for the exclusive use of one manufactured home .
   MANUFACTURED OFFICE BUILDING/CLASSROOM. A structure transportable in one or
more sections and built on a permanent chassis designed to be used as an office
or classroom. The structure shall be connected to the appropriate sanitary and
electrical facilities and met the regulations as set forth in the North
Carolina Building Code. Provisions pertaining to a manufactured building
foundation and anchorage of the manufactured building  to the foundation shall
be met as required by the North Carolina Building Code. If the structure does
not have a permanent foundation, all skirting and curtain wall requirements
must be met. Manufactured office  buildings  and classrooms are not permitted
unless specifically allowed by this chapter.
    MARGINAL ACCESS STREET. A service street  that runs parallel to a major
thoroughfare , minor thoroughfare , or collector street which, for purposes of
safety, provides access to abutting properties and separation of through
traffic.
   MARINA. A facility for the docking, mooring, berthing, or storage of marine
vessels that also include, but are not limited to, a wide variety of accessory
uses such as boat fuel sales, sales of boating supplies and equipment, boating
related services, laundries, boat repair and rental, storage racks and dry
storage of boats.
   MASSAGE, THERAPEUTIC. Manipulating of body muscles or tissues by rubbing,
stroking, kneading, or tapping by hand or mechanical device by persons
properly accredited by The American Massage Therapy Association or equivalent
and in good standing with that accrediting body at the time the massage is
administered.
   MASSAGE, THERAPEUTIC BUSINESS. Any establishment or business wherein
approved therapeutic massage is practiced including establishments commonly
known as health clubs and physical fitness center; and therapeutic massage
clinics owned in conjunction with other business such as beauty parlors, YMCA,
and swim clubs. All advertising shall include the terminology “Therapeutic
Massage ”.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. The average height of the sea for all stages of the tide. It
is used as a reference for establishing various elevations within the
floodplain. For purposes of this chapter, the term is synonymous with National
Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) .
   MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS. All sizes, setbacks , and other requirements of this
chapter are minimum requirements and may be increased.
   MINOR SUBDIVISIONS. A subdivision  involving seven lots  or less.
   MINOR THOROUGHFARE STREET. Minor thoroughfares collect traffic from
collector, sub collector, and local streets and carry it to the major
thoroughfare system. Minor thoroughfares may be used to supplement the major
thoroughfare system by facilitating movement of moderate volumes of traffic
within and through urban areas and may also serve abutting property.
   MIXED USE. Any development , or even a single building , that blends a
combination of residential, commercial, cultural, institutional, or industrial
uses , where those functions are physically and functionally integrated.
    MODULAR HOME. A detached residential dwelling unit designed for
transportation after off-site fabrication on flatbed trucks or trailers. At the
site, a modular home must be placed on a permanent foundation, and heating and
cooling systems, plumbing fixtures, and electrical appliances must be installed
before being occupied.
   MORE INTENSIVE USE. A use that will have a greater impact on the surrounding
area than the previous use, including activities which generate more traffic,
require more employees or service deliveries, or utilize more square footage
than the previous use existing on the site.
   MOTEL, HOTEL, CONDO. Any building , group of buildings , or portion of a
building  on same property containing six or more guest rooms intended or
designed to be used, rented, or hired out to be occupied for sleeping purposes
by guests.
   MULTI-PHASE DEVELOPMENT. A development containing 25 acres or more that is
submitted for site plan approval for construction to occur in more than one
phase and is subject to a master development plan with committed elements
showing the type and intensity of use of each phase.
    MULTI-UNIT ASSISTED HOUSING WITH SERVICES. An assisted living residence in
which hands-on personal care services and nursing services which are arranged
by housing management are provided by a licensed home care or hospice agency,
through an individualized written care plan. The housing management has a
financial interest or financial affiliation or formal written agreement which
makes personal care services accessible and available through at least one
licensed home care or hospice agency. The resident has a choice of any
provider, and the housing management may not combine charges for housing and
personal care services. All residents, or their compensatory agents, must be
capable, through informed consent, of entering into a contract and must not be
in need of 24-hour supervision. Assistance with self-administration of
medications may be provided by appropriately trained staff when delegated by a
licensed nurse according to the home care agency’s established plan of care.
Multi-unit assisted housing with services programs are required to register
with the Division of Facility Services and to provide a disclosure statement.
The disclosure statement is required to be a part of the annual rental contract
that includes a description of the following requirements:
      (1)   Emergency response system;
      (2)   Charges for services offered;
      (3)   Limitations of tenancy;
      (4)   Limitations of services;
      (5)   Resident responsibilities;
      (6)   Financial/legal relationship between housing management and home
care or hospice agencies;
      (7)   A listing of all home care or hospice agencies and other community
services in the area;
      (8)   An appeals process; and
      (9)   Procedures for required initial and annual resident screening and
referrals for services.
   Continuing care retirement communities , subject to regulation by the
Department of Insurance under Chapter 58 of the General Statutes, are exempt
from the regulatory requirements for multi-unit assisted housing with services
programs.
    NAICS MANUAL, NORTH AMERICAN INDUSTRY CLASSIFICATION SYSTEM MANUAL. A book
put out by the federal government which classifies establishments by the type
of activity in which they are engaged. Uses listed in this chapter are
classified according to ICS groupings.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD). As corrected in 1929 is a vertical
control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the
floodplain.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION.
      (1)   Any development occurring on property utilized for governmental,
commercial, or residential subdivision purposes for which a building permit is
required.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots  on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets , and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete slabs) is completed on or after the
effective date of this chapter.
    NONCONFORMING LOT. A lot  that met all legal requirements when it was
platted or otherwise recorded, but which does not comply with the minimum lot
area or minimum lot width requirements of this chapter, or a subsequent
amendment hereto, for the zoning district in which it is located.
   NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE. A building  or structure that met all legal
requirements when constructed but which does not comply with this chapter or
amendment hereto.
   NONCONFORMING USE. Any legally existing use that met all legal requirements
when it was first established which fails to comply with the provisions of this
chapter or a subsequent amendment hereto, for the zoning district in which it
is located.
    NONCONFORMITY. Any use, building , structure, or lot  which was lawful at
the time it was constructed or established but which fails to comply with one
or more of the applicable regulations or standards of this chapter or a
subsequent amendment hereto, for the zoning district in which it is located.
    NONRESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT. All development other than residential
development , agriculture, and silvaculture.
   NURSERY SCHOOL. See DAY CARE FACILITIES (CHILD).
   NURSING HOME. A facility, however named, which is advertised, announced, or
maintained for the express or implied purpose of providing nursing or
convalescent care for three or more persons  unrelated to the licensee. A
NURSING HOME is a home for chronic or convalescent patients, who, on admission,
are not as a rule, acutely ill and who do not usually require special
facilities such as an operating room, X- ray facilities, laboratory facilities,
and obstetrical facilities. A NURSING HOME provides care for persons  who have
remedial ailments or other ailments, for which medical and nursing care are
indicated; who, however, are not sick enough to require general hospital care.
Nursing care is their primary need, but they will require continuing medical
supervision.
   OFFICE. Any room, studio, clinic, suite or building  wherein the primary use
is the conduct of a business such as accounting, correspondence, research,
editing, administration or analysis; or the conduct of a business by
professionals such as engineers, architects, land surveyors, artists,
musicians, lawyers, accountants, real estate brokers, insurance agents,
dentists or physicians, urban planners, and landscape architects. For the
purpose of this chapter, an OFFICE shall not involve manufacturing, fabrication
, production, processing , assembling, cleaning, testing, repair, or storage of
materials, goods, and products; or the sale and/or delivery of any materials,
goods, or products which are physically located on the premises.
   OFFICIAL MAPS OR PLANS. Any maps or plans officially adopted by the Board of
Commissioners  as a guide for the development of the Town of Swansboro,
consisting of maps, charts, and/or texts.
   OPEN SPACE. An area (land and/or water) generally lacking in manmade
structures and reserved for the enjoyment of residents of a Planned Unit
Development , cluster development , or other group project. Common open spaces
may contain accessory structures , and improvements necessary or desirable for
religious, education, non-commercial, recreational, or cultural uses.
   OPERATING PERMIT. A permit issued by the Administrator  to a manufactured
home park or travel trailer park owner or operator upon the completion of a
manufactured home park or travel trailer park which conforms to the
requirements of this chapter.
   OWNER. A holder of any legal or equitable estate in the premises, whether
alone or jointly with others, and whether in possession or not.
   OWNER’S ASSOCIATION. An organization of homeowners or property owners owning
real property, residing, or operating a business within a particular
subdivision  or development whose major purpose is to maintain and provide
community facilities, services, or land for common use of the residents or
property owners of the subdivision  or development .
   PARAPET. A wall-like barrier at the edge of a roof, terrace, balcony, or
other structure. Where extending above a roof, it may simply be the portion of
an exterior wall that continues above the line of the roof surface, or may be a
continuation of a vertical feature beneath the roof such as a fire wall or
party wall.
    PARK (PUBLIC). An area for recreation and/or parking owned and operated by
a public entity.
   PARK (SEMI-PUBLIC). An area for recreation and/or parking owned and operated
by a housing complex, a property owner’s association , or a non-profit
organization.
    PARK MODEL RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A manufactured home typically built in
accordance with the construction requirements of HUD National Manufactured
Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. §§5401 et
seq., but because of their limited size they are not required to be labeled by
the HUD manufacturing housing program. Since these park model type units are
not under the jurisdiction of the HUD program, they are labeled and sold as
recreational vehicles.
   PARKING AREA, AISLES. A portion of the vehicle accommodation area consisting
of lanes providing access to parking spaces.
   PARKING LOT. An area not within a building  where motor vehicles may be
stored for the purposes of temporary, daily, or overnight off-street  parking.
   PARKING SPACE, OFF STREET. For the purpose of this chapter, an off-street
parking space shall consist of a space adequate for parking an automobile with
room for opening doors on both sides, together with properly related access to
a public street or alley and maneuvering room.
   PEDDLER. Any person  who transports goods from place to place and sells or
offers for sale the goods, or who, without traveling from place to place, sells
or offers for sale any goods from any vehicle or device; provided that any
person  who separates the acts of sale and delivery for the purpose of evading
the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed a peddler.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, corporation, association, club, co-
partnership, society, or any other organization.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. An office , institutional, governmental,
residential, commercial, and/or projects involving a combination of these uses
located on land under unified control, planned as a whole, and developed as a
single development or in a definitely programmed series of units or stages of
development according to comprehensive and detailed plans, with a program for
the provision, operation, and maintenance of any areas, improvements , and
facilities provided for the common use of the occupants or users of the
development .
   PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT REGULATION JURISDICTION. The geographic area within
which the town may undertake planning and apply its development regulations.
    PLANNING BOARD. A body appointed by the Swansboro Board of Commissioners
and the Onslow County Board of Commissioners to perform duties as specified in
G.S.§ 160D-301. The Onslow County Board of Commissioners shall only appoint
extraterritorial jurisdiction members.
    PLANT NURSERIES. Establishments primarily engaged in growing trees, shrubs,
other plants, seeds, and bulbs are classified as agricultural. However,
establishments for the sale of lawn and garden maintenance equipment and
fertilizers are considered a non-agricultural use.
   PLAT. A map or plan of a parcel of land which is to be, or has been
subdivided, or any existing parcel of land.
   PLAT, FINAL. The final map of all or a portion of a subdivision  or site,
showing the boundaries and location of lots , streets , easements , and any
other requirements of §
152.351, which is presented for town approval and subsequent recordation in the
Onslow County Register of Deeds Office.
    PLAT, PRELIMINARY. A map indicating the proposed layout of the subdivision
or site showing lots , streets , water, sewer, storm drainage, and any other
requirements of §
152.351, which is presented for preliminary approval.
    PORTABLE STORAGE CONTAINERS OR STRUCTURES. Any portable or removable
container or structure, including by way of illustration but not limitation,
transport trailers, cargo trailers, storage trailers, mobile temporary storage
units, semi-trailers (whether with or without tandem axles and wheels),
shipping containers, and any similar container or structure whether or not
wheels, axles, and tongue have or has been removed and whether or not the
container or structure has been placed on a foundation. The term PORTABLE
STORAGE CONTAINERS OR STRUCTURES shall not apply to structures which have been
manufactured to resemble permanent structures including by way of illustration
but not limitation such structures as storage sheds, and garden sheds, even
though they may be capable of being lifted or disassembled and removed from the
property.
   PRINCIPAL BUILDING. A building  in which the principal use of the lot  is
conducted and said building  is situated as related to the requirements of this
chapter. In no way shall a camper or travel trailer be considered a PRINCIPAL
BUILDING.
   PRIVATE CLUB/LODGE. A structure or use owned or leased by a private club,
offering membership use of the structure for social occasions. Examples could
include Knights of Columbus, Masonic Lodges, Shriners, and the like. Such a
club/lodge structure could be used for meeting rooms, classes, and social
functions such as dances, weddings, receptions, and the like. This does not
include a night club open to the general public.
   PRIVATE DRIVE. A vehicular travelway not dedicated or offered for dedication
as a public street , providing access to parking lot (s) for two or more
principal buildings in a group housing development .
   PRIVATE SEWER. A system which provides for collection and/or treatment of
wastewater from a development , or property, and which is not maintained with
public funds.
   PRIVATE STREET. A vehicular travelway not dedicated or offered for
dedication  as a public street , but resembling a cul-de-sac or a local street
by carrying traffic from a series of driveways to the public street system. The
platting of such streets  requires a Subdivision Streets Disclosure Statement
in accordance with G.S. §136-102.6.
    PRIVATE WATER. A system which provides for the supply and/or distribution
of potable water for use by a development , project, or owner , and which is
not operated or maintained by a government organization or utility district.
   PROCESSING. Any operation changing the nature of material or material’s
chemical composition or physical properties; does not include operations
described as fabrication .
   PROPERTY CLEARING. The removal of regulated trees from undeveloped property
for the purpose of timber sales, value enhancement, or other no developmental
purposes.
   PROTECTED AREA. The area adjoining and upstream of the critical area of the
WS IV watershed. The boundaries of the protected area are defined as within
five miles of and draining to the normal pool elevation of the reservoir or to
the ridgeline of the watershed; or within ten miles upstream; and draining to
the intake located directly in the stream or river or to the ridgeline of the
watershed; or within ten miles upstream; and draining to the intake located
directly in the stream or river or to the ridgeline of the watershed.
   PROTECTED/REGULATED TREE. A tree measuring 18 inches at circumference-at-
breast height.
   PROTECTED TREE, APPLICANT. A developer , contractor or land-clearing agent
desiring to remove or prune one or more protected trees .
   PROTECTED TREE, CIRCUMFERENCE-AT-BREAST HEIGHT (CBH). The diameter
circumference-at-breast height is the standard measure of tree size, and is a
tree trunk diameter circumference measured in inches at a height of 4-1/2 feet
above the ground. If a tree splits into multiple trunks below 4-1/2 feet, then
each trunk is measured as a separate tree. A tree, which splits into multiple
trunks above 4-1/2 feet, is measured as a single tree at 4-1/2 feet above
ground. If the number is not a whole number round down to the whole number
(example 18.8" CBH would become 18" CBH).
   PROTECTED TREE, PERMIT. A signed application of the required permit(s) by
the Administrator  giving permission to act upon a request relating to clearing
land or removing protected trees .
    PROTECTED TREE, PRUNING. A process of removing limbs from a protected tree
of 18" circumference measured at the tree circumference-at-breast height of 4-
1/2 feet above the ground.
   PROTECTED TREE, TAPED OR MARKED. A protected tree not permitted to be
removed during construction and so marked with tape or a band of brightly
colored orange paint and stipulated on the submit tree layout survey map to be
included with the required permitting process.
   PROTECTED TREE, TREE PROTECTION AND LANDSCAPING ADVISORY COMMITTEE (TPLAC).
The Tree Protection and Landscaping Advisory Committee (TPLAC) is a committee
appointed by the Town Board of Commissioners  to provide information and
consultation on tree protection and landscaping advice to residents of the Town
citizens, builders, contractors, developers , and assist the Town staff.
   PUBLIC BUILDING. Public buildings  shall include local, state, or federal
government office facilities, including libraries and post offices .
   PUBLIC CLUB/LODGE. A facility owned by local, county, state, or federal
government which is utilized for meeting rooms, classes, and social functions
such as dances.
   PUBLIC SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. An approved sewage disposal system serving
two or more connections including county, municipal, and sanitary district
sewage systems located and constructed according to specifications of the
County Health Officer in consultation with the Division of Health Services -
Department of Human Resources and the Division of Environmental Management -
Department of Environment and Natural Resources.
   PUBLIC STREET. A dedicated public right-of-way for vehicular traffic which:
1) has been accepted by the Town of Swansboro or the NCDOT for maintenance; or
2) is not yet accepted but in which the roadway design and construction have
been approved under public standards for vehicular traffic.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM. An approved water supply system serving 15 or
more connections including county, municipal, and sanitary district water
systems designated to serve particular subdivisions at full development and
constructed to specifications of the County Health Officer in consultation with
the Division of Health Services - Department of Human Resources and the
Division of Environmental Management - Department of Environment and Natural
Resources.
   QUASI-JUDICIAL DECISION. A decision involving the finding of facts regarding
a specific application of a development regulation and that requires the
exercise of discretion when applying the standards of the regulation. The term
includes, but is not limited to, decisions involving variances, special use
permit s, certificates of appropriateness, and appeals of administrative
determinations. Decisions on the approval of subdivision plats and site plans
are quasi-judicial in nature if the regulation authorizes a decision-making
board to approve or deny the application based not only upon whether the
application complies with the specific requirements set forth in the
regulation, but also on whether the application complies with one or more
generally stated standards requiring a discretionary decision on the findings
to be made by the decision-making board .
   QUEUING. To form in or be part of a line or file while waiting to be served.
   RADIO/TELEVISION TRANSMITTING. Any public or private facility which sends
out radio or television signals by electromagnetic waves.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS. Any single parcel of land upon which two or more
recreational vehicles, occupied for sleeping purposes, are located regardless
of whether or not a charge is made for such purposes. RECREATIONAL VEHICLE
PARKS are referred to in this chapter as RV PARK(S).
   REDEVELOPMENT. To develop a building site again. To restore, revitalize and/
or renovate buildings , building sites , and neighborhoods. For the purposes
herein, it shall also mean repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the “start of construction ” of the
improvement .
   REFERENCE FEATURE. The receding edge of a bluff or eroding frontal dune or,
if such a feature is not present the normal highwater line or the seaward line
of permanent vegetation if highwater line cannot be identified.
   REHABILITATION FACILITY. A public or private inpatient facility which is
operated for the primary purpose of assisting in the rehabilitation of disabled
persons  through an integrated program of medical and other services which are
provided under competent, professional supervision.
   REMEDY A VIOLATION. To bring the structure or other development into
compliance with state or local floodplain management regulations, or, if this
is not possible, to reduce the impacts of its noncompliance. Ways that impacts
may be reduced include protecting the structure or other affected development
from flood damages, implementing the enforcement provisions of the ordinance or
otherwise deterring future similar violations, or reducing federal financial
exposure with regard to the structure or other development .
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event, on the average, equals or exceeds 25% of the
market value of the structure before the damages occurred.
   RESERVATION. An obligation shown on a plat  to keep property free from
development for a stated period of time or indefinitely. It is not a dedication
nor a conveyance.
   RESIDENTIAL CHILD-CARE FACILITY. A staffed premise with paid or volunteer
staff where children receive continuing full-time foster care .
   RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT. Buildings for residence such as attached and
detached single-family  dwellings , apartment complexes, condominiums ,
townhouses , cottages, and the like, and their associated outbuildings such as
garages, storage  buildings , gazebos, and the like, and customary home
occupations .
   RESIDENTIAL FAMILY CHILD CARE HOME. A use program or arrangement conducted
in and about a residence, in which no more than two children less than 13 years
old, who do not reside where the care is provided, receive care on a regular
basis of at least once a week for more than four hours but less than 24 hours
per day from the resident of such property, the resident being a person  or
persons  other than their guardians or full-time custodians, and being persons
not related to them by birth, marriage, or adoption. Provided, however, that
the exceptions enumerated in G.S. §110-86 as it is presently written or may be
hereafter amended are hereby incorporated herein by reference and similarly
excluded from this definition.
   RETAIL PLANT NURSERIES/LAWN & GARDEN STORES. Establishments primarily
engaged in selling trees, shrubs, other plants, seeds, bulbs, mulches, soil
conditioners, fertilizers, pesticides, garden tools, and other garden supplies
to the general public. These establishments primarily sell products purchased
from others.
    RETAIL STORE. A single building , property, activity, or portion thereof,
the principle use or purpose of which is the sale of goods, products, or
materials directly to the consumer. This includes, but is not limited to:
antique stores, apparel and accessory sales, art gallery/sales, automobile
parts and accessory sales, automobile/trailer/truck sales and rental, boat and
accessories (retail sales), building  supplies, bulk mail and packaging sales,
carpet and rug sales, consignment shop, electrical appliance sales and service,
floor covering sales, food sales , fuel sales, glass, groceries and convenience
stores , jewelry store, paint and wallpaper sales, paper product sales, pet
stores, pharmacies, plant sales, recreational vehicle sales, retail fish
market, soap and cosmetic sales, sporting goods store, variety, gift and hobby
supply sales, video rental. It does not include restaurants, service
establishments, or amusement establishments.
   REVERSE FRONTAGE LOT. A continuous lot  of the same depth as the width of a
block , accessible from only the minor of the two streets  upon which it
fronts.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. An interest in land to the town which provides for the
perpetual right and privilege of the town, its agents, franchise holders,
successors, and assigns to construct, install, improve, reconstruct, remove,
replace, inspect, repair, maintain, and use a public street , including related
and customary uses of street  rights-of-way such as sidewalks, bike paths,
landscaping, mass transit facilities, traffic control, traffic control devices
and signage, power lights, sanitary sewer, storm water drainage, water supply,
cable television, electric power, gas, and telephone transmission and related
purposes in, upon, over, below, and across the rights-of-way.
   SALVAGE/JUNKYARD. The use of more than 600 square feet of any lot  which is
maintained, operated, or used for storing, keeping, buying, or selling junk
regardless of the length of time that junk   is stored or kept, or for
maintenance or operation of an automobile graveyard . Salvage/ junk shall not
be stacked/stored to a level higher than seven feet above ground level.
   SALVAGE OPERATION. The reclamation, dismantling, or storage of pre-used
commodities, junk , and similar material for the purposes of resale, processing
, distribution, or deposition.
   SANITARY LANDFILL. A facility for disposal of solid waste on land in a
sanitary manner in accordance with Article 9 of Chapter 130A and as amended.
(G.S. §130A-294, as amended.)
    SCHOOL. Any public or private institution for teaching.
   SEPTIC TANK SYSTEM. A ground absorption sewage treatment and disposal system
consisting of a septic tank and a nitrification field, necessary pipelines,
conduits, pump stations, and other appurtenances required for proper
collection, distribution, treatment, disposal, operation, and performance, or
any other system approved by the Health Department.
   SERVICE STATION. A building  or lot  where gasoline, oil, grease, and
automotive accessories are supplied and dispensed to a motor vehicle trade.
   SETBACK. The distance between the minimum building line and the street
 right-of-way line; and where no street  right-of-way is involved, the property
line shall be used in establishing the setback.
   SETBACK, FRONT. Any setback from a street  or road.
   SETBACK, INTERIOR. A setback from any property line not alongside a street .
   SETBACK, REAR. A setback from an interior property line lying on the
opposite side of the lot  from the front street  setback .
   SETBACK, SIDE. Any interior property line setback other than a rear setback
or front setback .
   SETBACK, SIDE CORNER. A street  setback on a corner lot other than a front
setback . For purposes of this chapter, the Administrator  shall determine
which setback is the front setback .
   SHEAR WALLS. Generally reinforced concrete or reinforced concrete masonry
walls that are positioned in the building  at grade level to assist in carrying
the loads of the building  to the footing. (Ref. FEMA, Elevated Structures and
Coastal Construction Manual).
   SHOPPING CENTER. A development containing retail stores , restaurants,
service establishments, and/or other similar permitted uses that are planned,
organized, and managed to function as a whole. A SHOPPING CENTER has common
parking, pedestrian movement, architectural elements, ingress and egress,
signage, and landscaping. A SHOPPING CENTER is used or is intended to be used
for the sale of goods and services to the public.
    SIGHT DISTANCE AREA, HORIZONTAL. The area formed by extending lines from
the point of intersection of intersecting streets  along the centerline of such
streets  for a distance of 40 feet and connecting the ends of such lines by a
straight line to form the base for a triangle. Each of the two sides of the
triangle will be 40 feet in length.
   SIGHT DISTANCE AREA, VERTICAL. The area between three feet and ten feet
above the horizontal area measured from the level of the point of intersection
of the centerlines of the intersecting streets .
   SIGHT DISTANCE EASEMENT. An easement which grants to the Town of Swansboro
the right to maintain unobstructed view across property located at a street
intersection.
   SIGHT TRIANGLE. A required sight line at all intersections whether road,
highway, street , or driveway which shall remain clear of obstructions.
   SIGN, ABANDONED. A sign shall be considered abandoned when the business or
other activity or firm which such sign advertises is no longer in operation, or
does not have a current business license in effect.
   SIGN, ANIMATED. Any sign which flashes, revolves, rotates, or swings by
mechanical means, or which uses a change of lighting to depict action, or to
create a special effect or scene.
   SIGN, AREA OF. Sign area shall be computed by the smallest square, triangle,
rectangle, circle, or combination thereof, which will encompass the entire sign
including lattice work, frame, or supports incidental to its decoration. In
computing the area, only one side of a double-face sign structure shall be
considered. Unless copy is not the same on both sides, then both sides should
be calculated as area of sign.
   SIGN, AWNING. A structure, as of canvas, stretched over a frame as a
covering from weather which is extended over a window(s). This includes any
skirt attached to the awning.
   SIGN, BANNER. A temporary sign of light weight fabric or similar material
which is rigidly mounted to a pole or a building  by a rigid frame at two or
more edges. National, state, municipal, the official flag of any institution or
business, or “open” flags shall not be considered banners.
    SIGN, BILLBOARD (OFF-PREMISES). Any sign supported by uprights or other
means and is permanent which advertises an establishment, service, commodity,
good, or entertainment sold or offered on premises other than where the sign is
located.
   SIGN, CANOPY. Any sign which is a part of or attached to a canopy or other
fabric-like or plastic protective structure which is extended over a door(s) or
entranceway. This includes any skirt attached to the canopy. A marquee is not a
canopy.
   SIGN, CONSTRUCTION. A sign on a construction site during the period of
construction on which is printed or written the name of the owner , developer ,
contractor, architect, planner, engineer, or development title.
   SIGN, COPY. All words, letters, numbers, figures, characters, art work
symbols, or insignia that are used on a display surface area .
   SIGN, DIRECTIONAL. A sign used to direct a person  or persons  toward a
specific place, event, or activity located on the same property as the
directional sign.
   SIGN, DIRECTORY. A sign listing the types of businesses or other activities
located within a complex, a building , a group of buildings , or primary
business district.
   SIGN, ELECTRONICALLY CONTROLLED MESSAGE. A sign on which the copy changes
automatically on a lampbank, such that the message or display does not run
continuously in the travel mode. These signs are not considered flashing signs
.
   SIGN, FLASHING. A type of animated sign which contains an intermittent,
blinking, scintillating, or flashing light source , or which includes the
illusion of intermittent or flashing light, or an externally mounted
intermittent light source . An electronic changeable copy sign is not a
flashing sign.
   SIGN, FREESTANDING. A sign that is attached to, erected on, or supported by
a structure such as a pole, mast, or frame and that is not itself an integral
part of or attached to a building  or other structure having a principal
function other than the support of a sign.
   SIGN, GOVERNMENTAL. Any sign erected by or on behalf of a governmental body
to post a legal notice, identify public property, convey public information,
and direct or regulate pedestrian or vehicular traffic.
   SIGN, HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the ground elevation where
the sign is located, to the highest point of the sign except as follows: when
the ground elevation is different from  the elevation of an adjacent road, the
height of a sign shall be measured from the road elevation of the adjacent road
at the edge of the pavement.
   SIGN, HOME OCCUPATION. A sign used to advertise a business conducted
entirely within a dwelling or its accessory building  and carried on by the
resident(s).
   SIGN, MARQUEE. Any permanent roof-like structure projecting beyond a
building  or extending along and projecting beyond the wall of the building ,
generally designed and constructed to provide protection from the weather.
   SIGN, MOBILE. A sign not exceeding 80 square feet of sign area which may be
moved from one location to another, is not permanently affixed to the ground,
and is differentiated from a “portable sign ” in that it may be equipped for
transportation by motor vehicle or other mechanical means. Trailer signs are
considered to be MOBILE SIGNS.
   SIGN, MONUMENT. A type of freestanding sign that is detached from a building
and having a support structure that is a solid-appearing base constructed of a
permanent material, such as concrete block or brick.
   SIGN, MULTIPLE USES. A sign stating the name of a group development and the
tenants within the development .
   SIGN, ON-PREMISES. A sign which publicizes and directs attention to a
profession, commodity, activity, product, service or entertainment conducted,
sold or offered upon the premises where such sign is located.
   SIGN, POLITICAL CAMPAIGN. Any sign announcing the names of candidates for
public office or relating to national, town, county, or state referenda or
other political issues.
   SIGN, PORTABLE. Any sign designed to be moved without mechanical means.
   SIGN, PROJECTING. Any sign which is end mounted or otherwise attached to an
exterior wall of a building  which forms an angle with said wall.
   SIGN, REAL ESTATE. A sign which advertises the sale, rent, or lease of
property.
   SIGN, ROOF. A sign that is erected, constructed, or maintained above the
roof of any building .
   SIGN, SAFETY. A sign warning the general public of a potentially hazardous
condition.
   SIGN, SUBDIVISION. A sign identifying either a planned residential
development (PRD) or a planned unit development (PUD) per town ordinance.
   SIGN, TEMPORARY. A display, informational sign, banner , or other
advertising device constructed of cloth, canvas, fabric, wood, or other
nondurable material, with or without a structural frame (including banners ),
and intended for a limited period of display, including decorative displays for
holidays or public demonstrations.
   SIGN, WALL. A sign which is attached to a wall or facade of a building  or
canopy.
   SIGN, WINDOW. Any sign which is attached to the outside of any window which
advertises a product, service, announcement, or special sales of the business.
The business name, whether inside or outside of window, will be classified as a
window sign.
   SITE PLAN. A scaled drawing and supporting text showing the relationship
between lot lines and the existing or proposed uses, buildings, or structures
on the lot. The site plan may include site-specific details such as building
areas, building height and floor area, setbacks from lot lines and street
rights-of-way, intensities, densities, utility lines and locations, parking,
access points, roads, and stormwater control facilities that are depicted to
show compliance with all legally required development regulation s that are
applicable to the project and the site plan review. A site plan approval based
solely upon application of objective standards is an administrative decision
and a site plan approval based in whole or in part upon the application of
standards involving judgement and discretion is a quasi-judicial decision . A
site plan may also be approved as part of a conditional zoning decision.
   SITE-SPECIFIC VESTING PLAN. A plan describing with reasonable certainty the
type and intensity of use for a specific parcel or parcels of property. The
plan may be in the form of, but not be limited to, any of the following plans
or approvals: a planned unit development plan, a subdivision plat, a site plan
, a preliminary or general development plan, a special use permit , a
conditional zoning, or any other development approval as may be used by the
town. Unless otherwise expressly provided, the plan shall include the
approximate boundaries of the site; significant topographical and other natural
features affecting development of the site; the approximate location on the
site of the proposed buildings, structures, and other improvements; the
approximate dimensions, including height, of the proposed buildings and other
structures; and the approximate location of all existing and proposed
infrastructure on the site, including water, sewer, roads, and pedestrian
walkways.
   SIXTY (60) YEAR SETBACK. A distance equal to 60 times the average annual
long-term recession rate at a site, measured from the reference feature .
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY. A wireless facility where each antenna is located
inside an enclosure of no more than six cubic feet in volume or, in the case of
an antenna that has exposed elements, the antenna and all of its exposed
elements, if enclosed, could fit within an enclosure of no more than six cubic
feet. Other wireless equipment associated with the facility shall have a
cumulative volume of no more than 28 cubic feet.
   SPECIAL USE PERMIT. A permit issued to authorize development or land uses in
a particular zoning district upon presentation of competent, material, and
substantial evidence establishing compliance with one or more general standards
requiring that judgement and discretion be exercised as well as compliance with
specific standards. The term includes permits previously referred to as
conditional use permits or special exceptions.
   SPIRE. A tall pyramidal, polygonal, or conical structure (such as a church
steeple) rising from a tower, turret, or roof and terminating in a point.
   SPOIL. Earth, rock, or other materials excavated or dredged from a drainage
course.
   STORAGE. The deposition of commodities or items for the purposes of future
use or safekeeping.
   STORAGE, SELF-SERVICE. A building  consisting of individual, small, self-
contained units that are leased or owned for the storage of goods and wares.
   STORM DRAINAGE FACILITIES. The system of inlets, conduits, channels,
ditches, and appurtenances which serve to collect and convey stormwater through
and from a given drainage area.
   STORMWATER RUNOFF. The direct runoff of water resulting from precipitation
in any form.
   STREET. A public or private thoroughfare which affords access to abutting
property and is recorded as such in the Office of the Register of Deeds.
   STREET, PRIVATE. A dedicated or undedicated private right-of-way which
affords access to abutting properties and requires a subdivision  streets
disclosure statement in accordance with G.S.§136-102.6.
   STREET, PUBLIC. A dedicated and accepted public right-of-way which affords
the principal means of access to abutting properties for vehicular traffic.
   STREET, RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied by
a travelway for vehicles and also available, with the consent of the
appropriate governmental agency, for installation and maintenance of sidewalks,
traffic control devices, traffic signs, street  name signs, historical marker
signs, water lines, sanitary sewer lines, storm sewer lines, gas lines, power
lines, and communication lines.
   STRIP CENTER. A retail complex consisting of stores or restaurants in
adjacent spaces in one long building , typically having a narrow parking area
directly in front of the stores fronting a highway.
    SUBDIVIDER. Any person , firm, corporation, or duly authorized agent who
subdivides or develops any land deemed to be a subdivision  as herein defined.
   SUBDIVISION. The division of land for the purpose of sale or development as
specified in G.S. § 160D-802:
      (1)   The combination or recombination of portions of previously
subdivided and recorded lots where the total number of lots is not increased
and the resultant lots are equal to or exceed the standards of the town as
shown in its subdivision regulations;
      (2)   The division of land into parcels greater than ten acres where no
street right-of-way dedication is involved;
      (3)   The public acquisition by purchase of strips of land for the
widening or opening of streets or for public transportation system corridors;
      (4)   The division of a tract in single ownership whose entire area is no
greater than two acres into not more than three lots, where no street right-of-
way dedication is involved and where the resultant lots are equal or exceed the
standards of the town, as shown on its subdivision regulations; and
      (5)   The division of a tract into parcels in accordance with the terms
of a probated will or in accordance with intestate succession under G.S. Ch.
29.
   SUBSTANTIALLY IMPROVED EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. Where
the repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, or improvement of the streets ,
utilities, and pads equal or exceeds 50% of the value of the streets ,
utilities, and pads before the repair, reconstruction, or improvement
commenced.
   SWIMMING POOL. Any structure, basin, chamber, hot tub, spa, or tank
containing an artificial body of water having a depth at any point of more than
18 inches and intended for swimming, diving, or recreational bathing.
    TECHNICAL REVIEW COMMITTEE. A committee consisting of the town’s
administrative staff to assist and advise the full membership of the Planning
Board  in all matters relating to the development . The committee may expand to
include State and local agencies such as the NCDOT and ONWASA for review of
water and sewer infrastructure.
   TELECOMMUNICATION TOWER, CO-LOCATION. The location of multiple antennas on a
single telecommunication tower.
   TEMPORARY FAMILY HEALTH CARE STRUCTURE. A transportable residential
structure providing an environment facilitating a caregiver’s provision of care
for a mentally or physically impaired person that is primarily assembled at a
location other than its site of installation, is limited to one occupant who
shall be the mentally or physically impaired person, has no more than 300 gross
square feet, and complies with all applicable provisions of the State Building
Code and G.S. § 143-139.1(b).
   TEMPORARY RESIDENTIAL STORAGE UNITS. Any portable or removable container,
including by way of illustration but not limitation, storage trailers and
mobile temporary storage units, intended to be used for a period not to exceed
30 days, unless a 30 day extension is granted by the Administrator . The term
“portable storage containers ” shall not apply to structures which have been
manufactured to resemble permanent structures including by way of illustration
but not limitation such structures as storage sheds and garden sheds, even
though they may be capable of being lifted or disassembled and removed from the
property.
    THOROUGHFARE, MAJOR. Consist of interstate, other freeway and expressway
links, and major streets  that provide for the expeditious movement of volumes
of traffic within and through urban areas.
   THOROUGHFARE, MINOR. Important streets  in the urban system and perform the
function of collecting traffic from local access streets  and carrying it to
the major thoroughfare system by facilitating a minor through traffic movement
and may also serve abutting property.
   TOWNHOUSE. A single-family  dwelling unit constructed in a series or group
of attached units with property lines separating such units. The minimum number
of TOWNHOUSES attached to each other shall be two and the maximum number shall
be six.
   TOXIC SUBSTANCE. Any substance or combination of substances (including
disease causing agents) which after discharge and upon exposure, ingestion,
inhalation, or assimilation into any organism, either directly from the
environment or indirectly by ingestion through food chains, has the potential
to cause death, disease, behavioral abnormalities, cancer, genetic mutation,
physiological malfunctions (including malfunctions or suppression in
reproduction or growth) or physical deformities in such organisms or their
offspring or other adverse health effects.
   TRACT. A piece of land whose boundaries have been described or delineated by
a legal instrument or map recorded in the office of the Onslow County Register
of Deeds.
   TRANSIENT VENDOR. Any person  who engages in a temporary business of selling
and delivering goods and who, for this purpose, uses or occupies any building
or premises; provided, that no person  shall be relieved from complying with
the provisions of this chapter merely by conducting a transient business in
association with any permanently established merchant.
   TRANSPORTATION NETWORK. For the purposes of developing a Traffic Impact
Study, the TRANSPORTATION NETWORK is considered the link between streets ,
roads, highways, non-highway systems such as pedestrian and bicycle travel
ways, transit systems and all modes of transportation that moves goods, people
and services located within the Town of Swansboro and ETJ . The network shall
include but not be limited to private, town and NCDOT maintained
infrastructure.
    TREE, REGULATED. The subsurface roots, crown, and trunk of:
      (1)   Any self-supporting woody perennial plant such as a large shade or
pine tree, which usually has one main stem or trunk, and has a measured caliper
as follows:
         (a)   Hardwood tree - eight inches, such as oak, maple, and the like;
         (b)   Pine tree - 12 inches, such as a long leaf pine;
      (2)   Any small flowering tree, such as dogwood, with a measured caliper
of at least four inches; and
      (3)   Any tree having several stems or trunks, such as crepe myrtle, and
at least one defined stem or trunk with a measured caliper of at least three
inches.
   USE-BY-RIGHT. A use which is listed as an unconditionally permitted activity
in this chapter.
   USE, PRINCIPAL. The purpose for which land or structures thereon are
designed, arranged, or intended to be occupied or used; or for which it is
occupied, maintained, rented, or leased.
   USE, SPECIAL. A use permitted in a zone only after specific findings by the
Board of Commissioners .
   USEABLE WALL AREA. The frontal exterior wall surface area of a building ,
tenant space, or structure that excludes doors.
   VEGETATION. Evergreen trees, including but not limited to white pine,
evergreen shrubs, red tipped photinia, wax myrtle, or other plants which reach
a height of at least six feet at maturity.
   VEHICLE STORAGE LOT. A lot  for the purpose of outdoor commercial storage of
boats on trailers, personal watercraft on trailers, camper trailers, travel
trailers, and other similar recreational vehicles, not to include “temporary
storage units” and not to include self-propelled vehicles designed for
operation on land.
   VESTED RIGHT. The right to undertake and complete the development and use of
property under the terms and conditions of an approval secured as specified in
G.S. § 160D-108 or under common law.
   VETERINARY OFFICE/HOSPITAL. A treatment facility for small companion
animals. Overnight indoor housing of small companion animals shall only be
allowed for short term medical monitoring.
    WAREHOUSE. A building  or compartment in a building  used and appropriated
by the occupant for the deposit and safekeeping or selling of his own goods at
wholesale , and/or for the purpose of storing the goods of others placed there
in the regular course of commercial dealing and trade to be again removed and
reshipped.
   WAREHOUSE, MINI. Small cubicles linked together in a single building  or row
of buildings  for the purpose of renting storage space, usually on a temporary
basis, and shall in this chapter be considered as “storage , warehouse ”.
   WATER DEPENDENT STRUCTURE. Any structure for which the use requires access
to or proximity to or siting within surface waters to fulfill its basic
purpose, such at boat ramps at houses, docks, and bulkheads. Ancillary
facilities such as restaurants, outlets for boat supplies, parking lots , and
commercial boat storage areas are not WATER DEPENDENT STRUCTURES.
   WATER TABLE (ARCHITECTURAL). A masonry architectural feature that consists
of a projecting course that deflects water running down the face of a building
away from lower courses or the foundation. A WATER TABLE may be found near the
base of a wall or at a transition between materials, such as from stone to
brick.
    WEDDING CHAPEL. A business other than a legal court or church principally
for the performance of weddings and which is licensed for that purpose.
   WHOLESALE. The sale of a commodity for resale to the public for direct
consumption.
   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES. A wireless support facility
including, but not limited to, radio and television transmission towers or
similar utilities, microwave towers, and mobile telephone or radio towers, and
their associated equipment to include radio transceivers, antennas , wires,
coaxial or fiber- optic cable, and regular and backup power supplies. This term
shall not include radio transmission facilities for use by ham radio operators
or two-way local radio facilities for business or governmental purposes that
are under 100 feet in height and that, at a height of 50 feet above the base,
have a maximum horizontal measurement of 18 inches nor shall it include any
tower erected by a public authority for public safety or emergency service
communication purposes.
   YACHT, SAILING, AND FISHING CLUBS. Private clubs whose membership is
composed of persons  with a specific interest in boating, sailing, fishing, or
similar marine-related activities.
   YARD. A required open space other than a court, on a lot , unoccupied and
unobstructed from the ground upward except as otherwise provided in this
chapter.
   YARD, FRONT. An open space on the same lot  with a principal building , a
yard extending the full width of the lot  and situated between the front line
of the lot  and the building  projected to the side lines of the lot . Where a
lot  abuts more than one street , the Administrator  shall determine the FRONT
YARD for purposes of this chapter.
   YARD, REAR. An open space on the same lot  with the principal building , a
yard extending the full width of the lot  and situated between the rear line of
the lot  and the rear line of the building  projected to the side line of the
lot .
   YARD, REQUIRED. Refer to the definition of YARD.
   YARD, SIDE. An open space on the same lot  with the principal building , a
yard situated between the building  and the side lot line , and extending from
the rear line of the front yard and the front line of the rear yard .
   YARD, STREET. Any front or side yard which is adjacent to a public or
private street  right-of-way line.
   ZERO LOT LINE DWELLING. A detached single-family  dwelling on a lot  with a
side yard requirement on one side of the lot .
   ZONING COMPLIANCE. A certification by the Administrator  or his authorized
agents that a course of action to use or occupy a tract of land or a building ,
or to erect, install or alter a structure, building  or sign situated in the
jurisdiction of the town, fully meets the requirements of this chapter.
   ZONING MAP AMENDMENT OR REZONING. An amendment to a zoning regulation to
change the zoning district that is applied to a specified property or
properties. The term does not include the initial adoption of a zoning map by a
local government or the repeal of a zoning map and re-adoption of a new zoning
map for the entire planning and development regulation jurisdiction , nor
updating the zoning map to incorporate amendments to the names of zoning
districts made by zoning text amendments where there are no changes in the
boundaries of the zoning district or land uses permitted in the district. It
does not include the initial application of zoning when land is added to the
territorial jurisdiction of a local government that has previously adopted
zoning regulations, as well as the application of overlay zoning districts or
conditional zoning districts.
   ZONING PERMIT. A permit issued by the Administrator  or his authorized
agents that permits the applicant to use or occupy a tract of land or a
building ; or to erect, install or alter a structure, building  or sign
situated in the jurisdiction of the town that fully meets the requirements of
this chapter.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2005-O8, passed 7-19-2005; Am. Ord.
passed 9-20-2005; Am. Ord. passed 8-14-2006; Am. Ord. passed 3-18-2008; Am.
Ord. 2010-O6, passed 2-16-2010; Am. Ord. 2010-O14, passed 5-18-2010; Am. Ord.
passed 6-15-2010; Am. Ord. 2010-O20, passed 7-20-2010; Am. Ord. passed 8-17-
2010; Am. Ord. passed 1-18-2011; Am. Ord. passed 6-21-2011; Am. Ord. passed 7-
19-2011; Am. Ord. passed 12-18-12; Am. Ord. 2013-O9, passed 3-19-2013; Am. Ord.
2013-O13, passed 5-21-2013; Am. Ord. 2013-O15, passed 7-16-2013; Am. Ord. 2014-
O9, passed 4-15-2014; Am. Ord. passed 7-15-2014; Am. Ord. passed 5-24-2016; Am.
Ord. passed 7-22-2016; Am. Ord. passed 7-26-2016; Am. Ord. 2016-O11, passed 9-
13-2016; Am. Ord. 2017-O1, passed 1-10-2017; Am. Ord. passed 2-28-2017; Am.
Ord. passed 4-25-2017; Am. Ord. 2018-01, passed 1-9-2018; Am. Ord. 2019-O4,
passed 4-23-2019; Am. Ord. 2020-O3, passed 6-8-2020; Am. Ord. 2020-O6, passed
8-10-2020; Am. Ord. 2021-O3, passed 5-24-2021; Am. Ord. 2021-O7, passed 7-26-
2021; Am. Ord. 2021-O8, passed 8-23-2021; Am. Ord. 2022-O6, passed 4-11-2022;
Am. Ord. 2022-O4, passed 5-23-2022; Am. Ord. 2023-O12, passed 9-1-2023)
§ 152.017 RULES FOR INTERPRETATION OF ZONING DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   Where district boundaries prove to be uncertain as to their location on the
Official Zoning Map, the following rules shall apply:
   (A)   Unless otherwise specifically indicated, where district boundaries are
indicated on the zoning map as approximately parallel to or following the
center line of a street , highway, railroad right-of-way , utility easement ,
streambed or riverbed, or such lines extended, then such lines shall be
construed to be such district boundaries;
   (B)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot lines
shall be construed as following such lot lines ;
   (C)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following town limits or other
political jurisdictional boundary shall be construed as following those
boundaries;
   (D)   If a district boundary divides a lot , the requirement for the
district in which the greater portion of the lot lines shall be extended to the
balance of the lot , provided that such extension shall not include any part of
such lot which lies more than 50 feet beyond the district boundary, and further
provided that the remaining parcel shall not be less than the minimum required
for the district in which it is located; and
   (E)   Interpretations of the location of floodway and floodplain boundary
lines may be made by the Administrator .
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
ADMINISTRATIVE MECHANISMS
§ 152.030 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   Creating the Board of Adjustment. The Swansboro Board of Commissioners
hereby establishes a Board of Adjustment and provides for the appointment of
the Board of Adjustment consisting of five regular members and two alternate
members. Alternate members may serve in the absence or temporary
disqualification of any regular member or to fill a vacancy pending appointment
of a member. Alternate members are expected to attend and participate in all
meetings of the board when required. Four of the regular members and one of the
alternate members must be bonafide residents of the Town of Swansboro, residing
within the corporate limits of the town. One of the regular members and one of
the alternate members must be a bonafide resident of the town’s
extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction (ETJ ) area as set out in §
152.004 as it presently exists or may be hereafter amended. Insofar as
possible, members shall be appointed from different areas within the zoning
jurisdiction. All members shall have equal rights, privileges, and duties with
the other members regardless of whether the matters at issue arise within the
town limits or within the ETJ . All appointments to the Board of Adjustment
shall be for three years. Members shall have no limitation placed on the number
of consecutive terms they may hold. The Board of Commissioners  may request
termination of a member at their privilege and reappoint or not reappoint
members.
    (B)   Meetings. The Board shall elect one of its members as Chairman and
another as Vice-Chairman who shall serve for one year. The Board of Adjustment
shall select a secretary who may or may not be a member of the Board of
Adjustment, but may be an employee of the town. The Board shall draw up and
adopt the rules of procedures under which it will operate. Meetings of the
Board shall be held at the call of the Chairman and at such other times as the
Board may determine. The Chairman, or in his or her absence, the Acting
Chairman, may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. All
meetings of the Board shall be open to the public. However, the Board may meet
in executive session to vote on each case. The Board shall keep minutes of its
proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon every question, or his or her
absence or failure to vote, indicating such fact, and also keep records of its
examination and any other official action.
   (C)   Reserved.
    (D)   Power and duties. The Board of Adjustment shall have the following
powers and duties and shall hear and decide all matters upon which it is
required to pass under any statute or development regulation .
      (1)   To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged by the appellant
that there is error in any decision made by the Administrator or other
administrative officials in the carrying out or enforcing of any provision of
the ordinance, and to hear and decide requests for variances when it is alleged
that carrying out the strict letter of the ordinance would result in practical
difficulties or unnecessary hardships. An appeal may be taken by any person
aggrieved or by an official, department, board, or bureau of the town.
       (2)   No change in permitted uses may be authorized by variance.
       (3)   To authorize upon appeal in specific cases such variances from the
terms of this chapter as will not be contrary to the public interest where,
owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of this
chapter would result in unnecessary hardship. In granting any variance, the
Board may prescribe appropriate conditions and safeguards in conformity with
this chapter.
       (4)   A member of the Board shall not participate in or vote on any
quasi-judicial matter in a manner that would violate affected persons ’
constitutional rights to an impartial decision maker. Impermissible violations
of due process include, but are not limited to, a member having a fixed opinion
prior to hearing the matter that is not susceptible to change; undisclosed ex
parte communications; a close familial , business, or other associational
relationship with an affected person ; or a financial interest in the outcome
of the matter. If an objection is raised to a member’s participation at or
prior to the hearing or vote on a particular matter and that member does not
recuse himself or herself, the remaining members shall by majority vote rule on
the objection.
       (5)   The Board shall determine contested facts and make its decision
within a reasonable time. Every quasi-judicial decision shall be based upon
competent material and substantial evidence in the record. Each quasi-judicial
decision shall be reduced in writing and reflect the Board’s determination of
contested facts and their application of applicable standards.
         Every quasi-judicial decision of the Board shall be subject to review
by the superior court by proceedings in the nature of certiorari pursuant to
G.S. § 160D-1402. .
    (E)   Appeal from the Board of Adjustment decision. An appeal  from the
decision of the Board of Adjustment may be made to the Onslow County Superior
Court within 30 days after the decision has been rendered in writing of the
concise statement the Board took and why. This document can then be served on
the parties and filed in the appropriate county or town offices, thereby
commencing the running of the 30-day appeal  period.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2006-11, passed 4-18-2006; Am. Ord.
passed 3-20-2007; Am. Ord. passed 6-16-2009; Am. Ord. 2010-O6, passed 2-16-
2010; Am. Ord. 2010-O20, Am. Ord. passed 7-20-2010; Am. Ord. 2012-O9, passed 8-
21-2012; Am. Ord. passed 1-21-2014; Am. Ord. 2021-O3, passed 5-24-2021)
§ 152.031 LAND USE ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Except as otherwise specifically provided, primary responsibility for
administering and enforcing this chapter may be assigned by the Town Manager to
one or more individuals. The person or persons to whom these functions are
assigned shall be referred to as the “land use administrator” or
“administrator”.
   (B)   Duties assigned to staff may include, but are not limited to, drafting
and implementing plans and development regulations; determining whether
applications for development approval s are complete; receiving and processing
applications for development approvals; providing notices of applications and
hearings; making decisions and determinations regarding development regulation
implementation; determining whether applications for development approval s
meet applicable standards as established by law and local ordinance; conducting
inspections; issuing or denying certificates of compliance or occupancy;
enforcing development regulation s, including issuing notices of violation,
orders to correct violations, and recommending bringing judicial actions
against actual or threatened violations; keeping adequate records; and any
other actions that may be required in order adequately to enforce the laws and
development regulation s.
   (C)   No staff member shall make a final administrative decision if the
outcome of that decision would have a direct, substantial, and readily
identifiable financial impact on the staff member or if the applicant or other
person subject to that decision is a person with whom the staff member has a
close familial , business, or other associational relationship. If a staff
member has a conflict of interest, the decision shall be assigned to the
supervisor of the staff person or such other staff person as may be designated
by the development regulation or other ordinance.
   (D)   No staff member shall be financially interested or employed by a
business that is financially interested in a development subject to regulation
unless the staff member is the owner of the land or building involved. No staff
member or other individual or an employee of a company contracting with a local
government to provide staff support shall engage in any work that is
inconsistent with his or her duties or with the interest of the town.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2021-O3, passed 5-24-2021)
§ 152.032 THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners shall have the following powers and duties
to be carried out in accordance with these regulations which include, but are
not limited to, the following:
      (1)   To initiate and make amendments to the text of these regulations
and to the zoning maps;
      (2)   To hear, review, and adopt or reject amendments to the text of
these regulations and to the zoning maps;
      (3)    To hear, review, and act on requests for zoning special use permit
s;
      (4)   To take such other action not delegated to the Planning Board or
Board of Adjustment as the Board of Commissioners may deem desirable and
necessary to implement the provisions of these regulations; and
       (5)   To adopt temporary moratoria on any development approval required
by law except for the purpose of developing and adopting new or amended plans
or development regulation s governing residential uses.
       (6)   The Board of Commissioners  shall hear and decide on conditional
zoning district requests.
      (7)   Unless otherwise specifically provided in this chapter, in acting
upon conditional zoning district requests or in considering amendments to this
chapter or the zoning map, the Board of Commissioners  shall follow the regular
voting and other requirements as set forth in other provisions of the town
code.
      (8)   The Board of Commissioners  shall hear all variances related to
subdivisions.
      (9)   (a)   A Board of Commissioners  member shall not vote on any
legislative decision regarding a development regulation where the outcome of
the matter being considered is reasonably likely to have a direct, substantial,
and readily identifiable financial impact on the member. Additionally, a member
shall not vote on any zoning amendment if the landowner of the property subject
to a rezoning petition or the applicant for a text amendment is a person with
whom the member has a close familial , business, or other associational
relationship.
         (b)   When the Board of Commissioners  exercises quasi-judicial
functions, no member shall participate in or vote on any quasi-judicial matter
in a manner that would violate affected persons’ constitutional rights to an
impartial decision maker. Impermissible violations of due process include, but
are not limited to, a member having a fixed opinion prior to hearing the matter
that is not susceptible to change, undisclosed ex parte communications, a close
familial , business, or other associational relationship with an affected
person, or a financial interest in the outcome of the matter.
         (c)   If an objection is raised to a board member’s participation at
or prior to the hearing or vote on a particular matter and that member does not
recuse himself or herself, the remaining members of the board shall by majority
vote to rule on the objection.
      (10)   (a)   When adopting or rejecting any zoning text or map amendment,
the Board of Commissioners  shall approve a brief statement describing whether
its action is consistent or inconsistent with an adopted comprehensive plan .
The plan consistency statement is not subject to judicial review.
         (b)   The requirement for a plan consistency statement may also be met
by a clear indication in the minutes of the Board of Commissioners  that at the
time of action on the amendment the Board was aware of and considered the
Planning Board’s recommendations and any relevant portions of an adopted
comprehensive plan .
         (c)   If a zoning map amendment is adopted and the action was deemed
inconsistent with the adopted plan, the zoning amendment shall have the effect
of also amending any future land-use map in the approved plan, and no
additional request or application for a plan amendment shall be required. A
plan amendment and a zoning amendment may be considered concurrently.
         (d)   If a zoning map amendment qualifies as a “large-scale rezoning”
under G.S. § 160D-602(b), the Board of Commissioners  statement describing plan
consistency may address the overall rezoning and describe how the analysis and
policies in the relevant adopted plans were considered in the action taken.
      (11)   (a)   When adopting or rejecting any petition for a zoning map
amendment, a statement analyzing the reasonableness of the proposed rezoning
shall be approved by the Board of Commissioners . This statement of
reasonableness may consider, among other factors:
            1.   The size, physical conditions, and other attributes of the
area proposed to be rezoned;
            2.   The benefits and detriments to the landowners, the neighbors,
and the surrounding community;
            3.   The relationship between the current actual and permissible
development on the tract and adjoining areas and the development that would be
permissible under the proposed amendment;
            4.   Why the action taken is in the public interest; and
            5.   Any changed conditions warranting the amendment.
         (b)   If a zoning map amendment qualifies as a “large-scale rezoning”
under G.S. § 160D-602(b), the Board of Commissioners  statement on
reasonableness may address the overall rezoning.
         (c)   The statement of reasonableness and the plan consistency
statement required by this section may be approved as a single statement.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2006-11, passed 4-18-2006; Am. Ord.
2010-O20, 7-20-2010; Am. Ord. 2014-O9, passed 4-15-2014; Am. Ord. 2021-O3,
passed 5-24-2021)
§ 152.033 THE PLANNING BOARD.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners do hereby create a Planning Board under the
authority of G.S. § 160D-301.
       (1)   The Swansboro Planning Board hereinafter referred to as the
“Planning Board ” shall have the authority to create and amend its own Rules
and Procedures subject to the Board of Commissioners review for comments at any
time by an affirmative vote of a majority of the members of the Planning Board
, provided that such amendment shall have first been presented to the
membership in writing at a regular or special meeting.
      (2)   The Planning Board shall consist of seven members, five of whom
shall be bonafide residents of the Town of Swansboro and two whom shall be
bonafide residents of the “Area of Extraterritorial Jurisdiction ” of the Town
of Swansboro hereinafter known as the “ETJ”. Representatives of the ETJ shall
be appointed by the Onslow County Board of Commissioners. The Swansboro Board
of Commissioners shall by resolution request that these appointments be made.
If within 90 days after receiving a resolution, an appointment has not been
made, then the Swansboro Board of Commissioners may make the appointment.
      (3)   Appointments shall be for staggered terms with all subsequent
appointments being for three year terms. Should a vacancy occur, an appointment
will be made to complete the unexpired term. Members shall have no limitation
placed on the number of consecutive terms they may hold. The Board of
Commissioners may request termination of a member at their privilege and
reappoint or not reappoint members.
      (4)   All members shall have equal rights, privileges, and duties with
the other members regardless of whether the matters at issue arise within the
town limits or within the ETJ.
      (5)   A quorum of the appointed members shall be the number needed to
hold a meeting. A quorum is considered a majority of the members currently
serving on the Board.
      (6)   Powers and duties of the Planning Board shall consist of:
         (a)   To prepare, review, maintain, monitor, and periodically update
and recommend to the Board of Commissioners a comprehensive plan , and such
other plans as deemed appropriate, and conduct ongoing related research, data
collection, mapping, and analysis.
         (b)   To facilitate and coordinate citizen engagement and
participation in the planning process;
         (c)   Develop and recommend policies, ordinances, development
regulation s, administrative procedures, and other means for carrying out plans
in a coordinated and efficient manner;
         (d)   Advise the Board of Commissioners concerning the implementation
of plans, including, but not limited to, review and comment on all zoning text
and map amendments as required by G.S. § 160D-604;
         (e)   Exercise any functions in the administration and enforcement of
various means for carrying out plans that the Board of Commissioners may
direct;
         (f)   To provide a preliminary forum for review of quasi-judicial
decision s, provided that no part of the forum or recommendation may be used as
a basis for the deciding board; and
         (g)   Perform any other related duties that the Board of Commissioners
may direct.
      (7)   The Planning Board may conduct such public hearings as may be
required to gather information necessary for the drafting, establishment and
maintenance of the Comprehensive and Land Use plans, Zoning Ordinance,
Subdivision Ordinance, or other studies the Planning Board deems necessary.
   (B)   Rules of conduct. Members of the Board may be removed for cause,
including violation of any rule stated below.
      (1)   Faithful attendance at all meetings of the Board and conscientious
performance of the duties required of members of the Board shall be considered
a prerequisite of continuing membership on the Board.
      (2)   (a)   No Board member shall vote on any advisory or legislative
decision regarding a development regulation where the outcome of the matter
being considered is reasonably likely to have a direct, substantial, and
readily identifiable financial impact on the member. An appointed Board member
shall not vote on any zoning amendment if the landowner of the property subject
to a rezoning petition or the applicant for a text amendment is a person with
whom the member has a close familial , business, or other associational
relationship.
         (b)   If an objection is raised to a Board member’s participation at
or prior to the hearing or vote on a particular matter and that member does not
recuse himself or herself, the remaining members of the Board shall by majority
vote to rule on the objection.
      (3)   No Board member shall discuss any case with any parties thereto
prior to the meeting on that case; provided however, that members may receive
and/or seek information pertaining to the case from any other member of the
Board, or staff prior to the meeting. Board members shall disclose publicly any
contact made by any party to a matter before the Board.
      (4)   Members of the Board shall not express individual opinions on the
proper judgment of any case with any parties thereto prior to the Board’s
determination  of that case. Violation of this rule shall be cause for
dismissal from the Board.
      (5)   Members shall serve at the pleasure of the Board of Commissioners .
   (C)   Planning Board review and comment.
      (1)   Initial zoning.
         (a)   The Planning Board shall prepare or shall review and comment
upon a proposed zoning regulation, including the full text of such regulation
and maps showing proposed district boundaries. The Planning Board may hold
public meetings and legislative hearings in the course of preparing the
regulation. Upon completion, the Planning Board shall make a written
recommendation regarding adoption of the regulation to the Board of
Commissioners .
         (b)   The Board of Commissioners shall not hold its required hearing
or take action until it has received a recommendation regarding the regulation
from the Planning Board . Following its required hearing, the Board of
Commissioners may refer the regulation back to the Planning Board for any
further recommendations that the Board may wish to make prior to final action
by the governing board in adopting, modifying and adopting, or rejecting the
regulation.
      (2)   Zoning amendments. Subsequent to initial adoption of a zoning
regulation, all proposed amendments to the zoning regulation or zoning map
shall be submitted to the Planning Board for review and comment. If no written
report is received from the Planning Board within 30 days of referral, the
Board of Commissioners may act on the amendment without the Planning Board
report. The Board of Commissioners is not bound by the recommendations, if any,
of the Planning Board.
      (3)   Plan consistency.
         (a)   When conducting a review of proposed zoning text or map
amendments, the Planning Board shall advise and comment on whether the proposed
action is consistent with any comprehensive plan that has been adopted and any
other officially adopted plan that is applicable. The Planning Board shall
provide a written recommendation to the Board of Commissioners that addresses
plan consistency and other matters as deemed appropriate, but a comment by the
Planning Board that a proposed amendment is inconsistent with the comprehensive
plan shall not preclude consideration or approval of the proposed amendment by
the Board of Commissioners.
         (b)   If a zoning map amendment qualifies as a “large-scale rezoning”
under G.S. § 160D-602(b), the Planning Board statement describing plan
consistency may address the overall rezoning and describe how the analysis and
policies in the relevant adopted plans were considered in the recommendation
made.
      (4)   Review of other ordinances and actions. Any development regulation
other than a zoning regulation that is proposed to be adopted and any
subsequent amendments to the regulation thereafter may be referred to the
Planning Board for review and comment.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2006-11, passed 4-18-2006;Am. Ord.
passed 1-16-2007; Am. Ord. 2010-O6, passed 2-16-2010; Am. Ord. 2010-O20, passed
7-20-2010; Am. Ord. 2021-O3, passed 5-24-2021)
APPEALS, VARIANCES, INTERPRETATIONS
§ 152.045 APPEALS.
   (A)   This subchapter does not apply to §§
152.400 through
152.462, Flood Damage Prevention.
   (B)   Appeals from the enforcement and interpretation of this chapter, may
be taken to the Board of Adjustment by any person aggrieved. An appeal is taken
by filing with the administrator and the Board of Adjustment a written notice
of appeal specifying the grounds therefor. A notice of appeal shall be filed
with the Town Clerk or Town Deputy Clerk. The notice of appeal must state the
grounds for the appeal and the date and time of filing.
   (C)   An appeal must be taken within 30 days after the interested party or
parties receive written notice of an order, requirement, decision, or
determination .
   (D)   Whenever an appeal is filed, the administrator shall forthwith
transmit to the Board of Adjustment all the papers constituting the record
relating to the action appealed from. A copy of the record shall also be
provided to the appellant and to the owner of the property that is subject to
the appeal if the appellant is not the owner .
   (E)   After receipt of notice of appeal, the Chairman of the Board of
Adjustment shall fix a reasonable time, not to exceed 60 days, for the hearing
of the appeal. All applications must be accompanied by an application fee as
set by Town staff to help defray costs in advertising and administration.
   (F)   An appeal stays all actions by the administrator seeking enforcement
of or compliance with the order or decision appealed from, unless the
administrator certifies to the Board of Adjustment that (because of facts
stated in the certificate) a stay would, in his opinion, cause imminent peril
to life or property or because the violation is transitory in nature, a stay
would seriously interfere with enforcement of the ordinance. In that case,
proceedings shall not be stayed except by a restraining order which may be
granted by a court. If enforcement proceedings are not stayed, the appellant
may file with the official a request for an expedited hearing of the appeal,
and the Board of Adjustment shall meet to hear the appeal within 15 days after
such a request is filed. All appeals to the Superior Court and all applications
to the Superior Court for a stay shall be made within 30 days of a party’s
receipt of notice of the decision of the Board of Adjustment . The official who
made the decision being appealed shall be present at the hearing as a witness.
The Board of Adjustment may reverse or affirm (wholly or partly) or may modify
the order, requirement, decision, or determination appealed from and shall make
any order, requirement, decision, or determination that in its opinion ought to
be made in the case before it. To this end, the board shall have all the powers
of the officer from whom the appeal is taken.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. passed 6-16-2009; Am. Ord. passed 1-
21-2014; Am. Ord. 2021-O3, passed 5-24-2021)
§ 152.046 VARIANCES.
   When unnecessary hardships would result from carrying out the strict letter
of a zoning regulation, the Board of Adjustment shall vary any of the
provisions of the zoning regulation upon a showing of all of the following:
   (A)   (1)   Unnecessary hardship would result from the strict application of
the regulation. It shall not be necessary to demonstrate that, in the absence
of the variance, no reasonable use can be made of the property;
      (2)   Whether the hardship results from conditions that are peculiar to
the applicant’s property, such as location, size, or topography. Hardships
resulting from personal circumstances, as well as hardships resulting from
conditions that are common to the neighborhood or the general public, may not
be the basis for granting a variance. A variance may be granted when necessary
and appropriate to make a reasonable accommodation under the Federal Fair
Housing Act for a person with a disability;
      (3)   Whether the hardship is the result of the applicant’s own action
(s). The hardship did not result from actions taken by the applicant or the
property owner. The act of purchasing property with knowledge that
circumstances exist that may justify the granting of a variance shall not be
regarded as a self-created hardship; and
      (4)   The requested variance is consistent with the spirit, purpose and
intent of the regulation, such that public safety is secured, and substantial
justice is achieved.
   (B)   Any variance extending a nonconforming use shall be deemed not to be
in harmony with the general purpose and intent of the ordinance and shall be
deemed to violate its spirit.
   (C)   No change in permitted uses may be authorized by variance.
   (D)   If any of those issues are not resolved as indicated herein, then the
Board of Adjustment shall deny the requested variance.
   (E)   In granting a variance, the Board of Adjustment may determine and
prescribe reasonable conditions and safeguards upon which the variance is
granted in order to ensure that the variance is in harmony with the general
purpose and intent of the ordinance and preserves its spirit, and to ensure
that the variance will assure the public safety and welfare and will provide
substantial justice.
   (F)   Violation of any condition upon which a variance is granted shall be
deemed a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. passed 1-21-2014; Am. Ord. 2021-O3,
passed 5-24-2021)
§ 152.047 INTERPRETATIONS.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment is authorized to interpret the zoning map and
to pass upon disputed questions of lot lines or district boundary lines and
similar questions. If such questions arise in the context of an appeal from a
decision of the Administrator , they shall be handled as provided in §§
152.065 through
152.070.
   (B)   An application for a map interpretation shall be submitted to the
Board of Adjustment by filing a copy of the application with the administrator
or Town Clerk. The application shall contain sufficient information to enable
the board to make the necessary interpretation.
   (C)   Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of districts as shown on
the Official Zoning Map, the following rules shall apply:
      (1)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerlines of
alleys, streets , highways, streams, or railroads shall be construed to follow
such centerline;
      (2)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following lot lines , town
limits, or extraterritorial boundary lines, shall be construed as following
such lines, limits, or boundaries;
      (3)   Boundaries indicated as following shorelines shall be construed to
follow such shorelines, and in the event of change in the shoreline shall be
construed as following such shorelines;
      (4)   Where a district boundary divides a lot or where distances are not
specifically indicated on the Official Zoning Map, the boundary shall be
determined by measurement, using the scale of the Official Zoning Map; and
      (5)   Where any street or alley is hereafter officially vacated or
abandoned, the regulations applicable to each parcel of abutting property shall
apply to that portion of such street or alley added thereto by virtue of such
vacation or abandonment.
   (D)   Interpretations of the location of floodway and floodplain boundary
lines may be made by the administrator as provided in §
152.426.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 152.048 REQUESTS TO BE HEARD EXPEDITIOUSLY.
   As provided in §§
152.065 through
152.070, the Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide all appeals, variance
requests, and requests for interpretations as expeditiously as possible,
consistent with the need to follow regularly established agenda procedures,
provide notice in accordance with §
152.066, and obtain the necessary information to make sound decisions.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 152.049 BURDEN OF PROOF IN APPEALS AND VARIANCES.
   (A)   When an appeal is taken to the Board of Adjustment in accordance with
§
152.030(C), the administrator shall have the initial burden of presenting to
the board sufficient evidence and argument to justify the order or decision
appealed from. The burden of presenting evidence and argument to the contrary
then shifts to the appellant, who shall also have the burden of persuasion.
   (B)   The burden of presenting evidence sufficient to allow the Board of
Adjustment to reach the conclusions set forth in §
152.046, as well as the burden of persuasion on those issues, remains with the
applicant seeking the variance.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 152.050 BOARD ACTION ON APPEALS AND VARIANCES.
   (A)   With respect to appeals, a motion to reverse, affirm, or modify the
order, requirement, decision, or determination  appealed from shall include,
insofar as practicable, a statement of the specific reasons or findings of
facts that support the motion. If a motion to reverse or modify is not made or
fails to receive the vote necessary for adoption, then a motion to uphold the
decision appealed from shall be in order.
   (B)   Before granting a variance, the Board of Adjustment must take a
separate vote and vote on each of the required findings stated in §
152.046. Insofar as practicable, a motion to make an affirmative finding on
each of the requirements set forth in §
152.046 shall include a statement of the specific reasons or findings of fact
supporting such motion.
   (C)   A motion to deny a variance may be made on the basis that any one or
more of the criteria set forth in §
152.046 are not satisfied or that the application is incomplete. Insofar as
practicable, such a motion shall include a statement of the specific reasons or
findings of fact that support it.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. passed 1-21-2014; Am. Ord. 2021-O3,
passed 5-24-2021)
§ 152.051 CONTINUITY OF ACTION.
   Any application for any action by the Board of Adjustment pending before the
Board the Adjustment which is being abolished herein on the day of passage of
these amendments shall be deemed continuing in effect and shall be considered
by the Board of Adjustment which is being created herein in the same manner as
if such application had been originally submitted to said newly created Board
of Adjustment .
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. passed 1-21-2014)
HEARING PROCEDURES
§ 152.065 QUASI-JUDICIAL DECISIONS.
   (A)   Boards shall follow quasi-judicial procedures in determining appeals
of administrative decision s, special use permits, certificates of
appropriateness, variances, or any other quasi-judicial decision .
   (B)   The hearing shall be open to the public and all persons interested in
the outcome of the application shall be given an opportunity to present
evidence and arguments and ask questions of persons who testify.
   (C)   Boards may place reasonable and equitable limitations on the
presentation of evidence and arguments and the cross- examination of witnesses
so that the matter at issue may be heard and decided without undue delay.
   (D)   The Board may continue an evidentiary hearing that has been convened
without further advertisement. If an evidentiary hearing is set for a given
date and a quorum of the Board is not then present, the hearing shall be
continued until the next regular Board meeting without further advertisement.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2021-O3, passed 5-24-2021)
§ 152.066 NOTICE OF HEARING.
   The Administrator shall give notice of any hearing required by §
152.065 as follows:
   (A)   Notice shall be mailed to the person or entity whose appeal,
application, or request is the subject of the hearing; to the owner of the
property that is the subject of the hearing if the owner did not initiate the
hearing; to the owners of all parcels of land abutting the parcel of land that
is the subject of the hearing; and to any other persons entitled to receive
notice as provided by the local development regulation . In the absence of
evidence to the contrary, the town may rely on the county tax listing to
determine owners of property entitled to mailed notice;
   (B)   The notice must be deposited in the mail at least ten days, but not
more than 25 days, prior to the date of the hearing;
   (C)   Within that same time period, the town shall also prominently post a
notice of the hearing on the site that is the subject of the hearing or on an
adjacent street or highway right-of-way; and
   (D)   The notice required by this section shall state the date, time, and
place of the hearing, reasonably identify the property that is the subject of
the application, and indicate the action requested or proposed.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. passed 6-16-2009; Am. Ord. passed 1-
21-2014; Am. Ord. 2021-O3, passed 5-24-2021)
§ 152.067 EVIDENCE.
   (A)   The provisions of this section apply to all hearings for which a
notice is required by §
152.065.
   (B)   The applicant, the local government, and any person who would have
standing to appeal the decision shall have the right to participate as a party
at the evidentiary hearing . Other witnesses may present competent, material,
and substantial evidence that is not repetitive as allowed by the Board.
   (C)   The Chair of the Board or any member acting as Chair and the Clerk to
the Board are authorized to administer oaths to witnesses in any matter coming
before the Board. Any person who, while under oath during a proceeding before
the Board determining a quasi-judicial matter, willfully swears falsely is
guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor.
   (D)   The Board making a quasi-judicial decision  under this chapter through
the Chair or, in the Chair’s absence, anyone acting as Chair may subpoena
witnesses and compel the production of evidence.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2021-O3, passed 5-24-2021)
§ 152.068 MODIFICATION OF APPLICATION AT HEARING.
   (A)   In response to questions or comments by persons appearing at the
hearing or to suggestions or recommendations by the board, the applicant may
agree to modify his application, including the plans and specifications
submitted.
   (B)   Unless such modifications are so substantial or extensive that the
board cannot reasonably be expected to perceive the nature and impact of the
proposed changes without revised plans before it, the board may approve the
application with the stipulation that the permit will not be issued until plans
reflecting the agreed upon changes are submitted to the planning staff.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2021-O3, passed 5-24-2021)
§ 152.069 VOTING.
   (A)   The concurring vote of four-fifths of the board shall be necessary to
grant a variance.
   (B)   A majority of the members shall be required to decide any other quasi-
judicial matter or to determine an appeal made in the nature of certiorari.
   (C)   For the purposes of this section, vacant positions on the board and
members who are disqualified from voting on a quasi-judicial matter under G.S.
§ 160D-109(d) shall not be considered members of the board for calculation of
the requisite majority if there are no qualified alternates available to take
the place of such members.
(Ord. 2021-O3, passed 5-24-2021)
§ 152.070 WRITTEN DECISION.
   (A)   The board shall determine contested facts and make its decision within
a reasonable time. Every quasi-judicial decision  shall be based upon
competent, material, and substantial evidence in the record.
   (B)   Each quasi-judicial decision  shall be reduced to writing, reflect the
board's determination  of contested facts and their application to the
applicable standards, and be approved by the board and signed by the chair or
other duly authorized member of the board.
   (C)   A quasi-judicial decision  is effective upon filing, the written
decision with the clerk to the board or such other office or official as the
development regulation specifies. The decision shall be delivered within a
reasonable time by personal delivery, electronic mail, or first-class mail to
the applicant, landowner, and any person who has submitted a written request
for a copy prior to the date the decision becomes effective. Special use permit
s will be recorded in the office of the Onslow County Register of Deeds.
   (D)   The Administrator shall certify that proper notice has been made, and
the certificate shall be deemed conclusive in the absence of fraud.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2014-O9, passed 4-15-2014; Am. Ord.
2021-O3, passed 5-24-2021)
§ 152.071 JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   Every quasi-judicial decision  shall be subject to review by the Superior
Court by proceedings in the nature of certiorari pursuant to G.S. § 160D-1402.
Appeals shall be filed within the time specified in G.S. § 160D-1405(d).
(Ord. 2021-O3, passed 5-24-2021)
§ 152.072 LEGISLATIVE HEARINGS.
   Before adopting, amending, or repealing any ordinance or development
regulation , the Board of Commissioners shall hold a legislative hearing.
   Notice of the hearing shall be provided as follows:
   (A)   Published notice. A notice of the hearing shall be given once a week
for two successive calendar weeks in a newspaper having general circulation in
the area. The notice shall be published the first time not less than ten days
nor more than 25 days before the date scheduled for the hearing. In computing
such period, the day of publication is not to be included but the day of the
hearing shall be included.
   (B)   Mailed notice. 
      (1)   When the boundaries of zoning districts are determined,
established, and enforced, and from time to time amended, supplemented or
changed, the owner of affected parcels of land and the owners of all parcels of
land abutting that parcel of land shall be mailed a notice of the hearing on a
proposed zoning map amendment by first-class mail at the last addresses listed
for such owners on the county tax abstracts.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, properties are “abutting” even if
separated by a street, railroad, or other transportation corridor.
      (3)   This notice must be deposited in the mail at least ten but not more
than 25 days prior to the date of the hearing.
   (C)   Posted notice. When a zoning map amendment is proposed, the town shall
prominently post a notice of the hearing on the site proposed for the amendment
or on an adjacent public street or highway right-of-way. The notice shall be
posted within the same time period specified for mailed notices of the hearing.
When multiple parcels are included within a proposed zoning map amendment, a
posting on each individual parcel is not required but sufficient notices shall
be posted to provide reasonable notice to interested persons.
   (D)   Notice to military bases. If the adoption or modification would result
in changes to the zoning map or would change or affect the permitted uses of
land located five miles or less from the perimeter boundary of a military base,
the town shall provide written notice of the proposed changes by certified
mail, return receipt requested, to the commander of the military base not less
than ten days nor more than 25 days before the date fixed for the hearing. If
the military provides comments or analysis regarding the compatibility of the
proposed development regulation or amendment with military operations at the
base, the governing board shall take the comments and analysis into
consideration before making a final determination  on the ordinance.
   (E)   ETJ expansion. If the zoning map amendment is being proposed in
conjunction with an expansion of the extraterritorial planning and development
regulation jurisdiction under G.S. § 160D-202, a single hearing on the zoning
map amendment and the boundary amendment may be held. In this instance, the
initial notice of the zoning map amendment hearing may be combined with the
boundary hearing notice and the combined hearing notice mailed at least 30 days
prior to the hearing.
   (F)   Optional notice for large-scale zoning map amendments. 
      (1)   The first-class mail notice required by this section shall not be
required if the zoning map amendment proposes to change the zoning designation
of more than 50 properties owned by at least 50 different property owners.
      (2)   In this instance, the town can elect to make the mailed notice or,
as an alternative, elect to publish notice of the hearing provided that each
advertisement shall not be less than one-half of a newspaper page in size. The
advertisement shall only be effective for property owners who reside in the
area of general circulation of the newspaper that publishes the notice.
Property owners who reside outside of the newspaper circulation area, according
to the address listed on the most recent property tax listing for the affected
property, shall be notified via first-class mail.
   (G)   Actual notice. Except for a town-initiated zoning map amendment, when
an application is filed to request a zoning map amendment and that application
is not made by the landowner or authorized agent, the applicant shall certify
that the owner of the parcel of land as shown on the county tax listing has
received actual notice of the proposed amendment and a copy of the notice of
the hearing. Actual notice shall be provided in any manner permitted under G.S.
§ 1A-1, Rule 4(j). If notice cannot with due diligence be achieved by personal
delivery, certified mail, or by a designated delivery service authorized
pursuant to 26 U.S.C. § 7502(f)(2), notice may be given by publication
consistent with GS § 1A-1, Rule 4(j1). The person or persons required to
provide notice shall certify to the town that actual notice has been provided,
and such certificate shall be deemed conclusive in the absence of fraud.
   (H)   A development regulation adopted pursuant to this section shall be
adopted by ordinance.
(Ord. 2021-O3, passed 5-24-2021)
§ 152.073 MORATORIA.
   (A)   Authority. As provided by G.S. § 160D-107, the Board of Commissioners
may adopt temporary moratoria on any development approval required by law,
except for the purpose of developing and adopting new or amended plans or
development regulations governing residential uses. The duration of any
moratorium shall be reasonable in light of the specific conditions that warrant
imposition of the moratorium and may not exceed the period of time necessary to
correct, modify, or resolve such conditions.
   (B)   Hearing required. Except in cases of imminent and substantial threat
to the public health or safety, before adopting a development regulation
imposing a development moratorium with a duration of 60 days or any shorter
period, the governing board shall hold a legislative hearing and shall publish
a notice of the hearing in a newspaper having general circulation in the area
not less than seven days before the date set for the hearing. A development
moratorium with a duration of 61 days or longer, and any extension of a
moratorium so that the total duration is 61 days or longer, is subject to the
notice and hearing requirements of G.S. § 160D-601.
   (C)   Exempt projects. Absent an imminent threat to public health or safety,
a development moratorium adopted shall not apply to any project for which a
valid building permit issued is outstanding, to any project for which a special
use permit  application has been accepted as complete, to development set forth
in a site-specific or phased vesting plan approved pursuant to G.S. § 160D-108,
to development for which substantial expenditures have already been made in
good-faith reliance on a prior valid development approval , or to preliminary
or final subdivision plats that have been accepted for review by the town prior
to the call for a hearing to adopt the moratorium. Any preliminary subdivision
plat accepted for review by the town prior to the call for a hearing, if
subsequently approved, shall be allowed to proceed to final plat approval
without being subject to the moratorium. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a
complete application for a development approval has been submitted prior to the
effective date of a moratorium, G.S. § 160D-108(b) shall be applicable when
permit processing resumes.
   (D)   Required statements. Any development regulation establishing a
development moratorium must include, at the time of adoption, each of the
following:
      (1)   A statement of the problems or conditions necessitating the
moratorium and what courses of action, alternative to a moratorium, were
considered by the town and why those alternative courses of action were not
deemed adequate;
      (2)   A statement of the development approval s subject to the moratorium
and how a moratorium on those approvals will address the problems or conditions
leading to imposition of the moratorium;
      (3)   A date for termination of the moratorium and a statement setting
forth why that duration is reasonably necessary to address the problems or
conditions leading to imposition of the moratorium; and
      (4)   A statement of the actions, and the schedule for those actions,
proposed to be taken by the town during the duration of the moratorium to
address the problems or conditions leading to imposition of the moratorium.
   (E)   Limit on renewal or extension. No moratorium may be subsequently
renewed or extended for any additional period unless the town has taken all
reasonable and feasible steps proposed to be taken in its ordinance
establishing the moratorium to address the problems or conditions leading to
imposition of the moratorium and unless new facts and conditions warrant an
extension. Any ordinance renewing or extending a development moratorium must
include, at the time of adoption, the findings set forth in divisions (D)(1)
through (4), including what new facts or conditions warrant the extension.
   (F)   Expedited judicial review. Any person aggrieved by the imposition of a
moratorium on development approval s required by law may apply to the General
Court of Justice for an order enjoining the enforcement of the moratorium.
Actions brought pursuant to this section shall be scheduled for expedited
hearing, and subsequent proceedings in those actions shall be accorded priority
by the trial and appellate courts. In such actions, the town shall have the
burden of showing compliance with the procedural requirements of this section.
(Ord. 2021-O3, passed 5-24-2021; Am. Ord. 2024-O11, passed 8-13-2024)
§ 152.074 NOTICE OF AN ADMINISTRATIVE DECISION.
   (A)   The Administrator shall give written notice to the owner of the
property that is the subject of an administrative determination  or
interpretation and to the party who requested it, if different from the owner.
   (B)   The written notice shall be delivered by personal delivery, electronic
mail, or by first-class mail. The notice shall be delivered to the last address
listed for the owner of the affected property on the county tax abstract and to
the address provided in the application or request for a determination  or
interpretation if different from the owner's.
   (C)   It shall be conclusively presumed that all persons with standing to
appeal have constructive notice from the date a sign providing notice that a
determination  has been made is prominently posted on the property that is the
subject of the determination or interpretation, provided the sign remains on
the property for at least ten days. The sign shall contain the words "Zoning
Decision" or "Subdivision Decision", or similar language, and shall identify
the means to contact the town for more information.
(Ord. 2021-O3, passed 5-24-2021)
§ 152.075 CITIZEN COMMENTS.
   (A)   If any resident or property owner submits a written statement
regarding a proposed amendment, modification, or repeal to a zoning regulation,
including a text or map amendment to the Town Clerk at least two business days
prior to the proposed vote on such change, the Town Clerk shall deliver such
written statement to the Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   If the proposed change is the subject of a quasi-judicial proceeding
under G.S. § 160D-705 or any other statute, the Clerk shall provide only the
names and addresses of the individuals providing written comment, and the
provision of such names and addresses to all members of the board shall not
disqualify any member of the board from voting.
(Ord. 2021-O3, passed 5-24-2021)
NONCONFORMITIES
§ 152.085 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to regulate and limit the development and
continued existence of uses, structures, and lots established prior to the
effective date of this chapter that do not conform to the requirements of this
chapter. Many nonconformities may continue, but the provisions of this
subchapter are designed to curtail substantial investment in nonconformities
and to bring about their eventual improvement or elimination in or to preserve
the integrity of this chapter and the character of the town and its
extraterritorial jurisdiction . Any nonconforming use , structure , or lot
which lawfully existed as of the effective date of this chapter and which
remains nonconforming, and any use, structure , or lot which has become
nonconforming as a result of the adoption of this chapter or any subsequent
rezoning or amendment to the text of this chapter, may be continued or
maintained only in accordance with the terms of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005) (Am. Ord. 2016-O11, passed 9-13-2016)
§ 152.086 NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   A use which was legally established but it is no longer classified as
a permitted use but is now allowed as a special use or conditional use shall
not be considered con-conforming if it was legally established under a previous
ordinance.
   (B)   Extension of use. A nonconforming use  of land shall not be enlarged,
extended, or intensified in any way except as provided below.
   (C)   Continuation, maintenance and minor repair. Pursuant and subject to §
152.090, the continuation of a nonconforming use  of land and the maintenance
or minor repair of a structure containing a nonconforming use  is permitted,
provided that the continuation, maintenance, or minor repair does not extend,
expand, or increase the intensity of the nonconforming use . To increase the
intensity would be for example when the building  is over the setback on the
right side, you may increase the left side but not the area out of conformity.
For the purposes of this section, maintenance or minor repair shall mean:
      (1)   Repairs that are necessary to maintain and to correct any damage or
deterioration to the structural soundness or interior and exterior appearance
of a building or structure without expanding or altering the building or
structure ;
      (2)   Maintenance of land areas to protect against health hazards and
promote the safety of surrounding land uses;
      (3)   The addition of landscaping that increase the visual attractiveness
of the property; and
      (4)   Repairs which are required to remedy unsafe conditions which cause
a threat to public safety.
   (D)   Damage or destruction.
      (1)   If a nonconforming use of land or a structure containing a
nonconforming use is destroyed by any means other than Acts of God, to an
extent greater than 50% of its replacement cost at the time of destruction,
then such use shall not be reestablished in any way that does not conform to
the requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   However, if the destruction is a result of acts of God such as a
natural disaster the use and or structure can be re-established to the previous
extent as long as it is not in violation with federal, state or local law. For
the purpose hereof, an “act of God” is a natural occurrence such as an
earthquake, flood, fire, straight line winds, hurricane, tornado or similar
event which causes great damage to property.
   (E)   Change of use. Any nonconforming use  of land may be changed to a
conforming use by securing all approvals and permits that this chapter requires
for the intended or resulting use, building , structure, or lot . No
nonconforming use  may be changed to another nonconforming use  unless the town
determines, after a public hearing is held, it is a change in use of a
nonconforming use  to a different, less intensive nonconforming use  or a use
more compatible with the Comprehensive Plan and this chapter.
   (F)   Cessation of use. If a nonconforming use  is discontinued for 180
consecutive days or more, then the property shall thereafter be occupied and
used only for a conforming use. If a nonconforming use  of property is
discontinued, but reestablished within 180 days, then the nonconforming use
may continue, provided that the nature and degree of the nonconformity will not
be changed or increased from that which existed before the nonconforming use
was discontinued.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2016-O11, passed 9-13-2016)
§ 152.087 NONCONFORMING LOTS.
   (A)   When a nonconforming lot can be used in conformity with all of the
regulations (other than the area or width requirements) applicable to the
district in which the lot is located, such a use may be made a use-by-right .
Otherwise, the nonconforming lot may be used only in accordance with a variance
permit issued by the Board of Adjustment . The Board shall issue such a permit
if it finds that (a) the proposed use is one permitted by the regulations
applicable to the district in which the property is located, and (b) the
property can be developed as proposed without any significant negative impact
on the surrounding property or the public health, safety, or welfare. In
issuing the variance permit authorized by this paragraph, the Board may allow
deviations from applicable dimensional requirements (such as setback lines and
yard size minimums) if it finds that no reasonable use of the property can be
made without such deviations.
   (B)   Whenever this chapter creates a nonconforming lot and the owner of the
nonconforming lot also owns land adjacent to it, and a portion of this other
land can be combined with the nonconforming lot to create a conforming lot
(without hereby creating other nonconformities ), the owner of the
nonconforming lot , or his successor in interest, may not take advantage of the
provisions of division (A) of this section.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 152.088 EXTENSION OR ENLARGEMENT OF NONCONFORMITIES.
   (A)   Except as specifically provided in this subsection, it shall be
unlawful for any person to engage in any activity that causes an increase in
the extent of a non-conformity.
   (B)   Subject to division (D) of this section, a nonconforming use may be
extended throughout any portion of a completed building that, when the use was
made nonconforming by this chapter, was manifestly designed or arranged to
accommodate such use.
   (C)   The volume, intensity, or frequency of use of property where a
nonconforming situation exists may be increased and the equipment or processes
used at a location where a nonconforming situation exists may be changed if
these or similar changes amount only to changes in the degree of activity
rather than changes in kind and no violations of other paragraphs of this
section occur.
   (D)   Physical alternation of structures or the placement of new structures
on open land are unlawful if they result in:
      (1)   An increase in the total amount of space devoted to a nonconforming
use ;
      (2)   Greater nonconformity with respect to dimensional restrictions such
as yard requirements, height limitations, or density requirements; or
      (3)   The enclosure of previously unenclosed areas, even though those
areas were previously used in connection with the nonconforming activity. An
area is unenclosed unless at least 75% of the perimeter of the area is marked
by a permanently constructed wall or fence .
   (E)   Minor repairs, routine maintenance, major repairs and renovations (as
defined in §
152.016) may be performed on properties where a nonconforming situation exists
as follows:
      (1)   Minor repairs to and routine maintenance of property where
nonconforming situations exist are permitted and encouraged; and
      (2)   Major repairs and renovations to properties that have nonconforming
situations may be done pursuant to a special use permit issued by the Board of
Commissioners . The Board of Commissioners shall issue such a permit if it
finds that the proposed work will not result in a violation of any other
paragraphs of this section (particularly paragraph E) or make the property more
incompatible with the surrounding neighborhood.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005) (Am. Ord. 2016-O11, passed 9-13-2016)
§ 152.089 CHANGE IN KIND OF NONCONFORMING USE.
   (A)   A nonconforming use may be changed to a conforming use. Thereafter,
the property may not revert to a nonconforming use .
   (B)   A nonconforming use may be changed to another nonconforming use only
in accordance with a special use permit issued by the Board of Commissioners .
The Board shall issue such a permit if it finds that the proposed use will be
more compatible with the surrounding neighborhood than the use or combination
of uses in operation at the time the application is made for the permit.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005) (Am. Ord. 2010-O20, passed 7-20-2010)
§ 152.090 ABANDONMENT OR DISCONTINUANCE OF A NONCONFORMITY.
   (A)   When a nonconforming use is (1) discontinued for a consecutive period
of 180 days, or (2) discontinued for any period of time without a present
intention to reinstate the nonconforming use (maintaining minimum services,
water, sewer, electricity), the property involved may thereafter be used only
for conforming purposes, except as provided in division (B) of this section.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners may issue a special use permit to allow a
nonconforming use that has been discontinued for more than 180 consecutive days
to be reinstated if it finds that (1) the nonconforming use has been
discontinued for less than two years, and (2) the discontinuance resulted from
factors that, for all practical purposes, were beyond the control of the person
maintaining the nonconforming use .
   (C)   If the principal activity on property where a nonconformity other than
a nonconforming use exists is (1) discontinued for a consecutive period of 180
days, or (2) discontinued for any period of time without a present intention of
resuming that activity (maintaining minimum services, water, sewer,
electricity), then that property may thereafter be used only in conformity with
all of the regulations applicable to the district in which the property is
located, unless the Board of Commissioners issues a special use permit to allow
the property to be used (for a conforming purpose) without correcting the
nonconforming situation. The Board shall issue such a permit if it finds that
(1) the nonconforming situation cannot be corrected without undue hardship or
expense, and (2) the nonconforming situation is of a minor nature that does not
adversely affect the surrounding property or the general public to any
significant extent.
   (D)   For purposes of determining whether a right to continue a
nonconformity is lost pursuant to this subsection, all of the buildings,
activities, and operations maintained on a lot are generally to be considered
as a whole. For example, the failure to rent one apartment in a nonconforming
apartment  building or one space in a nonconforming manufactured home park for
180 days shall not result in a loss of the right to rent that apartment or
space thereafter so long as the apartment  building or manufactured home park
as a whole is continuously maintained. But if a nonconforming use is maintained
in conjunction with a conforming use, discontinuance of a nonconforming use for
the required period shall terminate the right to maintain it thereafter. And
so, if a manufactured home is used as a nonconforming use on a residential lot
where a conforming residential structure also is located, removal of that
manufactured home for 180 days terminates the right to replace it.
   (E)   When a structure or operation made nonconforming by this chapter is
vacant or discontinued at the effective date of this chapter, the 180-day
period for purposes of this subsection begins to run at the effective date of
this chapter unless services are maintained (water, sewer, electricity).
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005) (Am. Ord. 2010-O20, passed 7-20-2010; Am. Ord.
2016-O11, passed 9-13-2016)
§ 152.091 COMPLETION OF NONCONFORMING PROJECTS.
   (A)   All work on any nonconforming project shall cease on the effective
date of this chapter, and all permits previously issued for work on
nonconforming projects shall be revoked as of that date. Thereafter, work on
nonconforming projects may begin, or may be continued, only pursuant to a
special use permit issued by the Board of Commissioners (except as provided in
division (B) of this section). The Board shall issue such a permit if it finds
that the applicant has in good faith made substantial expenditures or incurred
substantial binding obligations or otherwise changed his position in some
substantial way in reasonable reliance on the land use law as it existed before
the effective date of this chapter and thereby would be unreasonably prejudiced
if not allowed to complete his project as proposed. In considering whether
these findings may be made, the Board shall be guided by the following:
      (1)   All expenditures made pursuant to a validly issued and unrevoked
building or zoning permit shall be considered as evidence of reasonable
reliance on the land use law that existed before this chapter became effective;
      (2)   Except as provided in division (A)(1) of this section, no
expenditures made more than 180 days before the effective date of this chapter
shall be considered as evidence of reasonable reliance on the land use law that
existed before this chapter became effective. An expenditure is made at the
time a party incurs a binding obligation to make that expenditure;
      (3)   To the extent that expenditures are recoverable with a reasonable
effort, a party shall not be considered prejudiced by having made those
expenditures. For example, a party shall not be considered prejudiced by having
made expenditure to acquire a potential development site if the property
obtained is just as valuable under the new classification as it was under the
old, or the expenditure can be recovered by resale of the property;
      (4)   An expenditure shall be considered substantial if it is significant
both in dollar amount and in terms of (a) the total estimated cost of the
proposed project, and (b) the ordinary business practices of the developer ;
      (5)   A person shall be considered to have acted in good faith if actual
knowledge of a proposed change in the land use law affecting the proposed
development site could not be attributed to him or her; and
      (6)   Even though a person had actual knowledge of a proposed change in
the land use law affecting a development site, the Board may still find that he
acted in good faith if he or she did not proceed with his or her plans in a
deliberate attempt to circumvent the effects of the proposed ordinance. The
Board may find that the developer did not proceed in an attempt to undermine
the proposed ordinance if it determines that (a) at the time the expenditures
were made, either there was considerable doubt about whether any ordinance
would ultimately be passed, or it was not clear that the proposed ordinance
would ultimately be passed, or it was not clear that the proposed ordinance
would prohibit the intended development ; and (b) the developer had legitimate
business reasons for making expenditures.
   (B)   The requirements of division (A) of this section shall not apply to a
nonconforming project if the Administrator certifies that actual construction
of that project began at least 180 days before the effective date of this
chapter and that the work is at least 75% complete at the effective date of
this chapter.
   (C)   The Board of Commissioners shall not consider any application for a
special use permit authorized by division (A) of this section that is submitted
more than 60 days after the effective date of this chapter, unless it waives
this requirement for good cause shown.
   (D)   If the Board of Commissioners issues a special use permit pursuant to
division (A) of this section, it may attach such reasonable conditions to the
permit as it finds necessary to reduce the extent to which the nonconforming
project is incompatible with the surrounding neighborhood. In particular, the
Board may require that work on the nonconforming project be continuously
maintained, if possible, and that the project be completed as expeditiously as
possible.
   (E)   The Administrator shall send copies of this subsection to the owners
(and developers , if different from the owners ) of all properties in regard to
which permits have been issued for nonconforming projects or in regard to which
a nonconforming project is otherwise known to be under construction. This
notice shall be sent by registered mail not less than 15 days before the
effective date of this chapter.
   (F)   The Board of Commissioners shall establish expedited procedures for
hearing applications for special use permit under this subsection. These
applications shall be heard, whenever possible, before the effective date of
this chapter, so that construction work is not needlessly interrupted.
   (G)   When it appears from the developer ’s plans or otherwise that the
nonconforming project was intended to be or reasonably could be completed in
stages, segments or other discreet units, the Board of Commissioners shall not
allow the nonconforming project to be constructed or completed in a fashion
that is larger or more extensive than is necessary to allow the developer to
recoup and obtain a reasonable rate of return on the expenditures he has made
in connection with that nonconforming project.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005) (Am. Ord. 2010-O20, passed 7-20-2010)
DEVELOPMENT APPROVALS
§ 152.105 APPROVALS REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall commence or proceed with development without first
securing any required development approval required by the State Building Code,
or other state or local law from the town. A development approval shall be in
writing and may contain a provision that the development shall comply with all
applicable state and local laws. Applications for development approval s may be
made by the landowner, a lessee or person holding an option or contract to
purchase or lease land, or an authorized agent of the landowner.
   (B)   Development approvals are issued under this chapter only when a review
of the application submitted, including the plans contained therein, indicates
that the development will comply with the provisions of this chapter if
completed as proposed. Such plans and applications as are finally approved are
incorporated into any permit issued, and except as otherwise provided in §§
152.130 through
152.135, all development shall occur strictly in accordance with such approved
plans and applications.
   (C)   Physical improvements or alteration of land may not be commenced
except in accordance with a land improvement permit issued by the Town Manager
or his/her designee pursuant to the requirements of §
152.538.
   (D)   A development approval shall be issued in the name of the applicant
(except that applications submitted by an agent shall be issued in the name of
the principal), shall identify the property involved and the proposed use,
shall incorporate by reference the plans submitted, and shall contain any
special conditions or requirements.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2006-11, passed 4-18-2006; Am. Ord.
2010-O20, passed 7-20-2010; Am. Ord. 2014-O9, passed 4-15-2014; Am. Ord. 2021-
O3, passed 5-24-2021; Am. Ord. 2021-O4, passed 6-28-2021)
§ 152.106 NO OCCUPANCY, USE, OR SALE OF LOTS UNTIL REQUIREMENTS FULFILLED.
   Issuance of a special use , conditional zoning district permit, land
improvement , or zoning permit authorizes the recipient to commence the
activity resulting in a change in use of the land or (subject to obtaining a
building permit) to commence work designed to construct, erect, move, or
substantially alter building or other substantial structures or to make
necessary improvements to a subdivision . However, except as provided in §
152.111, the intended use may not be commenced, no building may be occupied,
and in the case of subdivisions, no lots may be sold until all of the
requirements of this chapter and all additional requirements imposed pursuant
to the issuance of a special use permit have been complied with.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2014-O9, passed 4-15-2014)
§ 152.107 WHO MAY SUBMIT PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Applications for zoning, special use , conditional zoning district
permit, land improvement , or sign permits or subdivision  plat approval will
be accepted only from persons having the legal authority to take action in
accordance with the permit or the subdivision  plat approval. By way of
illustration, in general this means that applications should be made by the
owners or lessees of property, or their agents, or persons who have contracted
to purchase property contingent upon their ability to acquire the necessary
permits under this chapter, or the agents of such persons (who may make
application in the name of such owners , lessees, or contract vendees).
   (B)   The administrator shall require an applicant to submit evidence of his
authority to submit the application in accordance with division (A) of this
section.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2014-O9, passed 4-15-2014)
§ 152.108 APPLICATIONS TO BE COMPLETE.
   (A)   All applications for zoning, special use , conditional zoning district
permit, land improvement , or sign permits must be completed before the permit-
issuing authority is required to consider the application.
   (B)   An application is complete when it contains all of the information
that is necessary for the permit-issuing authority to decide whether or not the
development , if completed as proposed, will comply with all of the
requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   The administrator shall make every effort to develop application
forms, instructional sheets, checklists, or other techniques or devices to
assist applicants in understanding the application requirements and the form
and type of information that must be submitted. In cases where a minimal amount
of information is necessary to enable the administrator to determine compliance
with this chapter, such as applications for zoning permits to construct single-
family or two- family houses, or applications for sign permits, the
administrator shall develop standard forms that will expedite the submission of
the necessary plans and other required information.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005) (Am. Ord. 2014-O9, passed 4-15-2014)
§ 152.109 STAFF CONSULTATION AFTER APPLICATION SUBMITTED.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a formal application for a zoning, special use permit
, conditional zoning district permit, or land improvement permit, or
subdivision  plat approval, the administrator shall review the application and
confer with the applicant to ensure that he understands the planning staff’s
interpretation of the applicable requirements of this chapter, that he has
submitted all of the information that he intends to submit, and that the
application represents precisely and completely what he proposes to do.
   (B)   If an application is for a special use or conditional zoning district
or subdivision  plat approval, the administrator shall place the application on
the agenda of the appropriate board when the applicant indicates that the
application is as complete as he intends to make it. However, if the
administrator believes that the application is incomplete, he shall recommend
to the appropriate board that the application be denied on that basis.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005) (Am. Ord. 2014-O9, passed 4-15-2014)
§ 152.110 ZONING PERMITS.
   (A)   A completed application form for a zoning permit shall be submitted to
the Administrator .
   (B)   The Administrator shall issue the zoning permit unless he or she
finds, after reviewing the application, that:
      (1)   The requested permit is not within his or her jurisdiction
according to the Table of Permissible Uses;
      (2)   The application is incomplete; or
      (3)   If completed as proposed in the application, the development will
not comply with one or more requirements of this chapter (not including those
requirements when a variance has been granted or those the applicant is not
required to comply with under the circumstances specified in §§
152.085 through
152.091, Nonconformities ).
   (C)   If the Administrator determines that the development for which a
zoning permit is requested will have or may have substantial impact on
surrounding properties, he or she shall, at least 45 days before taking final
action on the permit request, send a written notice to those persons who have
listed for taxation real property any portion of which is within 150 feet of
the lot that is the subject of the application, informing them that:
      (1)   An application has been filed for a permit authorizing identified
property to be used in a specified way;
      (2)   All persons wishing to comment on the application should contact
the administrator by a certain date; and
      (3)   Persons wishing to be informed of the outcome of the application
should send a written request for such notification and a stamped, self-
addressed envelope to the administrator .
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 152.111 AUTHORIZING USE OR OCCUPANCY BEFORE COMPLETION OF DEVELOPMENT UNDER
ZONING PERMIT.
   In cases when, because of weather conditions or other factors beyond the
control of the zoning permit recipient (exclusive of financial hardship), it
would be unreasonable to require the zoning permit recipient to comply with all
requirements of this chapter prior to commencing the intended use of the
property or occupying any buildings, the Administrator may authorize the
commencement of the intended use or the occupancy of buildings (insofar as the
requirements of this chapter are concerned) if the permit recipient provides a
performance bond or other security satisfactory (sufficient bond to guarantee
full payment of all remaining costs of completion) to the Administrator to
ensure that all of the requirements of the ordinance will be fulfilled within a
reasonable period (not to exceed 12 months) determined by the Administrator .
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 152.112 EFFECT OF PERMITS ON SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS.
   (A)   Zoning, special use, conditional zoning district permit, land
improvement, and sign permits authorize the permittee to make use of land and
structures in a particular way. Such permits are transferable. However, so long
as the land or structures or any portion thereof covered under a permit
continues to be used for the purposes for which the permit was granted, then:
      (1)   No person (including successors or assigns of the person who
obtained the permit) may make use of the land or structures covered under such
permit for the purposes authorized in the permit except in accordance with all
the terms and requirements of that permit; and
      (2)   The terms and requirements of the permit apply to and restrict the
use of land or structures covered under the permit, not only with respect to
all persons having any interest in the property at the time the permit is
obtained, but also with respect to persons who subsequently obtain any interest
in all or part of the covered property and wish to use it for or in connection
with purposes other than those for which the permit was originally issued, so
long as the persons who subsequently obtain an interest in the property had
actual or record notice (as provided in division (B) of this section) of the
existence of the permit at the time they acquired their interest.
   (B)   Whenever a special use permit  is issued to authorize development
(other than single-family or two-family residences) nothing authorized by the
permit may be done until the owner of the property signs a written
acknowledgment that the permit has been issued so that the permit may be
recorded in the Onslow County Register of Deeds and indexed under the owner’s
name as grantor.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2014-O9, passed 4-15-2014; Am. Ord.
2021-O3, passed 5-24-2021)
§ 152.113 AMENDMENTS TO AND MODIFICATIONS OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Insignificant deviations from the permit (including approved plans)
issued by the Board of Commissioners , the Board of Adjustment , or the
Administrator are permissible and the Administrator may authorize such
insignificant deviations. A deviation is insignificant if it has no discernable
impact on neighboring properties, the general public, or those intended to
occupy or use the proposed development .
   (B)   Minor design modifications or changes in permits (including approved
plans) are permissible with the approval of the permit-issuing authority. Such
permission may be obtained without a formal application, public hearing, or
payment of any additional fee. For purposes of this section, minor design
modifications or changes are those that have no substantial impact on
neighboring properties, the general public, or those intended to occupy or use
the proposed development .
   (C)   All other requests for changes in approved plans will be processed as
new applications. If such requests are required to be acted upon by the Board
of Commissioners or Board of Adjustment , new conditions may be imposed, but
the applicant retains the right to reject such additional conditions by
withdrawing his request for an amendment and may then proceed in accordance
with the previously issued permit.
   (D)   The administrator shall determine whether amendments to and
modifications of permits fall within the categories set forth above in
divisions (A), (B), and (C) of this section.
   (E)   A developer requesting approval of changes shall submit a written
request for such approval to the administrator , and that request shall
identify the changes. Approval of all changes must be given in writing.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 152.114 RECONSIDERATION OF BOARD ACTION.
   (A)   Whenever (I) the Board of Commissioners disapproves a special use
permit application or a conditional zoning district permit application, or (ii)
the Board of Adjustment disapproves an application for an interpretation appeal
or a variance, on any basis other than the failure of the applicant to submit a
complete application, such action may not be reconsidered by the respective
board at a later time unless the applicant clearly demonstrates that:
      (1)   Circumstances affecting the property that is the subject of the
application have substantially changed; or
      (2)   New information is available that could not with reasonable
diligence have been presented at a previous hearing. A request to be heard on
this basis must be filed with the administrator within the time period for an
appeal to superior court (see §
152.135). However, such a request does not extend the period within which an
appeal must be taken.
   (B)   Notwithstanding division (A) of this section, the Board of
Commissioners or Board of Adjustment may at any time consider a new application
affecting the same property as an application previously denied. A new
application is one that differs in some substantial way from the one previously
considered.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005) (Am. Ord. 2010-O20, passed 7-20-2010; Am. Ord.
2014-O9, passed 4-15-2014)
§ 152.115 APPLICATIONS TO BE PROCESSED EXPEDITIOUSLY.
   Recognizing that inordinate delays in acting upon appeals or applications
may impose unnecessary costs on the appellant or applicant, the town shall make
every reasonable effort to process appeals and permit applications as
expeditiously as possible, consistent with the need to ensure that all
development conforms to the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 152.116 MAINTENANCE OF COMMON AREAS, IMPROVEMENTS, AND FACILITIES.
   The recipient of any zoning, special use , conditional zoning district
permit, land improvement , or sign permit, or his or her successor, shall be
responsible for maintaining all common areas, improvements , or facilities
required by this chapter or any permit issued in accordance with its
provisions, except those areas, improvements , or facilities with respect to
which an offer of dedication to the public has been accepted by the appropriate
public authority. As illustrations, and without limiting the generality of the
foregoing, this means that private roads and parking areas , water and sewer
lines, and recreational facilities must be properly maintained so that they can
be used in the manner intended, and required vegetation and trees used for
screening, landscaping, or shading must be replaced if they die or are
destroyed.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005) (Am. Ord. 2014-O9, passed 4-15-2014)
§ 152.117 COMPLETING DEVELOPMENTS IN PHASES.
   (A)   If a development is constructed in phases or stages in accordance with
this section, then, subject to division (C) of this section, the provisions of
§
152.106 (No Occupancy, Use, or Sale of Lots Until Requirements Fulfilled) and §
152.112 (exceptions to §
152.106) shall apply to each phase as if it were the entire development .
   (B)   As a prerequisite to taking advantage of the provisions of division
(A), the developer shall submit plans that clearly show the various phases or
stages of the proposed development and the requirements of this Article that
will be satisfied with respect to each phase or stage.
   (C)   If a development that is to be built in phases or stages includes
improvements that are designed to relate to, benefit, or be used by the entire
development (such as a swimming pool or tennis courts in a residential
development ) then, as part of application for development approval , the
developer shall submit a proposed schedule for completion of such improvements
. The schedule shall relate completion of such improvements to completion of
one or more phases or stages of the entire development . Once a schedule has
been approved and made part of the permit by the permit-issuing authority, no
land may be used, no buildings may be occupied, and no subdivision  lots may be
sold except in accordance with the schedule approved as part of the permit,
provided that:
      (1)   If the improvement is one required by this subchapter then the
developer may utilize the provisions of §
152.111; and
      (2)   If the improvement is an amenity not required by this subchapter or
is provided in response to a condition imposed by the Board, then the developer
may utilize the provisions of §
152.112.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
ENFORCEMENT AND REVIEW
§ 152.130 COMPLAINTS REGARDING VIOLATIONS.
   Whenever the administrator receives a written, signed complaint alleging a
violation of this chapter, he shall investigate the complaint, take whatever
action is warranted, and inform the complainant in writing what actions have
been or will be taken.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 152.131 PERSONS LIABLE.
   The owner , tenant, or occupant of any building or land or part thereof and
any architect, builder, contractor, agent, or other person who participates in,
assists, directs, creates, or maintains any situation that is contrary to the
requirements of this chapter may be held responsible for the violation and
suffer the penalties and be subject to the remedies herein provided.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 152.132 PROCEDURES UPON DISCOVERY OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   When staff determines work or activity has been undertaken in
violation of an adopted development regulation or other local development
approval , a written notice of violation will be issued. The notice of
violation shall be delivered to the holder of the development approval and to
the landowner of the property involved, by personal delivery, electronic
delivery, or first-class mail and may be provided by similar means to the
occupant of the property or the person undertaking the work or activity. The
notice of violation may also be posted on the property.
   (B)   The written notice of violation shall state what action the
Administrator intends to take if the violation is not corrected and shall
advise that the administrator’s decision or order may be appealed to the Board
of Adjustment pursuant to G.S. § 160D-405.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, in cases when delay would seriously
threaten the effective enforcement of this chapter or pose a danger to the
public health, safety, or welfare, the administrator may seek enforcement
without prior written notice by invoking any of the penalties or remedies
authorized in §
152.133.
   (D)   Whenever any work or activity is undertaken in substantial violation
of any state or local law, or in a manner that endangers life or property,
staff may order the specific part of the work or activity that is in violation
or presents such a hazard to be immediately stopped. The order shall be in
writing, directed to the person doing the work or activity, and shall state the
specific work or activity to be stopped, the reasons therefor, and the
conditions under which the work or activity may be resumed. A copy of the order
shall be delivered to the holder of the development approval and to the owner
of the property involved by personal delivery, electronic delivery, or first-
class mail. A stop work order may be appealed pursuant to G.S. § 160D-405. No
further work or activity shall take place in violation of a stop work order
pending a ruling on the appeal. Violation of a stop work order shall constitute
a Class 1 misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2021-O3, passed 5-24-2021)
§ 152.133 CIVIL PENALTIES; AVAILABILITY OF REMEDY.
   (A)   Generally. Any act or omission constituting a violation of this
chapter shall subject the offender to a civil penalty in the amount of $50 to
be recovered by the town in a civil action in the nature of a debt or as
otherwise provided herein or by statute if the offender fails to pay the
penalty within 48 hours after the receipt of a citation of a violation.
   (B)   Citation contents. Any citation issued pursuant to this section may
contain such information as the Administrator  deems appropriate, and shall at
least:
      (1)   State upon its face the specific violation(s) being cited and the
amount of the penalty for each specific violation if such penalty or penalties
is/are paid within 48 hours after the issuance of the citation;
      (2)   Notify the offender that a failure to pay the penalty or penalties
within the prescribed time shall subject the offender to a civil action in the
nature of debt for the stated penalty or penalties plus any additional
penalties assessed pursuant to this section or otherwise, together with
interest and the costs of the action to be taxed by the court;
      (3)   Provide that the offender may answer the citation by mailing the
citation and the stated penalty or penalties to 601 W. Corbett Avenue,
Swansboro, North Carolina 28584, or may pay the amount at the Town Hall, corner
of W. Corbett Avenue and Church Streets, Swansboro, North Carolina; and
      (4)   State that the penalty or penalties must be cleared with the
Administrator , Town Hall within 48 hours of the issuance of the citation. The
notice shall further state that court action may be taken if the violation
citation is not cleared within 48 hours after the issuance of the citation. As
used in this section, the word “cleared” shall mean either:
         (a)   Payment of the penalty or penalties in full;
         (b)   Arrangement for payment of the penalty or penalties in full and
correction of the violation(s); or
         (c)   A prima facie showing to the Administrator that the citation was
received as a result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.
   (C)   Settlement of civil claim. The Administrator  is authorized to accept
payment in full and final settlement of the claim or claims, right or rights of
action which the town may have to enforce such penalty by civil action in the
nature of debt only if the act(s) or omission(s) which gave rise to the
violation(s) is/are abated or otherwise made lawful.
   (D)   Additional civil penalty. If any penalty or penalties prescribed by
this section is/are not cleared within 48 hours after issuance of a citation
therefore, then beginning on the third day after issuance of such citation, an
additional penalty of $50 per day violation shall be imposed until each
respective cited violation is cleared and either abated, or otherwise made
lawful. The imposition of additional civil penalties as provided herein shall
be subject to the terms of division (E) of this section.
   (E)   Continuing violations. After the initial 48 hour period after issuance
of a citation, each day’s continuing violation shall be a separate offense, but
no civil penalty shall be levied against the same person  for the same
continuing violation at the same location more than once unless the
Administrator  or his designee has delivered a written notice by personal
service or by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, to the
person  responsible for such violation indicating the nature of the violation
and ordering corrective action. The notice shall also set forth the time period
within which corrective measures must be completed. The notice shall state that
failure to correct the violation within the specified time will result in the
assessment of additional civil penalties and other enforcement action. If,
after the allotted time period has expired and after the hearing of any appeal
, the corrective action has not been completed, the civil penalty shall be
assessed in the amount of $100 per day of continuing violation.
   (F)   Continuing violations a misdemeanor. Violation of any provisions of
this chapter or any of the codes incorporated therein by reference, and
violation of any stop work order issued by the Administrator  or his or her
designee shall be a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005) (Am. Ord. 2016-O11, passed 9-13-2016)
§ 152.134 PERMIT REVOCATION.
   (A)   A zoning, sign, special use , conditional zoning district permit, or
land improvement permit may be revoked by the permit-issuing authority (in
accordance with the provisions of this section) if the permit recipient fails
to develop or maintain the property in accordance with the plans submitted, the
requirements of this chapter, or any additional requirements lawfully imposed
by the permit-issuing board.
   (B)   Before a special use or conditional zoning district permit may be
revoked, all of the notice and hearing and other requirements of §
152.064 through
152.070 shall be complied with. The notice shall inform the permit recipient of
the alleged grounds for the revocation.
   (C)   Before a zoning, land improvement , or sign permit may be revoked, the
Administrator shall give the permit recipient ten days notice of intent to
revoke the permit and shall inform the recipient of the alleged reasons for the
revocation and of his or her right to obtain an informal hearing on the
allegations. If the permit is revoked, the Administrator shall provide to the
permittee a written statement of the decision and the reasons therefore.
   (D)   No person may continue to make use of land or buildings in the manner
authorized by any zoning, sign, special use , or conditional zoning district
permit after such permit has been revoked in accordance with this chapter.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005) (Am. Ord. 2014-O9, passed 4-15-2014)
§ 152.135 JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   (A)   Every decision of the Board of Commissioners granting or denying a
special use or conditional zoning district permit and every final decision of
the Board of Adjustment shall be subject to review by the Superior Court of
Onslow County by proceedings in the nature of certiorari.
   (B)   The petition for the writ of certiorari must be filed with the Onslow
County Clerk of Court within 30 days after the later of the following
occurrences:
      (1)   A written copy of the board’s decision has been filed in the office
of the planning department; and
      (2)   A written copy of the board’s decision has been delivered by
personal service or certified mail, return receipt requested, to the applicant
or appellant and every other aggrieved party who has filed a written request
for such copy at the hearing of the case.
   (C)   A copy of the writ of certiorari shall be served upon the Town of
Swansboro.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005) (Am. Ord. 2014-O9, passed 4-15-2014)
VESTED RIGHTS, PERMIT CHOICE AND DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS
§ 152.150 PURPOSE.
   It is necessary and desirable for the establishment of certain vested rights
in order to ensure reasonable certainty, stability, and fairness in the
development regulation process, secure the reasonable expectations of
landowners, and foster cooperation between the public and private sectors in
land-use planning and development regulation jurisdiction . These provisions
strike an appropriate balance between private expectations and the public
interest.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2021-O3, passed 5-24-2021)
§ 152.151 ESTABLISHMENT OF VESTED RIGHTS.
   (A)   A person claiming a statutory or common law vested right may submit
information to substantiate that claim to the Zoning Administrator or other
officer designated by a development regulation , who shall make an initial
determination  as to the existence of the vested right.
   (B)   The decision of the Zoning Administrator or officer may be appealed
under G.S. § 160D-405. On appeal, the existence of a vested right shall be
reviewed de novo. In lieu of seeking such a determination , a person claiming a
vested right may bring an original civil action as provided by G.S. § 160D-405
(c).
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2021-O3, passed 5-24-2021)
§ 152.152 PERMIT CHOICE.
   (A)   If an application made in accordance with local regulation is
submitted for a required development approval and a development regulation
changes between the time the application was submitted and a decision is made,
the applicant may choose which version of the development regulation will apply
to the application.
   (B)   Amendments shall not be applicable or enforceable with regard to
development that has been permitted or approved so long as one of the types of
approvals remains valid and unexpired.
   (C)   If the applicant chooses the version of the rule or ordinance
applicable at the time of the permit application, the development permit
applicant shall not be required to await the outcome of the amendment to the
rule, map, or ordinance prior to acting on the development permit. This applies
to all development approval s issued by the state and by the town.
(Ord. 2021-O3, passed 5-24-2021)
§ 152.153 DURATION AND TYPES OF STATUTORY VESTED RIGHTS.
   Vested rights established under this section are not mutually exclusive. The
establishment of a vested right under this section does not preclude the
establishment of one or more other vested rights or vesting by common law
principles. Vested rights established by local government approvals are as
follows:
   (A)   Building permits. Pursuant to G.S. § 160D-1111, a building permit
expires six months after issuance unless work under the permit has commenced.
Building permits also expire if work is discontinued for a period of 12 months
after work has commenced.
   (B)   Other local development approvals. Pursuant to G.S. § 160D-403(c),
unless otherwise specified by statute or local ordinance, all other local
development approval s expire one year after issuance unless work has
substantially commenced. Expiration of a local development approval shall not
affect the duration of a vested right established under this section or vested
rights established under common law.
   (C)   Site-specific vesting plans.
      (1)   A vested right for a site-specific vesting plan shall remain vested
for a period of two years. This vesting shall not be extended by any amendments
or modifications to a site-specific vesting plan unless expressly provided by
the town.
      (2)   The town may provide that rights regarding a site-specific vesting
plan shall be vested for a period exceeding two years, but not exceeding five
years, if warranted by the size and phasing of development, the level of
investment, the need for the development, economic cycles, and market
conditions, or other considerations. This determination  shall be in the
discretion of the town and shall be made following the process specified for
the particular form of a site-specific vesting plan involved.
   (D)   Multiphase developments. A multiphase development shall be vested for
the entire development with the zoning regulations, subdivision regulations,
and unified development ordinances in place at the time a site plan approval is
granted for the initial phase of the multiphase development. This right shall
remain vested for a period of seven years from the time a site plan approval is
granted for the initial phase of the multiphase development.
   (E)   Indefinite development agreements. A vested right of reasonable
duration may be specified in any approved development agreement.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2021-O3, passed 5-24-2021)
§ 152.154 SUBSEQUENT CHANGES PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Continuing review. Following the approval or conditional approval of a
statutory vested right, the town may make subsequent reviews and require
subsequent approvals to ensure compliance with the terms and conditions of the
original approval, provided that such reviews and approvals are not
inconsistent with the original approval. The town may revoke the original
approval for failure to comply with applicable terms and conditions or the
applicable development regulation s.
   (B)   Exceptions. The provisions of this section are subject to the
following:
      (1)   A vested right, once established, precludes any zoning action by
the town that would change, alter, impair, prevent, diminish, or otherwise
delay the development or use of the property as set forth in an approved vested
right, except when any of the following conditions are present:
         (a)   The written consent of the affected landowner.
         (b)   Findings made, after notice and an evidentiary hearing , that
natural or manmade hazards on or in the immediate vicinity of the property, if
uncorrected, would pose a serious threat to the public health, safety, and
welfare if the project were to proceed as contemplated in the approved vested
right.
         (c)   The extent to which the affected landowner receives compensation
for all costs, expenses, and other losses incurred by the landowner, including,
but not limited to, all fees paid in consideration of financing, and all
architectural, planning, marketing, legal, and other consulting fees incurred
after approval by the town, together with interest as is provided in G.S. §
160D-106. Compensation shall not include any diminution in the value of the
property that is caused by such action.
         (d)   Findings made, after notice and an evidentiary hearing , that
the landowner or the landowner's representative intentionally supplied
inaccurate information or made material misrepresentations that made a
difference in the approval by the town of the vested right.
         (e)   The enactment or promulgation of a state or federal law or
regulation that precludes development as contemplated in the approved vested
right, in which case the town may modify the affected provisions, upon a
finding that the change in state or federal law has a fundamental effect on the
plan, after notice and an evidentiary hearing .
      (2)   The establishment of a vested right under this section shall not
preclude the application of overlay zoning or other development regulation that
imposes additional requirements but does not affect the allowable type or
intensity of use, or ordinances or regulations that are general in nature and
are applicable to all property subject to development regulation by a local
government, including, but not limited to, building, fire, plumbing,
electrical, and mechanical codes. Otherwise applicable new regulations shall
become effective with respect to property that is subject to a vested right
established under this section upon the expiration or termination of the vested
rights period provided for in this section.
      (3)   Notwithstanding any provision of this section, the establishment of
a vested right shall not preclude, change, or impair the authority of the town
to adopt and enforce development regulation provisions governing nonconforming
situations or uses.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2021-O3, passed 5-24-2021)
§ 152.155 MISCELLANEOUS VESTED RIGHTS PROVISIONS.
   (A)   A vested right obtained under this section is not a personal right,
but shall attach to and run with the applicable property. After approval of a
vested right, all successors to the original landowner shall be entitled to
exercise such rights.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall preclude judicial determination , based
on common law principles or other statutory provisions, that a vested right
exists in a particular case or that a compensable taking has occurred. Except
as expressly provided in this section, nothing in this section shall be
construed to alter the existing common law.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2021-O3, passed 5-24-2021)
§ 152.156 DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   The Town may enter into development agreements with developers,
subject to the procedures and requirements of G.S. §§ 160D-1001 to 160D-1012.
In entering into such agreements, the town may not exercise any authority or
make any commitment not authorized by local ordinances or State law and may not
impose any tax or fee not authorized by otherwise applicable laws.
   (B)   This section does not preclude or supersede rights and obligations
established pursuant to other laws regarding building permits, site-specific.
   (C)   Development authorized by a development agreement shall comply with
all applicable laws, including all ordinances, resolutions, regulations,
permits, policies, and laws affecting the development of property, including
laws governing permitted uses of the property, density, intensity, design, and
improvements.
   (D)   A vested right of reasonable duration may be specified in an approved
development agreement.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2021-O3, passed 5-24-2021)
ZONING DISTRICTS AND ZONING MAP
§ 152.170 ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS, AND THE PURPOSE THEREOF.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the Town of Swansboro and its
extraterritorial jurisdiction is divided into the following classes of zones:
   (A)   CON - Conservation. The Conservation District is established as a
district in which only partial development of land may occur. The regulations
of this district are intended to protect the floodplain and estuarine areas and
permitted uses shall be in conformity with the uses listed in this chapter,
subject to the appropriate state and federal laws. This district shall apply to
those areas above mean high water which may be covered by marsh and are
protected by the Coastal Area Management Act and appropriate federal laws.
   (B)   RA - Residential/Agricultural. The purpose of this district shall be
to set aside and protect those lands which are primarily suited for
agriculture, agricultural-related uses of woodlands.
   (C)   R6 - Residential. The purpose of this district shall be to provide for
single-family up to and including multi-family structures and recreational
purposes. This district shall provide areas for apartments, townhouses , PUDs,
and PRDs.
   (D)   R6SF - Residential. The purpose of this district shall be that only
single-family structures shall be permitted in this district.
   (E)   R8SF - Residential. The purpose of this district shall be that only
single-family structures shall be permitted in this district.
   (F)   R10SF - Residential. The purpose of this district shall be that only
single-family residential structures shall be permitted in this district.
   (G)   R15SF - Residential. The purpose of this district shall be that only
single-family residential structures shall be permitted in this district.
   (H)   R20SF - Residential. The purpose of this district shall be that only
single-family residential structures shall be permitted in this district.
    (I)   R40SF - Residential. The purpose of this district shall be that only
single-family residential structures shall be permitted in this district.
   (J)   MHP - Mobile Home Park. The purpose of this district shall be to
provide an area for mobile home owners to rent or to buy an area in which to
put a mobile home for the purpose of inhabiting it. Mobile home sales are not
permitted in this district.
   (K)   MHS - Mobile Home Subdivision . The purpose of this district is for
the division of land into lots  primarily designed for mobile home usage but
adaptable in many cases to other residential uses.
   (L)   MHS-15SF - Mobile Home Subdivision 15 Single Family . The purpose of
this district is for the division of land into lots  primarily designed for
mobile home usage, but adaptable in many cases to other residential uses with a
minimum of 15,000 square feet each.
   (M)   MHS-O - Mobile Home Subdivision Overlay. The purpose of this district
shall be to provide for additional consistency, control, and flexibility in
areas zoned “Mobile Home Subdivision ”.
   (N)   O/I - Office and Institutional. The O/I Office and Institutional
District is defined as certain land uses with structures that provide office
space for professional services and for certain institutional functions and
residential accommodations, usually medium or high-density in nature. The
district is normally small and may include older homes undergoing conversion.
This district is usually situated between business and residential districts,
and the regulations are designed to permit development of the permitted
functions and still protect and be compatible with nearby residential
districts. All O/I Office and Institutional Districts, with a total area of
less than four acres, shall serve as transitional zones between high intensity
and low intensity land uses.
   (O)   G/E - Governmental/Educational. The purpose of this district shall be
to provide zoning districts in which federal, state, and local governmental
services as well as private and public primary, secondary, and post-secondary
educational purposes may be located. It is not intended that uses in the nature
of child day care be permitted in this district even though tutoring or other
school  assistance may be offered in conjunction with the day care. In
addition, it is recognized that existing governmental uses often provide
opportunities for the location of telecommunications antennas to the mutual
advantage of the vendors of telecommunications services and the general public,
i.e., water towers and emergency services facilities.
   (P)   B1 - Highway Business. The purpose of this district shall be to
provide for the proper grouping and development of roadside business uses, and
for uses not basically related to central or neighborhood business areas.
   (Q)   B2 - General Business. The purpose of this district shall be to
provide for the proper grouping and development of those uses which are related
to central or neighborhood business districts. Such uses might include shopping
centers  and retail uses.
   (R)   B2HDO - B2 Historic District Overlay. The purpose of the B-2 Historic
District Overlay is to provide for a mixture of permitted and special uses
that are consistent in protecting and preserving the heritage of the Town’s
historic business district while providing a wide range of retail and
professional services to local residents and visitors. The uses listed within
this district are intended to compliment the historic nature of the downtown
district while protecting the integrity of adjacent residential neighborhoods.
    (S)   MI - Light Industrial. The purpose of this district shall be to
establish areas for offices, warehousing, and other light industries located on
tracts of land where the operations involved do not detract from the
development potential of nearby properties (refer to §
152.180(LL), Note 38 for development standards).
   (T)   B-3 - Traditional Business. The purpose of Traditional Business
District is to provide for a district with the characteristics of traditional
business areas, including relatively high density retail development and
pedestrian-oriented design, mixed with office and residential development
located primarily on the upper stories of buildings . This district is designed
to create a high degree of business vitality, social connectivity, commercial
interaction, walk-ability, and aesthetic appeal . Such districts should be
located and established so that most development is located on low-speed
streets  and/or within planned off-street nodes, with thoroughfares located
only on the perimeter of the district. Upper story residential uses are
encouraged in the district, and the location of higher density residential
development adjacent to this district is appropriate.
   (U)   PUD - Planned Unit Development . The purpose of this district is to
provide for office , institutional, governmental, residential, commercial, and/
or projects involving a combination of these uses located on land under unified
control, planned as a whole, and developed as a single development or in a
programmed series of units or stages of development according to comprehensive
and detailed plans.
   (V)   CZ - Conditional Zoning Districts. Conditional zoning districts may be
created as parallel districts for each of the general zoning districts in this
section. Each conditional zoning district shall be designated on the zoning map
and other official documents by combining the designation of its parallel
zoning district with the suffix, “(CZ)”, for example B-2(CZ). Applications for
conditional rezoning shall follow the process as outlined in Note 1 of §
152.180.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. passed 6-8-2005; Am. Ord. passed 9-
20-2005; Am. Ord. passed 8-17-2010; Am. Ord. passed 11-22-2016; Am. Ord. 2019-
O4, passed 4-23-2019; Am. Ord. 2021-O3, passed 5-24-2021)
§ 152.171 ZONING MAP IS A PART OF THIS CHAPTER.
   (A)   Zoning district boundaries shall be drawn on a map that is adopted or
incorporated within a duly adopted development regulation . Zoning district
maps that are so adopted shall be maintained for public inspection in the
office of the Town Clerk or such other office as specified in the development
regulation . The maps may be in paper or a digital format approved by the town.
   (B)   The map shall be identified by the signature of the Mayor, attested by
the Town Clerk, and bearing the official seal of the Town of Swansboro under
the following words: “This is to certify that this is the official zoning map
referred to in §
152.171 of the Unified Development Ordinance for the Town of Swansboro, North
Carolina”. The date of adoption and subsequent amendments shall also be shown.
   (C)   Copies of the zoning district map may be reproduced by any method of
reproduction that gives legible and permanent copies, when certified by the
Town Clerk in accordance with G.S. § 160A-79, shall be admissible in evidence
and shall have the same force and effect as would the original map.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2021-O3, passed 5-24-2021)
§ 152.172 REPLACEMENT OF THE OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
   In the event that the official zoning map becomes damaged, destroyed, lost,
or difficult to interpret, the Board of Commissioners may, by ordinance, adopt
a new official zoning map which shall be the same in every detail as the map it
supersedes. The new map shall bear the seal of the town under the following
words: “This is to certify that this official zoning map supersedes and
replaces the official zoning map adopted and referred to in Article 1, Section
9 of the Unified Development Ordinance for the Town of Swansboro, North
Carolina”. The date of adoption of the new official zoning map shall also be
shown.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 152.173 MAINTENANCE OF THE OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
   Upon notification by the Board of Commissioners that a zoning change has
been made, the Town Clerk shall cause to be made the necessary changes on the
official zoning map within 14 calendar days of notification. The Administrator
shall be responsible for the maintenance and revision of the official zoning
map after being notified by the Town Clerk.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 152.174 ONLY ONE MAIN BUILDING, ONE MAIN USE ON LOT, AND ORIENTATION OF A
BUILDING.
   (A)   In all districts, every main building hereafter erected or altered
shall be located on a separate lot , as defined in this chapter, and in no case
shall there be more than one main building and permitted accessory building on
the lot nor more than one main use (e.g. commercial, industrial or residential)
per building and lot ; provided that this requirement shall not apply to uses
that are permitted in the Table of Permitted Uses (§
152.179) within the same zoning district and located in the same building, nor
to motels or manufactured home parks, nor to a bona fide farm use.
   (B)   The following exceptions shall apply within the B2HDO district:
      (1)   Lot has a historically contributing building;
      (2)   Contributing building cannot be expanded without losing character
of building;
      (3)   Sufficient room to place infill structure ;
      (4)   Must meet all Swansboro Historic Preservation Commission B2HDO
requirements concerning setbacks ; and
      (5)   New building (infill) may be larger but shall not overpower the
immediate surrounding buildings.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005) (Am. Ord. passed 3-22-2016)
§ 152.175 MINIMUM YARDS.
   The minimum yards or other open spaces required by this chapter, including
those provisions regulating intensity of use, for each and every building
hereafter erected or structurally altered shall not be encroached upon or
considered as meeting the yard or open space requirements or the intensity of
use provisions for any other building.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 152.176 LOT SUBDIVISION.
   No lot shall hereafter be so reduced in area as to cause any open space
required by this chapter to be less in any dimension than is herein required by
the minimum yard requirements of the zone in which the lot in question is
situated.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 152.177 IMPROVEMENTS BOND.
   No final certificate of occupancy/compliance for a commercial, residential,
or manufactured home park will be issued until all required site improvements
have been completed. In lieu of completion of required site improvements , the
developer of the planned group may enter into a contract with the Town of
Swansboro providing for the installation of required improvements within a
designated period of time. Performance of said contract shall be secured by a
cash or surety bond which will cover the total estimated cost of the
improvements as determined by the Town of Swansboro; provided, however, that
said bond may be waived by the Town Board of Commissioners within its
discretion.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005) (Am. Ord. passed 3-22-2016)
§ 152.178 MANUFACTURED OFFICE BUILDINGS.
   Manufactured office buildings are not permitted unless specifically allowed
by this chapter.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005) (Am. Ord. passed 7-19-2011)
§ 152.179 TABLE OF PERMITTED/SPECIAL USES.
   (A)   Districts in which particular uses are a permitted use by right are
indicated by “P.” Uses with certain conditions may include a reference to a
footnote to this table.
   (B)   Districts in which particular uses are a special use upon approval of
the Town Board of Commissioners are indicated by “S”. See the Table of
Regulations for Special Uses , §
152.211, for details of each special use .
   (C)   Districts in which particular uses are reviewed for compliance by the
Town Planner are indicated by “US”. See § 152.212, Use Standards, for details
of each use standard.
   (D)   Districts in which particular uses are a minor special use upon
approval of the Town Board of Adjustments are indicated by "MS". See the Table
of Regulations for Special Uses , §
152.211, for details of each minor special use.
   (E)   Districts in which particular uses are prohibited are indicated by a
blank.
   (F)   Any land use listed in the Table of Permitted Uses that incorporates
or utilizes a drive-in facility must have its site design plan and proposed
traffic circulation and parking plan approved by the Town of Swansboro. Those
plans must be approved prior to construction of the drive-in facility.
   (G)   Minimum zoning district area (acreage) requirements are defined in §
152.170, Establishment of Zoning Districts and the Purpose Thereof.
TO_VIEW_TABLE_AS_A_PDF_DOCUMENT_CLICK_HERE
(Ord. passed 3-15-2005; Amended 6-08-2005; Am. Ord. 2005-O8, passed 7-19-2005;
Am. Ord. 9-20-2005; Am. Ord. 2006-11, passed 4-18-2006; Am. Ord. passed 6-20-
2006; Am. Ord. passed 9-18-2007; Am. Ord. 2008-O4, passed 2-19-2008; Am. Ord.
2009-O6, passed 4-21-2009; Am. Ord. passed 1-19-2010; Am. Ord. 2010-O6, passed
2-16-2010; Am. Ord. 2010-O14, passed 5-18-2010; Am. Ord. passed 6-15-2010; Am.
Ord. passed 11-16-2010; Am. Ord. passed 1-18-2011; Am. Ord. passed 6-21-2011;
Am. Ord. passed 7-19-2011; Am. Ord. 2011-O26, passed 8-16-2011; Am. Ord. passed
2-19-2013; Am. Ord. 2013-O9, passed 3-19-2013; Am. Ord. passed 5-21-2013; Am.
Ord. passed 6-12-2013; Am. Ord. 2014-O9, passed 4-15-2014; Am. Ord. passed 1-
26-2016; Am. Ord. passed 3-22-2016; Am. Ord. passed 7-26-2016; Am. Ord. 2016-
O11, passed 9-13-2016; Am. Ord. 2016-O14, passed 10-25-2016; Am. Ord. passed
11-22-2016; Am. Ord. 1-10-2017; Am. Ord. passed 2-28-2017; Am. Ord. 2019-O4,
passed 4-23-2019; Am. Ord. 2020-O6, passed 8-10-2020; Am. Ord. 2021-O3, passed
5-24-2021; Am. Ord. 2021-O7, passed 7-26-2021; Am. Ord. 2023-O6, passed 5-22-
23; Am. Ord. 2023-O9, passed 7-24-23; Am. Ord. 2024-O7, passed 4-23-24; Am.
Ord. 2024-O16, passed 8-27-24)
§ 152.180 NOTES TO THE TABLE OF PERMITTED/SPECIAL USES.
   (A)   Note 1. Conditional Zoning Districts .
      (1)   Conditional zoning districts are zoning districts in which the
development and use of the property is subject to site-specific conditions
imposed as part of the legislative decision creating the zoning district.
      (2)   A conditional zoning district  allows particular uses to be
established only in accordance with specific standards and conditions
pertaining to each individual development project. Some land uses are of such a
nature or scale that they have significant impacts on both the immediately
surrounding area and on the entire community. There are also circumstances in
which a general district designation allowing such a use by right would not be
appropriate for a particular property even though the use itself could, if
properly planned, be appropriate for the property consistent with the
objectives of these regulations, the adopted land use plan, adopted area plans
and other long range plans. The review process established in this division
provides for the accommodation of such uses by a reclassification of property
into a conditional zoning district , subject to specific conditions which
ensure compatibility of the use with the use and enjoyment of neighboring
properties. A conditional zoning district  is generally not intended for
securing early zoning for a proposal, except when that proposal is consistent
with an approved district or area plan or the proposal can demonstrate that
public infrastructure needed to serve the development will be made available
within a reasonable time period. A separate master plan approval process as
described in this division may be utilized only when a proposal is a component
of a development project that is the subject of a development agreement between
Town of Swansboro and a developer pursuant to G.S. §§ 160D-1001 through 160D-
1012.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2382.png]
 
Figure 152.180.1 (Sample parcel suitable for Conditional Zoning)
         (a)   Flexible lot development , requires rezoning to Conditional
Zoning Districts (CZ).
            1.   Flexible lot development is an area of land under unified
control, to be developed as a single entity for a number and variety of
dwelling and/or commercial units, according to a Master Plan which is approved
at the time of the rezoning.
            2.   Flexible lot development   developments such as mixed use
requested within traditional commercial zoning districts such as B1, B2 and B3
shall incorporate a minimum of 25% of the total project area to commercial
buildings or services. The development of neighborhood, community or regional
commercial centers shall be in scale with surrounding market areas at locations
recommended herein or the town’s Land Use Plan. The development is intended to
permit the establishment of the projects only where planned centers with
carefully organized buildings, service areas, parking areas and landscaped open
spaces will clearly serve demonstrated public need, reduce marginal traffic
friction that would result from strip commercial development along highways,
and protect property values in surrounding neighborhoods.
            3.   Flexible lot development is intended to allow flexibility
(variety) in development and encourage the use of innovative design and layout
that would not otherwise be permitted under the UDO because of strict
application of the zoning district or general development standards. Flexible
lot development encourages innovative land planning and design concepts by:
               a.   Reducing or eliminating the inflexibility that sometimes
results from strict application of zoning and development standards (e.g.
height, setbacks , lot width ) that were designed primarily for individual lots
;
               b.   Allowing greater freedom in selecting the means to provide
access, light, open space and design amenities;
               c.   Allowing greater freedom in providing a mix of land uses in
the same development , including mix of housing types, housing prices, lot
sizes, densities and non-residential uses;
               d.   Promoting quality urban design and environmentally
sensitive development by allowing development to take advantage of special site
characteristics, locations and land uses; and
               e.   Encouraging quality urban design and environmentally
sensitive development by allowing increases in base densities when the
increases can be justified by superior design or the provision of additional
amenities such as public and/or private open space .
            4.   In return for greater flexibility in site design requirements,
flexible lot developments are expected to: deliver exceptional quality
community designs that preserve critical environmental resources; provide
above- average open space amenities, incorporate creative design in the layout
of buildings, open and circulation; coordinate and unify design elements of the
project, including building materials, signage and architectural compatibility;
assure compatibility with surrounding land uses and neighborhood character; and
provide greater efficiency in the layout and provision of roads, utilities and
other infrastructure. The Conditional Zoning District process shall not be used
as a means of circumventing the town’s adopted zoning and development
regulations for routine developments .
            5.   Uses allowed. Flexible lot development  may contain any or all
of the uses specified in the approved Master Plan, provided the uses are
consistent with the town’s Land Use Plan. A wide range of uses is possible in
flexible lot development , and the specific uses allowed may be different in
each development approved through the Conditional Zoning District  process. All
uses that are set out in an approved Master Plan shall be treated as permitted
uses within the development, except that uses which are prohibited shall not be
permitted within the development.
            6.   Certain mixed uses allowed.
               a.   Mixed use   developments are encouraged and allowed in
flexible lot developments through the Conditional Zoning District process only
as specified in this chapter. Mixed use   development may occur by having
retail or commercial uses located in the same building (e.g., retail or office
space on ground floor , and residential above) or by having non-residential
uses located in different buildings sited on the same lot or parcel (e.g.,
office building located on the same parcel as a freestanding residential
structure ).
               b.   Mixed use   developments shall be designed, located and
oriented on the site so that non-residential uses are directly accessible to
residents of the development . For the purposes of this section, directly
accessible shall mean pedestrian and vehicular access by way of improved
sidewalks, paths, greenways and streets that do not involve leaving the
development or using a major thoroughfare . Directly accessible does not
necessarily mean that non-residential uses need to be located in a particular
location, but that the siting of the uses considers the accessibility of the
residential component of the development to the non-residential use.
            7.   Flexible lot development approved through a Conditional Zoning
District shall be subject to all applicable overlay district regulations, all
applicable environmental regulations, and all applicable general regulations,
unless otherwise waived or modified by the town in the terms of the approved
master plan. In case of any conflict between a specific regulation set forth in
this chapter and the UDO and town code of ordinances, the regulation in this
section shall apply unless otherwise expressly allowed.
            8.   Notwithstanding division (A)(2)(b)7. of this section, in no
case shall the Board of Commissioners waive or modify the following standards
for a proposed flexible lot development :
               a.   All overlay district requirements and standards;
               b.   Ownership requirements for any open space , buffers or
streetscapes unless otherwise permitted in the UDO; Stormwater control and
erosion and sedimentation control requirements;
            9.   Other applicable standards (minimum).
               a.   Emergency access. Any building  established as part of a
flexible lot development which cannot properly be served by emergency or
service vehicles from an abutting street  shall be made accessible to the
vehicles by a paved driveway having a roadbed width of not less than 20 feet,
exclusive of parking spaces.
               b.   Transportation and circulation system. The development’s
Master Plan shall demonstrate a logical, adequate, safe and convenient on- site
transportation system that addresses vehicular, bicycle, pedestrian and transit
circulation that connects all residential areas with pedestrian destinations on
and off-site, such as schools , churches, shopping areas and recreational
areas. All elements of the on-site transportation system shall be integrated
with all off-site transportation circulation systems, with particular attention
to minimizing pedestrian/automobile contact.
               c.   Off-street parking and loading. The development’s Master
Plan shall comply with the off-street  parking and loading requirements of §§
152.290 through
152.296, except that variations from these standards may be permitted if a
comprehensive parking and loading plan for the development is submitted as part
of the Master Plan that is suitable for the development and consistent with the
intent and purpose of the off-street  parking and loading standards of the UDO.
               d.   Landscaping. Landscaping shall comply with the standards of
§§
152.525 through
152.544, except that variations from these standards may be permitted where it
is demonstrated that the proposed landscaping sufficiently buffers uses from
each other, ensures compatibility with land uses on surrounding properties,
creates attractive streetscapes and parking areas , and is consistent with the
urban design objectives and/or character of the area.
               e.   Utilities. Flexible lot development  projects shall provide
for underground installation of utilities, including telephone and power in
both public and private rights-of-way , except when conditions not reasonably
within the control of the developer make this requirement unpractical.
               f.   Areas to be preserved. In all flexible lot development
projects, efforts shall be made to preserve historic sites, scenic points,
large trees and other desirable natural growths, watercourses and other water
areas, and other features worthy of preservation, either as portions of public
sites and open spaces, or in the other form as to provide amenities to the
neighborhood. Trees or other desirable natural growth located in public or
private rights-of-way  or public or private easements shall not be removed
unless the removal is necessary for the installation of utilities or drainage
structures or for other purposes in the public interest. The removal may be
prohibited if the amenity of adjacent property, or the amenity of the general
neighborhood, is adversely affected.
               g.   Building form. As provided for in §§
152.555 through
152.561, Building Design and Compatibility, construction and reconstruction of
buildings  in a manner that achieves a visually desirable environment is
essential in achieving innovative land planning and design concepts. In
addition to provided herein are additional requirements for any modification in
height, setbacks  and lot  dimensions as required in the underlying zoning
district:
               h.   Height. Consideration for height modification shall be
reviewed using the techniques as provided in (A)(2)(b)9.ii. through iv below.
In no case shall the mean height exceed 40 feet.
               i.   Stepback. Stepbacks can provide mitigation to views along
the corridor by providing relief of the vertical mass. Stepbacks provide a
vertical transition between adjacent properties visually reducing the perceived
scale of a building  in comparison to its surrounding context. An additional
building  setback of one foot for every requested one foot of height shall be
required above the town’s 35 foot requirement. (e.g., if the developer request
is for 40 feet, an additional five foot setback would be required). See
Figure 152.180.2.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2384.png]
Figure 152.180.2 (Use of Stepbacks for Height Modification)
                  ii.   Corridor setback . In requesting the use of Flexible
lot development along the Highway 24/Corbett Street corridor, no structure
within 200 feet from the corridor right-of-way shall exceed the 35 foot town-
wide height requirement. See
Figures 152.180.3 and
152.180.4.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2386.png]
Figure 152.180.3 (Use of Corridor Setback for Height Modification)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2388.png]
Figure 152.180.4 (Use of Corridor Setback for Height Modification)
                  iii.   Transition zones. The following standards shall be
applied between existing and proposed flexible lot developments . See
Figure 152.180.5.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2390.png]
Figure 152.180.5 (Use of Transition Zones for Height Modification)
                  iv.   Massing. A single, large, dominant building  mass shall
be avoided. Where large structures are required, mass should be broken up
through the use of setbacks , projecting and recessed elements, and similar
design techniques. See
Figure 152.180.6.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2392.png]
Figure 152.180.6 (Use of Massing for Height Modification)
         (c)   Plans and other information to accompany petition.
            1.   Property may be rezoned to a conditional zoning district only
in response to a petition submitted by all owners of the property to be
included in the district. Specific conditions may be proposed by the petitioner
or the town or its agencies, but only those conditions mutually approved by the
town and the petitioner may be incorporated into the zoning regulations.
Conditions and site-specific standards imposed in a conditional district shall
be limited to those that address the conformance of the development and use of
the site to the town ordinances, plans adopted pursuant to G.S. § 160D-501, or
the impacts reasonably expected to be generated by the development or use of
the site. A petition for conditional zoning must include a site plan , drawn to
scale, and supporting information and text that specifies the actual use or
uses intended for the property and any rules, regulations, and conditions that,
in addition to all predetermined ordinance requirements, will govern the
development and use of the property. The following information must be
provided:
               a.   A boundary survey and vicinity map showing the property’s
total acreage, its zoning classification(s), the general location in relation
to major streets , railroads, and/or waterways, the date, and north arrow;
               b.   All existing easements , reservations , and rights-of-way ;
               c.   Approximate dimensions, including height of proposed
buildings and other structures;
               d.   Proposed use of all land and structures, including the
number of residential units and the total square footage of any nonresidential
development .
               e.   All yards, buffers, screening, and landscaping required by
this article or proposed by the petitioner;
               f.   All existing and proposed points of access to public and/or
private streets ;
               g.   Delineation of areas within the regulatory floodplain as
shown on the official flood hazard boundary maps for the Town of Swansboro;
               h.   Proposed phasing (if applicable);
               I.   The location of existing and proposed storm drainage
patterns and facilities intended to serve the proposed development ;
               j.   Approximate location of all existing and proposed
infrastructure on the site, including water, sewer, roads and pedestrian
walkways;
               k.   Generalized traffic, parking, and circulation plans;
               l.   Tree survey (if applicable);
               m.   Site inventory as required by this subchapter.
            2.   For a proposed conditional zoning district constituting a
component of a development project that is the subject of a Development
Agreement , the applicant shall submit a master plan in lieu of a detailed site
plan. Board of Commissioners approval of the master plan shall be required.
Conditions from any adopted district, corridor, or area plan, including the
Town’s Land Use Plan shall be adopted as part of the approval where
appropriate. The site plan shall be reviewed and recommendations made for
conditions by the Technical Review Committee .
            3.   Submittal requirements - Master Plan. The master plan shall
consist of the following:
               a.   A boundary survey and vicinity map showing the property’s
total acreage, its zoning classification(s), the general location in relation
to major streets , railroads, and/or waterways, the date, and north arrow.
               b.   A conceptual land area plan showing the location of all
major land use types and the proposed maximum square footage for each use.
               c.   Maximum building heights shall be delineated on the
conceptual land area plan.
               d.   The plan shall indicate all external access points.
               e.   The plan shall indicate proposed buffers.
               f.   Generalized open space areas and stormwater facilities
shall be indicated.
               g.   The applicant shall submit a text narrative indicating how
the proposed plan conforms to conditions of any adopted area plan, corridor
plan, or other long-range plan, including town’s adopted Land Use Plan.
               h.   A traffic impact analysis shall be submitted based on the
generalized land uses proposed. Maximum trip generation impacts shall be
established as part of the plan.
               I.   Conditions in the Master Plan. In some cases, the ability
to implement or strictly follow the approved Master Plan conditions can be
problematic (i.e., conditions requiring specimen trees to be preserved, but the
trees have subsequently died due to natural causes following the approval). In
those cases, the Town Manager shall implement the condition in a way that most
closely meets its original intent.
            4.   Submittal requirements - Site Plan. Once the conditional
zoning and master plan have been approved, the applicant may submit a site plan
for approval in accordance with this article. The site plan shall be
accompanied by the following information:
               a.   The applicant shall submit a text narrative indicating how
the proposed site plan conforms to the adopted master plan.
               b.   For phased projects, the submitted site plan shall show the
generalized location of vehicular and pedestrian accesses to additional phases.
            5.   The Town Manager has the authority to waive any application
requirement where the type of use or scale of proposal makes providing that
information unnecessary or impractical.
            6.   In the course of evaluating the application, the Town Manager,
Planning Board or Board of Commissioners may request additional information
from the applicant. This information may include the following:
               a.   Proposed screening, buffers and landscaping over and above
that required in §§
152.252 through
152.544, as well as proposed treatment of any existing natural features;
               b.   Existing and general proposed topography, at two foot
contour intervals;
               c.   The location of significant trees on the subject property;
               d.   Scale of buildings relative to abutting property and/or
general development area;
               e.   Building elevations and exterior features of proposed
development ;
               f.   Proposed number and location of signs;
               g.   Any other information needed to demonstrate compliance with
this subchapter;
            7.   The site plan and any supporting text shall constitute part of
the petition for all purposes under this subchapter.
         (d)   Required community meetings before public hearing. Before a
public hearing may be held on a petition for a conditional zoning district ,
the petitioner must file in the office of the Town Clerk a written report of at
least two community meetings held by the petitioner. The community meeting
shall be held prior to the planning board ’s consideration of the petition.
Written notice of such a meeting shall be given to the property owners and
organizations entitled to notice as determined by policies approved by the
Board of Commissioners . The report shall include, among other things, a
listing of those persons  and organizations contacted about the meeting and the
manner and date of contact, the date, time and location of the meeting, a
roster of the persons  in attendance at the meeting, a summary of issues
discussed at the meeting, and a description of any changes to the rezoning
petition made by the petitioner as a result of the meeting. In an effort to
assist the applicant with meeting space, the Town may provide meeting space to
accommodate the community meeting. The adequacy of a meeting held or report
filed pursuant to this section shall be considered by the Board of
Commissioners  but shall not be subject to judicial review.
         (e)   Approval of Conditional Zoning District . 
            1.   Conditional zoning district decisions are a legislative
process subject to the same procedures and standard of review applicable to
general use district zoning decisions. In considering any petition for a
conditional zoning district , the Board of Commissioners shall act in
accordance with §
152.032 and §
152.072. Conditional zoning district decisions shall be made in consideration
of identified relevant adopted land use plans for the area, including, but not
limited to, comprehensive plan s, strategic plans, district plans, area plans,
neighborhood plans, corridor plans, bicycle and pedestrian plans and other
policy documents.
            2.   The Town Board of Commissioners may not vote to rezone
property to a conditional zoning district during the time period beginning on
the date of a municipal general election and concluding on the date immediately
following the date on which the Town Board of Commissioners holds its
organizational meeting following a municipal general election unless no person
spoke against the rezoning at the public hearing and no comments were submitted
under §
152.075. If comments were filed, a zoning petition which would otherwise have
been scheduled for a public hearing during the period beginning on the first
day of October prior to a municipal general election, but prior to the new Town
Board of Commissioners taking office shall be postponed until after the new
Town Board of Commissioners takes office.
         (f)   Conditions to approval of petition. In approving a petition for
the reclassification of property to a conditional zoning district , the
Planning Board  may recommend, and the Board of Commissioners  request, that
reasonable and appropriate conditions be attached to approval of the petition.
Any such conditions should relate to the relationship of the proposed use to
surrounding property, proposed support facilities such as parking areas  and
driveways, pedestrian and vehicular circulation systems, screening and buffer
areas, the timing of development, street  and right-of-way improvements, water
and sewer improvements, stormwater drainage, the provision of open space, and
other matters that the Board of Commissioners  may find appropriate or the
petitioner may propose. Such conditions to approval of the petition may include
dedication  to the town, Onslow Water and Sewer Authority, county or state, as
appropriate, of any rights-of-way  or easements for streets , water, sewer, or
other public utilities necessary to serve the proposed development. The
petitioner shall have a reasonable opportunity to consider and respond to any
such conditions prior to final action by the Board of Commissioners . If for
any reason any condition for approval is found to be illegal or invalid or if
the applicant should fail to accept any condition following approval, the
approval of the site plan for the district shall be null and void and of no
effect and proceedings shall be instituted to rezone the property to its
previous zoning classification.
         (g)   Effect of approval.
            1.   If a petition for conditional zoning is approved, the
development and use of the property shall be governed by the predetermined
ordinance requirements applicable to the district’s classification, the
approved site plan or master plan for the district, and any additional approved
rules, regulations, and conditions, all of which shall constitute the zoning
regulations for the approved district and are binding on the property as an
amendment to these regulations and to the zoning maps.
            2.   If a petition is approved, only those uses and structures
indicated in the approved petition and site plan or land use area indicated on
the master plan shall be allowed on the subject property. A change of location
of the structures may be authorized pursuant to subsection division (A)(2)(h)
of this section, Alterations to Approval. The changes to the site plan layout
will not increase the number of structures.
            3.   Following the approval of the petition for a conditional
zoning district , the subject property shall be identified on the zoning maps
by the appropriate district designation. The zoning shall be identified by the
same designation as the underlying general district followed by the letters
“CZ” (for example “B-2 (CZ)”).
            4.   No permit shall be issued for any development activity within
a conditional zoning district except in accordance with the approved petition
and site plan for the district.
            5.   Any violation of the approved site plan or any rules,
regulations and conditions for the district shall be treated the same as any
other violation of this chapter and shall be subject to the same remedies and
penalties as any such violation.
            6.   The Town Manager shall have the delegated authority to approve
minor amendments to an approved plan that do not involve a change in the uses
permitted or the density of the overall development. The Town Manager shall
have no authority to amend the conditions of approval of a petition. The
standard for approving or denying such a requested change shall be that the
change does not significantly alter the plan and that the change does not have
a significant impact on abutting properties. Any decision must be in writing
stating the grounds for approval or denial.
            7.   The Town Manager, however, shall always have the discretion to
decline to exercise the delegated authority either because he or she is
uncertain about approval of the change pursuant to the standard or because a
rezoning petition for a public hearing and Board of Commissioners consideration
is deemed appropriate under the circumstances. If the Town Manager declines to
exercise this authority, then the applicant can only file a rezoning petition
for a public hearing and Board of Commissioners decision.
            8.   Any request for an administrative amendment shall be pursuant
to a written letter, signed by the property owner , detailing the requested
change. Upon request, the applicant must provide any additional information
that is requested. Upon an approval of an administrative amendment, the
applicant must file a sufficient number of copies of a revised site plan as
deemed necessary by the Town Manager.
         (h)   Alterations to approval. Except as provided in division (A)(2)
(I) of this section, changes to an approved petition or to the conditions
attached to the approved petition shall be treated the same as amendments to
these regulations or to the zoning maps and shall be processed in accordance
with the procedures in this article. Any changes that would be considered major
changes herein shall be subject to this division.
         (i)   Review of approval of a conditional zoning district . 
            1.   It is intended that property shall be reclassified to a
conditional zoning district only in the event of firm plans to develop the
property. Therefore, no sooner than three years after the date of approval of
the petition, the Planning Board may examine the progress made toward
developing the property in accordance with the approved petition and any
conditions attached to the approval.
            2.   If the Planning Board determines that progress has not been
made in accordance with the approved petition and conditions, the Planning
Board shall forward to the Board of Commissioners a report which may recommend
that the property be rezoned to its previous zoning classification or to
another district.
   (B)   Note 2. The use standards (US) identified in the table of permitted
uses can be found throughout the notes section below.
   (C)   Note 3. Land use within the planned unit development . All uses listed
in the Table of Permitted Uses as a use-by-right  in the PUD district shall be
specified to be developed on certain sites within the PUD district at the time
of the approval of the preliminary plan. Commercial activities shall be
permitted only as a special use permit  for uses allowed in the B-2 district.
   (D)   Note 4. Mobile Home Subdivision Overlay. In this district, all
provisions of this chapter relating to Mobile Home Subdivisions including
permitted and special uses apply with the following additional provisions and
conditions.
      (1)   Any new or used mobile home newly placed within the jurisdiction of
this UDO must be in full compliance with all current NC Code established by the
North Carolina Department of Insurance (NCDOI), as well as any U.S. Department
of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) building regulations concerning mobile
homes which are applicable.
      (2)   All mobile homes in the district shall have at least 672 square
feet of enclosed heated space
      (3)   All mobile homes in the district shall be:
         (a)   Set up in accordance with the standards set by the North
Carolina Department of Insurance and a continuous, permanent masonry foundation
or masonry curtain wall , unpierced except for required ventilation and access
shall be installed under the perimeter of the manufactured home ; or,
         (b)   Set up in accordance with the standards set by the North
Carolina Department of Insurance and underpinning or skirting shall be
installed and maintained along the perimeter of the manufactured home . Such
underpinning or skirting shall be made of a material consistent with or
complementary to the material covering the exterior of the mobile home and
shall be installed prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
   (E)   Note 5. Any person , firm, or corporation hereafter engaging in any
development of vacant commercial property shall construct or cause to be
constructed upon said development sidewalks that comply with the specifications
of the Town of Swansboro as maintained by the Administrator  of the Town of
Swansboro; provided that if the development involves razing, dismantling, or
removal of all principal structures existing on a tract of land substantially
to ground level, then that tract shall be considered vacant, and this section
shall apply to such development. Such sidewalks shall run as nearly as
practicable parallel with the adjacent public street(s) or highway(s) and shall
extend for the entire length of such person ’s, firm’s, or corporation’s
frontage along any public street or highways.
   (F)   Note 6. Itinerant merchants prohibited.
      (1)   No itinerant merchant , as defined in this Unified Development
Ordinance, shall be permitted to engage in any of the activities described in
the definition of “itinerant merchant ” in §
152.016, at any location within the Town of Swansboro or its extraterritorial
zoning jurisdiction area.
      (2)   No peddler or itinerant salesman shall be permitted to engage in
any of the activities described in the definition of “itinerant merchant ” in §
152.016, upon any private property and the premises thereof, unless such
peddler or itinerant salesman has been requested or invited to do so by the
owner or occupant of such private property and premises, nor shall any such
peddler or itinerant salesman be permitted to engage in any of the activities
described in the definition of “itinerant merchant ” in §
152.016, upon any public park , street , highway, alley , sidewalk, or other
public way or upon any property owned or leased as lessee by the Town of
Swansboro without the permission and approval of the town.
   (G)   Note 7. Accessory uses and structures.
      (1)   Accessory uses or structures is a use or a structure on the same
lot with, but of a nature customarily incidental and subordinate to the
principal use or structure and which contributes to the comfort, convenience,
or necessity of occupants, business or industry in the principal building or
use being served. No tent, mobile home, camper, travel trailer, nor any other
temporary, portable, or removable trailer, container, vehicle, or structure of
any kind may be considered an accessory use or accessory structure , whether or
not the wheels, axles, and/or tongue have or has been removed and whether or
not that any container, structure , or vehicle as described herein has been
placed on a foundation, except as hereinafter described. Provided, however,
that structures such as storage sheds, garden sheds, and similar structures
shall be considered accessory buildings, even though they may be capable of
being lifted or disassembled and removed from the property. Further provided,
that a trailer, tent, or similar container, structure , or vehicle may be
placed on property on a temporary basis for promotional or other business or
charitable related purposes, but such use shall not continue for more than six
months.
      (2)   No accessory building or use may be erected or installed on any lot
where a principal building does not exist. No lot shall have in excess of two
accessory buildings unless it is identified as a bona fide farm . No accessory
structure or swimming pool is allowed in the front yard or on a double frontage
lot unless authorized by special use permit .
   (H)   Note 8. Adult establishments . Shall be a permitted use in the MI
district provided that the following conditions are met:
      (1)   No adult establishment shall be located within 1,000 feet of any
other adult establishment .
      (2)   No adult establishment shall be located closer than 1,000 feet from
the lot line of any school , church, public park , or from the lot line of any
district zoned residential, mobile home park, or mobile home subdivision .
      (3)   All distance provided in this section shall be measured by
following a straight line from the nearest point of the lot line of the lot on
which the adult establishment is proposed to the nearest point of the lot line
of the lot on which an adult establishment is located, or to the nearest point
of the lot line of any school , church, public park , residential district,
mobile home park district, or mobile home subdivision district.
   (I)   Note 9. Automobile service stations . 
      (1)   Automobile service stations shall be a permitted use in B1, PUD
district.
      (2)   Automobile service stations located within the town shall have no
gasoline or oil pump located within 12 feet of any street   right-of-way line.
Outside the town, no such pump shall be located within 15 feet of any street  
right-of-way line.
   (J)   Note 10. Reserved.
   (K)   Note 11. Dry cleaning and laundry establishments. Such establishments
shall be permitted when only oil, gas, or electricity is used for heat.
Screening and filtering devices shall be used to prevent the emission of smoke,
dust, fumes, odors, or steam into the atmosphere.
   (L)   Note 12. Skirting and curtain wall requirements for manufactured homes
. All manufactured homes to be placed within Swansboro’s planning and zoning
jurisdiction shall have skirting placed around the base prior to the issuance
of a certificate of occupancy. The skirting shall be a continuous, uniform
enclosure constructed of vinyl, masonry material, or metal fabricated for such
purpose and that is unpierced except for required ventilation or access. For
all manufactured homes, one row of ventilation ports, eight-inch by 16-inch,
shall be provided every ten feet, and one access opening with a door that is
between 18 inches and 42 inches in height and between 24 inches and 60 inches
in width. All existing manufactured homes within Swansboro’s planning and
zoning jurisdiction prior to the effective date of this provision which have no
skirting or curtain wall shall be required to have skirting installed within 18
months following adoption of this chapter. All existing manufactured homes
within Swansboro’s planning and zoning jurisdiction prior to the effective date
of this provision having a continuous uniform enclosure around the base which
serves as skirting shall be considered existing nonconforming, and will be
exempt from the specific requirements of this note. All skirting performed
after the effective date of this amendment will be done in accordance with
Section 47.7 of the State of North Carolina Regulations for Manufactured/Mobile
Homes 1995 edition. A certificate of occupancy will NOT be issued until
manufactured home skirting is in place.
   (M)   Note 13. Dwelling over a business. Following the date of the adoption
of this chapter, multi- and single-family  residential when limited to the
following conditions.
      (1)   All residential usage shall be second floor or higher levels of
buildings.
      (2)   Street  frontage use requirements: all ground floor space shall be
developed for non- residential uses, as permitted in the B2HDO zone or other
commercial zones as per the Table of Permitted Uses;
      (3)   Preservation design: in order to protect the architectural
integrity of existing buildings  within the B2HDO zone, and in so doing to
preserve the continuity of scale and design within the area, the following
requirements shall be met:
         (a)   All slip covers previously applied to the facade of existing
buildings shall be removed;
         (b)   All canopies, except for those made of canvas, shall be removed
from the facade ;
         (c)   Where evidence exists of original windows and door openings
subsequently enclosed, such windows and doors shall be reopened in an operable
manner and in a style in keeping with the building. Where other unique
architectural features remain, including cornices, mid-cornices, and window
surrounds, they shall be repaired and/or replaced with elements of like design;
and
         (d)   Nothing in this subsection shall supersede applicable North
Carolina State Building Code requirements;
      (4)   Signage: all signs shall be erected in accordance with §§
152.265 through
152.277 of this chapter, but in no event shall they be mounted over existing
windows, doors, or other architectural features described in division (M)(4) of
this section. All signs on buildings  designed and/or occupied for partial
residential usage shall be flush mounted signs, not projecting more than 12
inches perpendicular to the building  face; not extending any distance
vertically above the building  wall; or not extending any distance horizontally
beyond the building  sides.
   (N)   Note 14. Golf driving range. All greens and structures of a driving
range shall be setback at least 50 feet from any property line.
   (O)   Note 15. Home occupations .
      (1)   Shall be permitted only as an incidental use and are limited to the
following:
         (a)   Art gallery or the office or studio of a physician, artist,
commercial photographer (film processing prohibited), general or trades
contractor , musician, insurance agent, lawyer, real estate broker, instruction
in music or dancing, tutoring of academic subjects, teacher or other like
professional person residing on the premises;
         (b)   Workshops not conducted for profit;
         (c)   Customary home occupations such as millinery, dressmaking,
laundering, or pressing and tailoring conducted by a person residing on the
premises;
         (d)   Single operator beauty shop or barber shop.
         (e)   Pet grooming services without the boarding of animals or
operation of kennels . The outside containment of animals is prohibited.
         (f)   Signage is prohibited.
         (g)   Parking is limited to original residential use only.
      (2)   And provided, furthermore, the home occupations listed above shall
be permitted subject to the following limitations:
         (a)   No exterior display of products;
         (b)   No mechanical equipment shall be installed or used except such
that is normally used for domestic or professional purposes and which does not
cause noises or other interference in radio and television reception;
         (c)   No accessory buildings or outside storage shall be used in
connection with the home occupation ; Not over 25% of the total floor area or
500 square feet, whichever is less, shall be used for a home occupation ;
         (d)   Only one employee may be employed by the home occupation who is
not a resident of the dwelling .
   (P)   Note 16. Reserved.
   (Q)   Note 17. Mobile construction site office , temporary. Shall be a
permitted use and are limited to the following:
      (1)   Minimum lot area : none.
      (2)   Parking: one space for each person  employed in the office at any
given time during a 24 hour period.
      (3)   Requirements: a certificate of occupancy/compliance  may be issued
for a manufactured office building for use as a temporary field office for
contractors by the Swansboro Building Inspector or his authorized agents if the
manufactured office building :
         (a)   And the structure under construction are located on the same
property;
         (b)   Is not moved to the site more than 30 days prior to construction
and is not removed later than 30 days after construction has been completed;
         (c)   Is not used for any other purpose other than that connected with
on-site construction;
         (d)   Is justified by the size and nature of the construction project;
         (e)   Is to be used for a period not to exceed 18 months;
         (f)   Is utilized only incidental to on-site construction during
daylight hours and not for residential living quarters;
         (g)   Is parked in a location approved in advance by the supervision
of Building Inspector or his authorized agents;
         (h)   Sanitary facilities are connected with an approved sewer system;
         (i)   Electrical facilities are connected in compliance with
regulations as set forth in the North Carolina Building Code.
   (R)   Note 18. Recreational vehicles. Recreational vehicles occupied for
human habitation and intended for permanent residential use must be placed in
an approved manufactured home or recreational vehicle park . However, temporary
residential use may occur in cases where the recreational vehicle is secondary
to a primary residential use, and when construction or repair of a single
family  home occurs. Two general restrictions for either temporary residential
use shall apply, as well as specific restrictions and limitations for each. The
general restrictions and limitations are as follows: (1) R6, R6SF, R8SF, R20SF,
or O-I zoning is required; (2) Location of the recreational vehicle shall be in
the rear yard, unless evidence can be provided to the Administrator  that size
constraints or other factors prevent rear yard location. The specific
restrictions and limitations are as follows: (1) When secondary to a primary
residential use, the period of human habitation shall not exceed 14 days, and
may not be re-established for a period of 90 days from the last day terminated;
(2) When construction or repair of a single family  home occurs, the homeowner
and his family  may occupy a recreational vehicle for a period of 180 days. An
extension of 180 days may be granted by the Administrator  upon presentation of
evidence that construction cannot be completed within 180 days due to factors
beyond their control. All recreational vehicles shall maintain an adequate
disposal system and a source of potable water. Emptying of wastewater disposal
systems shall be done in accordance with Section 4.1 of the Town of Swansboro
Sewer Use Ordinance. Recreational vehicles which are not occupied may be stored
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, provided that such storage
is not relating to manufactured home/recreational vehicle sales and further
provided that such storage is not upon the right-of-way of any public street or
public land.
   (S)   Note 19. Fence and screen required for salvage and recovery yards.
      (1)   The salvage and recovery yards shall be entirely surrounded by a
screened security fence , or by a nonscreened security fence , and vegetation
screen. In the event that a salvage operation or junkyard shall be surrounded
by a nonscreened security fence , a vegetation screen shall be planted on at
least one side and contiguous to the security fence . The vegetation shall be
of a type that will reach a minimum height of six feet within five years and
shall be planted at intervals evenly spaced and in close proximity to each
other so that a continuous, unbroken hedgerow will exist along the length of
the security fence surrounding the salvage operation or junkyard . Each owner ,
operator, or maintainer of a salvage operation or junkyard to which this
chapter applies and who chooses to surround said salvage operation or junkyard
with a security fence and vegetation screen shall utilize good husbandry
techniques with respect to said vegetation , including, but not limited to,
proper pruning, proper fertilizer and mulching so that the vegetation will
reach maturity as soon as possible and will have maximum density and foliage.
Dead or diseased vegetation shall be replaced at the next appropriate planting
time.
      (2)   The security fence shall be maintained in good order and shall not
be allowed to deteriorate.
      (3)   All gates shall be closed and securely locked at all times, except
during business hours.
      (4)   The Administrator or his authorized agents shall have discretion to
determine whether screened fence or security fence and vegetation screen is in
compliance with this section. The Administrator shall be available to assist an
owner or operator, or maintainer of a salvage operation or junkyard , upon
request of the said owner or operator, in the formulation of plans for said
fencing and vegetation screen.
All salvage operations existing at the time of adoption of this chapter must
comply with the fencing and screening requirements within 24 months following
the date of adoption of this chapter.
   (T)   Note 20. Swimming pools . All outdoor swimming pools located within
the town shall be completely enclosed by a fence. All fence openings or points
of entry into the pool area enclosure shall be equipped with gates  with self-
latching devices designed for and capable of keeping such gate securely closed.
The fence and gates  shall be at least four feet in height above the grade
level and shall be constructed of a minimum number 11 gauge corrosion resistant
woven wire mesh and shall be set in a concrete base. Other equivalent fence
materials may be approved upon application to the Code Enforcement Official .
   (U)   Note 21. Manufactured home park.
   (V)   Note 22. Dwelling , multi-family and condominiums .
   (W)   Note 23. Reserved.
   (X)   Note 24. Service establishments.  Including but not limited to:
      (1)   Aerobic/dance/martial arts schools ;
      (2)   Alteration services including tailoring shops, shoe repair, jewelry
repair, bicycle repair, optical repair of glasses, and other similar services;
      (3)   Bars and taverns;
      (4)   Barber and beauty shops;
      (5)   Bus terminal;
      (6)   Clinic services, medical and dental;
      (7)   Funeral homes and mortuaries;
      (8)   Opticians and optical supply sales;
      (9)   Restaurants including outdoor dining facilities so long as the
seating is located on the principal property with the restaurant;
      (10)   Amusement , indoor and outdoor; and
      (11)   Bakeries, candy stores, ice cream, coffee shops, and the like.
      (12)   Service establishment stores are limited to a building footprint
of 5,000 square feet in size.
   (Y)   Note 25. Clubs/lodges. Including but not limited to meeting places of
fraternal organizations such as Masons, Rotary, Knights of Columbus, Elks, and
others. Pools and gyms are allowed in these clubs/lodges.
   (Z)   Note 26. Parks and playgrounds, semi-public. Site plans are required
and must be submitted to the Administrator .
      (1)   Minimum lot area . See §
152.195, Table of Yard , Area, and Height Requirements.
      (2)   Buffering. As specified in §§
152.525 through
152.544.
      (3)   Plans are required and must show:
         (a)   Structures: location of buildings  and sign, and size of sign.
         (b)   Circulation: proposed points of ingress and egress, and pattern
of internal circulation.
         (c)   Parking: layout of parking spaces. Space shall be equivalent to
one percent of the total land area. Parking area available along park roads or
private drives  may be used to fulfill requirement.
         (d)   Lighting: lighting plan, inclusive of wattage and illumination.
Refer to §§
152.500 through
152.512.
          (e)   Drainage: if required by the Administrator , proposed provision
for storm drainage (including retention pond facilities, when applicable).
         (f)   Proposed use areas: including playgrounds, playing fields, dog
parks, swimming pools /swimming areas, fishing areas, walking/biking trails,
and the like.
      (4)   Other requirements. The Planning Board  and Board of Commissioners
may provide additional requirements as it deems necessary in order to make the
proposed project more compatible with adjacent areas and existing or proposed
traffic patterns. The following additional conditions shall apply:
         (a)   Public facilities. All public facilities must meet the NC
Accessibility Code, all ADA Standards, and OSHA Standards.
         (b)   Restrooms. Two buildings  with male/female facilities per three
acres or portion thereof permitted; number of stalls shall be per the NC
Building Code.
         (c)   Picnic shelters. Maximum of four per acre or portion thereof.
This does not include uncovered stand-alone picnic tables.
         (d)   Concession stands. Maximum of one per acre or portion thereof.
         (e)   Gazebos. Maximum of one per acre or portion thereof.
         (f)   Baseball/softball field dugouts. Maximum of two per playing
field.
         (g)   Additional accessory structures . Must be approved by the
administrator .
         (h)   Scoreboards. One lit or non-lit scoreboard per playing field.
Scoreboard lighting must be pre-approved.
         (I)   Maintenance/equipment storage sheds. Maximum of one 600 square
foot building  per three acres or portion thereof.
         (j)   Press boxes. Maximum of one per playing field.
         (k)   Playing field signage. No maximum set. Signage must be located
on a perimeter fence, dugout, press box, or other pre-approved structure. All
signage must be uniform in size.
         (l)   Fencing. All fencing must be pre-approved. Pools must be fenced
and meet all NC Building Code Standards (3109.3) and all standards set forth in
§
152.180, Note 20. Dog Parks are required to have perimeter fencing.
         (m)   Lighting. Any and all lighting must be approved prior to
installation. Lighting shall be uniform and accommodating to surrounding
residential areas and meet all requirements set forth in §§
152.500 through
152.512. In the B-2HDO district, lighting shall be prohibited except for
minimum lighting that may be required for security purposes.
         (n)   Hours of operation. Hours of operation for all facilities will
be from 6:00 am to no later than 11:00 pm.
         (o)   Sidewalks. All facilities shall have sidewalks along adjacent
streets  or rights-of-way . Additional sidewalks may be required by the
Administrator .
         (p)   Landscaping. Will be required at all facilities.
         (q)   Swimming. Only permitted in designated areas. Public pools will
have a designated life guard on duty at all times during operational hours.
         (r)   Dogs. Dogs will be allowed in designated areas. Leashes must be
worn at all times except in designated dog parks. Clean-up/watering stations
shall be installed and maintained in these areas.
         (s)   Statement of facility maintenance. A statement of facility
maintenance must accompany all permit applications. This statement should
include contact information for the organization in charge of maintaining
fields, mowing grass, maintain structures on the property, and the like. This
statement should be updated as needed.
         (t)   Appeals. The Town Board of Commissioners  shall be the reviewing
authority for all appeals  under the provisions of this section. Notice of
intent to appeal  an administrative decision and request for a hearing shall be
addressed to the Town Manager in writing and shall detail the nature of the
appeal . A date for the hearing shall be set by the Town Board of Commissioners
and the appellant promptly notified in writing and letter sent by certified
mail. The decision of the Town Board of Commissioners  after the hearing shall
be final and inclusive and shall be conveyed to the appellant in writing and
sent by certified mail.
   (AA)   Note 27. Public and private utility facilities. Including but not
limited to: Pump stations, power sub-stations, telephone exchange buildings ,
and other similar land uses subject to other requirements of this chapter and
provided the following conditions are met:
      (1)   No open storage allowed.
      (2)   The boundaries of the entire site shall be buffered in accordance
with this chapter
      (3)   Lighting shall be prohibited except for minimum lighting that may
be required for security purposes.
   (BB)   Note 28. Reserved.
   (CC)   Note 29. Bed and breakfast accommodations, and inns . Bed and
breakfast accommodations, and inns include only legitimate lodging businesses
available for public reservation  and use, although there may be an owner or
manager room or living quarters on the premises. Such businesses must:
      (1)   Possess a current, town-approved packet for a bed and breakfast
accommodation or inn ;
      (2)   Possess any health department licenses or permits that may be
applicable;
      (3)   Provide, if requested by the town, evidence that lodging is being
offered and advertised for public use and is available for same;
      (4)   Provide evidence, if requested by the town and subject to an audit
of documents, that the premises are in actual use for paid short term lodging
of guests.
   (DD)   Note 30. Food sales, push cart/food truck. A zoning permit is
required prior to the establishment of a push cart or food truck on any
property within the jurisdiction of the town. The permit application must
include the following information, documentation and acknowledgments by the
vendor, and must be submitted at least three business days prior to the vendor
occupying the property:
      (1)   List of the proposed location(s) of the cart/truck and duration for
each location proposed. Vendors will be allowed in the zoning districts shown
in the Table of Uses when the property is identified as being within the
Traditional Town Center, Suburban Town Center, or Employment/Light Industrial
land use designation as identified within the 2019 CAMA Land Use Plan on the
Future Land Use Map;
      (2)   The appropriate fee as established by the town schedule of fees;
      (3)   Push carts and food trucks may operate under an annual permit or
may obtain a permit for a one- day event when not subject to the exemptions
found in
Chapter 112;
      (4)   Push carts and food trucks must be located on private property and
not within any street right-of-way. Evidence of property ownership or written
permission from the property owner for the proposed location(s) must be
submitted;
      (5)   Push carts and food trucks must be set back at least 50 feet from
the right-of-way of NC Highway 24;
      (6)   Any push cart or food truck must be located at least 100 feet from
the main customer entrance of any restaurant or outdoor dining area, and at
least 50 feet from any other permitted push cart or truck;
      (7)   Food trucks and push carts may not occupy any handicap parking
space;
      (8)   Hours of operation are limited to 7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. daily;
      (9)   Any food truck or trailer must display a valid license plate;
      (10)   A copy of a Health Department inspection/score or a certificate
issued by the Department of Agriculture must be provided;
      (11)   Proof of insurance must be submitted;
      (12)   Compliance with any applicable Building Code requirements must be
demonstrated, such as inspection of electrical power connections;
      (13)   No signage, to include banners or flags, external to the cart or
truck is permitted other than one two foot x three foot sandwich board
(portable) sign;
      (14)   Vendors are responsible for maintaining their service areas to
include trash removal;
      (15)   A certificate of registration with the North Carolina Department
of Revenue must be provided;
      (16)   No music or other amplified sound is permitted to emanate from the
push cart or food truck;
      (17)   Flashing or moving lights are prohibited whether attached to or
external of the push cart or food truck;
      (18)   The Town Manager reserves the right to temporarily suspend food
sales permits during special events; and
      (19)   Violations of this section will result in the permit being
revoked, and the vendor will be subject to the penalties as established by §
152.133.
   (EE)   Note 31. Docks and piers. All docks and piers constructed in the B-1,
B-2 or B-2 HDO zoning districts, whether intended for commercial or residential
use, must be engineered and constructed to meet the NC Commercial Building
Code.
   (FF)   Note 32. Portable storage containers or structures . Portable storage
containers are permitted if the following conditions are met:
      (1)   Portable storage containers shall not be permitted as principal
structures;
      (2)   Two portable storage containers per site shall be permitted on lots
less than one acre in size. On lots greater than one acre, one additional
container per acre will be permitted;
      (3)   Portable storage containers shall be used for storage purposes
only;
      (4)   No signage or lettering, other than the name and/or logo of the
company supplying the portable storage containers , shall be permitted on the
containers;
      (5)   Portable storage containers must be located in the side or rear
yard of the principal building and must meet all setback requirements. In
addition, the containers cannot project further than the front or side of any
building facing an adjoining street ;
      (6)   Portable storage containers must be screened from view from any
residential use or district within 75 feet by a solid fence (excluding chain-
link) or hedge of dense plant material at least six feet in height;
      (7)   Portable storage containers and the area surrounding them shall be
maintained by the owner , lessee, or other possessor thereof in a safe and
sanitary condition;
      (8)   Portable storage containers must not occupy required parking spaces
and must not interfere with vehicle or pedestrian mobility;
      (9)   Portable storage containers are not permitted to be rented or
leased to a use not located on the same lot ;
      (10)   Portable storage containers cannot exceed a length of 40 feet,
width of eight feet or height of ten feet with an overall height of 14 feet
from the ground;
      (11)   No stacking of containers is allowed;
      (12)   A permit is required and must be obtained prior to the
installation of any portable storage container . A site plan is required to
show the location of the container and how the container will meet all of the
specified requirements;
      (13)   These regulations shall not apply to construction trailers,
dumpsters or recycling equipment.
   (GG)   Note 33. Temporary residential storage units . Residential storage
units are permitted if the following conditions are met:
      (1)   Storage units will be permitted for a period up to 30 days unless a
30 day extension is granted by the Administrator ;
      (2)   A maximum of two storage units are allowed per site;
      (3)   Units may be located in the driveway or yard outside of the front
yard   setback of the property;
      (4)   A permit is required and must be obtained prior to the installation
of any storage unit. A site plan is required to show the location of the unit;
      (5)   Units shall not exceed a width of eight feet, height of eight feet,
or length of 16 feet;
      (6)   These regulations shall not apply to construction trailers or
dumpsters.
   (HH)   Note 34. Mobile construction site containers. Temporary construction
site containers are allowed on the premises for which there is an active
building  permit if the following conditions are met:
      (1)   Containers must be used for storage purposes only;
      (2)   Containers located in residential districts must be located in the
driveway or side or rear yard within the required setbacks of the property.
Containers located in commercial or other zoning districts must be located in
the side or rear yard and must meet all setback requirements;
      (3)   Containers must be removed once the construction activity has
concluded or if the building permit has expired or otherwise become void.
   (II)   Note 35. Manufactured home sales. A certificate of occupancy/
compliance  may be issued for a manufactured office building for use as a
manufactured home sales office if the manufactured building  meets the
following criteria:
      (1)   Sanitary facilities are connected with an approved sewer system;
      (2)   Electrical facilities are connected in compliance with regulations
as set forth in the North Carolina Building Code;
      (3)   Provisions pertaining to a manufactured home foundation and
anchorage of the manufactured building to the foundation are met as required by
the North Carolina Building Code ; and
      (4)   All skirting and curtain wall requirements must be met per Note 12.
   (JJ)   Note 36. School , elementary or secondary and related uses. A
certificate of occupancy/compliance  may be issued for a manufactured office
building for use as a classroom by a public or private school  or for a school
administrative office if the manufactured building  meets the following
criteria:
      (1)   Sanitary facilities are connected with an approved sewer system;
      (2)   Electrical facilities are connected in compliance with regulations
as set forth in the North Carolina Building Code;
      (3)   Provisions pertaining to a manufactured home foundation and
anchorage of the manufactured building to the foundation are met as required by
the North Carolina Building Code; and
      (4)   All skirting and curtain wall requirements must be met per Note 12.
   (KK)   Note 37. B-3 Traditional Business District. In the B-3 Traditional
Business zoning district, the uses “dwelling , multi-family and condominium ”,
and “dwelling , townhouses ” shall be limited to 20% of the first floor area.
Only parcel ID 1404-16.22 of the Ward Farm Town Center shall be exempt of this
restriction. There shall be no limits placed on the use, “Dwelling Located Over
a Business”, other than those specified in Note 13.
   (LL)   Note 38. MI Light Industrial Development Standards. Flexible Lot
Development in the MI Zoning District.
      (1)   Flexible lot development is an area of land under unified control,
to be developed as a single entity for a number and variety uses developed with
a master plan.
      (2)   Flexible lot development s such as an industrial park or mixed
business park shall be in scale with surrounding areas and follow the intent of
the Employment/Light Industrial (ELI) Land Use Designation as outlined in the
CAMA Land Use Updated adopted January 22, 2019 at locations recommended herein
or the town's land use plan.
      (3)   Flexible lot development is intended to allow flexibility (variety)
in development and encourage the use of innovative design and layout that would
not otherwise be permitted under the UDO because of strict application of the
zoning district or general development standards. Flexible lot development
encourages innovative land planning and design concepts by:
         (a)   Reducing or eliminating the inflexibility that sometimes results
from strict application of zoning and development standards (e.g. height,
setbacks, lot width) that were designed primarily for individual lots;
         (b)   Promoting quality urban design and environmentally sensitive
development by allowing development to take advantage of special site
characteristics, locations and land uses; and
         (c)   Encouraging quality urban design and environmentally sensitive
development by allowing increases in base densities when the increases can be
justified by superior design or the provision of additional amenities such as
public and/or private open space.
      (4)   In return for greater flexibility in site design requirements,
flexible lot developments are expected to: deliver exceptional quality
community designs that preserve critical environmental resources; provide
above-average open space amenities, incorporate creative design in the layout
of buildings, open and circulation; coordinate and unify design elements of the
project, including building materials, signage and architectural compatibility;
assure compatibility with surrounding land uses and neighborhood character; and
provide greater efficiency in the layout and provision of roads, utilities and
other infrastructure. Zoning District process shall not be used as a means of
circumventing the town's adopted zoning and development regulation s for
routine developments.
      (5)   Uses allowed. Flexible lot development  may contain any or all of
the uses specified in the approved Master Plan and allowed in the M1 Zoning
District, provided the uses are consistent with the town's Land Use Plan. A
wide range of uses is possible in flexible lot development, and the specific
uses allowed may be different in each development approved.
      (6)   Other applicable standards (minimum).
         (a)   Emergency access. Any building established as part of a flexible
lot development which cannot properly be served by emergency or service
vehicles from an abutting street shall be made accessible to the vehicles by a
paved driveway having a roadbed width of not less than 20 feet, exclusive of
parking spaces.
         (b)   Off-street parking and loading. The development's master plan
shall comply with the off-street parking and loading requirements of §
152.290, except that variations from these standards may be permitted if a
comprehensive parking and loading plan for the development is submitted as part
of the master plan that is suitable for the development and consistent with the
intent and purpose of the off-street parking and loading standards of the UDO.
         (c)   Landscaping. Landscaping shall comply with the standards of §§
152.525 through
152.544 except that variations from these standards may be permitted where it
is demonstrated that the proposed landscaping sufficiently buffers uses from
each other, ensures compatibility with land uses on surrounding properties,
creates attractive streetscapes and parking areas, and is consistent with the
urban design objectives and/or character of the area. Where the property abuts
in residential zoning district a double Type C buffer yard must apply (see
Table 152.528-1.) Natural forests with heavy underbrush may be utilized instead
of a type C planting when approved by the Town Planner.
         (d)   Building form. As provided for in §§
152.555 through
152.561 building design and compatibility, construction and reconstruction of
buildings in a manner that achieves a visually desirable environment is
essential in achieving innovative land planning and design concepts. In
addition to standards provided herein there are additional requirements for any
modification in height, setbacks and lot dimensions as required in the
underlying zoning district:
            1.   Stepback. Stepbacks can provide mitigation to views along the
corridor by providing relief of the vertical mass. Stepbacks provide a vertical
transition between adjacent properties visually reducing the perceived scale of
a building in comparison to its surrounding context. An additional building
setback of one foot for every requested one foot of height shall be required
above the town's 35 feet requirement, (e.g., if the developer request is for 45
feet, an additional ten feet setback would be required). See
Figure 152.180.3 titled (Use of Corridor Setback for Height Modification).
            2.   Corridor setback. In requesting the use of flexible lot
development along the Highway 24/Corbett Avenue corridor, no part of any
structure within 200 feet from the corridor right-of-way shall exceed the 35
feet town-wide requirement. See Figures
152.180.2 through
152.180.6
         (e)   Height. Consideration for height modification shall be reviewed
using the techniques as provided in divisions 1. and 2. below. In no case shall
any building height exceed 45 feet.
            1.   Stepback. Stepbacks can provide mitigation to views along the
corridor by providing relief of the vertical mass. Stepbacks provide a vertical
transition between adjacent properties visually reducing the perceived scale of
a building in comparison to its surrounding context. An additional building
setback of one foot for every requested one foot of height shall be required
above the town's 35 feet requirement, (e.g., if the developer request is for 45
feet, an additional ten-foot setback would be required).
            2.   Corridor setback. In requesting the use of flexible lot
development along the Highway 24/Corbett Avenue corridor, no part of any
structure within 200 feet from the corridor right-of-way shall exceed the 35-
foot town-wide requirement. See Figures
152.180.2 through
152.180.6.
   (MM)   Note 39. Family care homes.
      (1)   As provided by G.S. § 160D-907, family care homes shall be deemed a
residential use of property for zoning purposes and shall be a permissible use
in all residential districts. No family care home, its owner, or operator shall
be required to obtain, because of the use, a special use permit or variance
from any such zoning regulation. Family care homes shall not be located within
a one-half mile radius of any existing family care home.
      (2)   Family care homes shall be deemed a residential use of property for
the purposes of determining charges or assessments imposed by local governments
or businesses for water, sewer, power, telephone service, cable television,
garbage and trash collection, repairs or improvements to roads, streets, and
sidewalks, and other services, utilities, and improvements.
   (NN)   Note 40. Temporary family health care structures. Temporary family
health care structure s are permitted as an accessory use in all single-family
residential zoning districts on lots zoned for single-family detached dwellings
subject to the following:
      (1)   The temporary family health care structure is placed on the
property of the residence and is used to provide care for the mentally or
physically impaired person as certified in writing by a physician licensed to
practice in North Carolina;
      (2)   Only one temporary family health care structure shall be allowed
per lot or parcel of land;
      (3)   Such temporary family health care structure shall be limited to no
more than 300 gross square feet and comply with all setback requirements that
apply to the primary structure;
      (4)   Any person proposing to install a temporary family health care
structure shall first obtain a permit from the town;
      (5)   An annual inspection to validate compliance and renewal of the
doctor's certification are required;
      (6)   Any temporary family health care structure installed under this
section may be required to connect to water, sewer, and electric utilities
serving the property and shall comply with all applicable state law. Town codes
and ordinances, QNWASA rules or other requirements, as if the temporary family
health care structure were permanent real property;
      (7)   No signage advertising or otherwise promoting the existence of the
temporary health care structure shall be permitted either on the exterior of
the structure or elsewhere on the property;
      (8)   Any temporary family health care structure installed pursuant to
this section shall be removed within 60 days in which the mentally or
physically impaired person is no longer receiving or is no longer in need of
the assistance provided for in this section;
      (9)   If the temporary family health care structure is needed for another
mentally or physically impaired person, the temporary family health care
structure may continue to be used or may be reinstated on the property within
60 days of its removal, as applicable;
      (10)   The local government may revoke the permit granted if the permit
holder violates any provision of this section; and
      (11)   Temporary family health care structures shall be treated as
tangible personal property for purposes of taxation.
   (OO)   Note 41. Wireless telecommunication facilities. The installation of
wireless antennas and equipment or small wireless facilities as a collocation
shall be a use by right in all zoning districts as provided in G.S. §§ 160D-934
through 160D-938. Small wireless facilities to be collocated on a utility pole
or wireless support structure must be activated for use by a wireless services
provider no later than one year from the permit issuance date. The installation
of new wireless support facilities must meet the standards as set forth in §
152.211.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. passed 9-20-2005; Am. Ord. passed 9-
18-2007; Am. Ord. passed 2-15-2010; Am. Ord. 2010-O14, passed 5-18-2010; Am.
Ord. passed 6-15-2010; Am. Ord. passed 11-16-2010; Am. Ord. passed 1-18-2011;
Am. Ord. passed 7-19-2011; Am. Ord. 2011-O26, passed 8-16-2011; Am. Ord. passed
2-21-2012; Am. Ord. passed 11-20-2012; Am. Ord. passed 3-22-2016; Am. Ord.
passed 7-26-2016; Am. Ord. 2016-O11, passed 9-13-2016; Am. Ord. passed 11-22-
2016; Am. Ord. passed 12-14-2016; Am. Ord. passed 2-28-2017; Am. Ord. 2018-01,
passed 1-9-2018; Am. Ord. 2019-O3, passed 2-26-2019; Am. Ord. 2019-O4, passed
4-23-2019; Am. Ord. 2020-O6, passed 8-10-2020; Am. Ord. 2021-O3, passed 5-24-
2021; Am. Ord. 2021-O7, passed 7-26-2021; Am. Ord. 2023-O6, passed 5-22-23; Am.
Ord. 2024-O10, passed 5-28-24)
TABLE OF AREA, YARD, SQUARE FOOTAGE AND HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS
§ 152.195 TABLE OF AREA, YARD, SQUARE FOOTAGE AND HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS.
         Minimum Lot Size    Minimum Yard  Setbacks         Maximum Building
                                                             Size
         Min. Sq.                                            Max.    Max. Bldg.
District Ft. per   Min.      Interior         Front          Bldg.   Gross
         Bldg Lot  Width per Side (see Corner (see Note Rear Height  Square
         (see Note Bldg. Lot Notes 2   Side   3)             (see    Footage
         1)                  and 8)                          Notes 4 (see Note
                                                             and 5)  9)
                                               Minimum Lot Size  Minimum Yard  Setbacks     Maximum
                                                                                             Building Size
                                                                                             Max.    Max.
                                               Min. Sq.   Min.   Interior        Front       Bldg.   Bldg.
District                                       Ft. per    Width  Side     Corner (see        Height  Gross
                                               Bldg Lot   per    (see     Side   Note   Rear (see    Square
                                               (see Note  Bldg.  Notes 2         3)          Notes 4 Footage
                                               1)         Lot    and 8)                      and 5)  (see
                                                                                                     Note 9)
CON Conservation                               *          *      All dimensions to be determined by the
                                                                 Board of Adjustment
RA Residential/Agricultural
   Residential-Agricultural                 1-1/       60 ft. 10 ft.   20 ft. 25 ft. 30   35 ft.  40,000
                                               2 acres                                  ft.          sq. ft.
   Accessory Structures (see Note 6)                          8 ft.    20 ft.        6    35 ft.  40,000
                                                                                        ft.          sq. ft.
   Non-Residential                          20,000 sq. 100
                                               ft.        ft.
   Accessory Structures (see Note 6)                          0 ft.    20 ft. 20 ft. 15   35 ft.  40,000
                                                                                        ft.          sq. ft.
R6 Residential
   Single Family                            6,000 sq.  60 ft. 5 ft.    15 ft. 25 ft. 15   35 ft.  40,000
                                               ft.                                      ft.          sq. ft.
   Two Family                               9,000 sq.  90 ft. 5 ft.    15 ft. 25 ft. 15   35 ft.  40,000
                                               ft.                                      ft.          sq. ft.
   Three Family                             12,000 sq. 104    5 ft.    15 ft. 25 ft. 15   35 ft.  40,000
                                               ft.        ft.                           ft.          sq. ft.
   Four Family                              15,000 sq. 118    5 ft.    15 ft. 25 ft. 15   35 ft.  40,000
                                               ft.        ft.                           ft.          sq. ft.
                                               9,000 sq.  90 ft.
                                               ft. plus   plus
                                               3,000 sq.  14 ft.
   Apartments & Condominiums                ft. for    for    13 ft.   18 ft. 25 ft. 15   35 ft.  40,000
                                               each       each                          ft.          sq. ft.
                                               family     family
                                               unit over  unit
                                               2          over 2
                                               Same as    Same                          15           40,000
   Townhouses                               MF/Condo   as MF/ 13 ft.   18 ft. 25 ft. ft.  35 ft.  sq. ft.
                                                          Condo
   Accessory Structures (see Note 6)                          5 ft.    15 ft.        6    35 ft.  40,000
                                                                                        ft.          sq. ft.
   Non-Residential                          6,000 sq.  60 ft. 5 ft.    15 ft. 25 ft. 15   35 ft.  40,000
                                               ft.                                      ft.          sq. ft.
   Accessory Structures (see Note 6)                          0 ft.    15 ft. 20 ft. 15   35 ft.  40,000
                                                                                        ft.          sq. ft.
R6SF Residential
   Single Family                            6,000 sq.  60 ft. 5 ft.    15 ft. 25 ft. 15   35 ft.  40,000
                                               ft.                                      ft.          sq. ft.
   Accessory Structures (see Note 6)                          5 ft.    15 ft.        6    35 ft.  40,000
                                                                                        ft.          sq. ft.
   Non-Residential                          6,000 sq.  60 ft. 5 ft.    15 ft. 25 ft. 15   35 ft.  40,000
                                               ft.                                      ft.          sq. ft.
   Accessory Structures (see Note 6)                          0 ft.    15 ft. 20 ft. 15   35 ft.  40,000
                                                                                        ft.          sq. ft.
R8SF Residential
   Single Family                            8,000 sq.  60 ft. 8 ft.    15 ft. 25 ft. 15   35 ft.  40,000
                                               ft.                                      ft.          sq. ft.
   Accessory Structures (see Note 6)                          8 ft.    15 ft.        6    35 ft.  40,000
                                                                                        ft.          sq. ft.
   Non-Residential                          8,000 sq.  60 ft. 8 ft.    15 ft. 25 ft. 15   35 ft.  40,000
                                               ft.                                      ft.          sq. ft.
   Accessory Structures (see Note 6)                          0 ft.    15 ft. 20 ft. 15   35 ft.  40,000
                                                                                        ft.          sq. ft.
R10SF Residential
   Single Family                            10,000 sq. 60 ft. 8 ft.    15 ft. 25 ft. 15   35 ft.  40,000
                                               ft.                                      ft.          sq. ft.
   Accessory Structures (see Note 6)                          8 ft.    15 ft.        6    35 ft.  40,000
                                                                                        ft.          sq. ft.
   Non-Residential                          10,000 sq. 60 ft. 8 ft.    15 ft. 25 ft. 15   35 ft.  40,000
                                               ft.                                      ft.          sq. ft.
   Accessory Structures (see Note 6)                          0 ft.    15 ft. 20 ft. 15   35 ft.  40,000
                                                                                        ft.          sq. ft.
R15SF Residential Single Family
   Non-Residential                          15,000 sq. 68 ft. 9 ft.    18 ft. 28 ft. 18   35 ft.  40,000
                                               ft.                                      ft.          sq. ft.
   Accessory Structures (see Note 6)                          0 ft.    18 ft. 20 ft. 15   35 ft.  40,000
                                                                                        ft.          sq. ft.
R20SF Residential
   Single Family                            20,000 sq. 75 ft. 10 ft.   20 ft. 30 ft. 20   35 ft.  40,000
                                               ft.                                      ft.          sq. ft.
   Accessory Structures (see Note 6)                          8 ft.    20 ft.        6    35 ft.  40,000
                                                                                        ft.          sq. ft.
   Non-Residential                          20,000 sq. 75 ft. 10 ft.   20 ft. 30 ft. 20   35 ft.  40,000
                                               ft.                                      ft.          sq. ft.
   Accessory Structures (see Note 6)                          0 ft.    20 ft. 20 ft. 15   35 ft.  40,000
                                                                                        ft.          sq. ft.
R40SF Residential
   Single Family                            40,000 sq. 100    10 ft.   20 ft. 40 ft. 30   35 ft.  40,000
                                               ft.        ft.                           ft.          sq. ft.
   Accessory Structures (see Note 6)                          8 ft.    20 ft.        6    35 ft.  40,000
                                                                                        ft.          sq. ft.
   Non-Residential                          40,000 sq. 100    10 ft.   20 ft. 40 ft. 30   35 ft.  40,000
                                               ft.        ft.                           ft.          sq. ft.
   Accessory Structures (see Note 6)                          0 ft.    20 ft. 20 ft. 15   35 ft.  40,000
                                                                                        ft.          sq. ft.
PUD Planned Unit Development                   (Determined by zoning district designations on approved PUD
                                               plan)
MHS Mobile Home Park
   Mobile Home                              5,000 sq.  40 ft. 8 ft.    10 ft. 20 ft. 10   35 ft.  40,000
                                               ft.                                      ft.          sq. ft.
   Accessory Structures (see Note 6)                          8 ft.    10 ft.        6    35 ft.  40,000
                                                                                        ft.          sq. ft.
   Non-Residential                          5,000 sq.  40 ft. 8 ft.    10 ft. 20 ft. 10   35 ft.  40,000
                                               ft.                                      ft.          sq. ft.
   Accessory Structures (see Note 6)                          0 ft.    10 ft. 20 ft. 15   35 ft.  40,000
                                                                                        ft.          sq. ft.
MHS Mobile Home Subdivision
   Mobile Home                              5,000 sq.  40 ft. 8 ft.    10 ft. 20 ft. 10   35 ft.  40,000
                                               ft.                                      ft.          sq. ft.
   Accessory Structures (see Note 6)                          8 ft.    10 ft.        6    35 ft.  40,000
                                                                                        ft.          sq. ft.
   Non-Residential                          5,000 sq.  40 ft. 8 ft.    10 ft. 20 ft. 10   35 ft.  40,000
                                               ft.                                      ft.          sq. ft.
   Accessory Structures (see Note 6)                          0 ft.    10 ft. 20 ft. 15   35 ft.  40,000
                                                                                        ft.          sq. ft.
MHS-15SF Mobile Home Subdivision 15 Single
Family
   Mobile Home                              15,000 sq. 60 ft. 10 ft.   20 ft. 30 ft. 20   35 ft.  40,000
                                               ft.                                      ft.          sq. ft.
   Accessory Structures (see Note 6)                          8 ft.    20 ft.        6    35 ft.  40,000
                                                                                        ft.          sq. ft.
   Non-Residential                          15,000 sq. 60 ft. 10 ft.   20 ft. 30 ft. 20   35 ft.  40,000
                                               ft.                                      ft.          sq. ft.
   Accessory Structures (see Note 6)                          0 ft.    20 ft. 20 ft. 15   35 ft.  40,000
                                                                                        ft.          sq. ft.
                                               (Per district
MHS-O Mobile Home Subdivision Overlay          included in
                                               subdivision
                                               overlay zone.)
   O/I Office and Institutional Residential 6,000 sq.  60 ft. 8 ft.    15 ft. 25 ft. 15   35 ft.  40,000
Use                                            ft.                                      ft.          sq. ft.
   Accessory Structures (see Note 6)                          8 ft.    15 ft.        6    35 ft.  40,000
                                                                                        ft.          sq. ft.
   Office and Institutional Use             6,000 sq.  60 ft. 8 ft.    10 ft. 25 ft. 20   35 ft.  40,000
                                               ft.                                      ft.          sq. ft.
   Accessory Structures (see Note 6)                          0 ft.    10 ft. 20 ft. 15   35 ft.  40,000
                                                                                        ft.          sq. ft.
G/E Governmental/Educational
   All uses except accessory                10,000 sq. 75 ft. 10 ft.   20 ft. 25 ft. 10   35 ft.  40,000
                                               ft.                                      ft.          sq. ft.
   Accessory Structures (see Note 6)                          0 ft.    20 ft. 20 ft. 15   35 ft.  40,000
                                                                                        ft.          sq. ft.
B1 Highway Business                            8,000 sq.  40 ft. None**   10 ft. 25 ft. 10   35 ft.  40,000
                                               ft.                                      ft.          sq. ft.
   Accessory Structures (see Note 6)                          0 ft.    10 ft. 20 ft. 15   35 ft.  40,000
                                                                                        ft.          sq. ft.
   Residential Special Use
      Single Family                      8,000 sq.  60 ft. 8 ft.    15 ft. 25 ft. 15   35 ft.  40,000
                                               ft.                                      ft.          sq. ft.
      Two Family                         12,000 sq. 90 ft. 8 ft.    15 ft. 25 ft. 15   35 ft.  40,000
                                               ft.                                      ft.          sq. ft.
      Three Family                       16,000 sq. 104    8 ft.    15 ft. 25 ft. 15   35 ft.  40,000
                                               ft.        ft.                           ft.          sq. ft.
      Four Family                        20,000 sq. 118    8 ft.    15 ft. 25 ft. 15   35 ft.  40,000
                                               ft.        ft.                           ft.          sq. ft.
                                               12,000 sq. 90 ft.
                                               ft. plus   plus
                                               4,000 sq.  14 ft.
      Apartments and Condominiums        ft. for    for    13 ft.   18 ft. 25 ft. 15   35 ft.  40,000
                                               each       each                          ft.          sq. ft.
                                               family     family
                                               unit over  unit
                                               2          over 2
                                               Same as    Same                          15           40,000
      Townhouses                         MF/Condo   as MF/ 13 ft.   18 ft. 25 ft. ft.  35 ft.  sq. ft.
                                                          Condo
   Accessory Structures (see Note 6)                          8 ft.    15 ft.        6    35 ft.  40,000
                                                                                        ft.          sq. ft.
B2 General Business                            8,000 sq.  50 ft. None**   10 ft. 25 ft. 10   35 ft.  40,000
                                               ft.                                      ft.          sq. ft.
   Accessory Structures (see Note 6)                          0 ft.    10 ft. 20 ft. 15   35 ft.  40,000
                                                                                        ft.          sq. ft.
   Residential Special Use
      Single Family                      8,000 sq.  60 ft. 8 ft.    15 ft. 25 ft. 15   35 ft.  40,000
                                               ft.                                      ft.          sq. ft.
   Accessory Structures (see Note 6)                          8 ft.    15 ft.        6    35 ft.  40,000
                                                                                        ft.          sq. ft.
                                               Subject to
B2HDO General Business Historic District       Historic                                      35 ft.  40,000
Overlay                                        Commission                                            sq. ft.
                                               Review**
                                               8,000 sq.
                                               ft. for
                                               first two
   B-3 Traditional Business                 units plus 25 ft. 0 ft.    5 ft.  5      10   40 ft.  40,000
                                               1,975 sq.                         ft.*** ft.          sq. ft.
                                               ft. per
                                               unit
                                               thereafter
   M1 Light Industrial****                  20,000 sq. 100    None**   10 ft. 35 ft. 20   45      160,000
                                               ft.        ft.                           ft.  ft.**** sq. ft.
   Accessory Structures (see Note 6)                          0 ft.    10 ft. 20 ft. 15   35 ft.  40,000
                                                                                        ft.          sq. ft.
* The Conservation District is established as a district in which only partial
development of land subject to flooding may occur. Dimensional regulations
shall be determined for each usage and shall be intended for the protection of
the floodplain or estuarine area involved. No building or structure , group of
buildings or structures, and other impervious surfaces shall cover more than
thirty percent (30%) of any lot in estuarine areas of environmental concern (as
defined by CAMA).
** When B1, B2, or MI Districts about any Residential District the "Interior
Side" dimension shall be a minimum of ten (10) feet.
*** In the B-3 district, the minimum building  setback from the street edge or
curb shall be 15 feet.
**** In the MI Light Industrial Districts as provided under §
152.180(LL) Note 38 setback of 200 feet from NC Highway 24 and stepback one
foot for each foot over 35 feet not to exceed 45 feet. The building size of
160,000 square feet is permissible for manufacturing and/or distribution uses
only. All other uses in the MI are limited to 40,000 square feet. Only up to
one 2,000 square foot portion of any MI building may be used for retail or
service purposes.
(Ord. passed 3-15-2005) (Am. Ord. 7-15-2008; Am. Ord. 2011-O26, passed 8-16-
2011; Am. Ord. 2012-O9, passed 8-21-2012; Am. Ord. passed 7-15-2014; Am. Ord.
2019-O4, passed 4-23-2019; Am. Ord. 2024-O10, passed 5-28-24)
§ 152.196 NOTES TO THE TABLE OF AREA, YARD, AND HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Note 1. Minimum lot size. No yard or lot  existing at the time of
passage of this chapter shall be reduced in dimension or area below the minimum
requirements set forth herein. Yards or lots  created after the effective date
of this chapter shall meet at least the minimum requirements established by
this chapter, unless otherwise stated.
   (B)   Note 2. Carports. Carports of any type shall not encroach into the
required side yard setback.
   (C)   Note 3. Front yard  setbacks for dwellings . If the average setback of
existing dwellings  on lots  located immediately adjacent to and on both sides
of the vacant lot , or within 100 feet, whichever is closer, is less than the
minimum required front yard depth, then the Administrator  or his/her designee
may grant an exception to the front yard setback requirement. In no manner
shall the vacant lot  owner’s front yard be less than 50% its original required
front yard depth set back according to its zoning classification. In the event
that the vacant lot  owner desires a greater reduction in the front
yard setback than the exception allows, the owner may request a variance  from
the Board of Adjustment.
   (D)   Exception to height regulations. The following are exceptions to the
height limitations contained in the schedule of Dimensional Requirements:
      (1)   The following are not included in the calculation of building
heights: antennas (excluding television dishes), belfries , cupolas , chimneys,
spires , ventilators, water tanks, or other architectural embellishments
(intended for ornamental purposes only) that are normally placed above the roof
line of a structure . These height limit exceptions may include access and
flooring only to the minimum extent necessary for safe maintenance and/or
operation of the structure , may not be designed or used for human occupancy,
for human habitation, or for storage , and may not contain furnishings.
Structures allowed under this height exception require a special use permit
issued by the Board of Commissioners and are permitted on the condition that
they shall be available for inspection by the ordinance administrator or his/
her designee at any reasonable time in order to confirm compliance with this
chapter.
   (E)   Note 5. Fences and walls. 
      (1)   A building permit shall be obtained prior to erection of a fence or
wall in any district. No fencing shall be allowed to exceed the height of four
feet in the front yard nor exceed a height of six feet in the side or rear yard
. In circumstances where the rear or side yard of a newly subdivided parcel of
land fronts a pre-existing roadway, street , right-of-way , lot , or parcel
frontage , the following height restrictions shall supersede those
aforementioned: the height of any fence , wall or other barrier shall not
exceed a height of four feet. Height should be measured from points directly
below the fence . On a corner lot within the area formed by an isosceles
triangle having legs of 25 feet in length from the intersection of the edges of
the roadway surfaces or curbs, there shall be no obstruction to vision above a
height of 32 inches above the average centerline of each street . In cases
where only one side of the fence is finished, that side shall face adjoining
properties.
      (2)   Only conforming industrial and business land uses (with the
exception of an O/I zone) may have a solid or open fence or wall erected to a
maximum height of ten feet except as required by this chapter. An open fence or
wall is one that has openings through which clear vision is possible from one
side to the other on a horizontal plane, and such openings occupy 50% or more
of the area of the fence or wall. A fence or wall that does not qualify as an
open fence or open wall shall maintain a setback at entrances and exits of the
site to provide an adequate sight distance easement as determined by the
establishment of an isosceles triangle having legs of 35 feet in length on each
corner side of said entrance or exit, and the same sight distance easement
shall be applied to the corner of nonresidential lots which are characterized
by a street intersection.
      (3)   Fences in residential districts not exceeding a height of six feet
to be erected only in side or rear yards shall be exempt from the yard and
building setback line requirements of this chapter, provided that no fence
exceeding a height of four feet will be constructed within 15 feet to any paved
or soil street or on any public right-of-way . In all cases, the corner
visibility provisions of this chapter shall be observed.
      (4)   Exception, that any “T” or “L” shaped lot may have a fence or wall
in what is defined by the Unified Development Ordinance as the front yard or
side yard as long as that front yard or side yard does not have a road or
street adjacent to the front yard or side yard of the lot .
   (F)   Note 6. Accessory structures .
      (1)   Accessory structure setbacks shall also apply to the placement of
swimming pools.
      (2)   No accessory building or use shall be erected in any front yard, or
within six feet of the rear lot line unless otherwise allowed by the following,
or if the rear lot line abuts navigable waters, and it is therefore subject to
the CAMA rules.
         (a)   Exception, that any “T” or “L” shaped lot may have accessory
uses or structures in what is defined by the Unified Development Ordinance as
the front yard or side yard as long as that front or side yard does not have a
road or street adjacent to the front yard or side yard of the lot.
         (b)   Accessory structures may be constructed or placed in the front
yard on residential lots two acres or greater and on flag lots provided that a
special use permit is obtained, and the structure meets the required front and
side setbacks for principal structures in the applicable zoning district.
         (c)   Double frontage lots in residential districts, including double
frontage lots on a corner, will require a special use permit to construct or
place accessory structures on the property.
      (3)   A permit is required for any new accessory structure . A zoning
permit will be required as well as a building permit if the accessory structure
exceeds 12 feet in any direction (length, width, or height).
   (G)   Note 7. Use of parkway areas. Along that portion of North Carolina
Highway 24 that lies within the corporate limits (and extraterritorial
jurisdiction) of the Town of Swansboro, that portion of the highway right-of-
way that extends from the back of the curb for a distance of 12 feet behind the
curb and perpendicular to the roadway (on both sides of the highway) shall be
designated as the “parkway”. If the right-of-way area behind the curb is less
than 12 feet, the parkway area shall consist of the available right-of-way
area. The parkway area shall be kept open and clear for the passage of
pedestrians, for the installation of sidewalks, and for roadside landscaping by
public entities. Within the parkway area, no person shall park vehicles,
display merchandise, install or place signs or other structures (except those
placed by state or local government), or otherwise obstruct the area in a
manner that interferes with the public purposes of the parkway area.
   (H)   Note 8. Side Yard  Setbacks in the R-6 and R-6 SF Zoning Districts.
Interior side yards one, two, three and four family  dwellings  (including
accessory structures ) in the R-6 and R-6 SF zoning districts shall be at least
five feet. Provided, however, that when the interior side yard is less than
eight feet, any new construction after the effective date of this provision,
July 19, 2011, must comply - for that portion of the structure that is less
than eight feet from the side property line - with the fire resistive
requirements set forth in Section R302 of the 2009 North Carolina Building
Code.
   (I)   Note 9. Maximum building square footage - new construction ,
redevelopment and/or substantial improvement . New construction , redevelopment
and/or substantial improvement of a building  or structure shall not be built,
erected and/or installed that exceeds 40,000 gross square feet (unless approved
by a special use permit  or through the conditional zoning process and
utilizing a flexible lot development ). This will also include any repair,
reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other improvement of a structure,
the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure
before the “start of construction ” of the improvement.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2006-11, passed 4-18-2006; Am. Ord.
passed 7-15-2008; Am. Ord. passed 9-16-2008; Am. Ord. passed 8-17-2010; Am.
Ord. passed 11-16-2010; Am. Ord. 2011-O7, passed 2-15-2011; Am. Ord. passed 7-
19-2011; Am. Ord. passed 12-18-2012; Am. Ord. passed 2-28-2017; Am. Ord. passed
4-25-2017; Am. Ord. 2020-O6, passed 8-10-2020; Am. Ord. 2024-O12, passed 8-13-
2024)
SPECIAL USES
§ 152.210 PROCEDURE FOR SPECIAL USE PERMITS.
   (A)   Special use permits may be issued by the Administrator , after
approval by the Board of Commissioners , for the uses as designated in the
table of regulations for special uses. Applications shall include all of the
requirements pertaining to it as specified in this section. A hearing shall be
held, and all interested persons shall be permitted to offer relevant comments.
The Town Board of Commissioners shall consider the application and may approve
or deny the requested special use permit .
   (B)   In granting a special use permit, the Board of Commissioners shall
give due regard to the nature and state of all adjacent structures and uses,
and the districts within which the proposed use is to be located, and shall
make written findings of fact concerning the existence or absence of the
following criteria:
      (1)   The special use is allowed pursuant to §
152.210 and meets all the required conditions and specifications, including
without limitation, those set out in §
152.211.
      (2)   The special use will not materially endanger the public health or
safety if located where proposed and developed according to the plan as
submitted and approved.
      (3)   The special use will not substantially injure the value of
adjoining or abutting property. OR the special use is a public necessity.
      (4)   The location and character of the special use , if developed
according to the plan as submitted and approved, will be in harmony with the
area in which it is located. The special use shall demonstrate conformance to
the Land Use Plan or other plan in effect at the time and address impacts of
the project as required by G.S. §160A-382(b).
      (5)   Upon the issuance of any special use permit , the Board of
Commissioners shall consider whether it is necessary or appropriate to affix
conditions thereto for the purposes of protecting neighboring properties and/or
the public interest assuring that the use is harmonious with the area, and
ensuring that the use is consistent with the spirit of the ordinance, and shall
affix to such permit such reasonable and appropriate conditions as it finds are
necessary for any of those purposes. If any conditions affixed to any special
use permit or any part thereof is held invalid by any competent authority, then
said special use permit shall be void.
   (C)   Orders of Board of Commissioners . Upon its determination  that all of
the criteria set out in this section are met, the Board of Commissioners  shall
enter a written order with findings of fact and conclusions of law, and shall
issue the special use permit as requested or with such conditions as it finds
necessary and appropriate pursuant to this section.
   (D)   Upon its determination that one or more of the criteria set out in
this section are not met, the Board of Commissioners shall issue its written
order with findings of fact and conclusions of law and shall deny the requested
special use permit.
   (E)   Any special use permit approved or approved with conditions shall be
recorded in the office of the Register of Deeds of Onslow County, North
Carolina.
   (F)   All such additional conditions shall be entered in the minutes of the
meeting at which the special use permit is granted and also on the special use
permit approval, and on the approved plans submitted therewith. All specific
conditions shall run with the land and shall be binding on the original
applicant for the special use permit , the heirs, successors, and assigns. In
order to ensure that such conditions and requirements for each special use
permit will be fulfilled, the petitioner for the special use permit may be
required to enter into a contract with the Town of Swansboro providing for the
installation of the physical improvements required as a basis for the issuance
of the special use permit . Performance of said contract shall be secured by
cash or surety bond which will cover the total estimated cost of the
improvements as determined by the Town of Swansboro; provided, however, that
said bond may be waived by the Town Board of Commissioners within its
discretion.
   (G)   In addition to the conditions specifically imposed by the Town Board
of Commissioners , special uses shall comply with the height, area, and parking
regulations of the zone in which they are located (no variances from
requirements within zoning ordinance are allowed).
   (H)   In the event of failure to comply with the plans approved by the Board
of Commissioners or with any other conditions imposed upon the special use
permit , the permit shall thereupon immediately become void and of no effect.
No building permits for further construction nor a certificate of compliance
under this special use permit shall be issued, and the use of all completed
structures shall immediately cease and such completed structures not thereafter
be used for any purpose other than a use-by-right as permitted by the zone in
which the property is located.
   (I)   Minor modifications to special use permit s that do not involve a
change in the uses permitted or the density of overall development permitted
may be reviewed and approved administratively. Any other modification or
revocation of a special use permit shall follow the same process for the
original approval by the Town Board of Commissioners .
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2006-11, passed 4-18-2006; Am. Ord.
passed 6-16-200; Am. Ord. 2010-O20, Am. Ord. passed 7-20-2010; Am. Ord. passed
1-21-2014; Am. Ord. 2021-O3, passed 5-24-2021)
§ 152.211 SPECIFIC CRITERIA FOR CERTAIN SPECIAL USES.
   Detailed regulations for certain special uses are set forth in this section.
   (A)   Use - accessory structures in the front yard or on a double frontage
lot. 
      (1)   Minor special use districts: RA, R6, R6SF, R8SF, R10SF, R15SF,
R20SF, R40SF, PUD,MHP, MHS, MHS-15SF, MHS-O.
      (2)   Minimum lot area : based on zoning classification lot  standards.
      (3)   Topography: topography of the site at contour intervals not greater
than two feet.
      (4)   Structures: location and approximate size of all existing and
proposed buildings  and structures within the site and on the lots  adjacent
thereto.
      (5)   Circulation: proposed points of access and egress and pattern of
internal circulation.
      (6)   Other details:
         (a)   All accessory structures , shall be placed a minimum of 20 feet
from the edge of the road right of way .
         (b)   All accessory structures , shall be screened from view by a
minimum four-foot opaque fence with the finished side facing the street and a
landscape screen on the street side of the fence . The screening shall be a
type A buffer as required by §
152.528(E)(1) and
Table 152.528-1.
   (B)   Use - amusement , outdoor.
      (1)   Special use district: B1 and B2.
      (2)   Minimum lot area : a minimum of five acres.
      (3)   Buffering: as specified in §§
152.525 through
152.544 of this chapter, buffering shall be required by the Board of
Commissioners .
      (4)   Plans are required and must show:
         (a)   Topography: topography of the site at contour intervals not
greater than two feet.
         (b)   Structures: location and approximate size of all existing and
proposed structures within the site and of all buildings  within 1,000 feet
adjacent thereto.
         (c)   Circulation: proposed points of access and egress and pattern of
internal circulation.
         (d)   Other details:
            1.   Parking standards will be established by the town.
            2.   Proposed provision for storm drainage (including retention
pond facilities, when applicable) approved by the Swansboro Building Inspector;
sanitary sewage approved by the Swansboro Building Inspector or County Health
Department, whichever is applicable.
            3.   Size and proposed location of any signs.
            4.   Proposed solid waste storage facilities.
            5.   Proposed water system and firefighting facilities such as
hydrants or sprinkler connections.
            6.   Types of surfacing for drives, sidewalks, malls, and the like.
            7.   The location and height of all fences , walls, and hedges
shall be shown.
            8.   Other standards for the specific outdoor amusement will be
established in the special use permit process.
   (C)   Use - dwelling , multi-family and condominiums.
      (1)   Special use district: R6, PUD, O/I, B1, B2, and B3.
   (D)   Use - dwelling, townhouses.
      (1)   Special use district: R6, PUD, B1, B2, and B3.
   (E)   Use - kennels, breeding/boarding (not related to veterinarian’s
office).
      (1)   Outdoor facilities.
         (a)   Minor special use district: RA.
         (b)   Minimum lot area : minimum of one acre.
         (c)   Setback : A setback of 50 feet shall be maintained on the front,
sides and rear of the property.
         (d)   Screening and fencing: a screen of dense plant material at least
five feet in height at the time of planting or a solid fence or wall shall be
installed.
         (e)   Plans are required and must show:
            1.   Structures: location of buildings  and sign, and size of the
sign.
            2.   Circulation: proposed points of access and egress and pattern
of internal circulation.
            3.   Parking: layout of parking spaces.
            4.   Lighting: lighting plan, inclusive of wattage and
illumination.
            5.   Hours of operation: days and times.
            6.   Number of employees: total number of employees
            7.   Waste management: method of waste disposal to be used.
      (2)   Indoor facilities.
         (a)   Minor special use district: RA.
         (b)   Plans are required and must show:
            1.   Structures: location of buildings  and sign, and size of the
sign.
            2.   Setback : the area in which animals are to be kept must be 20
feet from the side property lines.
            3.   Circulation: proposed points of access and egress and pattern
of internal circulation.
            4.   Parking: layout of parking spaces.
            5.   Lighting: lighting plan, inclusive of wattage and
illumination.
            6.   Hours of operation: days and times.
            7.   Number of employees: total number of employees.
            8.   Waste management: method of waste disposal to be used.
         (c)   Other requirements: it is mandatory that all activities related
to indoor facilities be confined within a building .
   (F)   Use - livestock, sales and auction.
      (1)   Minor special use district: RA.
      (2)   Minimum acreage: 20 acres.
      (3)   Plans are required and must show:
         (a)   Topography: topography of the site at contour intervals not
greater than two feet.
         (b)   Structure: location and approximate size of all existing and
proposed buildings  and structures within the site and on the lots  adjacent
thereto.
         (c)   Circulation: proposed points of access and egress and pattern of
internal circulation.
         (d)   Lighting: proposed lighting location and design.
         (e)   Buffering: shall be required as specified in §§
152.525 through
152.544.
         (f)   Parking and loading: layout of parking spaces and type of
proposed surfacing.
         (g)   Drainage: proposed provision for storm drainage (including
retention pond facilities, when applicable), approved by the Administrator .
      (4)   Other requirements:
         (a)   Public sanitation measures.
         (b)   Odor control measures.
         (c)   Health department approval.
   (G)   Use - mobile signs . Refer to the Table of Permitted and Special Use
Signs in §
152.277.
      (1)   Special use district: B1 and MI.
      (2)   Requirements:
         (a)   No part of a sign shall extend beyond the plane of the property
line upon which the sign is located or into any easement .
         (b)   Display area shall not exceed six square feet.
         (c)   Mobile sign height measured vertically from ground level to top
of sign including trailer or towable device to which sign is attached shall not
exceed five feet.
         (d)   Combination of allowed tenant signage square footage shall not
be exceeded.
         (e)   Signs shall be displayed only during times when the business
being advertised is open for business.
         (f)   The application for approval of a special use shall include:
            1.   Sign location;
            2.   Sign size;
            3.   Sign illumination;
            4.   Diagram of the sign;
            5.   Proposed method of anchoring/securing.
   (H)   Use - planned unit development.
      (1)   Special use district: PUD.
      (2)   Requirements: refer to §§
152.245 through
152.253 for criteria.
   (I)   Use - sanitary landfill .
      (1)   Minor special use district: RA.
      (2)   Requirements:
         (a)   Parking: shall conform to §§
152.290 through
152.296, Off-Street Parking and Loading Requirements.
         (b)   Lighting: lighting shall be such that it is not directed onto
any adjacent residential lot .
         (c)   All buildings, structures, tanks, and pits shall be setback at
least 100 feet from all exterior property lines. A natural buffer at least 50
feet in width shall separate all such uses from all exterior property lines. A
non-climbable fence , at least six feet in height, shall completely enclose
such uses.
         (d)   Plans are required and must show:
            1.   Topography: topography of the site at contour intervals not
greater than two feet.
            2.   Structure: location and approximate size of all existing and
proposed buildings  and structures within the site and on the lots  adjacent
thereto.
            3.   Circulation: proposed points of access and egress and pattern
of internal circulation.
            4.   Lighting: proposed lighting location and design.
            5.   Buffering: shall be required as specified in §§
152.525 through
152.544.
            6.   Parking and loading: layout of parking spaces and type of
proposed surfacing.
            7.   Drainage: proposed provision for storm drainage (including
retention pond facilities, when applicable), approved by the Administrator .
   (J)   Use - sign, roof . Refer to the Table of Permitted and Special Use
Signs in §
152.277.
      (1)   Special use districts: B1, MI, and CON.
      (2)   Plans are required and must show:
         (a)   Size: must not exceed 32 square feet of viewable area.
         (b)   Lighting: proposed lighting location, design, and hours of
operation.
         (c)   Design: design including diagram of sign, sign size, sign
location, drawing of display area, and method of anchoring or attachment to
building /roof.
   (K)   Use - swimming pools , public/commercial.
      (1)   Minor special use districts: RA, R6, R10SF, R15SF, R20SF, R40SF,
PUD, MHP, G/E, B1, and B2.
      (2)   Requirements:
         (a)   Parking: Shall conform to §§
152.290 through
152.296, Off-Street Parking and Loading Requirements.
         (b)   Lighting: lighting shall be such that it is not directed onto
any adjacent residential lot .
         (c)   All buildings and swimming pools must be setback a minimum of 50
feet from all exterior property lines.
         (d)   Plans are required and must show:
            1.   Topography: topography of the site at contour intervals not
greater than two feet.
            2.   Structure: location and approximate size of all existing and
proposed buildings  and structures within the site and on the lots  adjacent
thereto.
            3.   Circulation: proposed points of access and egress and pattern
of internal circulation.
            4.   Lighting: proposed lighting location and design.
            5.   Buffering: shall be required as specified in §§
152.525 through
152.544.
            6.   Parking and loading: layout of parking spaces and type of
proposed surfacing.
            7.   Drainage: proposed provision for storm drainage (including
retention pond facilities, when applicable), approved by the Administrator .
   (L)   Use - wireless telecommunication facilities.
      (1)   Special use district: RA.
      (2)   Requirements:
         (a)   The facility must be setback from adjacent property lines and
any residential dwelling(s) at least a distance equal to the fall zone as
certified by a structural engineer. Accessory structures shall be setback at
least 50 feet from any property line. These measurements shall be taken from
the base of the tower or the foundation of the structure, as applicable.
         (b)   Access roads must be improved and meet the applicable standards
of the Fire Code for emergency access. Access to any gated or locked enclosures
must be provided to the Fire Chief.
         (c)   Lighting on the facility must meet the minimum standards of the
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). Lighting shall be muffled so that no
audible sound can be heard beyond the distance of the required setback. Other
lighting on the property, including lighting on accessory structures or on the
surrounding enclosure, should be shielded so as not to trespass onto adjacent
properties. The application must contain certification that the lighting on
site has been designed to meet these requirements.
         (d)   Communication equipment or antennas shall meet the emission
output levels as specified by applicable federal standard or by the American
National Standard Institute (ANSI). The application must contain a
certification that these requirements have been met.
         (e)   A Type C buffer yard per §
152.528 shall be installed around any perimeter enclosure.
         (f)   If a proposed facility is to be constructed within five miles or
less from the perimeter boundary of a military base, or within any mapped
flight path overlay, the town shall provide written notice of the proposal by
certified mail, return receipt requested, to the commander of the military base
not less than ten days nor more than 25 days before the date fixed for the
public hearing on the application.
         (g)   Applications must include the required materials per Appendix
IV.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2009-O6, passed 4-21-2009; Am. Ord.
2010-O6, passed 2-16-2010; Am. Ord. passed 7-26-2016; Am. Ord. passed 11-22-
2016; Am. Ord. passed 2-28-2017; Am. Ord. passed 4-25-2017; Am. Ord. 2020-O6,
passed 8-10-2020; Am. Ord. 2021-O3, passed 5-24-2021; Am. Ord. 2023-O6, passed
5-22-23)
§ 152.212 USE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Use - amusement , indoor. Permitted as a use standard in B1 and B2.
      (1)   Requirement:
         (a)   Minimum lot area: based on zoning classification lot standards.
      (2)   Plans are required and must show:
         (a)   The size and location of all outdoor areas used for the
principal use .
         (b)   Topography: on new construction , a well-drained site with
adequate storm drainage facilities (including retention pond facilities, when
applicable).
         (c)   Structures: location of signs, entrance, and buildings must be
shown on the plan.
         (d)   Circulation: proposed points for access and egress and a parking
layout.
         (e)   Buffering: as specified in §
152.528 of this chapter, unless the property abuts residentially used or zoned
property, in which case a Type C buffer is required.
         (f)   Sign size and location as specified §§
152.265 through
152.277 of this chapter.
         (g)   A lighting plan, which must include wattage and illumination.
The use of full cutoff luminaries is required.
         (h)   List of all services to be provided.
         (i)   A security/management plan.
         (j)   Hours of operation (refer to town noise ordinance, §§
92.01 through
92.06).
         (k)   Landscaping requirements, §§
152.525 through
152.544.
         (l)   Parking: shall conform to §§
152.290 through
152.296, Off-Street Parking and Loading Requirements.
   (B)   Use - assisted living residence. Permitted as a use standard in RA,
PUD, O/I, Bl and B2.
      (1)   Requirement:
         (a)   Minimum lot area: minimum lot area of district in which located
plus 1,000 square feet for each person to be accommodated.
      (2)   Plans are required and must show:
         (a)   The size and location of all outdoor areas used for the
principal use.
         (b)   Topography: on new construction, a well-drained site with
adequate storm drainage facilities (including retention pond facilities, when
applicable).
         (c)   Structures: location of signs, entrance, and buildings must be
shown on the plan.
         (d)   Circulation: proposed points for access and egress and a parking
layout.
         (e)   Buffering: as specified in §
152.528 of this chapter, unless the property abuts residentially used or zoned
property, in which case a Type C buffer is required.
         (f)   Sign size and location as specified §§
152.265 through
152.277 of this chapter.
         (g)   A lighting plan, which must include wattage and illumination.
The use of full cutoff luminaries is required.
         (h)   A list of all services to be provided.
         (i)   Security/management plan
         (j)   Hours of operation (refer to town noise ordinance, §§
92.01 through
92.06).
         (k)   Landscaping requirements, §§
152,525 through
152.544.
         (l)   Parking: shall conform to §§
152.290 through
152.296, Off-Street Parking and Loading Requirements.
   (C)   Use - bar, nightclub or tavern. Permitted as a use standard in B1,B3
and B2HDO. Plans are required and must show:
      (1)   The size and location of all outdoor areas used for the principal
use.
      (2)   Topography: on new construction, a well-drained site with adequate
storm drainage facilities (including retention pond facilities, when
applicable).
      (3)   Structures: location of signs, entrance, and buildings must be
shown on the plan.
      (4)   Circulation: proposed points for access and egress and a parking
layout.
      (5)   Buffering: as specified in §
152.528 of this chapter, unless the property abuts residentially used or zoned
property, in which case a Type C buffer is required.
      (6)   Sign size and location as specified §§
152.265 through
152.277 of this chapter.
      (7)   A lighting plan, which must include wattage and illumination. The
use of full cutoff luminaries is required.
      (8)   A list of all services to be provided.
      (9)   A security/management plan.
      (10)   Hours of operation (refer to town noise ordinance, §§
92.01 through
92.06).
      (11)   Landscaping requirements, §§
152.525 through
152.544,
      (12)   Parking: shall conform to §§
152.290 through
152.296, Off-Street Parking and Loading Requirements.
   (D)   Use - bed and breakfast accommodations, and inns. Permitted as a use
standard in R6 and R8SF.
      (1)   Include only legitimate lodging businesses available for public
reservation and use, although there may be an owner or manager room or living
quarters on the premises. Such businesses must:
         (a)   Possess a current town-approved business packet for a bed and
breakfast accommodation or inn;
         (b)   Possess any Health Department licenses or permits that may be
applicable;
         (c)   Provide, if requested by the town, evidence that lodging is
being offered and advertised for public use and is available for same;
         (d)   Provide evidence, if requested by the town and subject to an
audit of documents, that the premises are in actual use for paid, short-term
lodging of guests.
      (2)   Plans are required and must show:
         (a)   The size and location of all outdoor areas used for the
principal use.
         (b)   Topography: on new construction, a well-drained site with
adequate storm drainage facilities (including retention pond facilities, when
applicable).
         (c)   Structures: location of signs, entrance, and buildings must be
shown on the plan.
         (d)   Circulation: proposed points for access and egress and a parking
layout.
         (e)   Buffering: as specified in §
152.528 of this chapter, unless the property abuts residentially used or zoned
property, in which case a Type C buffer is required.
         (f)   Sign size and location as specified §§
152.265 through
152.277 of this chapter.
         (g)   A lighting plan, which must include wattage and illumination.
The use of full cutoff luminaries is required.
         (h)   Landscaping requirements, §§
152.525 through
152.544
         (i)   Parking: shall conform to §§
152.290 through
152.296, Off-Street Parking and Loading Requirements.
         (j)   A list of all services to be provided.
         (k)   A security/management plan.
         (l)   Hours of operation (refer to town noise ordinance, §§
92.01 through
92,06).
   (E)   Use - bulk mail and packaging. Permitted as a use standard in B1, B2
and B3.
      (1)   Requirements:
         (a)   Buildings, storage, and maintenance areas shall be screened from
adjacent residential land and public rights-of-way.
         (b)   The facility is constructed, designed, and located on the site
to minimize noise, odor, and other impacts on neighboring properties
      (2)   Plans are required and must show:
         (a)   The size and location of all outdoor areas used for the
principal use.
         (b)   Topography: on new construction, a well-drained site with
adequate storm drainage facilities (including retention pond facilities, when
applicable).
         (c)   Structures: location of signs, entrance, and buildings must be
shown on the plan.
         (d)   Circulation: proposed points for access and egress and a parking
layout.
         (e)   Buffering: as specified in §
152.528 of this chapter, unless the property abuts residentially used or zoned
property, in which case a Type C buffer is required.
         (f)   Sign size and location as specified §§
152.265 through
152.277 of this chapter.
         (g)   A lighting plan, which must include wattage and illumination.
The use of full cutoff luminaries is required.
         (h)   A list of all services to be provided.
         (i)   A security/management plan.
         (j)   Hours of operation (refer to town noise ordinance, §§
92,01 through
92.06).
         (k)   Landscaping requirements, §§
152.525 through
152.544.
         (l)   Parking: shall conform to §§
152.290 through
152.296, Off-Street Parking and Loading Requirements.
   (F)   Use - churches and related uses. Permitted as a use standard in RA,
R6, R6SF, R8SF, R10SF, R15SF, R20SF, R40SF, PUD, MHS, MHS-15SF, MHS-O, O/I, G/
E, B1 and B2. Plans are required and must show:
      (1)   Minimum setbacks: the structure (if new) shall have minimum side
and rear yards of not less than 30 feet; and a front yard at least 15 feet
greater than that required for other principal structures within the district.
      (2)   Topography: on new construction, a well-drained site with adequate
storm drainage facilities (including retention pond facilities, if applicable).
      (3)   Structures: location of signs, entrance, and buildings must be
shown on the plan.
      (4)   Circulation: proposed points for access and egress and a parking
layout.
      (5)   Buffering: as specified in §
152.528 of this chapter, unless the property abuts residentially used or zoned
property, in which case a Type C buffer is required.
      (6)   Sign size and location as specified §§
152.265 through
152.277 of this chapter.
      (7)   A lighting plan, which must include wattage and illumination. The
use of full cutoff luminaries is required.
      (8)   A list of all services to be provided.
      (9)   A security/management plan.
      (10)   Hours of operation (refer to town noise ordinance, §§
92.01 through
92.06).
      (11)   Landscaping requirements, §§
152.525 through
152.544.
      (12)   Parking: shall conform to §§
152.290 through
152.296, Off-Street Parking and Loading Requirements.
   (G)   Use - club or lodge, public or private. Permitted as a use standard in
RA, R10SF, R15SF, R40SF, O/I, B1, B2, B3 and B2HDO.
      (1)   Requirements:
         (a)   Clubs or lodges shall have direct access to a federal or state
highway.
         (b)   Minimum lot area: minimum lot area shall be the same as required
for nonresidential uses in the RA district.
      (2)   Plans are required and must show:
         (a)   The size and location of all outdoor areas used for the
principal use.
         (b)   Topography: on new construction, a well-drained site with
adequate storm drainage facilities (including retention pond facilities, when
applicable).
         (c)   Structures: location of signs, entrance, and buildings must be
shown on the plan.
         (d)   Circulation: proposed points for access and egress and a parking
layout.
         (e)   Buffering: as specified in §
152.528 of this chapter, unless the property abuts residentially used or zoned
property, in which case a Type C buffer is required.
         (f)   Sign size and location as specified §§
152.265 through
152,277 of this chapter.
         (g)   A lighting plan, which must include wattage and illumination.
The use of full cutoff luminaries is required.
         (h)   A list of all services to be provided.
         (i)   A security/management plan.
         (j)   Hours of operation (refer to town noise ordinance, §§
92.01 through
92.06).
         (k)   Landscaping requirements, §§
152.525 through
152.544.
         (l)   Parking: shall conform to §§
152.290 through
152,296, Off-Street Parking and Loading Requirements.
   (H)   Use - colleges, universities, and related uses. Permitted as a use
standard in RA, Bl, and B2.
      (1)   Requirements:
         (a)   Depending on the intensity of the use and proposed access
points, a traffic impact study may be required.
         (b)   Sidewalk extensions and connections may be required in an effort
to provide pedestrians with a safe means of travel.
         (c)   Pedestrian traffic circulation, drive lanes, sidewalks, and
other transportation improvements.
         (d)   The number and location of designated parking spaces for
employees.
         (e)   The number and location of visitor parking spaces.
         (f)   The number and location of student parking spaces
         (g)   The location and extent of open recreation or training areas
         (h)   Student capacity of the school as designed.
         (i)   Total number of employees at time of greatest shift.
      (2)   Plans are required and must show:
         (a)   The size and location of all outdoor areas used for the
principal use.
         (b)   Topography: on new construction, a well-drained site with
adequate storm drainage facilities (including retention pond facilities, when
applicable).
         (c)   Structures: location of signs, entrance, and buildings must be
shown on the plan.
         (d)   Circulation: proposed points for access and egress and a parking
layout.
         (e)   Buffering: as specified in §
152.528 of this chapter, unless the property abuts residentially used or zoned
property, in which case a Type C buffer is required.
         (f)   Sign size and location as specified §§
152.265 through
152.277 of this chapter.
         (g)   A lighting plan, which must include wattage and illumination.
The use of full cutoff luminaries is required.
         (h)   A list of all services to be provided.
         (i)   A security/management plan.
         (j)   Hours of operation (refer to town noise ordinance, §§
92.01 through
92.06).
         (k)   Landscaping requirements, §§
152.525 through
152.544.
         (l)   Parking: shall conform to §§
152.290 through
152.296, Off-Street Parking and Loading Requirements.
   (I)   Use - crude petroleum and natural gas. Permitted as a use standard in
MI.
      (1)   Requirements:
         (a)   The proposed facility shall conform to the requirements of the
Fire Prevention Codes of the State Building Code, the National Board of Fire
Underwriters, all applicable codes of the National Fire Protection Association,
and all requirements of the State Fire Code.
         (b)   A security fence, at least eight feet in height, shall surround
all facilities used for the storage and handling of coal.
         (c)   In addition to the general requirements, the site plan must also
include the location of all structures and water bodies within 1,000 square
feet.
         (d)   A stormwater plan.
      (2)   Plans are required and must show:
         (a)   The size and location of all outdoor areas used for the
principal use.
         (b)   Topography: on new construction, a well-drained site with
adequate storm drainage facilities (including retention pond facilities, when
applicable).
         (c)   Structures: location of signs, entrance, and buildings must be
shown on the plan.
         (d)   Circulation: proposed points for access and egress and a parking
layout.
         (e)   Buffering: as specified in §
152.528 of this chapter, unless the property abuts residentially used or zoned
property in which case a Type C or Type D buffer is required.
         (f)   Sign size and location as specified §§
152.265 through
152.277 of this chapter.
         (g)   A lighting plan, which must include wattage and illumination.
The use of full cutoff luminaries is required.
         (h)   A list of all services to be provided.
         (i)   A security/management plan.
         (j)   Hours of operation (refer to town noise ordinance, §§
92.01 through
92.06).
         (k)   Landscaping requirements, §§
152.525 through
152.544.
         (l)   Parking: shall conform to §§
152.290 through
152.296, Off-Street Parking and Loading Requirements.
   (J)   Use - electrical appliance sales and services (no outdoor storage).
Permitted as a use standard in B1.
      (1)   Requirements:
         (a)   Storage facilities for appliances and equipment must be fully
enclosed.
         (b)   Retail space limited to sales and office use.
      (2)   Plans are required and must show:
         (a)   The size and location of all outdoor areas used for the
principal use.
         (b)   Topography: on new construction, a well-drained site with
adequate storm drainage facilities (including retention pond facilities, when
applicable).
         (c)   Structures: location of signs, entrance, and buildings must be
shown on the plan.
         (d)   Circulation: proposed points for access and egress and a parking
layout.
         (e)   Buffering: as specified in §
152.528 of this chapter, unless the property abuts residentially used or zoned
property, in which case a Type C buffer is required.
         (f)   Sign size and location as specified §§
152.265 through
152.277 of this chapter.
         (g)   A lighting plan, which must include wattage and illumination.
The use of full cutoff luminaries is required.
         (h)   A list of all services to be provided.
         (i)   A security/management plan.
         (j)   Hours of operation (refer to town noise ordinance, §§
92.01 through
92.06).
         (k)   Landscaping requirements, §§
152.525 through
152.544.
         (l)   Parking: shall conform to §§
152.290 through
152.296, Off-Street Parking and Loading Requirements.
   (K)   Use - farm machinery sales and service. Permitted as a use standard in
RA.
      (1)   Requirements:
         (a)   The lot for the proposed farm machinery sales and service use
shall meet the minimum yard requirements for the zoning district.
         (b)   Customer and employee parking and machinery on display shall not
be located in any required street yard or public right-of-way, and may not
impede vehicular or pedestrian traffic or sign distance triangles, if
applicable.
         (c)   All machinery display areas shall conform to the landscaping
requirements for parking areas as set forth in this chapter.
         (d)   On-site machinery loading and unloading areas shall be of a
sufficient size to ensure that no such loading or unloading will occur in any
public right-of-way or impede ingress, egress, or internal circulation.
         (e)   No structure or outside storage, display, or activity area shall
be within a distance of 30 feet of any abutting residentially zoned or used
lot.
         (f)   Any repair, servicing, maintenance, or other work on machinery
shall be conducted within an enclosed structure or behind an opaque fence six
feet in height.
      (2)   Plans are required and must show:
         (a)   The size and location of all outdoor areas used for the
principal use.
         (b)   Topography: on new construction, a well-drained site with
adequate storm drainage facilities (including retention pond facilities, when
applicable).
         (c)   Structures: location of signs, entrance, and buildings must be
shown on the plan.
         (d)   Circulation: proposed points for access and egress and a parking
layout.
         (e)   Buffering: as specified in §
152.528 of this chapter, unless the property abuts residentially used or zoned
property, in which case a Type C buffer is required.
         (f)   Sign size and location as specified §§
152.265 through
152.277 of this chapter.
         (g)   A lighting plan, which must include wattage and illumination.
The use of full cutoff luminaries is required.
         (h)   A list of all services to be provided.
         (i)   A security/management plan.
         (j)   Hours of operation (refer to town noise ordinance, §§
92.01 through
92.06).
         (k)   Landscaping requirements, §§
152.525 through
152.544.
         (l)   Parking: shall conform to §§
152.290 through
152.296, Off-Street Parking and Loading Requirements.
   (L)   Use - feed and grain sales and storage. Permitted as a use standard in
RA.
      (1)   Requirements:
         (a)   No structure, outside storage area, or outside activity area
shall be within a distance of 30 feet from any adjoining residentially zoned or
used lot.
         (b)   Plans and specifications for buffer and fencing.
      (2)   Plans are required and must show:
         (a)   The size and location of all outdoor areas used for the
principal use.
         (b)   Topography: on new construction, a well-drained site with
adequate storm drainage facilities (including retention pond facilities, when
applicable).
         (c)   Structures: location of signs, entrance, and buildings must be
shown on the plan.
         (d)   Circulation: proposed points for access and egress and a parking
layout.
         (e)   Buffering: as specified in §
152.528 of this chapter, unless the property abuts residentially used or zoned
property, in which case a Type C buffer is required.
         (f)   Sign size and location as specified §§
152.265 through
152.277 of this chapter.
         (g)   A lighting plan, which must include wattage and illumination.
The use of full cutoff luminaries is required.
         (h)   A list of all services to be provided.
         (i)   A security/management plan.
         (j)   Hours of operation (refer to town noise ordinance, §§
92.01 through
92.06).
         (k)   Landscaping requirements, §§
152.525 through
152.544.
         (l)   Parking: shall conform to §§
152.290 through
152.296, Off-Street Parking and Loading Requirements.
   (M)   Use - fertilizer wholesale and retail sales. Permitted as a use
standard in RA.
      (1)   Requirements:
         (a)   No structure, outside storage area, or outside activity area
shall be within a distance of 30 feet from any adjoining residentially zoned or
used lot.
         (b)   Plans and specifications for buffer and fencing.
      (2)   Plans are required and must show:
         (a)   The size and location of all outdoor areas used for the
principal use.
         (b)   Topography: on new construction, a well-drained site with
adequate storm drainage facilities (including retention pond facilities, when
applicable).
         (c)   Structures: location of signs, entrance, and buildings must be
shown on the plan,
         (d)   Circulation: proposed points for access and egress and a parking
layout.
         (e)   Buffering: as specified in §§
152,528 of this chapter, unless the property abuts residentially used or zoned
property, in which case a Type C buffer is required.
         (f)   Sign size and location as specified §§
152,265 through
152.277 of this chapter.
         (g)   A lighting plan, which must include wattage and illumination.
The use of full cutoff luminaries is required.
         (h)   A list of all services to be provided.
         (i)   A security/management plan.
         (j)   Hours of operation (refer to town noise ordinance, §§
92.01 through
92.06).
         (k)   Landscaping requirements, §§
152.525 through
152.544.
         (l)   Parking: shall conform to §§
152.290 through
152.296, Off-Street Parking and Loading Requirements.
   (N)   Use - flea market, (indoor). Permitted as a use standard in B1.
      (1)   Requirements:
         (a)   A minimum lot area of one acre is required.
         (b)   Flea market use will not be allowed as an accessory use .
         (c)   Adequate and safe permanent public restrooms and/or toilet
facilities are required. No portable restroom facilities will be allowed.
         (d)   No structure, outside storage area, or outside activity area
shall be within a distance of 30 feet from any adjoining residentially zoned or
used lot.
      (2)   Plans are required and must show:
         (a)   The size and location of all outdoor areas used for the
principal use.
         (b)   Topography: on new construction, a well-drained site with
adequate storm drainage facilities (including retention pond facilities, when
applicable).
         (c)   Structures: location of signs, entrance, and buildings must be
shown on the plan.
         (d)   Circulation: proposed points for access and egress and a parking
layout.
         (e)   Buffering: as specified in §
152.528 of this chapter, unless the property abuts residentially used or zoned
property, in which case a Type C buffer is required.
         (f)   Sign size and location as specified §§
152.265 through
152.277 of this chapter.
         (g)   A lighting plan, which must include inclusive of wattage and
illumination. The use of full cutoff luminaries is required.
         (h)   A list of all services to be provided.
         (i)   A security/management plan.
         (j)   Hours of operation (refer to town noise ordinance, §§
92.01 through
92.06).
         (k)   Landscaping requirements, §§
152.525 through
152.544.
         (l)   Parking: shall conform to §§
152.290 through
152.296, Off-Street Parking and Loading Requirements.
   (O)   Use - fuel sales. Permitted as a use standard in B1 and B2.
      (1)   Requirements:
         (a)   The site shall front a thoroughfare or residential collector
street.
         (b)   No aboveground equipment for the vehicular service of gasoline,
oil, or other petroleum product shall be closer than 25 feet to any public
right-of-way, and ten feet to any exterior property line.
         (c)   Pump-island canopies shall not be located closer than ten feet
to a public right-of-way or exterior property line.
         (d)   All accessory uses shall be subject to all zoning requirements
as stated in this chapter.
         (e)   In addition to the general requirements, the site plan must also
include the location and size of gasoline, oil, or other petroleum product
tanks.
      (2)   Plans are required and must show:
         (a)   The size and location of all outdoor areas used for the
principal use.
         (b)   Topography: on new construction, a well-drained site with
adequate storm drainage facilities (including retention pond facilities, when
applicable).
         (c)   Structures: location of signs, entrance, and buildings must be
shown on the plan.
         (d)   Circulation: proposed points for access and egress and a parking
layout.
         (e)   Buffering: as specified in §
152.528 of this chapter, unless the property abuts residentially used or zoned
property, in which case a Type C buffer is required.
         (f)   Sign size and location as specified §§
152.265 through
152.277 of this chapter.
         (g)   A lighting plan, which must include wattage and illumination.
The use of full cutoff luminaries is required.
         (h)   A list of all services to be provided.
         (i)   A security/management plan.
         (j)   Hours of operation (refer to town noise ordinance, §§
92.01 through
92.06).
         (k)   Landscaping requirements, §§
152.525 through
152.544.
         (l)   Parking: shall conform to §§
152.290 through
152.296, Off-Street Parking and Loading Requirements.
   (P)   Use - heating, equipment and plumbing fixtures, sales (no outdoor
storage). Permitted as a use standard in B1, B2, and B3.
      (1)   Requirements:
         (a)   Outside processing or repair activities shall not be permitted.
         (b)   Limited to retail sales.
      (2)   Plans are required and must show:
         (a)   Location of any combustible materials
         (b)   The size and location of all outdoor areas used for the
principal use.
         (c)   Topography: on new construction, a well-drained site with
adequate storm drainage facilities (including retention pond facilities, when
applicable).
         (d)   Structures: location of signs, entrance, and buildings must be
shown on the plan.
         (e)   Circulation: proposed points for access and egress and a parking
layout.
         (f)   Buffering: as specified in §
152.528 of this chapter, unless the property abuts residentially used or zoned
property, in which case a Type C buffer is required.
         (g)   Sign size and location as specified §§
152.265 through
152.277 of this chapter.
         (h)   A lighting plan, which must include inclusive of wattage and
illumination. The use of full cutoff luminaries is required.
         (i)   A list of all services to be provided.
         (j)   A security/management plan.
         (k)   Hours of operation (refer to town noise ordinance, §§
92.01 through
92.06).
         (k)   Landscaping requirements, §§
152.525 through
152.544.
         (l)   Parking: shall conform to §§
152.290 through
152.296, Off-Street Parking and Loading Requirements.
   (Q)   Use - multi-unit assisted housing with services. Permitted as a use
standard in R20SF and O/I.
      (1)   Requirement:  
         (a)   Minimum lot area: minimum lot area of district in which located
plus 1,000 square feet for each person to be accommodated.
      (2)   Plans are required and must show:
         (a)   The size and location of all outdoor areas used for the
principal use.
         (b)   Topography: on new construction, a well-drained site with
adequate storm drainage facilities (including retention pond facilities, when
applicable).
         (c)   Structures: location of signs, entrance, and buildings must be
shown on the plan.
         (d)   Circulation: proposed points for access and egress and a parking
layout.
         (e)   Buffering: as specified in §
152.528 of this chapter, unless the property abuts residentially used or zoned
property, in which case a Type C buffer is required.
         (f)   Sign size and location as specified §§
152.265 through
152.277 of this chapter.
         (g)   A lighting plan, which must include wattage and illumination.
The use of full cutoff luminaries is required.
         (h)   A list of all services to be provided.
         (i)   A security/management plan.
         (j)   Hours of operation (refer to town noise ordinance, §§
92.01 through
92.06).
         (k)   Landscaping requirements, §§
152.525 through
152.544.
         (l)   Parking: shall conform to §§
152.290 through
152.296, Off-Street Parking and Loading Requirements.
   (R)   Use - nursing home. Permitted as a use standard in RA, PUD, O/I, Bl,
and B2.
      (1)   Requirements: 
         (a)   Minimum lot area: the lot size shall be at least two acres.
         (b)   Minimum yard requirements. The structure shall have minimum side
and rear yard requirements of 50 feet, and a front yard requirement of at least
25 feet greater than that required of principal structures within the district.
      (2)   Plans are required and must show:
         (a)   The size and location of all outdoor areas used for the
principal use.
         (b)   Topography: on new construction, a well-drained site with
adequate storm drainage facilities (including retention pond facilities, when
applicable).
         (c)   Structures: location of signs, entrance, and buildings must be
shown on the plan.
         (d)   Circulation: proposed points for access and egress and a parking
layout.
         (e)   Buffering: as specified in §
152.528 of this chapter, unless the property abuts residentially used or zoned
property, in which case a Type C buffer is required.
         (f)   Sign size and location as specified §§
152.265 through
152.277 of this chapter.
         (g)   A lighting plan, which must include wattage and illumination.
The use of full cutoff luminaries is required.
         (h)   A list of all services to be provided.
         (i)   A security/management plan.
         (j)   Hours of operation (refer to town noise ordinance, §§
92.01 through
92.06).
         (k)   Landscaping requirements, §§
152.525 through
152.544.
         (l)   Parking: shall conform to §§
152.290 through
152.296, Off-Street Parking and Loading Requirements.
   (S)   Use - pest or termite control services (no outdoor storage). Permitted
as a use standard in B1.
      (1)   Requirements:
         (a)   Storage facility for pest control equipment must be fully
enclosed.
         (b)   Retail space is only limited to office use.
      (2)   Plans are required and must show:
         (a)   The size and location of all outdoor areas used for the
principal use.
         (b)   Topography: on new construction, a well-drained site with
adequate storm drainage facilities (including retention pond facilities, when
applicable).
         (c)   Structures: location of signs, entrance, and buildings must be
shown on the plan.
         (d)   Circulation: proposed points for access and egress and a parking
layout.
         (e)   Buffering: as specified in §
152.528 of this chapter, unless the property abuts residentially used or zoned
property, in which case a Type C buffer is required.
         (f)   Sign size and location as specified §§
152.265 through
152.277 of this chapter.
         (g)   A lighting plan, which must include wattage and illumination.
The use of full cutoff luminaries is required.
         (h)   A list of all services to be provided.
         (i)   A security/management plan.
         (j)   Hours of operation (refer to town noise ordinance, §§
92.01 through
92.06).
         (k)   Landscaping requirements, §§
152.525 through
152.544.
         (l)   Parking: shall conform to §§
152.290 through
152.296, Off-Street Parking and Loading Requirements.
         (m)   Proposed storage location of combustible materials.
   (T)   Use - precision instrument manufacturing. Permitted as a use standard
in B1.
      (1)   Requirements:
         (a)   Buildings, storage, and maintenance areas shall be screened from
adjacent residential land and public rights-of-way.
         (b)   The facility is constructed, designed, and located on the site
to minimize noise, odor, and other impacts on neighboring properties.
         (c)   Hazardous waste plan (including proposed storage of combustible
materials).
      (2)   Plans are required and must show:
         (a)   The size and location of all outdoor areas used for the
principal use.
         (b)   Topography: on new construction, a well-drained site with
adequate storm drainage facilities (including retention pond facilities, when
applicable).
         (c)   Structures: location of signs, entrance, and buildings must be
shown on the plan.
         (d)   Circulation: proposed points for access and egress and a parking
layout.
         (e)   Buffering: as specified in §
152.528 of this chapter, unless the property abuts residentially used or zoned
property, in which case a Type C buffer is required.
         (f)   Sign size and location as specified §§
152.265 through
152.277 of this chapter.
         (g)   A lighting plan, which must include wattage and illumination.
The use of full cutoff luminaries is required.
         (h)   A list of all services to be provided.
         (i)   A security/management plan.
         (j)   Hours of operation (refer to town noise ordinance, §§
92.01 through
92.06).
         (k)   Landscaping requirements, §§
152.525 through
152.544.
         (l)   Parking: shall conform to §§
152.290 through
152.296, Off-Street Parking and Loading Requirements.
   (U)   Use - remote off-street parking. Permitted as a use standard in O/I,
B1 ,B2, B3 and B2HDO.
      (1)   Requirement: 
         (a)   Minimum lot area: none.
      (2)   Plans are required and must show:
         (a)   The size and location of all outdoor areas used for the
principal use.
         (b)   Topography: on new construction, a well-drained site with
adequate storm drainage facilities (including retention pond facilities, when
applicable).
         (c)   Structures: location of signs, entrance, and buildings must be
shown on the plan.
         (d)   Circulation: proposed points for access and egress and a parking
layout.
         (e)   Buffering: as specified in §
152.528 of this chapter, unless the property abuts residentially used or zoned
property, in which case a Type C buffer is required.
         (f)   Sign size and location as specified §§
152,265 through
152.277 of this chapter.
         (g)   A lighting plan, which must include wattage and illumination.
The use of full cutoff luminaries is required.
         (h)   A list of all services to be provided.
         (i)   A security/management plan.
         (j)   Hours of operation (refer to town noise ordinance, §§
92.01 through
92.06).
         (k)   Landscaping requirements, §§
152.525 through
152.544.
         (l)   Parking: shall conform to §§
152.290 through
152.296, Off-Street Parking and Loading Requirements.
   (V)   Use - storage, warehouse, including mini storage. Permitted as a use
standard in B1.
      (1)   Requirements for open storage of recreational and dry storage of
pleasure boats of the type customarily maintained by persons for their personal
use shall be permitted within the storage, self-service use, provided that the
following standards are met:
         (a)   The storage shall occur only within a designated area. The
designated area shall be clearly delineated.
         (b)   The storage area shall not exceed 25% of the buildable area of
the site.
         (c)   No dry stacking of boats shall be permitted on the site.
         (d)   Boats shall be stored in a manner so as to prevent the
collection of rainwater.
         (e)   The storage area shall be entirely screened from view from
adjacent residential areas and public roads by a building and/or opaque fencing
or fencing with landscaping along its exterior side.
         (f)   Storage shall not occur within the area set aside for minimum
building setbacks.
         (g)   If separate structures are constructed, there shall be a minimum
separation of ten feet between the buildings within the facility.
         (h)   Interior parking shall be provided in the form of aisles
adjacent to the storage bays. These aisles shall be used both for circulation
and temporary customer parking while using storage bays. The minimum width of
these aisles shall be 30 feet.
      (2)   Plans are required and must show:
         (a)   The size and location of all outdoor areas used for the
principal use.
         (b)   Topography: on new construction, a well-drained site with
adequate storm drainage facilities (including retention pond facilities, when
applicable).
         (c)   Structures: location of signs, entrance, and buildings must be
shown on the plan.
         (d)   Circulation: proposed points for access and egress and a parking
layout.
         (e)   Buffering: as specified in §
152.528 of this chapter, unless the property abuts residentially used or zoned
property, in which case a Type C buffer is required.
         (f)   Sign size and location as specified §§
152,265 through
152.277 of this chapter.
         (g)   A lighting plan, which must include wattage and illumination.
The use of full cutoff luminaries is required.
         (h)   A list of all services to be provided.
         (i)   A security/management plan.
         (j)   Hours of operation (refer to town noise ordinance, §§
92.01 through
92.06).
         (k)   Landscaping requirements, §§
152.525 through
152.544.
         (l)   Parking: shall conform to §§
152.290 through
152.296, Off-Street Parking and Loading Requirements.
   (W)   Use - warehouse (general storage, enclosed). Permitted as a use
standard in B1.
      (1)   Requirements:
         (a)   Buildings, storage, and maintenance areas shall be screened from
adjacent residential land and public rights-of-way.
         (b)   The facility is constructed, designed, and located on the site
to minimize noise, odor, and other impacts on neighboring properties.
      (2)   Plans are required and must show:
         (a)   The size and location of all outdoor areas used for the
principal use.
         (b)   Topography: on new construction, a well-drained site with
adequate storm drainage facilities (including retention pond facilities, when
applicable).
         (c)   Structures: location of signs, entrance, and buildings must be
shown on the plan.
         (d)   Circulation: proposed points for access and egress and a parking
layout.
         (e)   Buffering: as specified in §
152.528 of this chapter, unless the property abuts residentially used or zoned
property, in which case a Type C buffer is required.
         (f)   Sign size and location as specified §§
152.265 through
152.277 of this chapter.
         (g)   A lighting plan, which must include wattage and illumination.
The use of full cutoff luminaries is required.
         (h)   A list of all services to be provided.
         (i)   A security/management plan.
         (j)   Hours of operation (refer to town noise ordinance, §§
92.01 through
92.06).
         (k)   Landscaping requirements, §§
152.525 through
152.544.
         (l)   Parking: shall conform to §§
152.290 through
152.296, Off-Street Parking and Loading Requirements.
   (X)   Use - windmills. Permitted as a use standard in RA, provided the
following requirements are met:
      (1)   Windmills are used to pump ground water to the surface for
irrigation in the RA zoning district. The wind turns the blades to utilize wind
energy.
      (2)   No wind turbines are allowed.
   (Y)   Use food, beverage, and craft processing and production with retail
sales (B2HDO, M-1). These types of establishments include processing and
manufacturing facilities for one type or group of merchandise sold at retail,
and possibly wholesale, on-site. Permitted uses include, but are not limited to
breweries, wineries, and specialty foods. Processing and production shall be
limited to less than 50% of the subject property in the B2HDO zoning district.
Retail sales in the M-1 zoning district shall occupy no more than 50% of the
total square footage devoted to the operation. This use standard is intended
for a larger brewery tap room.
      (1)   Requirements. Minimum lot area; based on zoning classification lot
standards.
      (2)   Plans are required and must show:
         (a)   Size and location of all outdoor areas used for principal use;
         (b)   Topography: on new construction, well drained site with adequate
storm drainage facilities (including retention pond facilities, when
applicable);
         (c)   Structures: location of signs, entrance, and buildings must be
shown on the plan;
         (d)   Circulation: proposed points for access and egress and a parking
layout;
         (e)   Buffering: as specified in §§
152.528 of this chapter unless the property abuts residentially used or zoned
property in which case a Type C buffer is required;
         (f)   Sign size and location as specified §§
152.265 -
152.277 of this chapter;
         (g)   Lighting plan which must include wattage and illumination. The
use of full cutoff luminaries is required;
         (h)   List of all services to be provided;
         (i)   Security/management plan;
         (j)   Hours of operation (refer to town noise ordinance §§
92.01 -
92.06);
         (k)   Landscaping requirements, §§
152.525 -
152.544; and
         (l)   Parking: shall conform to §§
152.290 -
152.296, Off-Street Parking and Loading Requirements.
   (Z)   Use- boat/boat trailer storage.
      (1)   Permitted as a use standard in CON, RA, R6, R6SF, R8SF, R10SF,
R15SF, R20SF, R40SF, PUD, MHP, MHS, MHS-15SF, MHS-O, O/I, G/E, B2, B3, B2HDO.
      (2)   Requirements for open storage of recreational and dry storage of
pleasure boats of the type customarily maintained by persons for their personal
use shall be permitted within the boat/boat trailer storage use, provided that
the following standards are met:
         (a)   The storage area shall not exceed 25% of the buildable area of
the site;
         (b)   No dry stacking of boats shall be permitted on the site;
         (c)   Valid registration/tag is required on boat trailers;
         (d)   Boats shall be stored in a manner so as to prevent the
collection of rainwater;
         (e)   The property is to be well-maintained in a neat and clean
condition, free of overgrown grass, weeds, brush, and debris; and
         (f)   Storage shall not occur within the area set aside for minimum
building setbacks.
(Ord. 2023-O6, passed 5-22-23; Am. Ord. 2024-O7, passed 4-23-24; Am. Ord. 2024-
O-16, passed 8-27-24)
RESIDENTIAL CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS
§ 152.225 PURPOSE AND INTENT; DEFINITION.
   (A)   The purpose of residential cluster development is to provide an
alternative development option that will:
      (1)   Promote more efficient use of land resources than is otherwise
possible under conventional zoning and subdivision regulations;
      (2)   Reduce the per unit site development costs of dwellings by
concentrating residential units on a portion of the site without increasing the
overall net density above that which would normally be allowed pursuant to §§
152.195 through
152.196, Table of Area, Yard , and Height Requirements;
      (3)   Preserve the natural character of the site;
      (4)   Preserve farmland and scenic views;
      (5)   Provide for desirable and usable open space , tree cover, and the
preservation of environmentally sensitive areas; and
      (6)   Provide variety in residential buildings and properties and provide
design flexibility that can relate the location of units to unique site
conditions.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, a RESIDENTIAL CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT is
defined as:
      (1)   A development design wherein conventional zoning standards are
relaxed to permit modifications in lot area , lot width , lot frontage , lot
coverage , required yards , and public street access, and to save
infrastructure development cost, environmental damage, energy use and land
resources by concentrating dwellings in specific areas of the site without
increasing the net density above that which would normally be allowed pursuant
to §§
152.195 through
152.196, Table of Area, Yard , and Height Requirements;
      (2)   Such development shall contain detached single-family  dwellings
only; and
      (3)   Such development shall provide a program for the provision,
operation and maintenance of such areas, facilities and improvements as shall
be required for the perpetual common use by the occupants of the development .
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2021-O1, passed 5-10-2021)
§ 152.226 AREA; PERMITTED DISTRICTS, EXEMPTION; STREET ACCESS; OPEN SPACE(S);
DENSITY; DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   Residential cluster developments shall contain not less than five net
acres. For purposes of this section “net acres” shall be the total area of all
lots and common area(s) exclusive of public street  rights-of-way or private
street   easements . Addition to any existing residential cluster development
may be allowed provided such addition meets or exceeds all other applicable
requirements.
   (B)   Subject to division (A) of this section, a residential cluster
development may as an option be allowed within any residential zoning district.
Such development shall be exempt from the conventional zoning standards
relative to lot area , lot width , lot frontage , lot coverage , required yards
and public street access normally applicable to such districts, provided such
development complies with the minimum standards set forth under this section.
   (C)   Dwelling units within a residential cluster development may be
constructed on lots fronting private streets .
   (D)   A residential cluster development shall provide open space (s) subject
to all the following requirements:
      (1)   Such open space shall be greater or equal in area to the total
amount of area by which each lot was reduced below the minimum lot size
requirement of the prevailing zoning district, or as provided under division
(D)(2) of this section, whichever is greater;
      (2)   Residential cluster developments shall reserve not less than 15% of
the gross acreage as common open space ;
      (3)   Such area shall not be used as a building site . For purposes of
this section, picnic areas or shelters, ball fields, walking or jogging trails,
boat ramps and docks or other similar recreational facilities may be allowed;
      (4)   Such area shall not be devoted to any public street   right-of-way
or private street   easement , private driveway or parking area ;
      (5)   Such area shall be left in its natural or undisturbed state if
wooded at the time of development , except for the cutting of trails for
walking or jogging or, if not wooded at the time of development , is improved
for the uses listed under division (D)(3) of this section, or is properly
vegetated and landscaped with the objectives of creating a wooded area or other
area that is consistent with the objective set forth in division (D)(6) of this
section;
      (6)   Such area shall be capable of being used and enjoyed for purposes
of informal and unstructured recreation and relaxation or for horticulture if
not devoted to other allowable uses in this division;
      (7)   Such area shall be legally and practically accessible to the
residents of the development , or to the public if so dedicated;
      (8)   A minimum of one-half of the required open space shall be contained
in one continuous undivided part;
      (9)   Areas designated by the federal government as 404 wetlands or by
the state government as isolated wetlands shall not be used to meet the open-
space requirements of the ordinance unless those wetlands are protected through
deed restrictions or conservation easements that prohibit all filling,
alterations, or development in the wetlands or by donating or selling the
wetlands to the town or to a legally incorporated non-profit group or wetlands
bank that agrees not to fill, alter or develop them. State-designated coastal
wetlands or the 30-foot buffer required by the Coastal Area Management Act
cannot be used to meet the open-space requirements of the ordinance;
      (10)   Not more than 25% of the required open space may be devoted to
allowable improvements as set forth in division (D)(3) of this section;
      (11)   Such area shall be perpetually owned and maintained for the
purposes of this article by a homeowners association or, at the option of the
town, dedicated or deeded to the public.
      (12)   The location and arrangement of any open space(s) shall be subject
to Planning Board approval during the preliminary plat review;
      (13)   The owner shall, pursuant to the subdivision regulations, cause a
final subdivision plat to be recorded in the Onslow County Register of Deeds
which clearly describes the open space(s) and conditions thereof, prior to the
issuance of any building permit(s).
      (14)   These requirements are in addition to those found under §
152.367.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2021-O1, passed 5-10-2021)
§ 152.227 MAXIMUM DENSITY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Residential density shall not exceed that which would normally be
permitted under single-family standards within the prevailing zoning district
on a net area basis.
   (B)   Public street  rights-of-way and private street   easements shall not
be included or count towards the total net area for purposes of calculating
allowable density.
   (C)   Area dedicated or deeded to the town pursuant to the sections above
shall count towards net area for purposes of density calculation.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2021-O1, passed 5-10-2021)
§ 152.228 MINIMUM DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   Lot area . Not less than 60% of the minimum lot area which would
normally be required under the single-family  standards of the prevailing
zoning district.
   (B)   Lot width . Forty (40) feet.
   (C)   Lot frontage . Forty (40) feet, except on the radius of a cul-de-sac
where such distance may be reduced to 20 feet.
   (D)   Public or private street  setback . No principal or accessory
structure  shall be closer than 15 feet to a public street right-of-way or
private street easement or as further provided herein.
   (E)   Side yard  setback . 
      (1)   Shall be subject to §
152.229 (zero lot line ) or not less than 12 feet, provided however, that no
structure shall be located on more than one side lot line .
      (2)   Dwellings which do not utilize the provisions of §
152.229 (zero lot line ) and are not located adjacent to a lot line section
subject to §
152.229 shall maintain a minimum side setback of not less than six feet.
   (F)   Rear yard  setback . Shall be subject to §
152.229 (zero lot line) or not less than 12 feet.
   (G)   Building separations. No portion of any principal structure  shall be
located less than 12 feet from any other principal structure  or less than ten
feet from any accessory structure  as measured to the closest point.
   (H)   Periphery boundary setback . Except as further provided no principal
or accessory structure  shall be located less than 25 feet from the peripheral
boundaries of the residential cluster development .
   (I)   Transition area setback . 
      (1)   Where a residential cluster development adjoins or borders an
existing single-family zoning district or other predominantly single-family  
development sharing common frontage on the same or opposite side of a public or
private street , the minimum right-of-way and/or easement   setback requirement
of said single-family zone or development shall be utilized for the entire
opposite frontage and 300 feet from such common border.
      (2)   For purposes of this division, “other predominantly single-family  
development ” shall be that area within 100 feet of the external boundary of
the residential cluster development in which 50% or more of the conforming land
uses are detached single-family residential.
   (J)   Maximum height. Thirty-five (35) feet.
   (K)   Detached accessory structure requirements.
      (1)   Shall not be located within any front yard  setback ;
      (2)   Shall not be located within ten feet of any other principal
structure or within five feet of any other accessory structure ;
      (3)   Shall not cover more than 20% of any side or rear yard ; and
      (4)   The side or rear yard requirement for detached accessory structures
shall be subject to the provisions of §
152.229(zero lot line ) or not less than five feet.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 152.229 ZERO (0) SIDE AND/OR REAR YARD SETBACKS.
   A zero (0) side and/or rear yard  setback as permitted herein, may be
permitted, subject to the following provisions:
   (A)   Any wall, constructed on the side or rear lot line shall be a solid
doorless and windowless wall. Such wall shall contain no electrical,
mechanical, heating, air conditioning, or other fixtures that project beyond
such wall. If there is an offset of the wall from the lot line , such offset
shall be subject to the applicable provisions of §
152.228(E) and (F). Roof eaves may encroach two feet into the adjoining lot ;
   (B)   A five foot maintenance and access easement with a maximum eave
encroachment easement of two feet within the maintenance easement shall be
established on the adjoining lot and shall assure ready access to the lot line
wall at reasonable periods of the day for normal maintenance;
   (C)   Where zero (0) side or rear yard  setbacks are proposed, the buildable
area for each lot shall be indicated on the preliminary and final subdivision
 plat .
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 152.230 PRIVATE STREETS.
   Private streets may be allowed pursuant to the subdivision regulations.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 152.231 COMPLIANCE WITH SUBDIVISION STANDARDS.
   All development regulated in accordance with this article shall be subject
to the requirements, conditions, and restrictions of the subdivision
regulations.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD)
§ 152.245 MINIMUM SIZE.
   Twenty acres.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005) (Amended 6-17-2008)
§ 152.246 MAXIMUM OVERALL DENSITY.
   Six dwelling units per acre.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 152.247 OPEN SPACE REQUIREMENT.
   Twenty percent (20%) of the total PUD area shall be maintained as open space
. Street  rights-of-way , parking lots , building areas (as defined), and yards
held in individual ownership shall not constitute any part of the required open
space ; however, building areas for recreational facilities may be computed as
open space . At least 25% of the required open space shall be developed for
recreational purposes. Any open space land use not included under approval of
the PUD Land Use Plan must be reviewed by the Planning Board and approved by
the Town of Swansboro Board of Commissioners prior to its development .
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 152.248 RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT.
   The applicable area, yard , and height requirements as contained in §§
152.195 through
152.196 shall be adhered to. The applicable yard  setback requirements for
single-family structures shall be based upon the square footage of the lot .
All multi-family   developments shall adhere to the applicable development
regulations contained herein.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 152.249 COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT.
   Commercial land use will be developed as a special use permit under the
regulations of the B-1 or B-2 zone.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005) (Am. Ord. passed 3-22-2016)
§ 152.250 INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT.
   Industrial development shall not be allowed within the PUD zone.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 152.251 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Application for zoning map amendment. A petition for a zoning map
amendment to establish a planned unit development district (PUD) shall be
submitted to the Planning Board  and Board of Commissioners  and administered
in accordance with the provisions of the Zoning Ordinance for amendments as
defined by §§
152.065 through
152.070.
      (1)   Criteria. In addition to other considerations, the following may be
utilized by the Planning Board  and Board of Commissioners  in evaluation of a
rezoning petition to establish a planned unit development zoning district:
         (a)   That the total development can create a needed residential
environment;
         (b)   That existing or proposed utility and other public services are
adequate for the anticipated population densities; and
         (c)   That the planned unit development is in general conformity with
the town’s comprehensive Land Use Plan.
      (2)   Zoning map designation. Following Board of Commissioners  approval
of a rezoning petition to establish a planned unit development district (PUD),
the property for which approval was granted by the Ordinance shall be labeled
“PUD” on the official zoning map of the Town of Swansboro. No permits for
development shall be issued within any area designated as “PUD” unless the
provisions as set forth herein are complied with. If a special use permit
application is not filed with the Planning Board  within 12 months of such
amendment, the Board of Commissioners  shall reserve the right to rezone the
property to the original zoning classification.
   (B)   Application for special use permit. An application for a special use
permit to develop a specific planned unit development shall only be considered
when the property is zoned planned unit development district (PUD). Application
shall be submitted in accordance with §§
152.210 through
152.211.
      (1)   Criteria. In addition to other considerations, the following may be
utilized by the Planning Board  in evaluation of a special use  permit pursuant
to G.S. §160A-338(a):
         (a)   That the proposed population densities, land uses, and other
special characteristics of development can exist in harmony with adjacent
areas;
         (b)   That the adjacent areas can be developed in compatibility with
the proposed planned unit development ; and
         (c)   That the proposed planned unit development will not adversely
affect traffic patterns and flow in adjacent areas.
   (C)   Site plan. All applications for approval of a planned unit
development special use permit  shall be accompanied by a Land Use Plan
prepared by a registered engineer or surveyor, submitted in accordance with the
Town of Swansboro Subdivision Regulations for preliminary plats and which shall
include but not be limited to the following:
      (1)   The numbers and types of residential dwelling units including
density and the delineation of nonresidential areas;
      (2)   Planned primary and secondary traffic circulation patterns showing
proposed and existing rights-of-ways and easements ;
      (3)   Common open space and recreation areas to be developed or preserved
in accordance with this section. Peripheral boundary setback shall be
indicated;
      (4)   Plans for water, sanitary sewer, storm sewer, natural gas, and
electric utilities;
      (5)   The delineation of areas to be constructed in sections, showing
acreage;
      (6)   Soil maps prepared according to the United States cooperative soil
survey standards as published in the Onslow County Soil Survey;
      (7)   Boundary survey of the tract showing courses and distances and
total acreage, including zoning, land use, and lot lines of all contiguous
property;
      (8)   Existing vegetation ;
      (9)   Flood hazard areas including base flood elevation;
      (10)   Topographic contours at a maximum of two-foot intervals showing
existing grades;
      (11)   Site data including vicinity sketch, north arrow, engineering
scale ratio, title of development , date of plan, name and address of owner /
developer and person or firm preparing the plan;
      (12)   Any other information as may be required by the Planning Board .
      (13)   Copies of or statements addressing the following:
         (a)   Drafts of or statements addressing any declarations of
covenants, conditions, or restrictions which create a homeowners’ association
for the perpetual ownership and maintenance of all common open space and other
areas including, but not limited to, recreation areas, private streets ,
parking areas , landscaping, and the like. A private facilities maintenance
analysis to determine actual costs of maintenance of such common facilities may
be required by the Planning Board in order to assess the feasibility of such
private maintenance;
         (b)   Drafts of or statements addressing any proposed declarations to
be recorded pursuant to the North Carolina Condominium Act (G.S. Chapter 47C);
         (c)   The names and current mailing addresses of all property owners
who own property within 100 feet of the proposed development including tax map
designation and parcel numbers as listed upon the tax records of Onslow County
at the time of submission of the special use permit application; and
         (d)   The deed book and page number(s) showing fee simple title of all
property within the planned unit development as listed in the Onslow County
Register of Deeds.
   (D)   Preliminary plat - site plan requirements. After approval of the
special use permit  as set forth herein, the developer shall submit the
following according to the approved schedule of development:
      (1)   All information required by and in accordance with the Town of
Swansboro Subdivision Ordinance for preliminary plats.
   (E)   Final plat requirements. After approval of the preliminary plat as set
forth herein, the developer shall submit the following according to the
approved schedule of development:
      (1)   All information required and in accordance with the Town of
Swansboro Subdivision Ordinance for submission of the final plats ;
      (2)   The following additional information shall be required:
         (a)   Maintenance agreements concerning all common areas, private
streets , and utilities; and
         (b)   All information as required and in accordance with G.S. Chapter
47C, North Carolina Condominium Act.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 152.252 HOMEOWNERS’ ASSOCIATION.
   (A)   No final plat shall be approved until all required legal instruments
have been reviewed and approved by the town attorney as to legal form and
effect.
   (B)   If common open space is deeded to a homeowners’ association, the owner
or developer shall file a declaration of covenants, conditions, and
restrictions that will govern such association. The provisions of such
declaration of covenants, conditions, and restrictions shall include, but not
be limited to, the following:
      (1)   The homeowners’ association must be set up before any property is
sold in the development ;
      (2)   Membership must be mandatory and automatic when property is
purchased in the development ; The open space requirement must be permanent,
not just for a period of years;
      (3)   The association must be responsible for liability insurance, local
taxes, and maintenance of recreational and other common facilities including
private streets ;
      (4)   Homeowners must pay their pro rata share of the cost; the
assessment levied by the association can become a lien on the property;
      (5)   The association must be able to adjust the assessment to meet
changed needs;
      (6)   Covenants for maintenance assessments shall run with the land;
      (7)   Provision insuring that control of such association will gradually
be vested in the homeowner’s association; and
      (8)   All lands so conveyed shall be subject to the right of the grantee
or grantees to enforce maintenance and improvement of the common facilities.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 152.253 AMENDMENT TO SITE PLAN SPECIAL USE PERMIT.
   (A)   Minor changes. Amendment to the approved Land Use Plan that in the
opinion of the Administrator  do not substantially change the concept of the
planned unit development as approved may be allowed. Such minor changes may
include but not be limited to small site alterations such as realignment of
streets and relocation of utility lines due to engineering necessity. The
developer shall request such amendment in writing, clearly setting forth the
reasons for such changes. If approved, the Land Use Plan shall be so amended
prior to submission of any preliminary plat- site plan application involving or
affecting such amendment. Appeal from the decision of the Administrator may be
taken to the Board of Adjustment .
   (B)   Major Changes. Amendments to the approved Land Use Plan that in the
opinion of the Administrator  do in fact involve substantial changes and
deviation from the concept of the planned unit development as approved shall
require review pursuant to §§
152.065 through
152.070. Such major changes shall include, but not be limited to, increased
density, land use, location of use, open space, recreation space, condition(s)
of planning and zoning commission approval and street  pattern. Appeal from the
decision of the Administrator  may be taken to the Board of Adjustment.
   (C)   Authority. Minor changes may be approved administratively by the
Administrator . Major changes shall require planning and zoning commission
approval.
   (D)   Variances. The Town of Swansboro Board of Adjustment shall not be
authorized to grant or approve any variance  from the minimum requirements as
set forth in this section or condition as approved by the Planning Board .
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
SIGNS
§ 152.265 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to prevent the unrestricted proliferation
of signs and to regulate signs in the interest of promoting the safety of
vehicular and pedestrian traffic, protecting the public health and comfort,
facilitating police and fire protection, protecting the identity and integrity
of public rights-of-way , preventing over-crowding of land, and promoting an
aesthetically pleasing visual environment.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 152.266 APPLICATION.
   No signs which are visible from any street , road, highway, sidewalk, or
other public way may be erected, posted, reposted, placed, replaced, hung,
painted, or repainted in any district except in compliance with this chapter.
No provision of this chapter shall be construed as relieving any person ,
corporation, or other entity from any requirement or obligation he, she, or it
has pursuant to the Town of Swansboro’s Historic District Ordinance.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 152.267 COMPUTATION OF SIGN AREA.
   (A)   The surface area of a sign shall be computed by including the entire
area that forms the extreme limits of the writing, representation, emblem, or
other display, forming a square, rectangle, triangle, circle, or other shape,
as appropriate, together with any material or color forming an integral part of
the background for the sign. Surface area does not include the supporting
framework or bracing.
   (B)   If the sign is made up of modules, the area between modules shall be
included in the sign area computation.
   (C)   The sign area computation shall include all sides of the sign in which
there is sign copy which can be seen.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 152.268 SIGNS REQUIRING NEITHER PERMIT NOR FEE.
    The following types of sign shall be permitted in all districts, without
issuance of a permit and without payment of any fee.
   (A)   Real estate residential signs provided that all of the following
conditions are met:
      (1)   The sign shall be located upon the property which is being
advertised for sale, rent, or lease;
      (2)   The sign has no more than two sides;
      (3)   The area of the sign is six square feet or less per side;
      (4)   The sign is not illuminated;
      (5)   An attachment with an area not exceeding two square feet may be
added to such sign for purpose of identifying the agent or agency listing the
property for sale or lease;
      (6)   Sign cannot be a banner , pennant, mobile , flag, or balloon
signage; and
      (7)   Any sign permitted by this subsection shall be removed within five
days after the sale, rental, or lease becomes final.
   (B)   Festival area signs. Temporary advertising, directional, and public
information signs and banners placed on exhibit booths, buildings , and other
structures or supports (except utility poles and traffic signs) within a town-
approved festival area, provided that such signs and banners are allowed on the
days of the festival only, that no unsafe conditions are created, and that the
area of signs and banners for any individual booth, building , or structure  do
not exceed 32 square feet.
   (C)   Political campaign signs, provided the following are met:
      (1)   Candidates or their representatives must obtain a copy of the
ordinance requirements from Town Hall and sign that they received a copy prior
to installation of any signs;
      (2)   Signs shall be confined to private property and not located within
any street-right-of way unless otherwise permitted by state law;
      (3)   No more than one sign per candidate shall be placed on any parcel;
      (4)   Permission must be obtained from the property owner where the sign
(s) are to be placed or the adjacent property owner if placed in the state-
maintained right-of-way;
      (5)   The owner of any property upon which the sign(s) are placed shall
ensure the sign(s) are placed no sooner than 30 days prior to the first date of
"one-stop" early voting and are removed within ten days of the election or
referendum;
      (6)   Signs shall not create any unsafe conditions;
      (7)   The placement of leaflets, signs, posters, or bulletins on vehicle
windshields, utility poles, trees, or other signposts is prohibited;
      (8)   The supporting structure is not included in the calculation of
square footage. Signs shall not exceed six square feet in size or 42 inches in
height measured from the ground. Signs outside of these parameters are
prohibited.
      (9)   Signs may not be composed of multiple modules or segments, or be
illuminated, and must be reasonably secured to prevent windblown debris or
other damage to adjacent property;
      (10)   Signs affixed to or placed in parked utility trailers or in parked
truck beds are prohibited;
      (11)   Mobile signs require a special use permit pursuant to §
152.270(F); and
      (12)   Signs placed unlawfully in accordance with this section may be
removed pursuant to §
152.273 and G.S. § 136-32(f).
   (D)   Fence wraps displaying signage when affixed to perimeter fencing at a
construction site are exempt until a certificate of occupancy is issued for the
final portion of any construction at that site, or 24 months from the time the
fence wrap was installed, whichever is shorter.
      (1)   If construction is not completed at the end of 24 months from the
time the fence wrap was installed, the town will require a sign permit, but
shall continue to allow the fence wrap to be affixed to the perimeter fencing.
      (2)   No fence wrap affixed pursuant to this section may display any
advertising other than advertising sponsored by a person directly involved in
the construction project and for which monetary compensation for the
advertisement is not paid or required.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2009-18, passed 11-17-2009; Am. Ord.
2017-O1, passed 1-10-2017; Am. Ord. 2021-O3, passed 5-24-2021; Am. Ord. 2022-
O5, passed 5-23-2022)
§ 152.269 SIGNS REQUIRING PERMIT BUT NO FEE.
   The following types of sign shall be permitted in all districts, upon
issuance of a permit approving the location of any such sign by the
Administrator or his or her designee. No fee shall be charged for permits
issued pursuant to this section.
   (A)   Real estate commercial signs must be located on the property which is
being advertised for sale, rent, or lease, provided that all of the following
conditions are met:
      (1)   The sign has no more than two sides;
      (2)   The area of sign is 32 square feet or less per side;
      (3)   An attachment with an area not exceeding two square feet may be
added to such sign for purpose of identifying the agent or agency listing the
property for sale or lease;
      (4)   Any sign permitted by this subsection shall be removed within five
days after the sale, rental, or lease becomes final;
      (5)   The sign shall not be attached to trees, utility poles, or their
support lines; and
      (6)   Sign cannot be a banner , pennant , mobile, flag, or balloon
signage.
   (B)   Directional signs, such as those identifying an entrance, exit, or
parking location provided that such signs shall be located entirely upon the
parcel or tract of land to which the directional signs apply and does not
exceed two square feet.
   (C)   Governmental signs with any legal notice, informational or directional
sign required or authorized by any governmental agency or by law.
   (D)   Agricultural signs advertising the sale of agricultural products
produced on the premises, provided that such signs shall not exceed 32 square
feet in area total.
   (E)   Business banners , and feather flags which are used to advertise sales
or announcements provided:
      (1)   Signs are located on the property of the business or leased unit
that the sign relates to and are not displayed in undeveloped outparcels;
      (2)   Signs are not used more than 60 days in any calendar year per
business;
      (3)   Signs shall not be larger than 32 square feet;
      (4)   Only one banner or feather flag is permitted per business at any
time;
      (5)   Business banners and feather flags are prohibited in the Historic
District;
      (6)   No unsafe condition is created; and
      (7)   Feather flags shall be displayed only during the times the business
being advertised is open for business.
   (F)   Temporary event banners , yard signs and post-mounted signs for town-
approved festivals and for events sponsored by non-profit organizations such as
civic groups, church organizations, schools , and government agencies, provided
that they are located in business, office and institutional, or government
zoning districts along NC 24 or major thoroughfares and the following
conditions are met:
      (1)   Signs are not installed more than 14 days prior to event and are
removed within two days of event’s end;
      (2)   No more than eight devices are allowed for the same event at one
time;
      (3)   Devices are not placed in rights-of-ways and are placed only with
the permission of the property owners;
      (4)   Unsafe conditions are not created, and devices are not placed in
unsafe locations;
      (5)   Signs and banners are not displayed above a highway without town
and NCDOT approval in writing;
      (6)   Signs and banners are not placed within Historic District unless
along Highway 24, on Town-owned property, or on private property within the B-
2 HDO zoning district;
      (7)   The maximum size for each sign or banner is 32 square feet. The
maximum height shall not exceed six feet; and
      (8)   Mobile signs , including trailer or vehicle-mounted signs, are
prohibited, except directional or public information signs placed by the town
at the Town Manager’s discretion, or by the North Carolina Department of
Transportation.
   (G)   Construction signs , may be placed identifying the project, the owner
or developer , architect, engineer, contractors, subcontractors, and funding
sources or other related information provided the following conditions are met:
      (1)   Signs must be entirely on property where construction is taking
place;
      (2)   Total residential signs area shall not exceed 32 square feet total.
If a two-sided sign, each side counts toward total if NOT same copy;
      (3)   Total commercial signs area shall not exceed 100 square feet total.
If two-sided sign, each side counts toward total if NOT same copy;
      (4)   All signs shall be removed prior to the certificate of occupancy or
when applicable to the certificate of compliance; and
      (5)   Grouping of all signs shall be in the same area (adjacent to each
other) without creating a traffic safety problem.
   (H)   Home occupation signs are allowed provided:
      (1)   There shall be not more than one sign per parcel of land;
      (2)   Signs shall be attached flat to the wall of the building and shall
be non-illuminated; and
      (3)   Signs shall not exceed eighteen inches in any dimension nor a total
area of 324 square inches.
   (I)   Subdivision signs (temporary) are signs advertising the sale of lots
or buildings within new subdivisions in which they are located shall be
permitted provided:
      (1)   Signs shall be non-illuminated;
      (2)   No more than one two-sided not exceeding 32 square feet per side
shall be located at each major approach to the subdivision ;
      (3)   Signs shall be well maintained and in good structural condition;
      (4)   Display of such signs shall be limited to a period until 70% of all
lots within the subdivision are sold; and
      (5)   Any and all signs must be on subdivision ’s property.
   (J)   Safety/warning Signs (i.e., “low clearance”) shall be permitted
provided:
      (1)   The sign has no more than two sides;
      (2)   The area of the sign is six square feet or less; and
      (3)   The sign is not illuminated.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005) (Am. Ord. 2009-18, passed 11-17-2009; Am. Ord
2013-O13, passed 5-21-2013; Am. Ord. 2022-O4, passed 5-23-2022; Am. Ord. 2022-
O5, passed 5-23-2022)
§ 152.270 SIGNS REQUIRING A PERMIT AND FEE.
   No sign can exceed the allowed square footage without a variance.
   (A)   Awning and canopy signs . Shall not exceed the total allowed tenant
signage square feet per tenant linear frontage. Shall maintain a clearance of
eight feet minimum from bottom of awning sign to public walkway, including any
skirt attached to the awning or canopy. Sign shall not create unsafe conditions
for persons  on property.
   (B)   Billboard signs (off-premise/outdoor advertising). These signs shall
be permitted subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   No billboard sign shall be placed within 2,000 feet of any
residential district;
      (2)   No billboard shall exceed the following dimensions:
         (a)   Signs located 150 feet or more from the nearest street or
highway right-of-way shall not exceed 20 feet in height, 20 feet in width, nor
200 square feet; and
         (b)   Signs located less than 150 feet from the nearest street or
highway right-of-way shall not exceed 20 feet in height, 20 feet in width, nor
100 square feet;
      (3)   The following restrictions shall apply to spacing of outdoor
advertising signs:
         (a)   No billboard sign may be located within 2,000 feet of any other
billboard ;
         (b)   No more than two billboard signs facing in any one direction may
be located within any one mile distance;
         (c)   No billboard sign may be located within 500 feet of any
intersection of any two or more streets or highways as measured from the
nearest point of intersection to such sign;
         (d)   No billboard sign may be located where there is less than ten
feet from the bottom of the sign to grade ;
      (4)   All billboards shall be plainly marked with the name, address, and
phone number of the person , firm or corporation responsible for the sign and
its maintenance; and
      (5)   Billboards made nonconforming by the provisions of this section
shall be brought into conformity.
         (a)   The town shall give written notice of its intent to require
removal of a billboard sign by sending a letter by certified mail to the last
known address of the owner of the sign and the owner of the property on which
the sign is located.
         (b)   The payment of monetary compensation for the removal of any
nonconforming, lawfully erected, billboard sign is required as provided in G.S.
§ 160D-912(d-f).
         (c)   In lieu of monetary compensation, the town may enter into an
agreement to allow the relocation or reconstruction of the sign as provided in
G.S. § 160D-912(g-k).
   (C)   Cemetery, public signs. Maximum size of sign shall be 36 square feet,
and there is a limit of one sign per street  frontage.
   (D)   Directory signs . Directory signs shall meet all of the following:
      (1)   The premise shall contain no more than one directory sign ;
      (2)   The maximum area of copy shall not exceed three inches by 15 inches
for each identified activity, business, firm or tenant on the premise;
      (3)   The outdoor directory sign may either be changeable copy sign or
fixed professional nameplates; provided that the standards of each are met; and
      (4)   The directory sign may take the form of any sign permitted in the
zoning district provided that such sign shall comply with its applicable
specification sign regulations.
   (E)   Marquee signs . Shall not exceed the total allowed tenant signage
square feet per tenant linear frontage. Bottom most portion of sign remains a
minimum of 8 feet above public walkways. Sign shall be securely anchored and
supported to protect the safety of persons  and property.
   (F)   Mobile signs: a special use permit  is required from the Board of
Commissioners .
      (1)   The following mobile sign types are allowed by special use permit
(See
figures 152.270.1 and
152.270.2)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2409.png]
Figure 152.270.1            Figure 152.270.2
   (G)   Monument (ground) signs .
      (1)   Each tract of land shall be required to use a monument sign whether
the tract is subject to the multiple use sign requirement or not. Multi-tenant
establishments will be allowed one monument sign per road frontage .
      (2)   Monument signs shall not exceed 64 square feet in sign area.
      (3)   No part of the sign, footing or anchorage shall extend beyond the
plane of the property line upon which the sign is located or into any easement
.
      (4)   The sign shall not be located in any part of a side yard .
      (5)   Where a building fronts on two streets , the total allowable square
footage for the site can be equally distributed allowing for additional
monument sign .
      (6)   A monument signs ’ total vertical height as measured
perpendicularly to the ground shall not exceed the signs total width as
measured from the ground. The ground cannot be altered more than 12 inches from
the current natural grade .
   (H)   Multiple use signs (non-residential) provided:
      (1)   The principal use located on the property is one of the following:
shopping center , shopping area, office center, or other unified commercial
developments that are located in a non-residential zoning district;
      (2)   The allowed signage will be proportionally reduced for any
properties less than three acres. If the property is greater than three acres,
the sign may not exceed 160 square feet;
      (3)   The multiple use sign is not located on a vacant lot ;
      (4)   No part of the sign shall extend beyond the plane of the property
line upon which the sign is located or into any easement ;
      (5)   Each tenant shall be allowed building signage, not to exceed 20% of
the allowed useable wall area ;
      (6)   The multiple use sign does not exceed the maximum height for a
monument sign - see division (G) of this section; and
      (7)   The maximum height for a monument sign shall not exceed 12 feet
measured from grade or the most nearly adjacent road surface whichever is lower
to the highest point of the sign.
   (I)   Principal use signs. Principal use signs shall be permitted on the
premises of the business to which they apply in districts in which the
principle use is permitted or in districts, in which the principle use is
allowed as a special use , provided the special use  has been allowed pursuant
to applicable law. This provision is subject to the following conditions and
limitations;
      (1)    Freestanding signs . Each tract of land shall be permitted one
monument sign , unless the property is within the Historic District and is
therefore subject to the Historic District Design Guidelines. . See division
(G) of this section.
      (2)   Building sign.
         (a)   Each separate business shall be permitted signage on the
building, not to exceed one square foot per one linear foot of building 
frontage .
         (b)   The total combined area of building sign(s), freestanding or
monument sign area shall not exceed 200 square feet.
   (J)   Projecting signs . The sign cannot project more than eight feet from
the building  or into any street  or upon other property. Signs may project
over public walkways where there is at least eight feet clearance from walk to
sign bottom. Square footage of sign cannot exceed the buildings  allowance per
ordinance. Sign shall be supported to protect the safety of persons  and
property.
   (K)   Portable signs provided:
      (1)   No part of a sign shall extend beyond the plane of the property
line upon which the sign is located or into any easement ;
      (2)   No more than one portable sign is allowed per business or
occupancy;
      (3)   Display area shall not exceed 16 square feet. If copy is different
on each side of sign, then both sides count towards total area;
      (4)   Signs shall be displayed only during times when the business being
advertised is open for business;
      (5)   Portable signs must be properly secured to prevent the sign from
becoming windblown debris;
      (6)   Portable signs shall not be connected to or utilize an external
power source, including (without limitation) by use of an electrical extension
cord or cable;
      (7)   Certain Portable Signs are prohibited, due to their poor aesthetic
appearance and detractive value (See
Figures 152.270.3 and
152.270.4).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2424.png]
Figure 152.270.3
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2426.png]
Figure 152.270.4
      (8)   Portable signs must be post-mounted or sandwich board-style signs
(See
Figures 152.270.5 and
152.270.6).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2428.png]
Figure 152.270.5             Figure 152.270.6
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/
IMAGES/0-0-0-7061.png]
   (L)   Roof signs shall require a special use permit from the Board of
Commissioners (see Special Uses - Roof Signs ).
   (M)   Subdivision signs (permanent). Subdivision signs  without any
advertising may be located at each entrance to the subdivision  provided they
are monument signs .
      (1)   Signs shall be maintained in good repair and appearance.
      (2)   Signs shall be non-illuminated or indirectly illuminated.
      (3)   Signs shall not be erected in any street   right-of-way .
      (4)   There shall be only one sign along street   frontage provided that,
if the subdivision has more than 400 feet of street or road frontage and two
entrances, then two signs shall be permitted.
      (5)   Copy area shall not exceed 16 square feet per sign.
      (6)   No extremity of the sign, including copy, shall exceed 64 square
feet.
      (7)   No support column shall exceed a height of eight feet.
   (N)   Wall signs . Shall not exceed the total allowed tenant signage square
footage per tenant linear footage. Sign shall be properly attached to wall to
ensure the safety of persons  and property.
      (O)   Window signs . Wherein the area of the sign does not exceed one-
third of the tenants frontal window area. Window signs cannot exceed 0.tenant
total allowed signage per ordinance.
   (P)   Church, school and public building (non-governmental) signs. Shall
meet the following criteria:
      (1)   Each tract of land shall be permitted one monument sign. See
division (G) of this section.
      (2)   Signage on the building shall not exceed one square foot per one
linear foot of principal building frontage. The square footage permitted can be
equally distributed on the site allowing for signage on multiple structures not
to exceed the total allotted.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005) (Am. Ord. 2009-18, passed 11-17-2009; Am. Ord
2013-O13, passed 5-21-2013; Am. Ord. 2022-O4, passed 5-23-2022; Am. Ord. 2022-
O5, passed 5-23-2022)
§ 152.271 RESERVED.
§ 152.272 PROJECTION INTO STREET RIGHTS-OF-WAY AND SIDE YARDS.
   (A)   No principal use signs, canopies, wooden or metal marquees, or other
structures shall project beyond any public right-of-way line or into an
easement . No signs shall occupy any of the area required by this chapter as
side yard .
   (B)   Site line requirements at intersections shall meet the site line
triangle requirements of the North Carolina Department of Transportation.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 152.273 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   The following types of signs are prohibited in all districts unless
otherwise noted. Any sign located, placed, or allowed to remain in violation of
this section may be impounded by the Administrator or his designee. Any sign
impounded under this section shall be returned to the owner(s) thereof upon the
following conditions: (a) The owner(s) shall provide the Administrator or his
designee satisfactory proof of ownership of such sign; and (b) The owner(s)
shall pay all applicable penalties assessed on account of such sign. Any such
sign not claimed within ten days after its impoundment shall be considered
abandoned by the owner(s) thereof and the Town of Swansboro may thereafter
dispose of any such sign not reclaimed by the owner thereof within ten days
after its impoundment.
   (A)   Signs which are a copy of or deceptively similar to any official
highway sign.
   (B)   Signs with flashing or moving lights if the sign and/or flashing
lights are visible from any residence, or any street or thoroughfare open to
vehicular traffic.
   (C)   Signs that obstruct visibility on any street , highway, or
thoroughfare or at any intersection thereof.
   (D)   Signs which are erected or maintained upon trees, painted or drawn
upon rocks or other natural features, or attached to utility poles.
   (E)   Signs that obstruct access to or from any window, door, fire escape,
or any other opening intended to provide light, air, ingress, or egress to or
from any room or building as required by law.
   (F)   Signs located in or over any street , highway, or any other public
right-of-way .
   (G)   Signs which are illegal under state or federal law.
   (H)   Signs not in good repair.
   (I)   Signs not securely affixed to a substantial structure, except for
mobile signs allowed as a special use in §
152.211.
   (J)   Signs which are painted on buildings which conduct a use not
advertised by said sign.
   (K)   Signs which are not designed or constructed according to generally
accepted engineering practices to withstand wind pressures and load
distribution as set forth in the North Carolina Building Code and other
applicable codes. Provided, however, that this division shall not apply to
prohibit freestanding signs :
      (1)   Which have an area less than or equal to 32 square feet per side;
and
      (2)   Which are not more than six feet from the ground to the top of the
sign; and
      (3)   Which are supported by at least two support posts equivalent to two
4" x 4" treated wooden posts, buried at least four feet in the ground.
   (L)   Signs which do not meet the National Electric Code, when wiring or
electrical connections are used.
   (M)   Primary freestanding signs which are not monument signs unless the
sign is located in the Historic District and is therefore subject to the
Historic District Design Guidelines.
   (N)   Signs commonly referred to as "yard signs" unless related to a town
approved festival or non-profit event (see §
152.269 and Figure 152.270.7).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/
IMAGES/0-0-0-7061.png]
 
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005) (Am. Ord. passed 2-19-2013; Am. Ord. passed 6-
27-2017; Am. Ord. 2022-O6, passed 4-11-2022; Am. Ord. 2022-O4, passed 5-23-
2022)
§ 152.274 NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   Any sign existing as of the date of passage of this amendment which is not
in conformity with the provisions of this amendment and other applicable
ordinances, shall be deemed a nonconforming sign. Except as otherwise
specifically addressed by this chapter, nonconforming signs existing on the
date of passage of this amendment shall be allowed to remain in existence
subject to the following provisions:
   (A)   At such time as any nonconforming sign receives structural damage from
any source whatsoever, whether accidental, an act of God, or otherwise, and
such damage amounts to at least 50% of the sign’s supporting structure, the
sign must be replaced with a conforming sign. For the purposes of this
subsection, damage to the face of the sign which does not otherwise damage the
supporting structure of the sign shall NOT require the sign to be replaced;
however, the sign area shall not increase beyond what was originally in place.
No additional lighting shall be added to any such sign.
   (B)   If the principal use of the property changes, any nonconforming
signage must be replaced by conforming signage or removed from the premises
prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
   (C)   If an existing building is vacant for more than 180 days without the
intent to reestablish the previous use, any nonconforming signage must be
replaced by conforming signage or removed from the premises prior to the
issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2022-O6, passed 4-11-2022)
§ 152.275 PERMITS FOR SIGNS.
   No sign shall hereafter be erected, constructed, altered, or maintained
except as provided in this chapter, until a permit for the sign has been issued
by the Administrator and the fee paid.
   (A)   Form: The Administrator  shall create and make available applications
for all permits required by this chapter. The information required on such
application shall include at least the following:
      (1)   Name, address, and phone numbers of the applicant and owner of the
property if different from the applicant; and
      (2)   A description of the sign for which a permit is requested,
including at least the area, size, layout, proposed design, method and type of
illumination if any, and such other information as the Administrator reasonably
requires in order to pass upon the application.
   (B)   Altered also includes: change of building use, size of sign, and/or
name of business. Exceptions shall include: (1) if same owner or tenant; and
(2) color change but same business unless in Historic District.
   (C)   (1)   Any sign erected, constructed, altered, or maintained without
the proper permit may be impounded by the Administrator or his designee. Any
sign impounded under this section shall be returned to the owner r(s) thereof
upon the following conditions:
         (a)   The owner (s) shall provide the Administrator or his designee
satisfactory proof of ownership of such sign; and
         (b)   The owner (s) shall pay all applicable penalties assessed on
account of such sign.
      (2)   Any such sign not claimed within 30 days after its impoundment
shall be considered abandoned by the owner (s) thereof and the Town of
Swansboro may thereafter dispose of any such sign not reclaimed by the owner
thereof within 30 days after its impoundment.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005) (Am. Ord. passed 2-19-2013; Am. Ord. 2013-O9,
passed 4-16-2013)
§ 152.276 MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   To insure that signs are erected and maintained in a safe and
aesthetic manner, it shall be unlawful for any sign designed to be visible from
any public street or highway within the jurisdiction of the Town of Swansboro
to be erected or maintained by any person , other than by a sign contractor
properly licensed under North Carolina State Statutes or by a designated
representative of such licensed contractor, except that this requirement shall
be interpreted to exclude those persons who construct and erect a principal use
 identification sign when said sign is used at said person ’s place of business
and to exclude licensed general contractors erecting signs as part of a
permitted construction or renovation project; provided, however, in all cases,
all erection must be properly permitted and inspected for compliance with the
applicable codes of the State of North Carolina and the Town of Swansboro and
with other parts of this subchapter.
   (B)   The following maintenance requirements must be observed for all signs
visible from any public street or highway within the jurisdiction of this
subchapter.
      (1)   No sign shall have more than 20% of its surface area covered with
disfigured, cracked, ripped, or peeling paint or plastic or banner material for
a period of more than 30 successive days.
      (2)   No sign shall be allowed to stand with bent or broken sign facing,
broken supports, loose appendages or struts or be allowed to stand more than 15
degrees away from the perpendicular for a period of more than 30 successive
days.
      (3)   No sign shall be allowed to have weeds, vines, landscaping, or
other vegetation growing upon it and obscuring its view from the street or
highway from which it is to be viewed for a period of more than 30 successive
days.
      (4)   No neon or internally illuminated sign may be allowed to stand with
only partial illumination for a period of more than 30 successive days.
      (5)   If a sign or sign structure is damaged such that more than 50% of
the value is lost, with such determination made by the Administrator , any
repair or replacement must be done in conformance with this section.
   (C)   The Administrator may inspect all signs for compliance with these
maintenance requirements.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 152.277 PERMITTED SIGNS.
   The Table of Permitted and Special Use Signs delineates the types of signs
permitted within the various zoning districts in the Town of Swansboro (see §
152.170 for a complete description of the individual zoning districts).
Signs - Permitted/Special Use
Sign    All
Type RA Residential PUD MHP MHS MHS- 15SF MHS-O B1 B2 B3 B2 HDO MI CON O/I G/E
        Districts
                                         All                     MHS- MHS-          B2         O/ G/
Sign Type                             RA Residential PUD MHP MHS 15SF O    B1 B2 B3 HDO MI CON I  E
                                         Districts
Accessory Use                         S  S           S   S   S   S    S    S  S  S  S   S  S   S  S
Agricultural                          P  P           P   P   P   P    P    P  P  P  P   P  P   P  P
Awning /Canopy                                       P                     P  P  P  P   P      P  P
Business Banner /Feather Flags                       P                     P  P  P      P      P  P
Billboard *                                                                P            P
Cemetery                              P                                    P
Churches, Schools or Public Buildings S  S           S   S   S   S    S    S  S  S  S   S  S   S  S
Construction                          P  P           P   P   P   P    P    P  P  P  P   P  P   P  P
Directional                           P              P   P                 P  P  P  P   P      P  P
Directory                                                                  P  P     P   P      P
Festival Area                         P  P           P   P   P   P    P    P  P  P  P   P  P   P  P
Freestanding                                                                        P
Governmental                          P  P           P   P   P   P    P    P  P  P  P   P  P   P  P
Home Occupation                       P  P           P   P       P    P    P  P  P  P          P
Marquee                                                                    P  P  P  P   P
Mobile                                                                     S            S
Monument                                             P   P                 P  P  P  P   P      P  P
Multiple-Use                                                               P  P  P  P   P      P  P
Political Campaign                    P  P           P   P   P   P    P    P  P  P  P   P  P   P  P
Portable                                             P                     P  P  P  P   P      P  P
Principal Use                                        P                     P  P  P  P   P  P   P  P
Projecting                                                                 P  P     P   P      P  P
Real Estate Commercial/               P  P           P   P   P        P    P  P     P   P  P   P  P
Residential
Roof                                                                       S            S  S
Safety /Warning                       P  P           P   P   P        P    P  P     P   P  P   P  P
Subdivision                           P  P           P       P   P    P    P  P  P             P
Temporary Festival and Event (per §                                       P  P  P  P          P  P
152.269)
Wall                                                                       P  P  P  P   P      P  P
Window                                                                     P  P     P   P      P  P
Notes:
P = Indicates permitted.
S = Special use permit required.
*NOTE: Within the Swansboro corporate limits, billboard signs are prohibited on all parcels
adjoining the NC 24 right-of-way anywhere within the Town or extraterritorial jurisdiction .
 
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005) (Am. Ord. 2017-O1, passed 1-10-2017; Am. Ord.
2022-O6, passed 4- 11-2022; Am. Ord. 2022-O4, passed 5-23-2022)
OFF-STREET PARKING AND OFF-STREET LOADING REQUIREMENTS
§ 152.290 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of these off-street parking and loading requirements is to
relieve traffic congestion in the streets ; to minimize any detrimental effects
of off-street parking and loading areas on adjacent properties; and to assure a
proper and adequate development of off-street parking and loading areas
throughout the area. The standards contained in this section are minimum
standards and should not be regarded as optimum standards. The prudent property
owner will generally provided considerably more off-street parking and loading
spaces than these minimum requirements. These parking and loading standards
shall be enforced within the Historical District only to that extent considered
feasible by the Board of Adjustment .
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 152.291 GENERAL.
   (A)   Off-street parking requirements. There shall be provided at the time
of the erection of any building , or at the time any principal building is
enlarged or increased in capacity by adding dwelling  units, guest rooms,
seats, or floor area; or before conversion from one type of uses or occupancy
to another, permanent off-street parking space in the amount specified by this
chapter. Such parking space may be provided in a parking garage or properly
graded open space. No off-street  parking or loading shall be permitted in the
required parkway area. See §
152.196(G).
   (B)   Minimum parking requirement. 
      (1)   Each application for a building permit shall include information as
to the location and dimensions of off-street parking and loading space and the
means of ingress and egress to such space. Required off-street   parking area
for three or more automobiles shall have individual spaces marked, and shall be
so designed, maintained, and regulated that no parking or maneuvering
incidental to parking shall be on any public street , walk, or alley , unless
the speed limit on the public street , walk, or alley is no greater than 20
miles per hour. Automobiles must be parked and unparked without moving another.
This information shall be in sufficient detail to enable the Administrator to
determine whether or not the requirements of this chapter are met.
      (2)   The following diagrams depict the minimum dimensional requirements
of off-street  parking areas . Parking space and aisle dimensions are required
minimums. Curb and other dimensions shown are typical measurements.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2430.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2432.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2434.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2436.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2438.png]
 
   (C)   Combination of required parking space. The required parking space for
any number of separate uses may be combined in one lot  but the required space
assigned to one use may not be assigned to another use, except that one-half of
the parking spaces required for churches, theater, or assembly halls whose peak
attendance will be at night or on Sundays may be assigned to a use which will
be closed at night and on Sundays.
   (D)   Remote parking space. If the off-street parking space required by this
chapter cannot be reasonably provided on the same lot  on which the principal
use is located, such space may be provided by public parking if located within
the B-2 HDO zoning district, or as a special use  on any land within 400 feet
of the main entrance to such principal use. Ownership or lease agreement of
remote parking land shall be maintained so that as long as the business exists
the required parking exists.
   (E)   Handicapped spaces. Spaces for the physically handicapped shall be
provided as required by the NC Building Code, Volume I-C and the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990.
   (F)   Maintenance. All parking and loading facilities shall be permanently
maintained by the owners or occupants as long as the use they serve exists.
   (G)   Access. All parking and loading facilities shall have vehicular access
to a public street or approved private street.
   (H)   Compliance with air quality standards. The construction of or
modification to open parking lots containing 1,500 or more spaces or parking
decks and garages containing 750 or more spaces shall comply with the
concentrated air emissions standards and permitting requirements of the NC
Division of Environmental Management (15A NCAC 02D.0805).
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005) (Am. Ord. 2011-O7, passed 2-15-2011; Am. Ord.
2011-O30, passed 10-18-2011; Am. Ord. 2013-O7, passed 3-19-2013; Am. Ord. 2013-
O3, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 152.292 MINIMUM PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The following off-street parking spaces shall be required and
maintained:
 
Anchor store within multi-use building  Shall have the proper number of spaces
                                        per the chart below.
Agricultural - livestock and vegetative One (1) space per 400 square feet of
                                        gross floor area .
Art gallery                             One (1) space per each 300 square feet
                                        of gross floor area .
Assemblies (auditoriums, assembly hall, One (1) parking space or each four (4)
armory, stadium, coliseum)              spectator seats (one seat is equal to
                                        two feet of bench length)
Assisted living residence               One (1) space per four residents, plus
                                        one additional space for each employee.
 
Auction sales   One (1) space per two seats or two per 100 square feet of gross leasable
                area, whichever is greater.
Automatic       Two (2) spaces per machine.
teller machine
Automobile      One (1) space for each two (2) employees on shift of greatest employment,
laundry/car     plus one (1) space for the manager. Plus sufficient space for twelve (12)
wash, full      stacking/queuing spaces per day.
service
Automobile
laundry/car     Four (4) stacking spaces for each washing stall, plus two (2) drying spaces
wash, self      for each washing stall.
service
Automobile      One (1) space per each 400 square feet of leasable area, plus one space for
parts and       each employee on the maximum work shift.
accessory sales
Automobile
repair and/or   One (1) space for each service bay and mechanic.
body work
                1.5 spaces for each fuel nozzle. In addition, one (1) parking space shall
Automobile      be provided for each 50 square feet of usable floor area in the cashier’s
service station and office areas. In no instance shall such a facility provide less than
operations      three parking spaces. In no instance shall a required parking space or its
                maneuvering area conflict with vehicles being fueled or awaiting fuel.
Bank            One (1) parking space for each two hundred (200) square feet of gross floor
                area plus one (1) for each two (2) employees.
Barbering and
hairdressing    Two (2) parking spaces per beauty or barber chair.
services
Bed and
breakfast       One (1) space for each room to be rented plus one (1) additional space for
accommodations, each three (3) employees
& inns
Bicycle sales   Three (3) spaces per 1,000 square feet of gross floor area .
and repair
Bingo parlor    One (1) space for three seats (based on design capacity) or one (1) per 100
                square feet of total floor area , whichever is greater.
Books and
printed matter, 4.5 spaces for every 1,000 square feet of gross floor area .
distribution
Bowling alley   Three (3) spaces per alley plus requirements for any other use associated
                with the establishment such as restaurant, etc.
Cemetery        One (1) space per full-time employee.
 
Churches                               One (1) parking space for each three (3)
                                       seats in the sanctuary.
                                       Five (5) parking spaces for each doctor
Clinic services, medical and dental    plus one (1) parking space for each
                                       employee.
                                       One (1) space for each adult attendant
Day care facilities                    and one (1) space for every six (6)
                                       children or fraction thereof
Drug and alcohol treatment center      One (1) space per two beds and one (1)
                                       space per staff member.
                                       One (1) space for each 200 square feet
Dry cleaning and laundry               of gross floor area used by the general
                                       public.
Dwelling, two-family and multi-family  Two (2) parking spaces on the same lot
(including manufactured homes )        for each dwelling unit.
Eating and drinking facilities         Six (6) spaces per 1,000 square feet
                                       including any outdoor seating area.
Eating and drinking facilities, fast   Ten (10) spaces per 1,000 square feet of
food                                   floor area including any outdoor area
                                       used for dining.
Exterminating services                 Three (3) spaces per 1,000 square feet
                                       of gross floor area .
                                       One (1) parking space for each ten (10)
Fishing pier                           feet of pier, plus additional parking
                                       for other uses in connection with the
                                       pier as required herein.
                                       One (1) parking space for each three (3)
Funeral homes                          seats in the chapel or parlor, plus one
                                       (1) for each funeral vehicle.
                                       Three (3) parking spaces for each hole
Golf course                            plus requirements for associates uses
                                       (i.e., restaurant) as stated herein.
Health club/gymnasium                  One (1) space for each 100 square feet
                                       of gross floor area .
Home occupations                       Two (2) spaces in addition to dwelling
                                       requirement.
Hospital or sanitarium care            Two (2) spaces for each bed.
                                       One (1) parking space for each two (2)
Industrial use                         employees on the largest shift plus five
                                       (5) spaces for visitor parking.
                                       One (1) space for every 1.5 employees
Industries                             during maximum employment, and one (1)
                                       space for every truck to be stored or
                                       stopped simultaneously.
Inn (see bed and breakfast
accommodations, & inns )
 
                                        One (1) space per 400 square feet of
Kennel operations                       shelter, but no fewer than four spaces
                                        plus one (1) space for each employee.
                                        One (1) parking space for each four
Libraries                               hundred (400) square feet of gross
                                        floor area .
                                        Two (2) parking spaces for each
Mixed use                               residential unit and one (1) parking
                                        space for every 300 square feet of
                                        gross non-residential building area.
                                        One (1) parking space for each room to
                                        be rented plus one (1) additional space
Motel or hotel                          for each three (3) employees, plus one
                                        (1) space for every four (4) seats in
                                        restaurant, if applicable.
Multi-purpose buildings (i.e., strip    One (1) space for every 300 square feet
malls)                                  of gross building area.
                                        Two (2) spaces per 1,000 square feet of
Nursery operations (plant)              total sales area plus one (1)
                                        additional space per each two (2)
                                        employees.
                                        One (1) space for each four (4) persons
Nursing home                            to be accommodated plus one (1) space
                                        for each employee.
                                        One (1) parking space for each three
Offices , general or professional       hundred (300) square feet of gross
                                        floor area .
                                        One (1) space for each 400 square feet
Post office                             of gross floor area , plus one space
                                        per each two (2) employees on the shift
                                        of greatest employment.
Private recreation club                 One (1) space for each five (5) members
                                        or one (1) space per family
                                        One (1) parking space for each two
Public or private clubs                 hundred (200) square feet of gross
                                        floor area .
                                        One (1) space for each employee plus
Public utility buildings                four (4) spaces for pick-up and drop-
                                        off.
Public utility stations and substations One (1) space for each employee.
                                        One (1) space for every 100 square feet
Recreation center                       of floor area plus one (1) space per
                                        employee on largest shift.
Retail and service uses not otherwise   One (1) parking space for every three
listed                                  hundred (300) square feet of gross
                                        floor space.
                                        One (1) parking space for each
Schools , elementary and junior high    classroom and administrative office,
                                        plus one (1) additional parking space
                                        for each 100 students.
 
                                      One (1) parking space for each seven (7)
Schools , senior high                 students for which the building was
                                      designed plus one (1) parking space for
                                      each classroom and administrative office.
Senior housing/independent living     One (1.25) parking spaces for each
                                      residential dwelling unit.
Shopping center /malls                One (1) parking space for every 300 sq.
                                      ft. of gross floor space of the building.
                                      One (1) space for each 225 square feet of
Storage, self-service                 gross floor area , plus one (1) space for
                                      each employee.
Swimming pool                         Two (2) spaces for every 100 square feet
                                      of water area.
Telecommunication towers              Four (4) spaces per 1,000 square feet.
Theater productions, indoor           One (1) space for each four (4) seats in
                                      the largest assembly area.
Theater productions, outdoor          One (1) space for each 45 square feet of
                                      assembly or floor area .
Travel agency                         Two (2) spaces per 250 square feet of
                                      office area.
                                      One (1) space per 500 square feet of
Veterinarian                          office and examining room area, plus one
                                      (1) space per employee.
Wedding chapel                        One (1) parking space for each four (4)
                                      seats within the chapel.
Wholesale establishments, warehouses, One (1) space for every 1,000 square feet
and other businesses not catering to  of gross floor area .
retail or package trade
                                      One (1) parking space for each two (2)
Wholesale uses                        employees on the largest shift plus five
                                      (5) spaces for visitor parking.
                                      One (1) space for each three (3) boat
                                      storage spaces (wet and dry) plus one (1)
Yacht clubs /boat storage             space for each employee plus requirements
                                      for associated uses (i.e., restaurant) as
                                      described herein.
 
   (B)   To promote alternative of modes of transportation within the town, one
parking space for the development , as required by the above table, may be
exchanged for bicycle facilities such as bike racks.
   (C)   Special situations which are not covered by the above shall be handled
by the Board of Commissioners . The Board of Commissioners shall make the final
determination as to the number of spaces to be required, but shall in all cases
give due consideration to the needs therefore.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005) (Am. Ord. 2009-O6, passed 4-21-2009; Am. Ord.
2010-O14, passed, 5-18-2010; Am. Ord. passed 6-15-2010; Am. Ord. 2013-O7,
passed 3-19-2013; Am. Ord. 2013-O13, passed 5-21-2013; Am. Ord. 2017-03, passed
1-24-2017)
§ 152.293 DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   General. 
      (1)   After the date of passage of this section, only driveways designed,
approved, constructed, and surfaced in accordance with the provisions herein
shall be allowed to provide motor vehicle access to or from any property upon
which a building has been constructed, reconstructed, or physically altered.
All driveways shall be paved with either asphalt or concrete, or with
alternative paving material (e.g., concrete pavers, brick, “turf stone” or
similar material) determined to exhibit equivalent wear resistance and load
bearing characteristics as asphalt or concrete.
      (2)   Before a building permit is issued for the construction,
reconstruction, or change in use of any building or land used for purposes
other than a single or two-family residence, all driveways shall be reviewed
and approved by the Administrator . Private driveways serving single-family and
two-family  dwellings shall not be regulated by the provision of this chapter.
“Construction, reconstruction, or change in use” refers to those improvements
made to the site involving overall structure size or to changes in use which
would require the addition of one or more parking spaces under the provision of
§§
152.290 through
152.296, Off-Street Parking and Off-Street Loading Requirements; it is not
intended to refer to construction activities which merely involve changes to
exterior architectural features (e.g., painting, addition of siding, roofing
activities, and the like).
      (3)   When the use of any driveway has been permanently discontinued, the
property owner of that driveway shall, at his expense, replace all necessary
curbs, gutters aprons, sidewalks, and appurtenances thereto, within 60 days of
receipt of a written notice from the Administrator .
      (4)   No driveway shall conflict with any municipal facility such as
traffic signal standards, catch basins, fire hydrants, crosswalks, loading
zones, bus stops, utility poles, fire-alarm supports, meter boxes, and sewer
clean-outs or other necessary structures, except with the express approval of
the Administrator . Any adjustments to municipal facilities to avoid such
conflicts shall be at the expense of the driveway applicant.
   (B)   Permit requirements. A permit must be obtained from the Administrator
prior to the removal, alteration, or construction of any curb, driveway,
gutter, and/or pavement or prior to the performance of any other work in any
public or private street. Conditions governing the issuance of such a permit
are:
      (1)   A continuing indemnity bond with sufficient surety acceptable to
the town may be required of the party performing the work. All work must be
done in conformity with the standards established herein.
      (2)   The town shall be indemnified for any damages it might sustain as a
result of the breach of condition above. The damages payable to the town shall
be the amount required to make such improvement conform to town standards.
      NOTE: Based on the Town of Swansboro Schedule of Fees, a fee shall be
paid to the town at the time the application for a driveway permit is made.
   (C)   Submission of plans. 
      (1)   Two copies of plans showing the location and dimensions of all
proposed improvements shall be filed with the Administrator for his approval
prior to the issuance of a driveway permit for uses other than single or two-
family residential.
      (2)   All design and construction of driveways shall conform to the
requirements of the North Carolina Department of Transportation or Town
engineering guidelines whichever is greater.
   (D)   Driveway Location(s).
      (1)   Two driveways entering the same street from a single lot shall be
permitted only if the minimum distance between the closest edges of the
driveways equals or exceeds 50 feet.
      (2)   Three driveways entering the same street from a single lot shall be
permitted only if the minimum distance between the closest edges of the
driveways equals or exceeds 150 feet.
      (3)   Four or more driveways entering the same street from a single lot
shall be prohibited.
      (4)   In no case may the total width of all driveways exceed 50% of the
total property frontage .
      (5)   No driveway (nearest edge) shall be located within 10 feet of a
side lot property line except in the case of a shared driveway (single curb/
access point) utilized by two or more lots .
      (6)   No driveway (nearest edge) shall be located within 25 feet of an
intersection or secondary road and 40 feet of a primary road except in the case
where no other lot access to a public street or town-approved private road is
available.
   (E)   Driveway permit inspection. Once the driveway permit is duly issued,
the supervisor of the driveway construction site shall keep the permit
available for on- the-job inspection by authorized personnel of the town. The
Administrator  or other authorized representative of the town shall have the
authority to require the immediate stoppage of work not performed either in
accordance with the approved plans or under the requirements of this section
and may order the nonconforming installations be corrected and/or blocked.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 152.294 OFF-STREET LOADING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   In any district in which a building hereafter erected is to be
occupied by any manufacturing, processing , assembly , wholesaling, retailing,
laundering, dry cleaning, or similar activity requiring the receiving or
distribution by vehicles of material or merchandise, there shall be provided
and maintained on the same lot with such building at least one off-street
loading space plus one additional space for every 20,000 square feet or major
fraction thereof of gross floor space in excess of 10,000 square feet.
      (2)   Each such loading space shall be at least ten feet in width, 25
feet in length, and shall have a height clearance of at least 14 feet.
   (B)   All off-street loading areas shall be arranged and marked to provide
for orderly and safe unloading and loading, and shall not hinder the free
movement of vehicles and pedestrians. All loading and unloading maneuvers shall
take place on private property. No backing in from a road or maneuvering on the
road right-of-way shall be permitted.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 152.295 PARKING LOT INTERCONNECTIONS.
   Vehicle drive connections are required to connect adjacent property when the
proposed development is adjacent to a commercial property, public amenity site,
public park, public open space and/or residential public street:
   (A)   Connections shall be constructed and stubbed to accommodate future
development of adjacent properties;
   (B)   Connections shall be a minimum of 20 feet in width;
   (C)   The requirement for a vehicle drive connection to an adjacent
commercial property may be waived by the Zoning Administrator upon a written
finding that there is no means due to pre-existing development features,
structures, or topographical conditions, to establish such a connection; and
   (D)   The requirement for interconnectivity to town amenities may be waived
by the Zoning Administrator for any reason or for no reason.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Amended 1-18-2011; Am. Ord. 2020-O8, passed 6-
22-2020)
§ 152.296 DESIGN STANDARDS FOR OFF-STREET PARKING AND OFF-STREET LOADING.
   Parking facilities shall be designed and constructed so as to:
   (A)   Allow unobstructed movement into and out of each parking space without
interfering with fixed objects or vehicles;
   (B)   Minimize delay and interference with traffic on public streets and
access drives;
   (C)   Maximize sight distances from parking lot exits and access drives; and
   (D)   Allow off-street parking spaces in parking lots to have access from
parking lot   driveways and not directly from streets .
   (E)   Required parking spaces and loading areas shall be paved and
maintained with masonry, concrete, asphalt, or alternative paving surface such
as turf stone which allows greater stormwater runoff . All parking, drive and
loading areas must be of sufficient thickness and consistency to be able to
support anticipated traffic volumes and weights. Gravel, crushed stone asphalt
shall not be considered as optional paving surfaces for minimum off-street
parking facility requirements.
   (F)   All facilities shall be graded, properly drained, stabilized and
maintained to minimize dust and erosion.
   (G)   All parking spaces and loading areas shall be clearly identified with
paint lines, bumper guards, curbs or similar treatment.
   (H)   All parking spaces adjacent to a property line, vegetative buffer or
planting area shall be provided with wheel guards or curbs located so that no
part of the parked vehicle will extend beyond the property line or encroach
more than two feet into a vegetative buffer or required planting area.
   (I)   Parking lots shall be designed and constructed such that walkways
shall maintain a minimum unobstructed width of five feet.
   (J)   Parking lots shall be designed and constructed that allows for the
safe movement of pedestrians to and from vehicular parking areas .
   (K)   All parking, loading, and service areas shall be separated from
walkways, sidewalks, and streets by curbing or other suitable protective device
to prevent vehicles from intruding into these areas.
   (L)   Access ways, walkways, and parking areas shall be lighted by lighting
fixtures which shall be so installed as to protect the street and neighboring
properties from direct glare of hazardous interference and provide full
illumination at all access ways, walkways, and parking areas .
   (M)    Curbs or other similar devices shall be located along the perimeter
of parking lots , when safety requires it, except at entrance and exits. Such
barrier shall be located to prevent parked vehicles from extending or rolling
beyond the boundaries of parking lots .
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005) (Am. Ord. 2013-O13, passed 5-21-2013)
TRAFFIC IMPACT STUDY
§ 152.310 PURPOSE.
   A traffic impact study shall be required for projects as defined in this
subchapter. The study will enable the Town of Swansboro to (1) assess the
impact of a proposed development (2) to insure that the transportation network
is not adversely impacted and (3) identify solutions/infrastructure
improvements to be incorporated into the proposed development and
transportation network .
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005) (Am. Ord. 2016-O14, passed 4-12-2016)
§ 152.311 CONDUCT.
   (A)   The procedures and standards for the traffic impact study are set
forth in §
152.313. A traffic impact study shall be prepared and “sealed” by a
“registered” NC professional traffic engineer, other than the Town’s Traffic
Engineer, with previous traffic study experience. The qualifications of the
preparer may be discussed at or prior to this meeting. The traffic impact study
will be reviewed and approved by the town’s Traffic Engineer. All costs shall
be borne by the applicant, developer and/or petitioner.
   (B)   Prior to the preparation of a traffic impact study, a scoping meeting
with the planning staff, town’s Traffic Engineer, the applicant, and the
preparer of the study shall be held. The purpose this meeting is to establish,
at a minimum, the following metrics: the study area, planned and committed
roadway improvements (by NCDOT or others), road sections/intersections to be
analyzed, projected trip generation, preliminary traffic distribution, other
planned developments to be considered, traffic growth rate, available traffic
data, periods for which analysis is to be performed, and other staff concerns.
Final determination of each traffic impact study’s scoping metrics will be made
by the town’s Traffic Engineer.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2018-O8, passed 5-22-2018)
§ 152.312 APPLICABILITY.
   A traffic impact study shall be required for all projects where the Town
Manager, or his or her designee, has determined from the information submitted
that the site-generated traffic will have a significant impact on the
transportation network . Determinations shall be based on the following
criteria:
   (A)   Business and manufacturing uses. Estimated traffic generated by the
use exceeds 200 trips/day.
   (B)   Single-family residential. Estimated traffic generated by the
development exceeds 400 trips/day.
   (C)   Planned unit development . Estimated traffic generated by the
development exceeds 400 trips/day.
   (D)   Apartments , condominiums , townhouses . Estimated traffic generated
by the development exceeds 400 trips/day.
   (E)   Manufactured home parks. Estimated traffic generated by the
development exceeds 400 trips/day.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2016-O14, passed 4-12-2016; Am. Ord.
2023-O6, passed 5-22-23)
§ 152.313 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS AND STANDARDS.
   If a traffic impact study is required by this Article, it shall contain the
following information:
   (A)   General site description. The site description shall include the size,
location, proposed land uses, number of units and gross square footage by land
use, existing land use and zoning, construction staging, and completion date of
the proposed land development to the extent known or able to be described at
the time the application is prepared. A brief description of other major
existing and approved land developments within the study area shall be
provided. The general site description shall also include probable socio-
economic characteristics of potential site users to the extent that they may
affect the transportation needs of the site.
   (B)   Transportation facilities description.
      (1)   The description shall address the existing external, internal and
proposed transportation network . This description shall (1) all proposed
ingress and egress locations; (2) proposed internal vehicular, bicycle, and
pedestrian circulation; (3) all internal roadway widths and rights-of-way ,
turn lanes, parking conditions, traffic channelization’s; and (4) any traffic
signals or other intersection control devices within the site.
      (2)   Major intersections in the study area and all intersections or
driveways adjacent to or within one-third of a mile of the site shall be
identified and sketched. All existing and proposed public transportation
services and facilities within one-mile of the site shall also be documented.
      (3)   Future highway improvements , including proposed construction and
traffic signalization, shall be obtained from the North Carolina Department of
Transportation (NCDOT) and noted. Any proposed roadway improvements due to
proposed surrounding developments shall also be noted.
   (C)   Existing traffic conditions.
      (1)   Existing traffic conditions shall be documented for the identified
intersection and roadway and sections in the study area. Manual directional
turning movement counts and average daily traffic volumes shall be collected at
locations unless recent approved counts are available. Such data should be no
more than one year old and approved by the Planning Department prior to use.
      (2)   Traffic accidents shall be documented as recorded by the NCDOT,
municipal or county law enforcement, and the NC State Highway patrol for the
past five years.
      (3)   AM and PM peak hour analysis based upon existing volumes shall be
performed for all locations as agreed upon at the scoping meeting.
      (4)   This analysis will determine the adequacy of the existing
transportation network with respect to current traffic demand. Roadways and/or
intersections experiencing levels of service E or F shall be noted as
congestion locations. Levels of service, delay and 95th percentile queue length
shall be reported for each location.
   (D)   Transportation impact of the development .
      (1)   The site-generated traffic volumes shall be calculated using the
methodology and procedures described in the latest edition of the Institute of
Transportation Engineer’s (ITE’s) Trip Generation Manual for the proposed
development . Dependent upon development type, projected trips shall be
calculated for the peak hour of the adjacent street or peak hour of the
proposed development . Project trips shall be based on building square footage,
number of proposed residential units, etc. per NCDOT standards and guidelines
(based on development type). Any characteristics of the site that will cause
trip generation to vary significantly from average rates available in published
sources shall be documented, including such factors as (1) pass-by trips, (2)
internal capture, (3) staggered work hours, or (4) use of transit. All trip
generation data (AM and PM peak hour trips and ADTs) is to be documented within
the report. These site-generated trips shall be distributed and assigned to the
existing roadways and intersections throughout the study area. The site trip
distribution and assignment phase shall be provided.
      (2)   All average daily traffic volumes within the study area shall be
shown graphically. Peak hour turning movement volumes shall be shown for
signalized and other major intersections, including all access points to the
development .
      (3)   All school related development shall be compliant with NCDOT MSTA
section of Congestion Management. Pedestrian and bicycle volumes at school
crossings and as otherwise applicable shall be reported.
   (E)   Analysis of transportation impact. The total traffic demand that will
result from construction of the proposed development shall be calculated. This
demand shall consist of the combination of (1) existing traffic; (2) ambient
traffic growth and traffic from approved area developments and (3), traffic
generated by the proposed development.
      (1)   (a)   Each traffic impact study at a minimum shall include analyses
of the transportation network for the following scenarios:
            1.   Existing traffic;
            2.   Off-season background, which includes the sum of existing and
3% ambient growth and approved developments .
            3.   Off-season build, which includes the sum of background and
site-generated trips.
            4.   Seasonal background, which includes the sum of existing and 3%
ambient growth and seasonal growth percentage and approved developments .
            5.   Seasonal build, which includes the sum of background and
seasonal growth percentage and site-generated trips.
            6.   Build improvements , which includes the sum of build and
recommended capacity mitigation improvements .
         (b)   Notes.
            1.   The background and build year analyses for all future
scenarios shall be one year following the development’s scheduled completion.
            2.   An ambient compound growth of 3% shall be used unless
otherwise approved by the town or town’s Traffic Engineer.
            3.   Seasonal growth percentage to be provided by the town or
town’s Traffic Engineer.
            4.   Seasonal analysis period is between June 1 and August 31.
      (2)   If staging of the proposed development is anticipated, calculations
for each stage of completion shall be made (off-season and seasonal). This
analysis shall be performed for average weekday traffic, the peak highway hour
(s) and, if appropriate, peak development -generated hour(s) for all roadways
and major intersections in the study area (as defined by the town or town’s
Traffic Engineer).
      (3)   All proposed access points and pedestrian crossings shall be
examined for adequate sight distance and if deemed necessary by the town or
town’s Traffic Engineer, with the support of NCDOT on state routes the
installation of a traffic signal. The traffic signal evaluation shall compare
the projected traffic and pedestrian volumes to the warrants for traffic signal
installation found in the latest edition of the Manual on Uniform Traffic
Control Devices (MUTCD). All traffic signal warrants must be approved by the
NCDOT Division Traffic Engineer.
   (F)   Conclusions and recommended improvements .
      (1)   The traffic impact study shall report each analyzed condition as
required in divisions (A) through (F) and include peak hour delay, levels of
service, and ninety-fifth percentile queue lengths for all study area
intersections (signalized) or intersection movements (unsignalized) as defined
by the latest edition of the Highway Capacity Manual. Should the projected
build (off-season or seasonal) level of service for any signalized intersection
or unsignalized intersection movement in an urban area defined in division (G)
fall below LOS “D” for a 60-minute peak hour, that intersection shall deemed
deficient. Should the projected build level of service for any signalized
intersection or unsignalized intersection movement in a rural area as defined
in division (G) fall below LOS “C” for a 60-minute peak hour, that intersection
shall be deemed deficient. Should the build delay at an intersection or
intersection approach increase by 25% or more (above and beyond the existing
background delay), that intersection approach shall be deemed deficient.
      (2)   Should an intersection and/or intersection movement be deemed
deficient (as outlined in division (F)(1)), the traffic impact study shall
provide potential capacity mitigation recommendations to allow the intersection
or intersection approach to operate at a LOS “D” (in urban areas) or LOS “C”
(in rural areas). Potential capacity mitigation recommendations include, but
are not limited to: modifications to internal circulation design; modifications
to site access location and/or design; external roadway widening; external
intersection modification (turn lane construction and the like); intersection
signalization; and/or upgrades to network signal timings. All recommended
improvement shall be designed by a North Carolina Licensed Professional
Engineer and provided to the town for review, comment, and approval. All
recommended improvements to state maintained facilities are subject to NCDOT
approval. When connecting site driveways to state maintained facilities, the
applicant must follow all NCDOT guidelines to acquire a driveway permit.
      (3)   If it is determined by the town or the town’s Traffic Engineer that
the proposed development is only partially responsible for a deficient
intersection, intersection movement, or intersection approach, payment of a
partial fee-in-lieu may be considered. In this instance, the development shall
be responsible for their proportionate share of a required improvement . A
proportionate share is the percentage of a development’s trips (as compared to
the total volume of trips) at an intersection or intersection approach during
the worst analyzed peak hour, all as determined by the town or the town’s
Traffic Engineer. For example, if a development’s trips represent 5% of the
total traffic at an intersection during the worst analyzed peak hour, that
development will be responsible for 5% of the total cost of the required
improvement at that intersection. Any fee-in-lieu consideration will be at the
sole discretion of the town or town’s Traffic Engineer. The standards
established in §
152.384 shall be followed.
   (G)   Urban and rural intersections. For the purpose of traffic impact
studies, an URBAN INTERSECTION shall be defined as the intersection of any
facility with NC-24 (W. Corbett Avenue). All other intersections shall be
considered RURAL INTERSECTIONS.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2018-O8, passed 5-22-2018)
§ 152.314 SUBMISSION AND IMPLEMENTATION.
   The traffic impact study will be submitted to the Administrator with the
application.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005) (Am. Ord. 2016-O14, passed 4-12-2016)
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
PART I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.325 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the Subdivision Ordinance of the Town of
Swansboro, North Carolina, and may be cited as the Subdivision Ordinance.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 152.326 CONFORMANCE PREREQUISITE TO ACCEPTANCE OF STREETS, EXTENSION OF
PUBLIC SERVICES, AND THE LIKE.
   No street shall be maintained by the town, no street  dedication accepted
for ownership and maintenance, no building permits issued nor shall water,
sewer, or other public facilities or services be extended to or connected with
any subdivision for which a plat is required to be approved unless and until
the requirements set forth in this ordinance have been met.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 152.327 CONFORMANCE WITH OFFICIAL PLANS.
   All subdivisions shall comply with the principles, goals, and objectives of
the Town of Swansboro Comprehensive Plan , as amended from time to time, and
all other officially adopted plans and policies of the town. In addition,
proposed subdivisions must comply with the requirements of the Town of
Swansboro Unified Development Ordinance.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 152.328 AMENDMENTS.
   The subdivision ordinance may be amended by the following procedures:
   (A)   Proposed amendments. Proposed amendments may be initiated by the Board
of Commissioners , Planning Board , Board of Adjustment, or by one or more
interested parties. An application for an amendment shall contain a description
of the proposed subdivision  regulation to be amended. Such application shall
be filed with the town not later than 15 working days prior to the Planning
Board  meeting. A fee, as established by the Board of Commissioners , shall be
paid by the applicant for an amendment to cover the administrative expenses
involved. This fee shall not apply to amendments initiated by any town board.
   (B)   Action by the Planning Board . The Planning Board  shall consider and
make recommendations to the Board of Commissioners  concerning each proposed
subdivision ordinance amendment. If no recommendation is received from the
Planning Board  within 60 days of first submission to the town, the proposed
amendment shall be deemed to have been approved by the Planning Board .
   (C)   Action by the Board of Commissioners . No amendment shall be adopted
by the Board of Commissioners  until after public notice and hearing. Notice of
public hearing shall be published once a week for two successive calendar weeks
in the local newspaper, said notice to be published for the first time no less
than ten days nor more than 25 days prior to the date fixed for said hearing.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 152.329 VARIANCES.
   Where, because of topographical or other conditions peculiar to a site,
strict adherence to the provisions of this subchapter would cause an
unnecessary hardship, the Planning Board may recommend and the Board of
Commissioners may authorize a variance if such variance can be made without
destroying the intent of this subchapter. Any variance thus authorized is
required to be entered in writing in the minutes of the Planning Board and the
Board of Commissioners with the reasoning on which the departure was justified
set forth. In approving variances, the Board of Commissioners may require such
conditions as will, in its judgment, secure substantially the objectives of the
standards or requirements of this subchapter. A fee, as established by the
Board of Commissioners , shall be paid by the applicant for a variance to cover
the administrative expenses involved.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 152.330 ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES.
   The owner or agent of the owner of any land located within the jurisdiction
of the town who subdivides his land in violation of the ordinance or transfers
or sells land by reference to, exhibition of, or any other use of a plat
showing a subdivision of the land before the plat has been properly approved
under such ordinance and recorded in the office of the appropriate register of
deeds, shall be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor. The description by metes and
bounds in the instrument of transfer or other document used in the process of
selling or transferring land shall not exempt the transaction from this
penalty. The City may bring an action for injunction of any illegal subdivision
, transfer, conveyance, or sale of land, and the court shall, upon appropriate
findings, issue an injunction and order requiring the offending party to comply
with the subdivision ordinance. Building permits required pursuant to
G.S.§160A-417 may be denied for lots that have been illegally subdivided.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005) (Am. Ord. 2006-11, passed 4-18-2006)
§ 152.331 ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Town Manager shall designate such agent or office of the Town of
Swansboro as Administrator of this subchapter as shall be determined
appropriate.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 152.332 EFFECT OF PLAT ON DEDICATION.
   (A)   Pursuant to G.S. §160A-374 , the approval of a plat shall not be
deemed to constitute or effect the acceptance by the town or public of the
dedication of any street or other ground, public utility line, or public
facility shown on the plat . However, the Board of Commissioners may, by
resolution, accept any dedication made to the public of lands or facilities for
streets , parks , public utility lines, or other public purposes, when the
lands or facilities are located within its subdivision regulation jurisdiction.
   (B)   Acceptance of dedication of lands or facilities located within the
subdivision regulation jurisdiction but outside the corporate limits of the
town shall not place on the town any duty to open, operate, repair, or maintain
any street , utility line, or other land or facility, and the town shall in no
event be held to answer in any civil action or proceeding for failure to open,
repair, or maintain any street located outside its corporate limits.
   (C)   Unless a municipality, county, or other public entity operating a
water system shall have agreed to begin operation and maintenance of the water
system or water system facilities within one year of the time of issuance of a
certificate for the first unit of housing in the subdivision , a municipality
or county shall not, as part of its subdivision regulations applied to
facilities or land outside the corporate limits of a municipality, require
dedication of water systems or facilities as a condition for subdivision
approval.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 152.333 THOROUGHFARE PLAN.
   Where a proposed subdivision includes any part of a thoroughfare which has
been designated as such upon the officially adopted thoroughfare plan of
Swansboro, such part of such thoroughfare shall be platted by the subdivider in
the location shown on the plan and at the width specified in this subchapter.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 152.334 SCHOOL SITES ON LAND USE PLAN.
   If the Onslow County Board of Education has determined the specific location
and size of any school sites to be reserved or if this information appears in
the comprehensive land use plan, the Town of Swansboro Planning Board shall
immediately notify the Board of Education whenever a preliminary plan for a
subdivision is submitted which includes all or part of a school site to be
reserved. The Board of Education shall promptly decide whether it still wishes
the site to be reserved. If the Board of Education does not wish to reserve the
site, it shall so notify the Planning Board . If the Board of Education does
wish to reserve the site, the subdivision shall not be approved without such
reservation . The Board of Education shall then have 18 months beginning on the
date of final approval of the subdivision within which to acquire the site by
purchase or by exercise of the power of eminent domain. If the Board of
Education has not purchased or begun proceedings to condemn the site within 18
months, the subdivider may treat the land as freed of the reservation .
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 152.335 UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE AND OTHER PLANS.
   Proposed subdivisions must comply in all respects with the requirements of
the Unified Development Ordinance, and any other officially adopted plans.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 152.336 EXCLUSIONS AND EXCEPTIONS.
   The following shall be exempt from the subdivision regulations; however,
other provisions of the Unified Development Ordinance shall apply.
   (A)   The combination or recombination of portions of previously subdivided
and recorded lots if the total number of lots is not increased and the
resultant lots are equal to or exceed the standards of the town as shown in its
subdivision regulations.
   (B)   The division of land into parcels greater than ten acres if no street
  right-of-way  dedication is involved.
   (C)   The public acquisition by purchase of strips of land for widening or
opening streets .
   (D)   The division of a tract in single ownership, the entire area of which
is not greater than two acres into not more than three lots , if no street  
right-of-way  dedication is involved and if the resultant lots are equal to or
exceed the standards of the Town as shown by its subdivision regulations.
   (E)   The division of a tract into parcels in accordance with the terms of a
probated will or in accordance with intestate succession under G.S. Chapter 29.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2008-O28, passed 10-21-2008; Am. Ord.
2021-O3, passed 5-24-2021)
§ 152.337 PROCEDURES FOR PLAT APPROVAL.
   (A)   Exclusion determination. If a proposed division of land meets one or
more of the exclusions under the definition of “Subdivision ” in §
152.016 (Definitions), the owner may submit to the Administrator maps, deeds,
or other materials in sufficient detail to permit a conclusive determination by
the Administrator . An owner of land who wishes to record a plat of such a
division of land shall obtain a certificate of exception (see §
152.385(L)) from the Administrator .
   (B)   Coordination with other procedures. To lessen the time required to
attain all necessary approvals and to facilitate the processing of
applications, an applicant may start the subdivision  approval process
simultaneously with other applications for approvals required for the
particular project.
   (C)   Minor subdivision qualifications. The Administrator  shall approve or
disapprove minor subdivision  plats  in accordance with the provisions of this
section. A minor subdivision , as defined in §
152.016, is a subdivision  involving seven lots  or less in which the number of
lots  cannot be increased by additional, “exempt” subdivision  activity. If the
number of lots  is increased at a later time, any previous approval as a minor
subdivision  shall become void and the subdivision must be re-submitted,
reviewed, and approved under the major subdivision procedures.
   (D)   Minor subdivision review and approval procedures. The applicant for
minor subdivision  plat  approval is encouraged to confer with the
Administrator  prior to submitting a minor subdivision  plat  for a
determination  of whether the approval process authorized by this section can
be and should be utilized. The Administrator  may require the applicant to
submit whatever information is necessary to make this determination .
      (1)   The applicant for minor subdivision  plat approval shall submit to
the Administrator a plat drawn in waterproof ink on a sheet made of material
and of a size that will be acceptable to the Onslow County Register of Deeds
Office for recording purposes. When more than one sheet is required to include
the entire subdivision , all sheets shall be made of the same size and shall
show appropriate match marks on each sheet and appropriate references to other
sheets of the subdivision . The scale of the plat shall be at one inch equals
not more than 100 feet. The applicant shall also submit one 18" x 24" print and
eight 11" x 17" prints of the plat , to be distributed to and reviewed by the
town departments, as well as any required application form and required fee.
      (2)   The minor subdivision  plat shall contain the following
information:
         (a)   The name of the subdivision , which name shall not duplicate the
name of any existing subdivision as recorded in the Onslow County Register of
Deeds;
         (b)   The name of the subdivision   owner or owners ;
         (c)   The township, county, and state where the subdivision is
located;
         (d)   The name of the surveyor, his registration number, and seal and
the date of survey;
         (e)   The scale according to which the plat is drawn in feet per inch
or scale ratio in words or figures and bar graph;
         (f)   All of the additional information required by G.S. § 47-30, and
         (g)   All of the applicable certificates required in §
152.383.
      (3)   The Administrator shall take expeditious action on an application
for minor subdivision plat approval. If no decision is rendered by the
Administrator within 30 days, the applicant may appeal to the Planning Board
for review of the application under the major subdivision approval process.
Either the Administrator or the applicant may at any time refer the application
to the Planning Board for review under the major subdivision approval process.
      (4)   Subject to division (D)(3) of this section, the Administrator shall
approve the proposed subdivision unless the subdivision is not a minor
subdivision as defined in §
152.016, or the application or the proposed subdivision fails to comply with
any other applicable requirement of this subchapter.
      (5)   If the subdivision is disapproved, the Administrator shall promptly
furnish the applicant with a written statement of the reasons for disapproval.
      (6)   Approval of any plat is contingent upon the plat being recorded
within 60 days after the date the certificate of approval is signed by the
Administrator or his or her designee. Failure to record the approved plat
within the specified 60-day period shall render the plat null and void.
   (E)   Major subdivisions . 
      (1)   A major subdivision, as defined in §
152.016, is a subdivision involving eight or more lots . When a subdivision is
to be developed in stages, a sketch design plan and a preliminary plat shall be
submitted for the entire development . A final plat may be submitted for each
stage. A minor subdivision plat may also be reviewed and approved under the
major subdivision process upon the referral of the Town Manager or his/her
designee or the minor subdivision plat applicant.
      (2)   The procedures for the review of a major subdivision involve (I)
sketch design plan review by the town staff, (ii) preliminary plat review by
the town staff, review and recommendation by the Planning Board , and approval
by the Board of Commissioners , and (iii) final plat review by the town staff
and approval by the Town Manager or his/her designee.
   (F)   Sketch design plan.
      (1)   Submission requirements. The subdivider  shall submit to the
Administrator  a sketch design plan prior to submitting a preliminary plat .
Sketch design plans are optional for successive phases of a previously approved
subdivision . The sketch design plan shall conform to the following
requirements:
         (a)   A copy of a sketch design plan shall be submitted for Town
Manager or his/her designee review and comments. One 24" X 36" print (for
subdivisions with 40 or more lots ) or one 18" x 24" print and eight 11" x 17"
prints are required for review.
         (b)   A sketch design plan shall be drawn at a scale of approximately
one inch to 100 feet unless the size of property dictates a larger scale.
         (c)   The sketch design plan shall depict or show:
            1.   A sketch vicinity map showing the location of the subdivision
in relation to neighboring tracts , subdivisions, streets , and waterways.
            2.   Total acreage to be subdivided, minimum lot size, street and
lot layout, and acreage left in open spaces or other uses.
            3.   Existing use of the land within the subdivision and adjoining
it.
            4.   The name, address, and telephone number of the owner and
developer .
            5.   Streets and lots of adjacent developed or platted properties.
            6.   Zoning classifications of the tract and of adjacent
properties.
            7.   Areas of environmental concern .
      (2)   Sketch design plan review procedures. The Town Manager or his/her
designee shall review with the Technical Review Committee  the sketch design
plan for general compliance with this ordinance. The Town Manager or his/her
designee shall then advise, within 15 days, the subdivider  or his or her
authorized agent of the regulations pertaining to the proposed subdivision and
the procedures to be followed in the preparation and submission of the
preliminary and final plats . This review shall in no way be construed as
constituting an official action of approval for recording of the subdivision by
the Town Manager or his/her designee as required by these regulations.
      (3)   Sketch plan duration. The subdivider  shall submit to the Town
Manager or his/her designee the preliminary plat within one year (that is
before the anniversary date) of the date upon which the sketch design plan is
acted upon by the Town Manager or his/her designee as set out in division (F)
(2) of this section. The Town Manager or his/her designee may in sole
discretion permit up to two extensions of one year each after action upon the
sketch design plan before the preliminary plat must be submitted.
   (G)   Preliminary plat review and approval procedures.
      (1)   Submission requirements. The applicant for preliminary subdivision
 plat  approval shall submit, at least 15 working days prior to the regularly
scheduled Planning Board  meeting at which the plat  will be considered, one
24" x 36" print and eight 11" x 17" prints of the proposed subdivision for
review against sketch design comments. When more than one sheet is required to
include the entire subdivision, all sheets shall be made of the same size and
shall show appropriate match marks on each sheet and appropriate references to
other sheets of the subdivision. The scale of the plat shall be at one inch
equals not more than 100 feet. The applicant shall also submit any required
application forms and any required fee.
      (2)   Preliminary plat contents. The preliminary plat shall be consistent
in concept with the previously approved sketch plan and shall contain the
following information:
         (a)   The name of the subdivision, which name shall not duplicate the
name of any existing subdivision as recorded in the Onslow County Register of
Deeds;
         (b)   The name of the subdivision  owner or owners ;
         (c)   The township, county, and state where the subdivision is
located;
         (d)   The name of the surveyor, surveyor’s registration number,
surveyor’s seal, and the date of survey;
         (e)   The scale according to which the plat is drawn in feet per inch
or scale ratio in words or figures and bar graph; and
         (f)   All of the additional information required by NCGA § 47-30 and §
152.381.
      (3)   Administrator and town staff review. Upon receipt of the requisite
copies of the proposed preliminary plat , the Administrator  shall distribute
copies to the town staff for review of the plat . Following the town staff
review, the Administrator  shall forward the staff’s findings and
recommendations to the Planning Board  and to the applicant at least seven
working days prior to the Planning Board  meeting. If the Administrator
determines that the plat  is incomplete, the Administrator  shall notify the
applicant of the deficiencies. Plats shall not be forwarded to the Planning
Board  until all deficiencies have been corrected.
      (4)   Board of Commissioners review and action. The Planning Board  shall
review the preliminary plat and the findings of the Town Manager or his/her
designee, Technical Review Committee , and any other reports or recommendations
pertaining to the plat  and shall provide the Swansboro Board of Commissioners
with a recommendation of approval, recommendation of disapproval, or
recommendation with conditions of the preliminary plat . The Planning Board
shall review preliminary plat and take action within 60 days of their first
consideration of preliminary plat .
         (a)   If approval is granted, written confirmation shall be made on
two copies of the preliminary plat. One copy of the approved preliminary plat
shall be returned to the applicant. Approval of the preliminary plat is
authorization for the applicant to proceed with the construction of the
necessary improvements . Preliminary approval shall be valid for a period of 12
months from the date of approval of the plat by the Board of Commissioners
unless an extension of time is applied for and granted by the Board of
Commissioners , or unless a longer time period is established under applicable
vested rights provisions. Preliminary plats whose approval has elapsed shall be
resubmitted in accordance with the provisions of this section.
         (b)   If the Board of Commissioners conditionally approves the
preliminary plat, the conditions and reasons thereof shall be stated in
writing.
         (c)   If the Board of Commissioners disapproves the preliminary plat,
the reasons for disapproval shall be stated in writing and reference shall be
made to the specific section(s) of this subchapter with which the plat does not
comply. The applicant may make the recommended revisions and resubmit a revised
preliminary plat or may appeal the disapproval of the preliminary plat to the
Onslow County Superior Court.
         (d)   The provisions of this section shall not prohibit any owner or
its agent from entering into contracts to sell or lease by reference to an
approved preliminary plat for which a final plat has not yet been properly
approved under the subdivision ordinance or recorded with the register of
deeds, provided the contract does all of the following:
            1.   Incorporates as an attachment a copy of the preliminary plat
referenced in the contract and obligates the owner to deliver to the buyer a
copy of the recorded plat prior to closing and conveyance;
            2.   Plainly and conspicuously notifies the prospective buyer or
lessee that a final subdivision plat has not been approved or recorded at the
time of the contract, that no governmental body will incur any obligation to
the prospective buyer or lessee with respect to the approval of the final
subdivision plat , that changes between the preliminary and final plats are
possible, and that the contract or lease may be terminated without breach by
the buyer or lessee if the final recorded plat differs in any material respect
from the preliminary plat;
            3.   Provides that if the approved and recorded final plat does not
differ in any material respect from the plat referred to in the contract, the
buyer or lessee may not be required by the seller or lessor to close any
earlier than five days after the delivery of a copy of the final recorded plat
; and
            4.   Provides that if the approved and recorded final plat differs
in any material respect from the preliminary plat referred to in the contract,
the buyer or lessee may not be required by the seller or lessor to close any
earlier than 15 days after the delivery of the final recorded plat, during
which 15-day period the buyer or lessee may terminate the contract without
breach or any further obligation and may receive a refund of all earnest money
or prepaid purchase price.
         (e)   The provisions of this section shall not prohibit any owner or
its agent from entering into contracts to sell or lease land by reference to an
approved preliminary plat for which a final plat has not been properly approved
under the subdivision regulation or recorded with the register of deeds where
the buyer or lessee is any person who has contracted to acquire or lease the
land for the purpose of engaging in the business of construction of
residential, commercial, or industrial buildings on the land, or for the
purpose of resale or lease of the land to persons engaged in that kind of
business, provided that no conveyance of that land may occur and no contract to
lease it may become effective until after the final plat has been properly
approved under the subdivision regulation and recorded with the register of
deeds.
      (5)   Appeals to the Board of Commissioners . If the preliminary plat is
disapproved by the Planning Board , the applicant may appeal  the decision by
requesting through the Town Manager that the preliminary plat be scheduled for
review by the Board of Commissioners according to the same review and approval
procedures set forth in this division (G).
      (6)   Preliminary plat duration. The subdivision shall submit to the Town
Manager or his/her designee the final plat within one year (that is before the
anniversary date) of the date upon which the Board of Commissioners as per
divisions (G)(4) and (5) of this section approved the preliminary plat. The
Town Manager or his/her designee may in its sole discretion permit successive
extensions of one year after approval of the preliminary plat when any of the
following conditions exist:
         (a)   Substantial and continual progress has been made toward the
completion of the required improvements;
         (b)   The development is proceeding substantially according to a
development timetable or schedule which was submitted and approved at the time
of preliminary plat approval; or
         (c)   The developer has submitted evidence that circumstances exist
which indicate that the delays in construction are reasonable.
         (d)   It shall be the responsibility of the developer or his/her
representative to request an extension in writing of the preliminary plat at
least 30 days prior to the anniversary date of its approval.
   (H)   Final plat review and approval procedures.
      (1)   Conformance with preliminary plat . The final plat  shall conform
substantially to the approved preliminary plat . If the submitted final plat
deviates in its overall design from the approved preliminary plat , the
approved preliminary plat must be revised and resubmitted to the Planning Board
for review following the same review and approval procedures set forth in
division (G) of this section for preliminary plats .
      (2)   Submission requirements. The final plat  approval shall be
submitted at least 15 working days prior to applicant desired approval by the
Town Manager or his/her designee. The applicants final plat  submittal shall
include two prints of material and size acceptable to Onslow County Register of
Deeds Office for recording purposes, two minimum 18" x 24" prints as well as
any required application forms and any required fees. When more than one sheet
is required to include the entire subdivision , all sheets shall be made of the
same size and shall show appropriate match marks on each sheet and appropriate
references to other sheets of the subdivision . The scale of the plat  shall be
at one inch equals not more than 100 feet.
      (3)   Final plat contents. The final plat  shall contain the following
information:
         (a)   The name of the subdivision, which name shall not duplicate the
name of any existing subdivision as recorded in the Onslow County Register of
Deeds;
         (b)   The name of the subdivision  owner or owners ;
         (c)   The township, county, and state where the subdivision is
located;
         (d)   The name of the surveyor, surveyor’s registration number,
surveyor’s seal, and the date of survey;
         (e)   The scale according to which the plat is drawn in feet per inch
or scale ratio in words or figures and bar graph;
         (f)   All of the additional information required by G.S. § 47-30 and §
152.352; and
         (g)   All of the applicable certificates required in §
152.383.
      (4)   Required improvements . No final plat  shall be approved until all
required improvements have been installed and approved or appropriate surety
has been provided as set forth in §
152.384.
      (5)   The Town Manager or his/her designee shall forward the staff’s
findings and recommendations to the applicant within 30 days of applicants
final plat submittal. Until all final plat deficiencies are corrected, the Town
Manager or his/her designee will not consider final plat approval.
         (a)   If approval is granted, a signed written certification to this
effect shall be entered on the face of the plat in accordance with the
requirements of §
152.385.
         (b)   If the Town Manager or his/her designee fails to approve or
disapprove the applicant final plat within 15 days of submittal, the applicant
may request (through the Town Manager) that the final plat be forwarded to the
Board of Commissioners to review and determine approval or disapproval. In such
cases, the Board of Commissioners shall follow the same review and approval
process as established in this section.
      (6)   Appeals to the Board of Commissioners . If the final plat  is
disapproved by the Town Manager or his/her designee, the applicant may appeal
the decision by requesting, through the Town Manager, that the final plat  be
scheduled for review by the Board of Commissioners  according to the same
review and approval procedures set forth in division (H)(5) of this section.
   (I)   Recordation of final plats . Approval of a final plat  is contingent
upon the plat  being recorded in the Office of the Register of Deeds within 60
days after the approval date of the final plat . Failure to record the approved
plat  within the specified 60-day period shall render the plat  null and void.
   (J)   Dedication and acceptance, rights-of-way and easements .
      (1)   The approval and recordation of a final plat does constitute an
offer to dedicate but does not constitute dedication to and acceptance for
maintenance responsibility by the town or the public of any public road, alley
, or utility or drainage easement shown on such plat . Improvements within such
rights-of-way or easements , such as utility lines, road paving, drainage
facilities, or sidewalks may, however, be accepted for maintenance by the North
Carolina Department of Transportation or by the private utility provider upon
compliance with applicable NCDOT and private utility provider guidelines and
standards.
      (2)   Open space . 
         (a)   Land designed as public open space on a final plat shall be
considered to be offered for dedication until such offer is officially accepted
by the town. The offer may be accepted by the town through:
            1.   Express action by the Board of Commissioners of the Town of
Swansboro;
            2.   Express action by an administrative officer designated by the
Board of Commissioners of the Town of Swansboro; or
            3.   Conveyance of fee simple marketable title (unencumbered
financially and environmentally) of the property to the town at the time of
final plat recordation.
         (b)   Until such dedication has been accepted, land so offered may be
used for open space purposes by the owner or by the owner’s association . Land
so offered shall not be used for any purpose inconsistent with the proposed
public use.
      (3)   Maintenance. The developer shall be responsible for the maintenance
of all facilities and improvements until an offer of dedication  is accepted.
   (K)   Penalties for transferring lots in unapproved subdivisions.
      (1)   Any person who, being the owner or agent of the owner of any land
located within the planning and development regulation jurisdiction of the
town, thereafter subdivides his land in violation of the regulation or
transfers or sells land by reference to, exhibition of, or any other use of a
plat showing a subdivision of the land before the plat has been properly
approved under such regulation and recorded in the office of the Onslow County
Register of Deeds, shall be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor.
      (2)   The town may bring an action for injunction of any illegal
subdivision, transfer, conveyance, or sale of land, and the court shall, upon
appropriate findings, issue an injunction and order requiring the offending
party to comply with the subdivision regulation.
      (3)   Building permits required pursuant to G.S. § 160D-1110 may be
denied for lots that have been illegally subdivided.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2006-11, passed 8-14-2006; Am. Ord.
2008-O28, passed 10-21-2008; Am. Ord. 2008-33, passed 11-18-2008; Am. Ord.
2020-O2, passed 4-27-2020; Am. Ord. 2021-O3, passed 5-24-2021)
§ 152.338 SIGHT LINE OF INTERSECTION.
   Sight line requirements at all intersections will meet sight line triangle
requirements of N.C. Department of Transportation (see Appendix II). If it is
determined that any vegetation or growth, but not limited to trees, brushes,
shrubs, etc., significantly impairs vision at any intersection which is on town
right-of-way , the Town of Swansboro will be responsible for removal of said
growth. This does not include growth on private property hanging over or
projecting into the town’s right-of-way , unless it is deemed to be an
immediate emergency. If it is deemed as an immediate emergency, the town may
remove such overhanging projection if possible, i.e., broken tree limb ready to
fall into street , etc. Furthermore, any visual obstruction deemed to be on
private property becomes the responsibility of the property owner to trim, cut,
and remove the obstruction. The property owner will be notified in writing of
obstruction and will generally be given two weeks to make the necessary
correction. The Chief of Police or Administrator may determine if there is any
obstruction or visual impairment.
PART II: STANDARDS OF DESIGN
§ 152.350 GENERAL.
   (A)   Design. All proposed subdivisions (residential/commercial) shall
comply with this subchapter, shall be designed to promote beneficial
development to the community, and shall bear a reasonable relationship to the
approved plans of the town. The design of all utility, stormwater, street ,
recreation, and park  improvements shall be reviewed and approved by the town
staff, NCDOT, or the applicable service provider.
   (B)   Development name. In no case shall the name of a proposed development
duplicate or be phonetically similar to an existing development name in Onslow
County unless the proposed development lies adjacent or in the proximity to the
existing development .
   (C)   Reasonable relationship. All required improvements, easements, and
rights-of-way  (other than required reservations ) shall substantially benefit
the development or bear a reasonable connection to the need for public
facilities attributable to the new development.
   (D)   Whenever a tract to be subdivided includes or adjoins any part of a
thoroughfare or collector road as designated by an officially adopted town
Thoroughfare Plan, that part of such proposed public right-of-way shall be
dedicated as public right-of-way within the subdivision plat in the location
and to the width recommended by the Thoroughfare Plan or this subchapter.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005) (Am. Ord. 2008-O28, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 152.351 SUITABILITY OF THE LAND.
   (A)   Land which the Planning Board has determined, either though its own
investigations or the investigations of other public agencies, to be unsuitable
for development because of flooding , poor drainage, steep slopes, poor soil
conditions, and other such physical features which may endanger health, life,
or property or necessitate the excessive expenditure of public funds for the
provision and/or maintenance of public services shall not be approved for
subdivision unless methods are formulated by the developer for mitigating the
problems created by the subdivision of such land.
   (B)   Areas that have been used for disposal of solid waste shall not be
subdivided unless tests by the Onslow County Health Department, a structural
engineer, and a soils expert determine that the land is suitable for the type
of construction proposed.
   (C)   All subdivisions shall be consistent with the provisions of the
Swansboro Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance. Required public utilities and
facilities in all subdivisions shall be installed so as to minimize the flood
damage.
   (D)   Where Areas of Environmental Concern have been identified, the
suitability of the land in those areas will be based upon the guidelines and
standards developed in accordance with the Coastal Management Act of 1974.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 152.352 LOTS.
   The size, shape, and orientation of lots shall be appropriate for the
location of the proposed subdivision and for the type of development
contemplated and shall conform to the following:
   (A)   Conformance to other regulations.
      (1)   Every lot shall have sufficient area, dimensions, and street access
to permit a principal building to be erected thereon in compliance with the
applicable requirements of the Swansboro Zoning Ordinance and other
requirements of this subchapter. Lots not served by public water and/or sewer
service shall comply with the specifications and standards of the Onslow County
Health Department, but in no case shall the lot size be less than the minimum
lot size required in the underlying zoning district.
      (2)   Lots within Planned Unit Developments , townhouse   developments ,
manufactured home subdivisions, and campground subdivisions shall comply with
the applicable requirements of the Swansboro Zoning Ordinance.
   (B)   Lot line configuration. Side lines of lots  should be at or near right
angles or radial to street  lines. No intersecting lot lines shall have an
angle less than 60 degrees.
   (C)   Lot lines and drainage. Lot boundaries shall coincide with natural and
pre- existing man-made drainageways to the extent practicable to avoid lots
that can be built upon only by altering such drainageways (see §
152.355(E), Utility and Drainage Easements ).
   (D)   Access requirements.
      (1)   General access requirements. All lots  must have public street
access and frontage meeting the requirements set forth in this subchapter and
in the Swansboro Zoning Ordinance. The following exceptions may be approved:
         (a)   Flag lots meeting the following requirement:
            1.   The flag lot is located in an approved residential cluster
development ;
            2.   A flag lot shall serve only one single-family  dwelling and
its uninhabited accessory structures ;
            3.   The maximum flagpole length shall be 300 feet;
            4.   The minimum flagpole width shall be 30 feet;
            5.   The minimum separation between the flagpole portion of the lot
and that of the flag pole portion of another flag lot shall be 150 feet;
            6.   Where public water is available, any building on the flag lot
must be within 500 feet of a hydrant. This distance shall be measured along the
street , then along the flagpole, then in a straight line to the building
location;
            7.   Where public sewer is available, occupied buildings on the
flag lot shall have a gravity service line, or the sewer pump requirements
shall be noted on the plat ; and
            8.   Use of single driveway to serve a flag lot and an adjoining
lot is permitted and encouraged; the preferred location for the driveway is on
the flagpole portion of the flag lot , with the conventional lot granted an
access easement over the flagpole.
         (b)   Lots served by exclusive access easements meeting the following
criteria:
            1.   An exclusive access easement shall serve only one single-
family  dwelling and its uninhabited accessory structures ;
            2.   Lots to be served by an exclusive access easement shall not be
created in an area served by public water or sewer;
            3.   The minimum lot size shall be one acre (excluding the easement
portion);
            4.   The minimum easement width shall be 25 feet;
            5.   The maximum easement length shall be 300 feet;
            6.   The minimum separation between the easement portion and any
other platted access or right-of-way shall be 150 feet;
            7.   The location of the easement must be recorded on a plat ; and
            8.   The exclusive access easement shall permit ingress, egress,
and regress and necessary utilities required to serve the lot .
         (c)   Lots and units located in developments with owners’ associations
or in group developments in which permanent access is guaranteed by means of
approved private streets and/or drives designed in accordance with the
requirements of the Swansboro Zoning Ordinance.
      (2)   Special access requirements for subdivision on thoroughfares and
for nonresidential subdivisions.
         (a)   Major subdivisions shall not be approved that permit individual
residential lots with direct vehicular access to thoroughfares, as shown on the
adopted thoroughfare plan, all federal highways and all State of North Carolina
bridges and secondary roads, unless the Planning Board determines that no
practicable alternative for access exists. If reverse frontage lots are
required by the Planning Board , vehicular access shall be permitted only to
the subordinate internal subdivision street .
         (b)   In order to reduce traffic congestion, commercial and industrial
subdivisions may be required to provide a frontage road along major
thoroughfares , as shown on the adopted thoroughfare plan, unless the Planning
Board determines that no practicable alternative for access exists. Where a
frontage road is required, intersections with public streets shall be spaced no
closer than 800 feet. Frontage roads may be permitted within the rights-of-way
of existing streets subject to the approval of the NCDOT or the Town of
Swansboro, as applicable.
   (E)   Water and sewage disposal. Every lot  in a subdivision shall be served
by a water supply system and a sewage disposal system that (I) is adequate to
accommodate the reasonable needs of the proposed use of the lot  and (ii)
complies with all applicable health regulations and/or the Town of Swansboro’s
specifications and standards for water and sewer facilities.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 152.353 STREETS.
   (A)   Conformance with thoroughfare plans. The location and design of
streets  shall be in conformance with any applicable, adopted thoroughfare
plan. Where conditions warrant, right-of-way widths and pavement widths in
excess of the minimum street  standards may be required.
   (B)   Traffic impact study. If a proposed subdivision is submitted for
approval which could generate daily traffic at the volumes specified in §§
152.310 through
152.314 of the Unified Development Ordinance and a traffic impact study has not
previously been prepared, preparation of a traffic impact study will be
required at the applicant’s cost prior to preliminary plat approval.
   (C)   Conformance with adjoining road systems. The planned street  layout of
a proposed subdivision shall be compatible with existing or proposed streets
and their classifications on adjoining or nearby tracts.
   (D)   Coordination with surrounding streets .
      (1)   The street system of a subdivision shall be coordinated with
existing, proposed, and anticipated streets outside the subdivision or outside
the portion of a single tract that is being divided into lots (hereinafter,
“surrounding streets ”) as provided in this section.
      (2)   Collector streets shall intersect with surrounding collector or
arterial streets at safe and convenient locations.
      (3)   Subcollector, local, and minor residential streets shall connect
with surrounding streets where necessary to permit the convenient movement of
traffic between residential neighborhoods or to facilitate access to
neighborhoods by emergency service vehicles or for other sufficient reasons,
but connections shall not be permitted where the effect would be to encourage
the use of such streets by substantial through traffic.
      (4)   Whenever connections to anticipated or proposed surrounding streets
are required by this section, the street   right-of-way shall be extended and
the street developed to the property line of the subdivided property (or to the
edge of the remaining undeveloped portion of a single tract ) at the point
where the connection to the anticipated or proposed street is expected. In
addition, the permit-issuing authority may require temporary turnarounds to be
constructed at the end of such streets pending their extension when such
turnarounds appear necessary to facilitate the flow of traffic or accommodate
emergency vehicles. Notwithstanding the other provisions of this subsection, no
temporary dead-end street in excess of 900 feet may be created unless no other
practical alternative is available.
      (5)   Reserve strips adjoining road rights-of-way for the purposes of
preventing access to adjacent property shall not be permitted under any
condition.
   (E)   Street classification. The final determination  of the classification
of streets  in a proposed subdivision shall be made by the town.
   (F)   Public street design criteria. Public streets proposed to be dedicated
to the town shall be designed in accordance with the Town of Swansboro Street
Construction Standards and Specifications. In absence of Town of Swansboro
Street Construction Standards and Specifications, the most current NCDOT
standards will be used. Public streets proposed to be dedicated to the State
shall be designed in accordance with standards and specifications of the North
Carolina Department of Transportation (NCDOT).
   (G)   Private street design criteria.
      (1)   Private streets shall be permitted development with owners’
associations .
      (2)   The minimum design standards for all private streets will be
equivalent to the minimum Town of Swansboro Street Construction Standards and
Specifications. In absence of Town of Swansboro Street Construction Standards
and Specifications, the most current NCDOT standards will be used.
      (3)   An owner’s association is required to own and maintain all private
streets allowed under this subchapter. All private streets will be indicated as
such on the plat .
      (4)   No through street in a residential area connecting two public
streets can be designated as a private street , unless approved by the Planning
Board .
      (5)   All private streets , connecting with state-maintained streets ,
require an approved driveway application from the NCDOT.
      (6)   The minimum width of all sidewalks constructed, shall be five feet.
      (7)   A disclosure statement in accordance with G.S. §136-102.6 shall be
recorded simultaneously with the plat and referenced on the final plat . The
disclosure statement must contain the provision(s) for construction and/or
maintenance of the private street (see §
152.385).
   (H)   Intersecting street angle.
      (1)   All streets shall intersect at or as near to 90 degrees as possible
within topographic limits, and no street shall intersect any other street at an
angle less than 75 degrees.
      (2)   All streets crossing natural areas, wetlands, or stream buffers
must cross at or as near to 90 degrees as possible within topographic limits.
   (I)   Cul-de-sac . The distance from an intersecting through street  or any
extension from a cul-de-sac to the end of a cul-de-sac shall be a maximum of
900 feet, except where, upon the approval of the Planning Board , existing
conditions warrant a modification of this requirement. The radius of the paved
portion of a cul-de-sac street  shall be designed in accordance with the Town
of Swansboro Street Construction Standards and Specifications. In absence of
Town of Swansboro Street Construction Standards and Specifications, the most
current NCDOT standards will be used.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2440.png]
   (J)   Minimum street offset.
      (1)   Where streets are offset, the centerlines shall be offset no less
than 150 feet.
      (2)   Except where no other alternative is practicable or legally
possible, no two streets may intersect with any other street on the same side
at a distance of less than 400 feet measured from centerline to centerline of
the intersecting street . When the intersecting street is a major thoroughfare
, the distance between intersecting streets shall be at least 1,000 feet.
   (K)   Curb and gutter.
      (1)   Curb and gutters shall be required in all subdivisions unless a
variance from this requirement is specifically granted by the Board of
Commissioners . Curbs and gutters shall be constructed in conformance with the
design criteria of the Town of Swansboro Street Construction Standards and
Specifications. In absence of Town of Swansboro Street Construction Standards
and Specifications, the most current NCDOT standards will be used.
      (2)   As provided in G.S. §136-44.14, whenever curb and gutter
construction is used on public streets , wheelchair ramps for the handicapped
shall be provided at intersections and other major points of pedestrian flow.
Wheelchair ramps and depressed curbs shall be constructed in accordance with
published standards of the NCDOT.
   (L)   Temporary turnarounds. Streets stubbed to adjoining property or phase
lines may be required to have a temporary turnaround at the end of the street
which will be sufficient to permit service vehicles to turn around. The radius
of the temporary turnaround shall be a minimum of 40 feet.
   (M)   Grades.
      (1)   The maximum grade at any point on a street constructed without curb
and gutter shall be 6%. On streets constructed with curb and gutter, the grade
shall not exceed six percent unless no other practicable alternative is
available. In no case, however, may streets be constructed with grades that
exceed 10%.
      (2)   The grade on stop streets approaching an intersection shall not
exceed 5% for a distance of not less than 100 feet from the centerline of the
intersection.
   (N)   Sight distance easements . Triangular sight distance easements shall
be shown in dashed lines at all street  intersections and so noted on the
subdivision  plat . These easements will remain free of all structures, trees,
shrubbery, and signs, except utility poles, fire hydrants, and traffic control
signs. The location and extent of sight distance easements will be determined
by the town and by the NCDOT on all state-maintained streets .
   (O)   Street names and property addresses. Streets which are obviously in
alignment with existing streets  shall generally bear the name of the existing
street . Street names shall not duplicate or closely approximate phonetically
the names of existing streets  in Onslow County. Street suffixes and addresses
shall conform to the standards established by the Town of Swansboro.
   (P)   Street name and traffic control signs. Street name and traffic control
signs which meet the Town of Swansboro and NCDOT specifications shall be placed
at all public and private street intersections. The Town of Swansboro shall
approve the location of all signs to be place on town-maintained street
 rights-of-way  prior to installation. The developer shall be responsible for
installing all street  name and traffic control signs. The maintenance of signs
on private streets and drives shall be the responsibility of the owner or of an
owners’ association , as applicable.
   (Q)   Street construction plans. Construction plans for all streets  that
are proposed to be town-maintained shall be submitted to the town following
preliminary plat approval. Construction plans for all subdivisions that are
proposed for state maintenance shall be submitted to the NCDOT following
preliminary plat approval. No street  improvements shall be constructed until
street  construction plans have been reviewed and approved by either the town
or NCDOT, as applicable.
   (R)   NCDOT Traditional Neighborhood Development Street Design Standards. 
      (1)   The Planning Board may require utilization of the North Carolina
Department of Transportation Operations Traditional Neighborhood Development
Street Design (TND) Guidelines in any subdivision located in the town’s
extraterritorial jurisdiction with the approval of the NCDOT. TND standards for
streets and sidewalks are limited to subdivisions having a minimum of 40 acres
and a maximum of 125 acres.
      (2)   A Traditional Neighborhood Development (TND) is a human scale,
walkable community with moderate to high residential densities and a mixed use
core. Compared with conventional suburban developments , TNDs have a higher
potential to increase modal split by encouraging and accommodating alternate
transportation modes. TNDs also have a higher potential for capturing internal
trips, thus reducing vehicles miles traveled.
      (3)   A dense network of narrow streets with reduced curb radii is
fundamental to TND design. This network serves to both slow and disperse
vehicular traffic and provide a pedestrian friendly atmosphere. Such alternate
guidelines are encouraged by NCDOT when the overall design ensures that non-
vehicular travel is to be afforded every practical accommodation that does not
adversely affect safety considerations. The overall function, comfort, and
safety of a multi-purpose or “shared” street are more important than its
vehicular efficiency alone.
      (4)   TNDS have a high proportion of interconnected streets , sidewalks,
and paths. Streets and rights-of-ways are shared between vehicles (moving and
parked), bicycles, and pedestrians. The dense network of TND streets functions
in an interdependent manner, providing continuous routes that enhance non-
vehicular travel. Most TND streets are designed to minimize through traffic by
the design of the street and the location of land uses. Streets are designed to
only be as wide as needed to accommodate the usual vehicular mix for that
street while providing adequate access for moving vans, garbage trucks, fire
engines, and school buses.
      (5)   As part of the NCDOT design criteria, there must be a discernable
community center or core area. The proposed development must have a mixture of
residential and non-residential land uses, with at least 10% of the developed
area consisting of non-residential uses. Most non-residential uses are located
within the community core area. Within the core area, a minimum of 15% of floor
area must be devoted to commercial uses oriented towards TND residents.
Elementary schools are an important community element. Public structures, such
as schools , churches and civic buildings, and public open spaces , such as
squares, parks , playgrounds, and greenways, shall be integrated into
neighborhood pattern.
   (S)   Street inspection. Work performed pursuant to approved street
construction plans shall be inspected and approved by either the town or the
NCDOT, as applicable.
   (T)   Street lights. Street lights shall be provided in accordance with the
street lighting standards of the power company providing service but shall NOT
be less than the town’s policies, standards, and specifications for street
lighting.
   (U)   Bridges. All bridges shall be constructed in accordance with the
standards and specifications of the NCDOT, except that bridges on roads that
will not be publicly dedicated may be approved if designed by a registered
professional engineer.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005) (Am. Ord. 2008-O28, passed 10-21-2008; Am.
Ord. 2013-O13, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 152.354 BLOCKS.
   (A)   Block length. Intersecting streets  shall be laid out at such
intervals that block lengths are not more than 1,500 feet nor less than 400
feet.
   (B)   Block width. Blocks shall have sufficient width to provide for two
tiers of lots  of appropriate depth, except where otherwise required to
separate residential development from through traffic or non-residential uses.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 152.355 UTILITIES AND STORMWATER MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   Utility construction plans. Construction plans for all water and
sanitary sewer facilities shall be submitted to the town or other appropriate
utility provider during the preliminary plat process. For each subdivision
section, the utility construction plans shall include all improvements lying
within or adjacent to that section as well as all water and sanitary sewer
lines lying outside that section and being required to serve that section. No
utility improvements shall be constructed until the utility construction plans
have been reviewed and approved by the applicable utility provider.
   (B)   Utility improvements inspection. Work performed pursuant to approved
utility construction plans shall be inspected and approved by the applicable
utility provider.
   (C)   Public water, sewer and stormwater construction requirements.
      (1)   Water and sewer lines, connections, and equipment shall be
constructed in accordance with state and local regulations and policies and to
the specifications and standards of the applicable utility provider.
      (2)   In the interest of adequately providing service to adjacent
properties, the Town of Swansboro may require the installation of certain
oversized utility improvements or the extension of utility improvements to
adjacent properties. If the town requires the installation of utility
improvements in excess of the standards and specifications required in this
subchapter as well as those adopted by reference, the town shall pay the cost
of differential between the required oversized improvements and the standard
improvements required by this subchapter.
      (3)   As-built drawings shall be submitted to the Administrator  for
required utility, stormwater, street , park , and recreational improvements .
Upon completion of construction of stormwater structures and prior to
acceptance of new infrastructure or issuance of a certificate of occupancy by
the town, a signed/sealed as-built set of drawings shall be submitted. The as-
built drawings shall include the engineer's sealed statement that the
stormwater structure(s) is built as designed and approved by the NCDEQ and must
also be sealed by a licensed surveyor. Final plat  approval shall be withheld
until all required as-built drawings are provided to the town.
   (D)   Water and sewer connection.
      (1)   Connection of each lot to public water and sewer utilities shall be
required if the proposed subdivision is within two hundred feet of the nearest
adequate lines of a public system, provided that no geographic or topographic
factors would make such connection infeasible or that a specific variance of
this requirement is granted by the Board of Commissioners . Where public sewer
is not available, lots shall be evaluated, at the developer ’s expense, in
accordance with “Laws and Rules for Sanitary Sewage Collection, Treatment, and
Disposal 15 A NCAC 18 A 1990". Approval of the Onslow County Health Department
shall be obtained after preliminary plat approval. The final plat shall show
lot (s) denied or not evaluated crosshatched and labeled “NO IMPROVEMENT PERMIT
HAS BEEN ISSUED FOR THIS LOT ”.
      (2)   Water and sewer lines shall be constructed in conformance with the
design criteria of the Town of Swansboro Water and Wastewater Improvements
Standards and Specifications or to the standards and the specifications of
another water and sewer service provider which may have operating control of
the system, if provided by contract.
      (3)   Water and/or sewer connections to subdivisions located within the
town’s ETJ shall be approved by the Town of Swansboro Board of Commissioners or
other applicable utility provider prior to preliminary plat approval. Voluntary
annexation of such subdivisions shall be a prerequisite to the provision of
water and/or sewer service by the Town of Swansboro.
   (E)   Utility and drainage easements .
      (1)   Easements shall be provided for electrical, telephone, natural gas,
cable television, water, and sewer utilities where necessary to serve every
platted lot . The developer and the utility provider(s) shall agree on the
location and the width of the easements . Any easements for subsurface sewage
disposal systems shall be delineated on the final plat and described by
bearings and distances.
      (2)   The developer shall transfer to the town the necessary ownership or
easement rights to operate and maintain the utility facilities. In addition,
the developer shall dedicate sufficient easement rights to accommodate the
extension of utility service to adjacent or nearby properties whenever it can
reasonably be anticipated that utility facilities constructed in one
development will be extended to serve other adjacent or nearby developments .
      (3)   Where a subdivision is traversed by a water course, drainageway ,
channel, or stream, there shall be provided a stormwater easement or drainage
right-of-way conforming substantially with the lines of such water course, and
such further width or construction, or both, as will be adequate for the
purpose of drainage. Parallel streets may be required in connection therewith.
      (4)   Lakes, ponds, creeks, and similar areas will be accepted for
maintenance only if sufficient land is dedicated as a public recreation area or
park or if such area constitutes a necessary part of the drainage control
system. The acceptance of such dedicated areas must be reviewed and recommended
by the Planning Board before the Board of Commissioners will consider accepting
it.
   (F)   Other requirements.
      (1)   Utilities to be consistent with internal and external development .
         (a)   Whenever it can reasonably be anticipated that utility
facilities constructed in one development will be extended to serve other
adjacent or nearby developments , such utility facilities (e.g. water or sewer
lines) shall be located and constructed so that extensions can be made
conveniently and without undue burden or expense or unnecessary duplication of
service.
         (b)   All utility facilities shall be constructed in such a manner as
to minimize interference with pedestrian or vehicular traffic and to facilitate
maintenance without undue damage to improvements or facilities located within
the development .
      (2)   Construction procedures. 
         (a)   No construction or installation of improvements shall commence
in a proposed subdivision until the preliminary plat has been approved, and all
plans and specifications have been approved by the appropriate authorities.
         (b)   No building, zoning, or other permits shall be issued for
erection of a structure on any lot not of record at the time of adoption of
this subchapter until the final plat has been approved and recorded. The
subdivider , prior to commencing any work within the subdivision shall make
arrangements with the Administrator of this subchapter to provide for adequate
inspection. The approving authorities having jurisdiction or their
representatives, shall inspect and approve all completed work prior to release
of sureties.
      (3)   As-built drawings required. Whenever a developer installs or causes
to be installed any utility line in any public right-of-way, the developer
shall, as soon as practicable after installation is complete, and before
acceptance of any water or sewer line, furnish the town with a copy of a
drawing that shows the exact location of such utility lines. Such drawings must
be verified as accurate by the utility service provider. Compliance with this
requirement shall be a condition of the continued validity of the permit
authorizing such development .
   (G)   Stormwater management.
      (1)   A surface water drainage system, including necessary open ditches,
pipes, culverts, intersectional drains, drop inlets, bridges, etc., shall be
provided for the proper drainage of all surface water. The surface water
drainage system plan shall be designed in accordance with the Sedimentation
Pollution Control Act, the North Carolina Stormwater Run-off Regulations, the
Handbook for the Design of Highway Surface Drainage Structures, and the
specifications and standards of the Town of Swansboro.
      (2)   No surface water shall be channeled into a sanitary sewer.
      (3)   Storm drainage systems shall be enclosed and buried underground
with minimal disruption of surface features, unless the town approves an
alternative surface storm drainage system design.
      (4)   Where feasible, the subdivider shall connect the new subdivision’s
storm drainage system to an existing storm drainage system. Where an existing
storm drainage system cannot feasibly be extended to the new subdivision, a
drainage system shall be designed to protect the proposed development from
water damage. Ten-year storm drainage data shall be used as a minimum standard
for storm drainage system design.
   (H)   Fire hydrants. Every subdivision served by a public water system shall
include a system of fire hydrants sufficient to provide adequate fire
protection for the buildings  intended to be located within such subdivision .
Fire hydrants shall conform to the Town of Swansboro Water Improvements
Standards and Specifications, or to the standards and the specifications of
another water service provider which may have operating control of the system
if provided by contract, or the NFPA standards, whichever is more stringent.
   (I)   Electric power. Every lot  within a subdivision shall have available
to it a source of electric power adequate to accommodate the reasonable needs
of the uses anticipated within the subdivision .
   (J)   Telephone service. Every lot  within the subdivision shall have
available to it a telephone service cable adequate to accommodate the
reasonable needs of the uses anticipated within the subdivision .
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005) (Am. Ord. 2008-O28, passed 10-21-2008; Am.
Ord. 2019-06, passed 7-23-19)
§ 152.356 SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Sidewalks shall be appropriately related to and coordinated with
surrounding existing and proposed pedestrian ways and transportation patterns.
Sidewalks and pedestrian ways shall connect where necessary to permit the
convenient and safe movement of pedestrians. To provide convenient access for
pedestrians, each new development or expansion to an existing use/site that
exceeds 50% or more of the current tax or appraised value shall:
      (1)   Provide sidewalks with direct access to adjacent development ,
neighborhoods, parks , bus stops, and street sidewalks or an alternative
pedestrian system approved by the Town of Swansboro;
      (2)   Investigate the possibility of using utility easements as
connecting trails;
      (3)   Preserve existing trails unless a superior alternative is provided;
      (4)   Submit written plan clearly identifying the party responsible for
ongoing maintenance of any pedestrian facilities not located on public right-
of-way or other easement ;
      (5)   Construct walkways along all public and private streets unless
environmental conditions dictate otherwise; and
      (6)   All crosswalks should be clearly marked with paint, thermo-plastic,
or contrasting surface material.
   (B)   Unless a variance for this requirement is granted by the Board of
Commissioners , sidewalks are required along both sides of all streets
constructed in an approved subdivision; on corner lots , sidewalks shall be
installed along both streets . Sidewalks and sidewalk/ driveway intersections
shall be constructed consistent with the specifications of the Town of
Swansboro as they may be amended from time to time.
   (C)   In order to provide, where feasible, unbroken pedestrian routes
between developments , sidewalks shall be installed along the perimeter of all
sides of a subdivision which abuts an existing street tight-of-way. This may
require the construction of sidewalks along with the front, rear, and side
property lines when a lot abuts one or more existing or proposed streets .
   (D)   As provided in G.S. §136-44.14, whenever curb and gutter construction
is used on public streets , wheelchair ramps for the handicapped shall be
provided at intersections and other major points of pedestrian flow. Wheelchair
ramps and depressed curbs shall be constructed in accordance with published
standards of the NCDOT.
   (E)   Sidewalks shall be constructed to a minimum width of five feet, and
shall consist of a minimum thickness of four inches of concrete. All sidewalks
shall be placed in a right-of-way , unless the development is platted as a
planned unit or group development . The edge of a sidewalk shall be one foot
from the edge of the property line, sidewalks shall consist of a minimum of six
inches of concrete at driveway crossings. Sidewalks shall be located in the
dedicated non-pavement right-of-way of all roads or other approved easement .
   (F)   Construction or payment in lieu of. At the request of the developer ,
the Board of Commissioners  or permit approval authority  may accept a payment
in lieu of construction. The fee in lieu of amount shall be 25% plus the cost
of estimated construction and installation of sidewalk. All payments received
by the town in lieu of construction shall be expended for capital improvements
of sidewalk facilities within the town or its extraterritorial jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005) (Am. Ord. 2013-O13, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 152.357 PEDESTRIAN ACCESS EASEMENTS.
   (A)   All subdivisions adjoining a waterfront, adjacent to a public amenity
site, public park, and/or public open space, shall provide for public access to
the waterfront or public area.
   (B)   Such access shall consist of one ten-foot pedestrian easement for each
600 feet or portion thereof of shared property line/frontage on the water.
   (C)   In subdivisions with 300 feet or less of shared property line/water
frontage, the Planning Board may not require a pedestrian easement to be
included, provided that pedestrian easement exists within 300 feet of the
nearest point of said subdivision.
   (D)   All pedestrian easements shall be directly accessible to a publicly
maintained street right-of-way or an approved private street right-of-way. The
Board of Commissioners shall determine if easements are to be dedicated to the
Town of Swansboro.
   (E)   Should a publicly maintained street right-of-way be relocated,
pedestrian easements shall be extended to the new right-of-way.
   (F)   Where an existing pedestrian easement dedicated to the Town of
Swansboro, the State of North Carolina or the United States Government is
within an area to be subdivided, such easement may count towards meeting the
requirements contained herein.
   (G)   The Board of Commissioners may, in lieu of requiring the installation
of pedestrian easements , allow the subdivider to donate land to the Town of
Swansboro that is adjacent to and provides access to these areas and is at
least equivalent in size to the total square footage of required easements .
The donated property shall be in the general vicinity of the subdivision. A
combination of donated land and easements may also be allowed.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2008-O28, passed 10-21-2008; Am. Ord.
2020-O8, passed 6-22-2020)
§ 152.358 TOWNHOUSES.
   Subdivisions designed to accommodate townhouse   development shall comply
with the additional applicable provisions of the Swansboro Zoning Ordinance.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 152.359 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   Coordination with zoning provisions. Planned unit developments shall
comply with the applicable provisions of the Swansboro Zoning Ordinance. The
review of applications and site plans for a PUD and the plat  review process
shall be conducted simultaneously.
   (B)   Conveyance and maintenance of common open space .
      (1)   All common open space , shown on the final plat plan and recorded
in the Onslow County Office of the Register of Deeds, must be conveyed by the
following method: by leasing or conveying title (including beneficial ownership
to a corporation, association or other legal entity). The terms of such lease
or other instrument of conveyance must include provisions suitable to the
Planning Board for guarantee:
         (a)   The continued use of such land for the intended purposes;
         (b)   Continuity of proper maintenance for the portions of the open
space land requiring maintenance; and
         (c)   When appropriate, the availability of funds required for such
maintenance.
      (2)   Planned unit developments shall reserve not less than 20% of gross
acreage as open space . Said open space shall be portionally distributed
throughout the total residential area as nearly as possible.
      (3)   A minimum of 25% of the required open space shall be developed for
recreational purposes and said recreation space may be located in one or more
sites within the total area occupied by the PUD. Recreation space herein
defined may be natural or landscaped for the use of active or passive
recreation and should be located in a usable recreational area.
      (4)   In any event, the developer must file in the Onslow County Register
of Deeds office, at the time the approved final subdivision map is filed, legal
documents which will produce the aforesaid guarantees and, in particular, will
provide a method of restricting the use of common space for the designated
purposes.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 152.360 MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION.
   Subdivisions designed to specifically accommodate manufactured housing shall
comply with the additional provisions of the Swansboro Zoning Ordinance.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 152.361 CAMPGROUND SUBDIVISIONS.
   Subdivisions designed to specifically accommodate recreational vehicles,
campers, tents, or travel trailers shall comply with the additional provisions
of the Swansboro Zoning Ordinance.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 152.362 BUFFER AREAS.
   (A)   In subdivisions located in residential zoning districts, a buffer
strip at least 20 feet in depth, in addition to normal lot depth or width
required, shall be provided adjacent to all major and minor thoroughfare
highways, and industrial and commercial uses or zoning districts. The following
notation should be provided on the face of the plat : “This strip is reserved
for the planting of trees or shrubs by the developer; the building of
structures hereon is prohibited”.
   (B)   Buffer areas required by this section shall contain a solid fence or
wall, or evergreen hedge of at least six feet in height. Such fence , wall, or
hedge shall be maintained in good condition and the vegetation shall be at
least three feet in height at the time of planting.
   (C)   In subdivisions with private streets , the homeowners or property
owners association shall be responsible for the maintenance of the buffer area.
In subdivisions with public streets , the buffer area shall be dedicated to the
town for maintenance.
   (D)   The buffer area specified in division (A) of this section shall not be
required if, at the time of plat approval, an adequate buffer area currently
exists on the adjacent property.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005) (Am. Ord. 2013-O9, passed 4-16-2013)
§ 152.363 SITES FOR PUBLIC USES.
   In subdividing property, due consideration shall be given by the developer
to the reservation of suitable sites for school and other public uses in
accordance with G.S. §160A-3721.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 152.364 PLACEMENT OF MONUMENTS.
   The Standards of Practice for Land Surveying in North Carolina, as adopted
by the North Carolina State Board of Registration for Professional Engineers
and Land Surveyor, shall apply when installing monuments.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 152.365 COORDINATION WITH ZONING REQUIREMENTS AND OTHER OFFICIAL MUNICIPAL
ORDINANCES AND PLANS.
   Proposed subdivisions must comply in all respects with the requirements of
the Town of Swansboro Zoning Ordinance and with any ordinances and plans
officially adopted by the town. Whenever there is a conflict between
requirements, the more restrictive shall apply.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 152.366 COORDINATION WITH STATE AND FEDERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   All lots , structures, utilities, land disturbing activities, and filling
activities shall comply with any applicable state and federal regulations,
including but not limited to, the Coastal Area Management Act (CAMA) of 1974;
§404 of the Clean Water Act, Code of Federal Regulation; and the Sedimentation
Pollution Control Act of 1973. Whenever there is a conflict between
requirements, the more restrictive shall apply.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 152.367 PARKS AND RECREATION SPACE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Policy. It is the policy of the Board of Commissioners  of the Town of
Swansboro that the citizens of the town and its extraterritorial zoning
jurisdiction area should be afforded reasonable facilities to promote
recreation and other leisure time activities and that developers of new
residential areas should share in the expense of providing such facilities.
   (B)   Applicability. This subchapter shall apply to all subdivisions of
property within the Town of Swansboro or its extraterritorial zoning
jurisdiction area.
   (C)   Dedication or payment in lieu of dedication required. Whenever any
person  subdivides any property for residential purposes, the subdivider
shall:
      (1)   Dedicate to the Town of Swansboro a portion of said property or
other land considered by the Town to be suitable for the purposes of parks and
recreation; or
      (2)   Make a cash payment in lieu of such dedication in accordance with
the provisions in this subchapter.
   (D)   Acceptance of dedication or payments in lieu of dedication . Unless a
cash payment is required in lieu of land dedication , the decision of the Board
of Commissioners  as to whether it will accept a dedication  of property or a
cash payment in lieu of dedication  shall be in the sole discretion of the
Board of Commissioners . The Board of Commissioners  shall consider any
recommendation of the Parks and Recreation Board of the Town of Swansboro
before making its decision, provided that the Board of Commissioners shall not
be bound by the recommendation of the Parks and Recreation Board.
   (E)   Size and nature of the dedication . 
      (1)   The area required to be dedicated pursuant to this chapter shall be
computed as follows: the total number of lots or units in the subdivisions
shall be multiplied by 0.025 acres. That product shall then be multiplied by
the appropriate “density multiplier” as set out in the table below. That
product shall then be expressed in acres and shall be the “area required” to be
dedicated. Thus the formula can be summarized as:
 
Total number of lot /units x 0.025 acres x Density Multiplier = Area Required
 
      (2)   The “density multiplier” to be used in any case shall be the figure
from the tables set out below which corresponds to the average acreage per lot
or unit in the subdivision, rounded to the nearest one-hundredth of an acre.
 
Average Acreage Per Lot /Unit Density Multiplier
0.00-0.15                     1.4
0.16-0.24                     1.2
0.25-0.49                     1.0
0.50-0.99                     0.9
1.01+                         0.8
 
   (F)   Exception. If the computation set out above produces a product of less
than two acres, then the subdivider  shall make a cash payment in lieu of
dedication .
   (G)   Dedication to town exclusive. All dedications  required by this
Ordinance shall be to the Town of Swansboro and not to a private homeowners’
association or similar entity.
   (H)   Location of dedicated property. The property dedicated need not be in
the subdivision but, if not located with the subdivision , the property
dedicated shall be reasonably usable by residents of the subdivision .
   (I)   Access. The property dedicated shall abut or have adequate access to a
public street.
   (J)   Features of dedicated property. The property dedicated shall consist
substantially of usable space with no more than one-fourth of said property
consisting of floodplains, wetlands, or any area the topography of which
renders it substantially unusable for typical recreation activities.
   (K)   Board’s discretion concerning time and nature of development . The
Board of Commissioners  shall have the right to accept, develop, and maintain
the dedicated property in accordance with its determination  of public needs.
   (L)   Amount of payment in lieu of dedication .
      (1)   When a cash payment is required in lieu of dedication, such payment
shall be paid by the subdivider to the Town of Swansboro, shall be placed by
the Town of Swansboro in a parks and recreation capital reserve fund, and may
be used only for the acquisition or development of recreation, park, or open
space sites to serve the subdivision being developed or subdivisions or
development within the immediate area.
      (2)   The amount of the payment in lieu of dedication shall be based, in
part, on the tax value of the subdivision as of the time of final plat
approval, after removal of any exemptions allowed for agricultural, woodlands,
or other non-urban use. The required payment shall be the product obtained by
multiplying the tax value of the subdivision (as defined above) by a fraction,
the numerator of which is the “Area Required” pursuant to the computations
prescribed above, and the denominator of which is the total area of the
development or subdivision.
 
Tax Value x Area Required / Total Area of Development = Payment Required
 
      (3)   All sums payable pursuant to this section shall be paid in full
prior to final plat approval and shall be reported to the Board of
Commissioners at the time of final plat approval.
   (M)   Alternative payment in lieu of dedication . When a cash payment is
required in lieu of dedication , a subdivider  shall have the option to pay, at
his or her option, a fixed amount per lot  based on a schedule of fees adopted
by the Board of Commissioners  from time to time.
   (N)   Credit for private recreation facilities. The Board of Commissioners
may, with respect to the land area to be dedicated or the cash payment to be
made in lieu of dedication , elect to give partial credit, in the satisfaction
of these requirements, to private, on-site recreation facilities. In order to
give credit for private recreation facilities, the Board shall find (a) that
the private facilities are appropriate and are significantly usable for the
type of subdivision being developed and (b) that the facilities are likely to
reduce the need for residents of the subdivision to use public recreational
facilities. The amount of credit that may be given is solely within the
discretion of the Board of Commissioners , provided that it may not exceed 50%
of the land dedication  or cash payment required.
   (O)   Reservations of space for community facilities. Whenever the tract to
be subdivided includes property included in any official Land Use Plan,
Comprehensive Long-term Plan, or other similar official plan, or when the scale
of development indicates the need for such community facilities (for example,
but not by way of limitation, schools , fire stations, sewer lift stations, or
other public facilities), the developer shall reserve such sites for a period
of 24 months after preliminary plan approval. If neither the Town of Swansboro,
the County of Onslow, nor any other entity having the power of eminent domain
has undertaken negotiations to purchase such areas or begun eminent domain
proceedings with respect to such sites within said 24 month period, then the
reservations  shall be deemed to have been rejected and the property subject to
such reservations  shall be released therefrom.
   (P)   Variances. When situations exist such that compliance with the letter
of this Ordinance would cause an unusual, unavoidable and unnecessary hardship
on the subdivider , the Board of Commissioners  may vary the minimum
requirements set forth herein in accordance with the provisions of §
152.329.
   (Q)   Lot and density increase. If, following the initial approval of a
subdivision , the number of lots  in the subdivision is later increased by
Town-approved or exempt subdivision actions, the amount of land and/or fees due
under this section shall be re-calculated, based on the new lot  numbers and
density, and any additional amounts of land or fees due under the provisions of
this section shall be remitted within 30 days.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2008-O28, passed 10-21-2008; Am. Ord.
2008-32, passed 11-18-2008; Am. Ord. 2021-O3, passed 5-24-2021)
PART III: INFORMATION REQUIRED WITH SUBDIVISION APPLICATIONS
§ 152.380 NUMBER OF REVIEW AND FILING COPIES TO BE SUBMITTED.
Type of Map or Plan Review      Filing (after approval)
                    # of Prints # of Prints # of Mylars
Type of Map or Plan      Review         Filing (after approval)
                         # of Prints    # of Prints # of Mylars
Minor subdivision plat  (1) 18 x 24    (1) 18 x 24 (1) 18 x 24
                        (8) 11 x 17
                         (1) 24 x 36 or
Sketch plan              (1) 18 x 24    (2) 18 x 24 —
                         (8) 11 x 17
Preliminary plat , major (1) 24 x 36    (2) 18 x 24 —
subdivision              (8) 11 x 17    (1) 11 x 17
Final plat , major       (1) 18 x 24    (1) 18 x 24 (1) 18 x 24
subdivision              (8) 11 x 17
Street and utility       As required by the town, NCDOT, and the applicable
construction plans and   utility provider
profiles
 
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005) (Am. Ord. 2008-O28, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 152.381 REQUIRED INFORMATION ON MINOR, SKETCH, AND MAJOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   Submission of all plats or maps shall contain the following information
before submission to the Administrator for review. An “X” indicates required
information. Additional information may be required for approval of a plat .
The Administrator may waive items required for Minor, Sketch and Preliminary
plats if it is judged that they are not necessary to complete the review. The
Town Manager may waive items required for the Final plat if it is judged they
are not necessary to complete the review.
Information Minor, Sketch, & Major Subdivisions
            Minor Plat Sketch Plan Preliminary Plat Final Plat
                                                                                 Minor, Sketch, & Major
Information                                                                      Subdivisions
                                                                                 Minor Sketch Preliminary Final
                                                                                 Plat  Plan   Plat        Plat
1  Maps or plats  submitted shall not exceed a maximum size of 24" x 36"         X     X      X           X
   Standard 18" by 24" sheet for plats  to be recorded, minimum 1-1/2" border on
2  the left side and a minimum ½” border on all other sides; or as required byX                        X
   the Onslow County Register of Deeds
3  Original drawn on material as required by the Onslow County Register of Deeds X                        X
4  Title block containing:                                                       X     X      X           X
   Name of subdivision
5     Name of the type of plat  (minor plat , sketch plan, preliminary plat,  X     X      X           X
   etc.)
6     Owner ’s name with address and daytime phone number                   X     X      X           X
7     Location (including address, township, county, and state)               X     X      X           X
8     Date(s) plat (s) prepared or revised                                    X     X      X           X
      Scale of drawing in feet per inch. Drawing shall be at a scale of not less
9  than 1" equal to 100'. If all lots  are greater than 3 acres, a smaller scale X     X      X           X
   may be used
10    Bar graph                                                               X     X      X           X
11    Name, address, and telephone # of preparer of plat  (licensed surveyor, X     X      X           X
   engineer, etc.)
12    Developer ’s name, address, and daytime phone number (if different froX     X      X           X
   owner ’s)
13 Zoning district(s) within the property and adjacent properties                X     X      X           X
14 Existing land use within the property and on adjacent properties              X     X      X
15 Plat book or deed book reference                                              X     X      X           X
16 Names of adjoining property owners (or subdivisions or developments of record X     X      X           X
   with plat  book reference)
17 Tax map, block , and parcel(s) number of adjoining property                   X     X      X           X
18 Vicinity map showing location of site relative to surrounding area and        X     X      X           X
   sufficient to clearly locate the property
19 Corporate limits, county lines, and other jurisdiction lines, if any, on the  X     X      X           X
   tract
20 Registration and seal of land surveyor                                        X                        X
21 North arrow and orientation (north arrow shall not be oriented towards bottom X     X      X           X
   of map)
22 Source of property boundaries signed or sealed by registered land surveyor,   X            X           X
   architect, landscape architect, or engineer
23 Boundaries of the tract to be subdivided or developed:                        X            X           X
   Distinctly and accurately represented and showing all distances
24    Tied to nearest street  intersection (within 300') or USGS (within 2,000X)           X           X
25    Showing locations of intersecting boundary lines or adjoining propertiesX     X      X           X
26 Location and descriptions of all monuments, markers, and control corners      X            X           X
27 Existing property lines on tract to be subdivided. If existing property lines X     X      X           X
   are to be changed, label as “old property lines” and show as dashed lines
   Dimensions, location, and use of all existing and proposed buildings ;
28 distances between buildings  measured at the closest point; distance from     X     X      X
   buildings  to the closest property line
29 The name and location of any property or building  on the National Register   X     X      X           X
   of Historic Places or locally designated historic property
30 Railroad lines and rights-of-way                                              X     X      X           X
31 Water courses, ponds, lakes, or streams                                       X     X      X           X
32 Marshes, swamp, and other 404 wetlands                                              X      X           X
33 Areas to be dedicated or reserved for the public                              X     X      X           X
34 Areas designated as common area  or open space under control of an Owner’s  X     X      X           X
   Association
35 Location of designated recreation areas and facilities                        X     X      X           X
36 Location of floodway  and floodway  fringe from Flood Hazard Boundary Maps    X     X      X           X
   and section elevations
   Boundaries of applicable Areas of Environmental Concern in accordance with
37 the State Guidelines for Areas of Environmental Concern (15 NCAC 7H) of the   X     X      X           X
   Coastal Area Management Act of 1974
   Existing and proposed topography of tract and 100' beyond property showing
38 existing contour intervals of no greater than 5' (2' where available) and                  X
   labeling at least two contours per map and all others at 10' intervals from
   sea level
39 Proposed lot lines and dimensions                                             X     X      X           X
40 Square footage of all proposed lots  under an acre in size and acreage for    X     X      X           X
   all lots  over an acre in size
41 Site calculations including:                                                  X     X      X           X
   Acreage in total tract
42    Acreage in public open space                                                  X      X           X
43    Total number of lots  proposed                                          X     X      X           X
44    Linear feet in streets                                                               X
45    Area in newly dedicated rights-of-way                                                X
46 Lots sequenced or number consecutively                                        X            X           X
47 Street address as assigned by the town for each new lot                       X                        X
   Onslow County Health Department information for subdivisions without public
48 sewer available:                                                              X            X           X
   1) Subdivision  plat  shall contain a statement concerning septic tank
   approval and list the lots
      2) Each lot  that has been approved for an on-site subsurface sewage
49 treatment and disposal system shall be shown. Denied lots  or lots  not       X                        X
   evaluated shall be crosshatched and labeled, “NO IMPROVEMENT PERMIT HAS BEEN
   ISSUED FOR THIS LOT ”
   The following notes shall be shown:
   1) There is no right to build upon or otherwise improve any of these lots
50 until a valid written Improvement Permit has been obtained from the Health    X            X           X
   Department as required by State Law. CONTACT THE ONSLOW COUNTY ENVIRONMENTAL
   HEALTH DIVISION CONCERNING LOT SUITABILITY FOR ON- SITE SUBSURFACE SEWAGE
   TREATMENT AND DISPOSAL SYSTEMS OR TOWN SEWER.
      2) The location shown for designated septic system areas are approximate.
   Approval and design area information for subsurface sanitary sewage systems
51 is reproduced from information supplied by the Onslow County Department of    X                        X
   Public Health and the Surveyor/Engineer makes no representation or warranty
   as to the accuracy of such information. A letter from the Health Department
   approving the plat  shall be attached.
52 Street data illustrating:                                                     X            X           X
   Existing and proposed rights-of-way  lines within and adjacent to property
      Existing and proposed rights-of-way  within and adjacent to the property
53 showing:                                                                      X            X           X
   Total right-of-way width dimension
54       Right-of-way width dimension from centerline of existing public stXeets        X           X
55    Existing and proposed streets  showing:                                              X
   Pavement or curb lines
56       Pavement width dimension (face-to-face)                                        X
57       Cul-de-sac pavement radius                                                     X
58       Existing and proposed street  names                               X            X           X
59    Street profiles                                                                      X
60 Location, dimension, and type of all easements                                X            X           X
   Utility layout plan showing connections to existing systems, line sizes,
61 material of lines, location of fire hydrants, blowoffs, valves, manholes,     X            X
   catch basins, force mains, etc., for the following types of utility lines:
   Sanitary sewer
62    Water distribution                                                      X            X
63    Natural gas, electric, cable TV, etc.                                                X
64 Documentation of submission of an Erosion Control Plan, if disturbing greater X            X
   than one acre
65 Documentation of approval of an Erosion Control Plan, if disturbing greater   X                        X
   than one acre
66 Evidence of notification to US Army Corps of Engineers of Earth-Disturbing    X            X
   Activities in Wetlands, if applicable
67 Size of planting yard , walls, berms, and fences                                           X
68 Existing and proposed signs (location, height, and area)                                   X
69 Location, dimensions, and details of proposed clubhouses, pools, tennis                    X
   courts, tot lots , or other common area  recreation facilities
 
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005) (Am. Ord. 2008-O28, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 152.382 DOCUMENTS AND WRITTEN INFORMATION IN ADDITION TO MAPS AND PLANS.
   In addition to the written application and the plats , whenever the nature
of the proposed development makes information or documents such as the
following relevant, such documents or information shall be provided. The
following is a representative list of the types of information or documents
that may be requested at the time of plat submission.
Information Minor and Major Subdivisions
            Minor Plat Preliminary Plat Final Plat
                                                                              Minor and Major
Information                                                                   Subdivisions
                                                                              Minor Preliminary Final
                                                                              Plat  Plat        Plat
   Documentation confirming that the applicant has a legally sufficient
1  interest in the property proposed for development to use it in the manner  X     X
   requested, or is the duly appointed agent of such a person
   Certifications from the appropriate agencies that proposed utility systems
2  are or will be adequate to handle the proposed development and that all    X     X
   necessary easements have been provided
3  Detailed descriptions of recreational facilities to be provided                  X
4  Legal documentation establishing homeowners’ associations or other legal                   X
   entities responsible for control over required common areas and facilities
5  Cash, letters of credit, or other equivalent security devices                                X
6  A traffic impact study performed and prepared by a qualified                     X
   transportation or traffic engineer or planner.
7  Time schedule for the completion of phases in staged development                 X
   The environmental impact of a development , including its effect on
8  historically significant or ecologically fragile or important areas and          X
   its impact on pedestrian or traffic safety or congestion
   If any street  is proposed to intersect with a state- maintained street ,
9  a copy of the application for driveway approval as required by the         X     X
   Department of Transportation, Division of Highways Manual on Driveway
   Regulations
10 Proposed deed restrictions or covenants to be imposed upon newly created   X     X
   lots .
 
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 152.383 CERTIFICATES AND ENDORSEMENTS.
Information Minor, Sketch, & Major Subdivisions
            Minor Plat Sketch Plan Preliminary Plat Final Plat
Information                  Minor, Sketch, & Major Subdivisions
                             Minor Plat Sketch Plan Preliminary Plat Final Plat
   Certificate of survey
1  accuracy signed by        X                                       X
   surveyor and attested by
   notary public
   Certificate of ownership
2  and/or dedication  as     X                      X                X
   applicable
3  Certificate of minor plat X
4  Certificate of                                   X
   preliminary plat approval
5  Certificate of final plat X                                       X
   approval
   Certificate of approval
   by Division of Highways,
6  North Carolina Department X                                       X
   of Transportation, if
   applicable
7  Certificate of utilities  X                                       X
   approval, if applicable
   Certificate of health
8  department approval, if   X                                       X
   applicable
   Certificate of purpose
9  for plat  as required by  X                                       X
   NCGS 47- 30
10 Private streets           X                                       X
   disclosure statement
   Certificate of drainage
11 and streets  approval, if X                                       X
   applicable
 
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005) (Am. Ord. 2008-O28, passed 10-21-2008; Am.
Ord. 2008-O33, passed 11-18-2008; Am. Ord. 2011-O26, passed 8-16-2011)
§ 152.384 WARRANTIES, SURETIES, AND IMPROVEMENTS GUARANTEES.
   (A)   Improvements . Prior to the approval of the final plat  the following
improvements shall be installed or arrangement made so as to insure their
installation. Improvements guarantees will not be considered for subdivisions
where the utilities, curb and gutter, and final base course of compacted gravel
have not been installed.
   (B)   General; monuments. Monuments and markers shall be installed in
accordance with the Manual of Practice for Land Surveying, published by the
North Carolina State Board of Registration for Professional Engineers and Land
Surveyors.
   (C)   Streets .
      (1)   Grading. All streets  shall be cleared and graded to their full
right-of-way width so as to provide adequate shoulders and pedestrian walkways.
Finished grades, cross sections, and profile shall be considered for approval
by the Town’s Public Works Director and/or consulting engineer.
      (2)   Paving. The sub-divider will be responsible for the installation of
the road base and paving necessary to serve his needs and meet the requirements
of this chapter. Paving and base shall be installed in accordance with NCDOT
standards or town specifications, whichever is greater. The inspection of the
road base and paving shall be considered for approval by the Town’s Public
Works Director and/or consulting engineer.
   (D)   Curbs and gutters.
      (1)   Concrete curbs and gutters will be installed by the sub-divider in
accordance with NCDOT standards or town specifications, whichever is greater.
      (2)   The inspection of the curb and gutters shall be considered for
approval by the town’s Public Works Director and/or consulting engineer.
      (3)   Curbs and gutters shall be concrete combination curb and gutter.
   (E)   Storm drainage.
      (1)   Storm sewers, drains and structures shall be installed by the
subdivider in accordance with NCDOT standards or town specifications, whichever
is greater.
      (2)   The inspection of the storm drainage shall be considered for
approval by the town’s Public Works Director and/or consulting engineer.
   (F)   Guarantees.
      (1)   General requirements.
         (a)   No final plat shall be approved until the required improvements
have been constructed in a satisfactory manner and approved by the Town Manager
or his/her designee and a financial guarantee has been posted, or, in lieu of
such prior construction, the town may accept a letter of credit, a certificate
of deposit, cash or certified check, or bond in the required amount. Acceptable
financial guarantee formats:
            1.   Letter of credit. Must be from a financial institution located
and incorporated in the State of North Carolina; must contain the specified
language detailed in division (F)(1)(c) of this section.
            2.   Cash or check. Must be in the form of a certified check or
United States currency. Certified checks should reflect the name of the
developer submitting them.
            3.   Certificates of deposit. Must be in the name of and payable to
the Town of Swansboro. The developer ’s name must be referenced on the
certificate of deposit. For example: Town of Swansboro for John Doe.
            4.   Bond. Must be in the name of and payable to the Town of
Swansboro. The developer ’s name must be referenced on the bond. For example:
Town of Swansboro for John Doe.
         (b)   All financial guarantees submitted shall be accompanied by an
agreement signed by the developer, and the Town Manager or his/ her designee.
The agreement shall include a completion date, which cannot exceed two years
from the application date, unless special approval has been granted by the
Board of Commissioners for a completion date, which exceeds two years.
         (c)   All financial guarantees, agreements, and/or accompanying
documentation must at least contain the following language: “ This instrument
is for the purpose of insuring that developer’s name] will complete all water
facilities, sewer facilities, streets , sidewalks, storm drainage, and all
other public improvements as shown on the preliminary plat for [subdivision
name] as approved by the Swansboro Board of Commissioners and guarantee these
public improvements for a 12-month warranty after the public improvements have
been approved by the town. The issuer of this instrument of financial guarantee
agrees that, upon receipt of a written certification from the Town Manger that
any portion of the required improvements has not been installed or properly
maintained through the warranty period, to issue payment from this guarantee to
the Town in the amount required to effect the necessary improvements ”. Each
project may vary as to the improvements required; however, all financial
guarantees must include the specified phrase.
         (d)   All financial guarantees must either be issued from a financial
institution incorporated in the State of North Carolina or be redeemable at a
financial institution incorporated in the State of North Carolina.
         (e)   All forms of guarantees must be approved by the Finance Director
or their designee and the Town Manager or his/her designee before acceptance.
         (f)   Except for those guarantees that may be associated with
improvements that will or have been under the purview of the Onslow Water and
Sewer Authority (ONWASA), those guarantees will meet the standards,
requirements, amounts and/or processes set forth by ONWASA.
      (2)   Review of cost estimates.
         (a)   The Planning Department shall submit the plans and developer’s
cost estimates to the Town’s consulting engineer for review and agreement on
cost estimates. The cost of Town Engineer services rendered to review cost
estimates are the burden of the developer.
         (b)   The town’s consulting engineer shall submit detailed cost
estimates changes, if any, to the Planning Department.
         (c)   The Planning Department shall then notify the applicant
(developer) of the amount needed for the financial guarantee.
         (d)   Financial guarantee estimates will be considered valid for two
years and must be reviewed every two years and adjusted accordingly to reflect
market values. Estimates will be determined by using the current year
construction cost index or other acceptable methods as approved by town
consulting engineer and Town Manager or his/her designee.
      (3)   Determination of amount of financial guarantee.
         (a)   The estimated cost of total improvements (for the purpose of the
warranty) and of the incomplete improvements shall be determined by the town’s
consulting engineer, including any appropriate contingency amounts. The
engineer may, at his discretion, take into consideration any cost information
submitted by the developer.
         (b)   The amount of the financial guarantee required shall be the
total cost of all incomplete improvements as determined by the town staff and
the town’s consulting engineer plus 25%.
         (c)   The warranty period begins after the following are complete:
            1.   The developer’s engineer provides a letter certifying that all
improvements have been completed in accordance with the approved subdivision
plans;
            2.   The Town Manager or his/her designee has issued a letter of
approval for the improvements ; and
            3.   The warranty period financial guarantee has been submitted and
accepted.
      (4)   Maintenance of financial guarantees.
         (a)   Receipt and approval. Upon receipt of financial guarantees, the
Planning Department shall submit the financial guarantee to the Finance
Department. The Finance Department will review, approve, record, and maintain
the financial guarantee until the improvements have been installed and accepted
by the Board of Commissioners  following the approval by the Town Manager or
his/her designee that the improvements are acceptable for maintenance. All
original financial guarantees shall be kept in the town vault, except cash or
certified checks, which shall be deposited in an account specified by the Town
Finance Department.
         (b)   Extensions and condemnations. The town may condemn the financial
guarantee if the improvements are not completed within the time specified in
the agreement, which was submitted with the financial guarantee. The developer
may, however, submit a request to the town for the date of completion to be
changed. The Town Manager or his/her designee will review the request and
recommend to the Board of Commissioners  up to a 12 month extension.
         (c)   Expiration and renewal. Approximately 45 days prior to the
expiration date of the financial guarantee, the Town Finance Director shall
notify the developer and financial guarantee company by certified mail that the
town will condemn their financial guarantee if a renewed financial guarantee is
not submitted prior to the expiration date. The town will send only one
notification.
      (5)   Draw downs permitted.
         (a)   Draw down requests. The developer may request that a draw down
be made on the financial guarantee by submitting a written request to the Town.
The request shall include a listing of those improvements which have been
completed as of the date of request. The request shall be certified by a
Professional Land Surveyor or Professional Engineer, reviewed by appropriate
department heads and town consulting engineer. The cost of Town engineer
services rendered to review the cost of the draw down estimates are the burden
of the developer .
         (b)   Guarantee release. Once the town confirms the dollar amount of
work that has been completed, the town shall notify the developer of the
permitted draw down, if any. No financial guarantee may be reduced below 10% of
the total cost of improvements plus the cost of uncompleted sidewalks, until
the warranty period has elapsed.
      (6)   Warranty period.
         (a)   The developer shall submit, in writing, a request to the
Planning Department for a final inspection once all work is complete.
         (b)   Once the town has determined that all improvements are complete,
except for sidewalks, and meet approved standards, the financial guarantee may
be reduced to 10% of the total cost of improvements plus the amount needed for
uncompleted sidewalks. A new estimate of the cost of the uncompleted sidewalks,
plus 25% will be made at this time to insure an adequate financial guarantee
and would be valid for a two-year period.
         (c)   The Planning Department shall prepare a Board of Commissioners
agenda item for improvements to be accepted within 60 days of the reduction.
Once the improvements are accepted, the 12-month warranty period shall begin.
         (d)   After the improvements have been accepted by the Board of
Commissioners , the town shall hold a financial guarantee of no less than 10%
of the total cost of improvements plus 125% of the cost of any incomplete
sidewalks for a 12-month warranty period.
         (e)   During the ninth month of the warranty period, the town shall
inspect the project for any deficiencies. If deficiencies are found, the town
shall notify the developer. If the developer does not correct the deficiencies,
the Town Manager or his/her designee may condemn the guarantee and correct the
deficiency or contract to have it corrected. If the Town Manager or his/her
designee decides to condemn a guarantee an appeal may be made to the Board of
Commissioners for this consideration.
         (f)   Once the Finance Director has been notified by the Planning
Department that the project is complete and meets town standards, the Finance
Director shall return the financial guarantee.
      (7)   ETJ subdivisions and subdivisions with private streets .
         (a)   Inspections are required once improvements are complete, the
developer shall submit, in writing, a request to the town for a final
inspection. The town shall inspect the subdivision. If deficiencies are found,
the town shall notify the developer by in writing. Once the corrections have
been completed, the developer must request an inspection by the town for
verification of the satisfactory completion of the corrections. The town will
notify the developer in writing of its findings and reduce the financial
guarantee as appropriate.
      (8)   Specific warranty situations. Because the town may not accept
improvements outside the town limits, and because some subdivisions designate
their streets  as private, the following shall govern the warranty period:
         (a)   Warranty for private streets . A financial guarantee in the
amount of 10% of the total cost of improvements is required for a 12-month
period unless a homeowner’s association has been organized and documentation
recorded which addresses the upkeep and maintenance of streets .
         (b)   Warranty for NCDOT streets . If a Homeowner’s Association has
been organized and the documentation recorded which addresses the upkeep and
maintenance of streets  and addresses the petition process for NCDOT
acceptance, no warranty period for streets  will be required. Additionally, if
the developer can provide documentation that the streets  have been included on
the state system; no warranty guarantee for streets  will be required.
      (9)   Extensions for warranties. A developer may request only one 12
month extension for an expired warranty period to repair damaged
infrastructures. There will be no warranty period for water and sewer utilities
that would be warranted in another governmental jurisdiction or operated by a
private entity.
      (10)   Warranties that may be associated with improvements that will or
have been under the purview of the Onslow Water and Sewer Authority (ONWASA)
will meet the standards, requirements, terms and/or processes set forth by
ONWASA.
   (G)   Streetlights. Streetlights shall be installed in accordance with the
Town of Swansboro’s Street Lighting Policy as well as the local power company’s
standards and specifications. All street  lighting shall be installed prior to
receiving a certificate of occupancy for any structure  in the section. The
developer will be responsible for the cost of installation and upkeep of all
streetlights until the acceptance of public improvements by the Board of
Commissioners . The maintenance and all future related cost of streetlights in
the area accepted may then be transferred by the developer to the town.
   (H)   Exception to sidewalk construction and guarantee.
      (1)   Construction of sidewalks in subdivisions may be delayed by the
developer for a period not to exceed 12 months from the date of acceptance of
public improvements provided that the town holds a financial guarantee in an
amount equal to the value of the uncompleted sidewalks plus 25%; however, no
final inspection or certificate of occupancy for any building may be issued
until the construction of sidewalks have been completed upon the land for which
such final inspection or certificate of occupancy is required and the
construction approved by the Town Planning Department. If the developer cannot
complete sidewalks within 12 months of acceptance of public improvements , a
request may be made to the town for additional time. The Town Manager or his/
her designee shall have the authority to approve up to two, 12-month extensions
completion periods for the sidewalk installation. If the Town Manager or his/
her designee does not grant extensions for uncompleted sidewalks, the financial
guarantee will be condemned and used to rectify the deficiency. If the Town
Manager or his/her designee decides to condemn a guarantee an appeal may be
made to the Board of Commissioners for their consideration.
      (2)   A financial guarantee payable to the town in an amount equal to the
estimated cost of the construction of the sidewalk, plus 25%, for that
subdivision  improvement shall be submitted to the town by the developer. In
the event of a default by the developer in the requirements of this ordinance,
and after 45 days written notice of such default by the town to the developer,
the financial guarantee shall be forfeited to the town and the town may
construct the sidewalks in question and apply the amount of said financial
guarantee to the construction cost.
      (3)   In no case shall any town official accept the improvements in a
subdivision for town maintenance responsibility without the installation of
sidewalks being completed or a financial guarantee payable to the town being
posted to guarantee such construction.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005) (Am. Ord. 2006-20, passed 9-19-2006; Am. Ord.
2011-O26, passed 8-16-2011)
§ 152.385 WORDING FOR MAP CERTIFICATES AND STATEMENTS.
   (A)   Certificate of ownership (for use with minor plats only if no streets
or easements or other lands are to be dedicated). 
I (we) hereby certify that I am (we are) the owner (s) of the property
described hereon, which property is within the subdivision regulation
jurisdiction of the Town of Swansboro, and that I (we) freely adopt this plan
of subdivision.
                                                                                                             
      Owner                                    Date
                                                                                                             
      Owner                                    Date
   (B)   Certificate of ownership and dedication .
I (we) hereby certify that I am (we are) the owner (s) of the property
described hereon, which property is located within the subdivision regulation
jurisdiction of the Town of Swansboro, that I (we) freely adopt this plan of
subdivision and dedicate to public use all areas shown on this plat as streets
, alleys, walks, parks , open space , and easements , except those specifically
indicated as private, and that I (we) will maintain all such areas until the
offer of dedication is accepted by the appropriate public authority. All
property shown on this plat as dedicated for a public use shall be deemed to be
dedicated for any other public use authorized by law when such other use is
approved by the Board of Commissioners of the Town of Swansboro in the public
interest.
                                                                                                             
      Owner                                    Date
                                                                                                             
      Owner                                    Date
                                                                                                             
      (Notarized)                                 Date
    (C)   Certificate of minor plat approval. 
I hereby certify that the minor subdivision shown on this plat does not involve
the creation of new public streets or any change in existing public streets ,
that the subdivision shown is in all respects in compliance with the
Subdivision Ordinance of the Town of Swansboro, provided that the number of
lots within the area of the subdivision remains not greater than seven in
number. This plat has been approved by the Administrator , subject to its being
recorded in the Onslow County Register of Deeds within 60 days of the date
below.
                                                                                                             
      Administrator                              Date
    (D)   Certificate of preliminary plat approval.
I hereby certify that the Board of Commissioners  of the Town of Swansboro
approved on the          day of                    , 20      , the preliminary
plan of subdivision as shown on this plat . Preliminary approval is valid for a
period of 12 months from the above date or as established under the vested
rights procedures, if applicable.
                                                                                                             
      Board of Commissioners, Mayor                  Date
    (E)   Certificate of final approval.
I hereby certify that the subdivision depicted hereon has been granted final
approval pursuant to the Subdivision Ordinance of the Town of Swansboro subject
to its being recorded in the Office of Register of Deeds within 60 days of the
date below.
                                                                                                             
      Town Manager or his/her designee               Date
   I hereby certify that streets , utilities, and other improvements have been
installed in an acceptable manner and according to specifications of the Town
of Swansboro in the subdivision depicted hereon or that a performance bond or
other sufficient surety in the amount of $           has been posted with the
Town of Swansboro to assure completion of required improvements.
                                                                                                             
      Administrator                              Date
    (F)   Certificate of survey and accuracy.
I,                                           , certify that this plat  was
drawn under my supervision from an actual survey made under my supervision
(deed description recorded in Book            , page        , etc.) (other);
that the boundaries not surveyed are clearly indicated as drawn from
information found in Book             , page          ; that the ratio of
precision as calculated is 1:         ; that this plat  was prepared in
accordance with NCGS 47-30 as amended. Witness my original signature,
registration number and seal this           day of                      , A.D.,
20       .
                                                                                                             
      Surveyor                                 Registration Number
Seal or Stamp of Surveyor
    (G)   Division of Highways District Engineer Certificate (for use if
streets are to be maintained by DOT). 
I hereby certify that the streets as depicted hereon are/are not consistent
with the requirements of the North Carolina Department of Transportation.
                                                                                                             
      District Engineer                           Date
   (H)   Private streets disclosure statement. The following statement shall be
placed on all subdivision  plats  which include private streets:
“The maintenance of streets designated on this plat as ‘private’ shall be the
responsibility of property owners within this development having access to such
roads. Private streets as shown hereon were not constructed to the minimum
standards required to allow their inclusion, for maintenance purposes, on the
North Carolina highway system nor on the Town of Swansboro street system.
Neither the Town of Swansboro nor the North Carolina Department of
Transportation will maintain a private street .”
   (I)   Health Department certificate. The following statement shall be placed
on all subdivision  plats  which include building  lots  that do not have sewer
service available to them:
“The Onslow County Environmental Health Section has performed a soil evaluation
on each lot within this subdivision. Results of these evaluations are available
for review in the offices of the Environmental Health Section during normal
office hours. These soil evaluations should be reviewed prior to the purchase
of any lot . An improvements permit for a ground absorption sewage disposal
system and/or water supply permit will be required prior to obtaining a
building or manufactured home permit.”
                                                                                                                     
      Supervisor, Environmental Health Section or         Date
      Authorized Representative
   (J)   Utilities certificate. There shall be an appropriately-worded
certificate from the applicable water and/or sewer provider certifying that the
water and/or sewer improvements have been installed in an acceptable manner,
according to the standards and specifications of that agency, along with the
signature of an authorized official and the date of certification.
   (K)   Drainage and streets certificate.
I hereby certify that the drainage and street   improvements have been
installed in accordance with the North Carolina Department of Transportation
and/or Town of Swansboro Standards or that a sufficient surety has been
provided to cover the cost of construction in accordance with the requirements
of the Town of Swansboro Subdivision Ordinance.
                                                                                                             
      Authorized Agent                           Date
   (L)   Certificate of purpose of plat . The final plat  shall contain one of
the following statements, signed and sealed by the plat  preparer:
      (1)   This survey creates a subdivision of land within the jurisdictional
area of the Town of Swansboro and that the town has an ordinance that regulates
parcels of land;
      (2)   This survey is located in a portion of a county or municipality
that is unregulated as to an ordinance that regulates parcels of land;
      (3)   Any one of the following:
         (a)   This survey is of an existing parcel or parcels of land and does
not create a new road or change an existing street ;
         (b)   This survey is of an existing building or other structure, or
natural feature, such as a water course;
         (c)   This survey is a control survey;
      (4)   This survey is of another category, such as the recombination of
existing parcels, a court-ordered survey, or other exception to the definition
of subdivision; or
      (5)   The information available to the surveyor is such that the surveyor
is unable to make a determination to the best of the surveyor’s professional
ability as to provisions contained in (1) through (4) above.
                                                                                                             
      Surveyor                                 Date
      (Seal or Stamp of Surveyor)
   (M)   Certificate of exception. Plats deemed to be an exception to the
provision of this chapter shall contain the following statement prior to the
owner’s recording of such plats :
I (We) hereby certify that I am (we are) the owner(s) of the property shown and
described hereon, which was conveyed to me (us) by deed recorded in Book
          , Page         , and that said property qualifies as an exception to
the provisions of the Subdivision Ordinance of the Town of Swansboro.
                                                                                                             
      Owner                                    Date
                                                                                                             
      Owner                                    Date
                                                                                                             
      Administrator                              Date
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005) (Am. Ord. 2008-33, passed 11-18-2008; Am. Ord.
2011-O26, passed 8-16-2011)
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
PART I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.400 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   (A)   The Legislature of the State of North Carolina has in Part 6, Article
21 of Chapter 143; Article 6 of Chapter 153A; Article 8 of Chapter 160A; and
Article 7, 9, and 11 of Chapter 160D (effective January 1, 2021) of the North
Carolina General Statutes, delegated to local governmental units the authority
to adopt regulations designed to promote the public health, safety, and general
welfare.
   (B)   Therefore, the Board of Commissioners of the Town of Swansboro, North
Carolina, does ordain as follows.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2005-13, passed 8-16-2005; Am. Ord.
2020-O3, passed 6-8-2020)
§ 152.401 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood prone areas within the jurisdiction of the Town of Swansboro
are subject to periodic inundation which results in loss of life, property,
health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services,
extraordinary public expenditures of flood protection and relief, and
impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public health,
safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities and by the
occupancy in flood prone areas of uses vulnerable to floods or other hazards.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2005-13, passed 8-16-2005; Am. Ord.
2020-O3, passed 6-8-2020)
§ 152.402 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter to promote the public health, safety,
and general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions within flood prone areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water or erosion hazards, or which result in damaging increases
in erosion, flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities that
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers that will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2020-O3, passed 6-8-2020)
§ 152.404 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this subchapter are:
   (A)   To protect human life, safety, and health;
   (B)   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   To minimize prolonged business losses and interruptions;
   (E)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities (i.e. water and
gas mains, electric, telephone, cable and sewer lines, streets , and bridges)
that are located in flood prone areas ;
   (F)   To minimize damage to private and public property due to flooding;
   (G)   To make flood insurance available to the community through the
National Flood Insurance Program;
   (H)   To maintain the natural and beneficial functions of floodplains;
   (I)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas; and
   (J)   To ensure that potential home buyers are aware that property is in a
special flood hazard area.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2020-O3, passed 6-8-2020)
§ 152.405 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this subchapter
shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage
and to give this subchapter it’s most reasonable application.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure , which is located
on the same parcel of property as the principal structure and the use of which
is incidental to the use of the principal structure . Garages, carports and
storage sheds are common urban accessory structures . Pole barns, hay sheds and
the like qualify as accessory structures on farms, and may or may not be
located on the same parcel as the farm dwelling  or shop building .
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING BUILDING). An extension or increase in the floor
area or height of a building or structure .
   ALTERATION OF A WATERCOURSE . A dam, impoundment, channel relocation, change
in channel alignment, channelization, or change in cross-sectional area of the
channel or the channel capacity, or any other form of modification which may
alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or velocity of the riverine
flow of water during conditions of the base flood.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator ’s
interpretation of any provision of this subchapter.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated Zone AO or AH on a community ’s Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with base flood depths determined to be from one to
three feet. These areas are located where a clearly defined channel does not
exist, where the path of flooding  is unpredictable and indeterminate, and
where velocity flow may be evident.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. See SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA).
   BASE FLOOD. The flood  having a one (1) percent chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
   BASE FLOOD EVALUATION (BFE). A determination  of the water surface
elevations of the base flood as published in the Flood Insurance Study. When
the BFE has not been provided in a “Special Flood Hazard Area,” it may be
obtained from engineering studies available from a federal, state, or other
source using FEMA approved engineering methodologies. This elevation, when
combined with the “Freeboard ,” establishes the “Regulatory Flood Protection
Elevation.”
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor sub-grade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BREAKAWAY WALL. A wall that is not part of the structural support of the
building and is intended through its design and construction to collapse under
specific lateral loading forces without causing damage to the elevated portion
of the building or the supporting foundation system.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   CHEMICAL STORAGE FACILITY . A building, portion of a building, or exterior
area adjacent to a building used for the storage of any chemical or chemically
reactive products.
   COASTAL AREA MANAGEMENT ACT (CAMA). North Carolina’s Coastal Area Management
Act. This act, along with the Dredge and Fill Law and the federal Coastal Zone
Management Act, is managed through the North Carolina Department of
Environmental Quality (NCDEQ) Division of Coastal Management (DCM).
   COASTAL A ZONE (CAZ). An area within a special flood hazard area, landward
of a V zone or landward of an open coast without mapped V zones. In a Coastal A
Zone, the principal source of flooding must be astronomical ties, storm surges,
seiches, or tsunamis, not riverine flooding. During the base flood conditions,
the potential for wave heights shall be greater than or equal to 1.5 feet.
Coastal A Zones are not normally designated on FIRMs (see Limit of Moderate
Wave Action (LiMWA) ).
   COASTAL BARRIER RESOURCES SYSTEM (CBRS). Consists of undeveloped portions of
coastal and adjoining areas established by the Coastal Barrier Resources Act
(CoBRA) of 1982, the Coastal Barrier Improvement Act (CBIA) of 1990, and
subsequent revisions, and includes areas owned by Federal or State governments
or private conservation organizations identified as Otherwise Protected Areas
(OPA).
   COASTAL HIGH HAZARD AREA. A special flood hazard area extending from
offshore to the inland limit of a primary frontal dune along an open coast and
any other area subject to high velocity wave action from storms or seismic
sources. The area is designated on a FIRM, or other adopted flood map as
determined in §
152.407, as Zone VE.
   DESIGN FLOOD. See REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION .
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
   DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITY . Any activity defined as development which will
necessitate a Floodplain Development Permit. This includes buildings,
structures, and non-structural items, including (but not limited to) fill,
bulkheads, piers, pools, docks, landings, ramps, and erosion control/
stabilization measures.
   DIGITAL FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (DFIRM). The digital official map of a
community, issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), on which
both the Special Flood Hazard Areas and the risk premium zones applicable to
the community are delineated.
   DISPOSAL. As defined in G.S. §130A-290(a)(6), the discharge, deposit,
injection, dumping, spilling, leaking, or placing of any solid waste into or on
any land or water so that the solid waste or any constituent part of the solid
waste may enter the environment or be emitted into the air or discharged into
any waters, including groundwaters.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. A non-basement  building which has its lowest elevated
floor raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear walls , posts,
piers, pilings, or columns.
   ENCROACHMENT. The advance or infringement of uses, fill, excavation,
buildings, structures or development into a special flood hazard area , which
may impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain .
   EXISTING BUILDING AND EXISTING STRUCTURE. Any building and/or structure for
which the “start of construction” commenced before the community entered the
NFIP on October 18, 1983.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. A
manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities
for servicing the lots  on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets , and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) was
completed before the effective date of the initial floodplain management
regulations adopted by the community , dated June 1987.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY and FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). An official map of a community ,
issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), on which the special
food hazard areas and the floodway s are delineated. This official map is a
supplement to and shall be used in conjunction with the Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM) .
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). An official map of a community, issued by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), where the boundaries of the
special flood hazard areas have been defined as Zone A.
   FLOOD INSURANCE. The insurance coverage provided under the National Flood
Insurance Program.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, issued by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), on which both the special flood
hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community are
delineated. (See also DFIRM.)
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). An examination, evaluation, and determination
of flood hazards, corresponding water surface elevations (if appropriate),
flood insurance risk zones, and other flood data in a community issued by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). The flood insurance study report
includes Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMs) and Flood Boundary and Floodway Maps
(FBFMs), if published.
   FLOOD PRONE AREA. See FLOODPLAIN.
   FLOODPLAIN. Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any
source.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The individual appointed to administer and enforce
the floodplain management regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. Any type of permit that is required in
conformance with the provisions of this subchapter, prior to the commencement
of any development  activity.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood  damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain , including, but not
limited to, emergency preparedness plans, flood  control works, floodplain
management regulations, and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This subchapter and other zoning
ordinances, subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations,
special purpose ordinances, and other applications of police power. This term
describes federal, state or local regulations, in any combination thereof,
which provide standards for preventing and reducing flood loss and damage.
   FLOOD-PROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures, which reduce or eliminate flood damage
to real estate or improved real property, water and sanitation facilities,
structures, and their contents.
   FLOOD-RESISTANT MATERIAL. Any building product (material, component or
system) capable of withstanding direct and prolonged contact (minimum 72 hours)
with floodwaters without sustaining damage that requires more than low-cost
cosmetic repair. Any material that is water-soluble or is not resistant to
alkali or acid in water, including normal adhesives for above-grade use, is not
flood-resistant. Pressure-treated lumber or naturally decay-resistant lumbers
are acceptable flooring materials. Sheet-type flooring coverings that restrict
evaporation from below and materials that are impervious, but dimensionally
unstable are not acceptable. Materials that absorb or retain water excessively
after submergence are not flood-resistant. Please refer to Technical Bulletin
2, Flood Damage-Resistant Materials Requirements, and available from the FEMA.
Class 4 and 5 materials, referenced therein, are acceptable flood-resistant
materials.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse, including the area
above a bridge or culvert when applicable, and the adjacent land areas that
must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively
increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   FLOODWAY ENCROACHMENT ANALYSIS. An engineering analysis of the impact that a
proposed encroachment into a floodway or non-encroachment area is expected to
have on the floodway boundaries and flood levels during the occurrence of the
base flood discharge. The evaluation shall be prepared by a qualified North
Carolina licensed engineer using standard engineering methods and hydraulic
models meeting the minimum requirement of the National Flood Insurance Program.
   FLOOD ZONE. A geographical area shown on a Flood Hazard Boundary Map or
Flood Insurance Rate Map that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the
area.
   FREEBOARD. The height added to the base flood elevation (BFE) to account for
the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than
the height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such
as wave action, blockage of bridge or culvert openings, storm surge or
precipitation exceeding the base flood, and the hydrological effect of
urbanization of the watershed. The BFE plus the freeboard establishes the
“regulatory flood protection elevation.”
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT FACILITY. A facility which cannot be used for its
intended purpose unless it is located in close proximity to water, limited to a
docking or port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or
passengers, shipbuilding, or ship repair. The term does not include long-term
storage, manufacture, sales, or service facilities.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT FACILITY. A facility for the collection, storage
, processing , treatment, recycling, recovery, or disposal of hazardous waste
as defined in G.S. Article 9 of Chapter 130A.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE (HAG). The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface, prior to construction, immediately next to the proposed walls of the
structure .
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the US Department of Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of Interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic landmarks in
communities with a “Certified Local Government (CLG) Program”; or
      (4)   Certified as contributing to the historical significance of a
historic district designated by a community with a “Certified Local Government
(CLG) Program”.
      Certified Local Government (CLG) Programs are approved by the US
Department of the Interior in cooperation with the North Carolina Department of
Cultural Resources through the State Historic Preservation Officer as having
met the requirements of the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966 as
amended in 1980.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). An official determination  issued by FEMA that
amends or revises an effective Flood Insurance Rate Map or Flood Insurance
Study . Letters of Map Change include:
      (1)   Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA): An official amendment, by letter,
to an effective National Flood Insurance Program map. A LOMA is based on
technical data showing that a property had been inadvertently mapped as being
in the floodplain, but is actually on natural high ground above the base flood
elevation. A LOMA amends the current effective Flood Insurance Rate Map and
establishes that a specific property, portion of a property, or structure is
not located in a special flood hazard area.
      (2)   Letter of Map Revision (LOMR): A revision based on technical data
that may show changes to flood zones, flood elevations, special flood hazard
area boundaries and floodway delineations, and other planimetric features.
      (3)   Letter of Map Revision Based on Fill (LOMR-F): A determination
that a structure or parcel of land has been elevated by fill above the BFE and
is, therefore, no longer located within the special flood hazard area. In order
to qualify for this determination , the fill must have been permitted and
placed in accordance with the community’s floodplain management regulations.
      (4)   Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR): A formal review and
comment as to whether a proposed project complies with the minimum NFIP
requirements for such projects with respect to delineation of special flood
hazard areas. A CLOMR does not revise the effective Flood Insurance Rate Map or
Flood Insurance Study; upon submission and approval of certified as-built
documentation, a Letter of Map Revision may be issued by FEMA to revise the
effective FIRM.
   LIGHT DUTY TRUCK. Any motor vehicle rated at 8,500 pounds gross vehicular
weight rating or less which has a vehicular curb weight of 6,000 pounds or less
and which has a basic vehicle frontal area of 45 square feet or less as defined
in 40 CFR 86.082-2 and is:
      (1)   Designed primarily for purposes of transportation of property or is
a derivation of such a vehicle;
      (2)   Designed primarily for transportation of persons and has a capacity
of more than 12 persons; or
      (3)   Available with special features enabling off-street or off-highway
operation and use.
   LIMIT OF MODERATE WAVE ACTION (LiMWA). The boundary line given by FEMA on
coastal map studies marketing the extents of Coastal A Zones (CAZ) .
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE (LAG). The lowest elevation of the ground, sidewalk or
patio slab immediately next to the building, or deck support, after completion
of the building.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access, or limited storage in an area other than
a basement area is not considered a building’s lowest floor, provided that such
an enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this subchapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MAP REPOSITORY. The location of the official flood hazard data to be applied
for floodplain management. It is a central location in which flood data is
stored and managed; in North Carolina, FEMA has recognized that the application
of digital flood hazard data products carries the same authority as hard copy
products. Therefore, the NCEM’s Floodplain Mapping Program websites house
current and historical flood hazard data. For effective flood hazard data, the
NC FRIS website (http://FRIS.NC.GOV/FRIS) is the map repository, and for
historical flood hazard data the Flood NC website (http://FLOODNC.GOV/NCFLOOD )
is the map repository.
   MARKET VALUE. The building value, not including the land value and that of
any accessory structures  or other improvements on the lot. Market value may be
established by independent certified appraisal; replacement cost depreciated
for age of building and quality of construction (actual cash value); or
adjusted tax assessed values.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the “start of construction” commenced
on or after the effective date of the initial floodplain management regulations
and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NON-ENCROACHMENT AREA (NEA). The channel of a river or other watercourse,
including the area above a bridge or culvert when applicable, and the adjacent
land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot as
designated in the Flood Insurance Study report.
   OTHERWISE PROTECTED AREA (OPA). See COASTAL BARRIER RESOURCES SYSTEM (CBRS)
.
   POST-FIRM. Construction or other development for which the “start of
construction” occurred on or after October 18, 1983, the effective date of the
initial Flood Insurance Rate Map .
   PRE-FIRM. Construction or other development for which the “start of
construction” occurred before October 18, 1983, the effective date of the
initial Flood Insurance Rate Map .
   PRIMARY FRONTAL DUNE (PFD). A continuous or nearly continuous mound or ridge
of sand with relatively steep seaward and landward slopes immediately landward
and adjacent to the beach and subject to erosion and over-topping from high
tides and waves during major coastal storms. The inland limit of the primary
frontal dune occurs at the point where there is a distinct change from a
relatively steep slope to a relatively mild slope.
   PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND. At least 51% of the actual cash value of the
structure is above ground.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND/OR NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to the safety or
health of an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of
persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV). A vehicle, which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck ;
      (4)   Not designed for primary use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use;
and
      (5)   Is fully licensed and ready for highway use.
      For the purpose of this chapter, TINY HOMES/HOUSES and park models that
do not meet the items listed above are not considered recreational vehicles and
should meet the standards of residential structures.
   REFERENCE LEVEL. The top of the lowest floor for structures within special
flood hazard areas designated as Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A99. The reference level
is the bottom of the lowest horizontal structural member of the lowest floor
for structures within special flood hazard areas designated as Zone VE.
   REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION. The base flood elevation plus the
freeboard . In special flood hazard areas where base flood elevations (BFEs)
have been determined, this elevation shall be the BFE plus two feet. In special
flood hazard areas where no BFE has been established, this elevation shall be
at least two feet above the highest adjacent grade.
   REMEDY A VIOLATION. To bring the structure or other development into
compliance with state and community floodplain management regulations, or, if
this is not possible, to reduce the impacts of it noncompliance. Ways that
impacts may be reduced include protecting the structure or other affected
development from flood damages, implementing the enforcement provisions of the
ordinance or otherwise deterring future violations, or reducing federal
financial exposure with regard to the structure or other development.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, and the like.
   SALVAGE YARD. Any non-residential property used for the storage, collection,
and/or recycling of any type of equipment, and including but not limited to
vehicles, appliances and related machinery.
   SAND DUNES. Naturally occurring accumulations of sand in ridges or mounts
landward of the beach.
   SHEAR WALL. Walls used for structural support but not structurally joined or
enclosed at the end (except by breakaway walls). Shear walls are parallel or
nearly parallel to the flow of the water.
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITY. Any facility involved in the disposal of
solid waste, as defined in G.S. §130A-290(a)(35).
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL SITE. As defined in G.S. §130A-290(a)(36), any place at
which solid wastes are disposed of by incineration, sanitary landfill, or any
other method.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). The land in the floodplain subject to a 1%
or greater chance of being flooded in any given year as determined in §
152.407.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement , and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement, or other
improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start means
either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site,
such as the pouring of slabs or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading, and filling; nor does
it include the installation of streets  and/or walkways; nor does it include
excavation for a basement , footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings , such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling  units
or not part of the main structure . For a substantial improvement , the actual
start of construction means the first alteration  of any wall, ceiling, floor ,
or other structural part of the building , whether or not that alteration
affects the external dimensions of the building .
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, a manufactured home, or a gas,
liquid, or liquefied gas storage tank that is principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure during any
one-year period whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before
damaged condition would equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the
structure before the damage occurred. See definition of SUBSTANTIAL
IMPROVEMENT.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any combination of repairs, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition , or other improvement of a structure , taking place
during any one year period for which the cost equals or exceeds 50% of the
market value of the structure before the "start of construction" of the
improvement . This term includes structures which have incurred "substantial
damage" , regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
      (1)   Any correction of existing violations of state or community health,
sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been identified by the
community   code enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure and the alteration is approved by variance issued pursuant
to §
152.417.
   TECHNICAL BULLETIN and TECHNICAL FACT SHEET.
      (1)   A FEMA publication that provides guidance concerning the building
performance standards of the NFIP, which are contained in Title 44 of the U.S.
Code of Federal Regulations at Section 60.3. The bulletins and fact sheets are
intended for use primarily by state and local officials responsible for
interpreting and enforcing NFIP regulations and by members of the development
community, such as design professionals and builders. New bulletins, as well as
updates of existing bulletins, are issued periodically as needed. The bulletins
do not create regulations; rather they provide specific guidance for complying
with the minimum requirements of existing NFIP regulations.
      (2)   It should be noted that Technical Bulletins and Technical Fact
Sheets provide guidance on the minimum requirements of the NFIP regulations.
State or community requirements that exceed those of the NFIP take precedence.
Design professionals should contact the community officials to determine
whether more restrictive state or local regulations apply to the building or
site in question. All applicable standards of the state or local building code
must also be met for any building in a flood hazard area.
   TEMPERATURE CONTROLLED. Having the temperature regulated by a heating and/or
cooling system, built-in or appliance.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this subchapter.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development  to be fully
compliant with the community ’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development  without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in §§
152.425 through
152.446 is presumed to be in violation until such time as that documentation is
provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION (WSE). The height, in relation to NAVD 1988, of
floods of various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or
riverine areas.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
Watercourse includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2020-O3, passed 6-8-2020)
§ 152.406 LANDS TO WHICH THIS SUBCHAPTER APPLIES.
   This subchapter shall apply to all special food hazard areas within the
jurisdiction, including extra-territorial jurisdictions (ETJ) as allowed by
law, of the Town of Swansboro.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2020-O3, passed 6-8-2020)
§ 152.407 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   The special flood hazard areas are those identified under the Cooperating
Technical State (CTS) agreement between the State of North Carolina and FEMA in
its FIS dated June 19, 2020 for the town and associated DFIRM panels, including
any digital data developed as part of the FIS, which are adopted by reference
and declared a part of this chapter, and all revisions thereto.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2012-O4, passed 3-20-2012; Am. Ord.
2020-O3, passed 6-8-2020)
§ 152.408 ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this subchapter prior to the commencement of any development
 activities within special flood hazard areas as determined in §
152.427(K) and (L).
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2020-O3, passed 6-8-2020)
§ 152.409 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted,
altered, or developed in any way without full compliance with the terms of this
subchapter and other applicable regulations.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2020-O3, passed 6-8-2020)
§ 152.410 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This subchapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements , covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this subchapter and
another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions
shall prevail.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2020-O3, passed 6-8-2020)
§ 152.411 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this subchapter, all provisions
shall be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2020-O3, passed 6-8-2020)
§ 152.412 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this subchapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
consideration. Larger floods can and will occur. Actual flood heights may be
increased by man-made or natural causes. This subchapter does not imply the
land outside the special flood hazard areas or uses permitted within such areas
will be free from flooding or flood damages. This subchapter shall not create
liability on the part of the Town of Swansboro or by any officer or employee
thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this subchapter or
any administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2020-O3, passed 6-8-2020)
§ 152.413 PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION.
   Violations of the provisions of this subchapter or failure to comply with
any of its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with grants of variance or special exceptions, shall
constitute a Class 1 misdemeanor pursuant to G.S. §143-215.58. Any person who
violates this subchapter or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall,
upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than $100 or imprisoned for not more
than 30 days, or both. Each day such violation continues shall be considered a
separate offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the Town of Swansboro
from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any
violation.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2020-O3, passed 6-8-2020)
PART II: ADMINISTRATION
§ 152.425 DESIGNATION OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Planner, hereinafter referred to as the Floodplain Administrator, or
designee, is hereby appointed to administer and implement the provisions of
this chapter. In instances where the Floodplain Administrator receives
assistance from others to complete tasks to administer and implement this
chapter, the Floodplain Administrator shall be responsible for the coordination
and community’s overall compliance with the National Flood Insurance Program
and the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2020-O3, passed 6-8-2020)
§ 152.426 FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT APPLICATION, PERMIT AND CERTIFICATION
REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Application requirements. Application for a floodplain development
permit  shall be made to the Floodplain Administrator prior to any development
 activities located within special flood hazard areas . The following items
shall be presented to the Floodplain Administrator to apply for a floodplain
development permit . A plot plan drawn to scale which shall include, but shall
not be limited to, the following specific details of the proposed
floodplain development :
      (1)   A plot plan drawn to scale which shall include, but shall not be
limited to, the following specific details of the proposed floodplain
development:
         (a)   The nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the area of
development/disturbance; existing and proposed structures, utility systems,
grading/pavement areas, fill materials, storage areas, drainage facilities, and
other development;
         (b)   The boundary of the special flood hazard area as delineated on
the FIRM or other flood map as determined in §
152.407, or a statement that the entire lot is within the special flood hazard
area;
         (c)   Flood zone(s) designation of the proposed development area as
determined on the FIRM or other flood map as determined in §
152.407.
         (d)   The boundary of the floodway (s) or non-encroachment area(s) as
determined in §
152.407;
         (e)   The base flood elevation (BFE) where provided as set forth in §
152.407, §
152.427(K) and (L), or §
152.442;
         (f)   The old and new location of any watercourse that will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development;
         (g)   The boundary and designation date of the Coastal Barrier
Resource System (CBRS) area or otherwise protected areas (OPA), if applicable;
and
         (h)   Certification of the plot plan by a registered land surveyor or
professional engineer.
      (2)   Proposed elevation and method thereof, of all development within a
special flood hazard area including but not limited to:
         (a)   Elevation in relation to NAVD 1988 of the proposed reference
level (including basement) of all structures;
         (b)   Elevation in relation to NAVD 1988 to which any non-residential
structure in Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A99 will be flood-proofed; and
         (c)   Elevation in relation to NAVD 1988 to which any proposed utility
systems will be elevated or flood-proofed;
      (3)   If flood proofing, a flood-proofing certificate (FEMA Form 086-0-
34) with supporting data, an operational plan, and an inspection and
maintenance plan that include, but are not limited to, installation, exercise,
and maintenance of floodproofing measures.
      (4)   A foundation plan, drawn to scale, which shall include details of
the proposed foundation system to ensure all provisions of this subchapter are
met. These details include but are not limited to:
         (a)   The proposed method of elevation, if applicable (i.e., fill,
solid foundation perimeter wall, solid backfilled foundation, open foundation
on columns/posts/piers/piles/shear walls);
         (b)   Openings to facilitate automatic equalization of hydrostatic
flood forces on walls in accordance with §
152.441(D), when solid foundation perimeter walls are used in Zones A, AE, AH,
AO, and A99;
         (c)   The following, in coastal high hazard areas, in accordance with
§
152.441(D) and §
152.445 (and §
152.446 if applicable):
            1.   V-zone certification with accompanying plans and
specifications verifying the engineered structure and any breakaway wall
designs; in addition, prior to the certificate of compliance/occupancy
issuance, a registered professional engineer or architect shall certify the
finished construction is compliant with the design, specifications and plans
for VE Zone construction;
            2.   Plans for open wood latticework or insect screening, if
applicable; and
            3.   Plans for non-structural fill, if applicable. If non-
structural fill is proposed, it must be demonstrated through coastal
engineering analysis that the proposed fill would not result in any increase in
the BFE or otherwise cause adverse impacts by wave ramping and deflection on to
the subject structure or adjacent properties.
      (5)   Usage details of any enclosed areas below the lowest floor.
      (6)   Plans and/or details for the protection of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems to be located and
constructed to minimize flood damage;
      (7)   Certification that all other local, state and federal permits
required prior to floodplain development permit issuance have been recieved;
      (8)   Documentation for placement of recreational vehicles and/or
temporary structures, when applicable, to ensure §
152.441(F) and (G) are met; and
      (9)   A description of proposed watercourse alteration or relocation,
when applicable, including and engineering report on the effects of the
proposed project on the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the
effects to properties located both upstream and downstream; and a map (if not
shown on plot plan) showing the location of the proposed watercourse alteration
or relocation.
   (B)   Permit requirements. The floodplain development permit shall include,
but not be limited to:
      (1)   A complete description of all the development to be permitted under
the floodplain development permit (e.g. house, garage, pool, septic, bulkhead,
cabana, pier, bridge, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or
drilling operations, or storage of equipment or materials, etc.);
      (2)   The special flood hazard area determination for the proposed
development in accordance with available data specified in §
152.407;
      (3)   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the
reference level and all attendant utilities;
      (4)   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the
protection of all public utilities;
      (5)   All certification submittal requirements with timelines;
      (6)   A statement that no fill material or other development shall
encroach into the floodway or non-encroachment area of any watercourse unless
the requirements of §
152.444 have been met;
      (7)   The flood openings requirements, if in Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A99;
      (8)   Limitations of below BFE enclosure uses, (i.e., parking, building
access and limited storage only);
      (9)   A statement, if in Zone VE, that there shall be no alteration of
sand dunes which would increase potential flood damage;
      (10)   A statement, if in Zone VE, that there shall be no fill used for
structural support;
      (11)   A statement, that all materials below BFE/RFPE must be flood
resistant materials.
   (C)   Certification requirements.
      (1)   Elevation certificates.
         (a)   An elevation certificate (FEMA Form 086-0-33) is required prior
to the actual start of any new construction. It shall be the duty of the permit
holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the
elevation of the reference level, in relation to NAVD 1988. The Floodplain
Administrator shall review the certificate data submitted. Deficiencies
detected by such review shall be corrected by the permit holder prior to the
beginning of construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure to
make required corrections shall be cause to deny a floodplain development
permit.
         (b)   An elevation certificate (FEMA Form 086-0-33) is required after
the reference level is established. Within seven calendar days of establishment
of the reference level elevation, it shall be the duty of the permit holder to
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the elevation of the
reference level, in relation to NAVD 1988. Any work done within the seven day
calendar period and prior to submission of the certification shall be at the
permit holder’s risk. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate
data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the
permit holder immediately and prior to further work being permitted to proceed.
Failure to submit the certification or failure to make required corrections
shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the project.
         (c)   A final finished construction elevation certificate (FEMA Form
086-0-33) is required after construction is completed and prior to certificate
of compliance/occupancy issuance. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of final as-built
construction of the elevation of the reference level and all attendant
utilities. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data
submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the
permit holder immediately and prior to certificate of compliance/occupancy
issuance. In some instances, another certification may be required to certify
corrected as-built construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure
to make required corrections shall be cause to withhold the issuance of a
certificate of compliance/occupancy. The finished construction elevation
certificate certifier shall provide at least two photographs showing the front
and rear of the building taken within 90 days from the date of certification.
The photographs must be taken with views confirming the building description
and diagram number provided in Section A. To the extent possible, these
photographs should show the entire building including foundation. If the
building has split-level or multi-level areas, provide at least two additional
photographs showing side views of the building. In addition, when applicable,
provide a photograph of the foundation showing a representative example of the
flood openings or vents. All photographs must be in color and measure at least
three inches by three inches. Digital photographs are acceptable.   
      (2)   Floodproofing certificate.
         (a)   If non-residential floodproofing is used to meet the regulatory
flood protection elevation requirements, a floodproofing certificate (FEMA Form
086-0-34), with supporting data, an operational plan, and an inspection and
maintenance plan are required prior to the actual start of any new
construction. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to the
Floodplain Administrator a certification of the floodproofed design elevation
of the reference level and all attendant utilities, in relation to NAVD 1988.
Floodproofing certification shall be prepared by or under the direct
supervision of a professional engineer or architect and certified by same. The
Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data, the operational
plan, and the inspection and maintenance plan. Deficiencies detected by such
review shall be corrected by the applicant prior to permit approval. Failure to
submit the certification or failure to make required corrections shall be cause
to deny a floodplain development permit. Failure to construct in accordance
with the certified design shall be cause to withhold the issuance of a
certificate of compliance/occupancy.
         (b)   A final finished construction floodproofing certificate (FEMA
Form 086-0-34), with supporting data, an operational plan, and an inspection
and maintenance plan are required prior to the issuance of a certificate of
compliance/occupancy. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to
the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the floodproofed design
elevation of the reference level and all attendant utilities, in relation to
NAVD 1988. Floodproofing certificate shall be prepared by or under the direct
supervision of a professional engineer or architect and certified by same. The
Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data, the operational
plan, and the inspection and maintenance plan. Deficiencies detected by such
review shall be corrected by the applicant prior to certificate of occupancy.
Failure to submit the certification or failure to make required corrections
shall be cause to deny a floodplain development permit. Failure to construct in
accordance with the certified design shall be cause to deny a certificate of
compliance/occupancy.
      (3)   If a manufactured home is placed within Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A99
and the elevation of the chassis is more than 36 inches in height above grade,
an engineered foundation certification is required per §
152.441(C).
      (4)   If a watercourse is to be altered or relocated, a description of
the extent of watercourse alteration or relocation; a professional engineer’s
certified report on the effects of the proposed project on the flood-carrying
capacity of the watercourse and the effects to properties located both upstream
and downstream; and a map showing the location of the proposed watercourse
alteration or relocation shall all be submitted by the permit applicant prior
to issuance of a floodplain development permit.
      (5)   Certification exemptions. The following structures, if located
within Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A99, are exempt from the elevation/flood-proofing
certification requirements specified in divisions (C)(1) and (2) of this
section:
         (a)   Recreational vehicles meeting requirements of §
152.441(F) (1);
         (b)   Temporary structures meeting requirements of §
152.441(G); and
         (c)   Accessory structures less than 150 square feet or less with a
cost of $5,000 or less and meeting requirements of §
152.441(H).
      (6)   A V-Zone certification with accompanying design plans and
specifications is required prior to issuance of a floodplain development permit
within coastal high hazard areas. It shall be the duty of the permit applicant
to submit to the Floodplain Administrator said certification to ensure the
design standards of this subchapter are met. A registered professional engineer
or architect shall develop or review the structural design, plans, and
specifications for construction and certify that the design and methods of
construction to be used are in accordance with accepted standards of practice
for meeting the provisions of this chapter. This certification is not a
substitute for an elevation certificate. In addition, prior to the certificate
of compliance/occupancy issuance, a registered professional engineer or
architect shall certify the finished construction is compliant with the design,
specifications and plans for VE Zone construction.
   (D)   Determinations for existing buildings and structures . For
applications for building permits to improve buildings and structures,
including alterations , movement, enlargement, replacement, repair, change of
occupancy, additions, rehabilitations, renovations, substantial improvements,
repairs of substantial damage, and any other improvement of or work on such
buildings and structures, the Floodplain Administrator, in coordination with
the Building Official, shall:
      (1)   Estimate the market value, or require the applicant to obtain an
appraisal of the market value prepared by a qualified independent appraiser, of
the building or structure before the start of construction of the proposed
work; in the case of repair, the market value of the building or structure
shall be the market value before the damage occurred and before any repairs are
made;
      (2)   Compare the cost to perform the improvement, the cost to repair a
damaged building to its pre-damaged condition, or the combined costs of
improvements and repairs, if applicable, to the market value of the building or
structure;
      (3)   Determine and document whether the proposed work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage; and
      (4)   Notify the applicant if it is determined that the work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage and that compliance
with the flood resistant construction requirements of the NC Building Code and
this chapter is required.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2021-O3, passed 6-8-2020)
§ 152.427 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Floodplain Administrator shall perform, but not be limited to, the
following duties:
   (A)   Review all floodplain development applications and issue permits for
all proposed development within special flood hazard areas to assure that the
requirements of this ordinance have been satisfied;
   (B)   Review all proposed development within special flood hazard areas to
assure that all necessary local, state and federal permits have been received,
including Section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of
1972, 33 U.S.C. 1334;
   (C)   Notify adjacent communities and the North Carolina Department of
Public Safety, Division of Emergency Management, State Coordinator for the
National Flood Insurance Program prior to any alteration or relocation of a
watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA);
   (D)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is maintained;
   (E)   Prevent encroachments into floodway s and non-encroachment areas
unless the certification and flood hazard reduction provisions of §
152.444 are met;
   (F)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to NAVD 1988) of the reference
level (including basement) and all attendant utilities of all new or
substantially improved structures, in accordance with §
152.426(C);
   (G)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to NAVD 1988) to which all new
and substantially improved structures and utilities have been floodproofed, in
accordance with the provisions of §
152.426(C);
   (H)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to NAVD 1988) of all public
utilities in accordance with §
152.426(C);
   (I)   When flood-proofing is utilized for a particular structure, obtain
certifications from a registered professional engineer or architect in
accordance with §§
152.426(C) and
152.441(B);
   (J)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of boundaries
of the special flood hazard areas, floodway s, or non-encroachment areas (for
example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and
actual field conditions), make the necessary interpretation. The person
contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity
to appeal the interpretation as provided in this subchapter;
   (K)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data has not been provided in
accordance with §152.407, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any base flood
elevation (BFE) data, along with floodway data or non-encroachment area data
available from a federal, state, or other source, including data developed
pursuant to §
152.442(B), in order to administer the provisions of this subchapter;
   (L)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is provided but no floodway or
non-encroachment area data has been provided in accordance with §
152.407, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any floodway data or non-
encroachment area data available from a federal, state, or other source in
order to administer the provisions of this subchapter;
   (M)   When the lowest floor and the lowest adjacent grade of a structure or
the lowest ground elevation of a parcel in a special flood hazard area is above
the BFE, advise the property owner of the option to apply for a letter of map
amendment (LOMA) from FEMA. However, if the property is to be removed from the
V Zone it must not be located seaward of the landward toe of the primary
frontal dune. Maintain a copy of the LOMA issued by FEMA in the floodplain
development permit file;
   (N)   Permanently maintain all records that pertain to the administration of
this subchapter and make these records available for public inspection,
recognizing that such information may be subject to the Privacy Act of 1974, as
amended;
   (O)   Make on-site inspections of work in progress. As the work pursuant to
a floodplain development permit progresses, the Floodplain Administrator shall
make as many inspections of the work as may be necessary to ensure that the
work is being done according to the provisions of the local ordinance and the
terms of the permit. In exercising this power, the Floodplain Administrator has
a right, upon presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises
within the jurisdiction of the community at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action;
   (P)   Issue stop-work orders as required. Whenever a building or part
thereof is being constructed, reconstructed, altered, or repaired in violation
of this subchapter, the Floodplain Administrator may order the work to be
immediately stopped. The stop-work order shall be in writing and directed to
the person doing the work. The stop-work order shall state the specific work to
be stopped, the specific reason(s) for the stoppage, and the condition(s) under
which the work may be resumed. Violation of a stop-work order constitutes a
misdemeanor;
   (Q)   Revoke floodplain development permits as required. The Floodplain
Administrator may revoke and require the return of the floodplain development
permit by notifying the permit holder in writing stating the reason(s) for the
revocation. Permits shall be revoked for any substantial departure from the
approved application, plans, and specifications; for refusal or failure to
comply with the requirements of state or local laws or for false statements or
misrepresentations make in securing the permit. Any floodplain development
permit mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable state or local law may
also be revoked;
   (R)   Make periodic inspections throughout all special flood hazard areas
within the jurisdiction of the community. The Floodplain Administrator and each
member of his or her inspections department shall have a right, upon
presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises within the
territorial jurisdiction of the department at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action;
   (S)   Follow through with corrective procedures of §
152.428;
   (T)   Review, provide input, and make recommendations for variance requests;
   (U)   Maintain a current map repository to include, but not limited to,
historical and effective FIS Report, historical and effective FIRM and other
official flood maps/studies adopted in accordance with the provisions of §
152.407, including any revisions thereto including Letters of Map Change ,
issued by FEMA. Notify State and FEMA of mapping needs; and
   (V)   Coordinate revisions to FIS reports and FIRMs, including Letters of
Map Revision based on Fill (LOMR-Fs) and Letters of Map Revision (LOMRs).
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2020-O3, passed 6-8-2020)
§ 152.428 CORRECTIVE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Violations to be corrected. When the Floodplain Administrator finds
violations of applicable state and local laws, it shall be his or her duty to
notify the owner or occupant of the building of the violation. The owner or
occupant shall immediately remedy each of the violations of law cited in such
notification.
   (B)   Actions in event of failure to take corrective action. If the owner of
a building or property shall fail to take prompt corrective action, the
Floodplain Administrator shall give the owner written notice, by certified or
registered mail to the owner’s last known address or by personal service,
stating:
      (1)   That the building or property is in violation of the floodplain
management regulations;
      (2)   That a hearing will be held before the Floodplain Administrator at
a designated place and time, not later that ten days after the date of the
notice, at which time the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or by
counsel and to present arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter; and
      (3)   That following the hearing, the Floodplain Administrator may issue
an order to alter, vacate, or demolish the building; or to remove fill as
applicable.
   (C)   Order to take corrective action. If, upon a hearing held pursuant to
the notice prescribed above, the Floodplain Administrator shall find that the
building or development is in violation of the flood damage prevention
ordinance, he or she shall issue an order in writing to the owner, requiring
the owner to remedy the violation within a specified time period, not less than
60 days, nor more than 180 calendar days. Where the Floodplain Administrator
finds that there is imminent danger to life or other property, he or she may
order that corrective action be taken in such lesser period as may be feasible.
   (D)   Appeal. Any owner who has received an order to take corrective action
may appeal the order to the Flood Management Appeals Board by giving notice of
appeal in writing to the Floodplain Administrator and the Town Clerk within ten
days following issuance of the final order, In the absence of an appeal, the
order of the Floodplain Administrator shall be final. The Flood Management
Appeals Board shall hear an appeal within a reasonable time and may affirm,
modify and affirm, or revoke the order.
   (E)   Failure to comply with order. If the owner of a building or property
fails to comply with an order to take corrective action of which no appeal has
been made or fails to comply with an order of the Flood Management Appeals
Board following an appeal, the owner shall be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor
pursuant to G.S. §143-215.58 and shall be punished at the discretion of the
court.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2020-O3, passed 6-8-2020)
§ 152.429 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Flood Management Appeals Board, as established by the Town of
Swansboro hereinafter referred to as the Appeal Board, shall hear and decide
requests for variances from the requirements of this subchapter.
   (B)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board may appeal
such decision to the Court, as provided in Chapter 7A of the North Carolina
General Statutes.
   (C)   Variances may be issued for:
      (1)   The repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon the
determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the
structure’s continued designation as a historic structure and that the variance
is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the
structure;
      (2)   Functionally dependent facilities if determined to meet the
definition as stated in §
152.405, provided provisions of divisions (I)(2), (3), and (5) of this section
have been satisfied, and such facilities are protected by methods that minimize
flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats to public
safety; or
      (3)   Any other type of development, provided it meets the requirements
stated in this section.
   (D)   In passing upon variances, the Appeal Board shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other
sections of this subchapter, and:
      (1)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (2)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location as defined
under §
152.405 as a functionally dependent facility, where applicable;
      (6)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (10)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
      (11)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
   (E)   A written report addressing each of the above factors shall be
submitted with the application for a variance.
   (F)   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of
this subchapter, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes and objectives of this
subchapter.   
   (G)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the BFE and the elevation to which the
structure is to be built and that such construction below the BFE increases
risks to life and property, and that the issuance of a variance to construct a
structure below the BFE may result in increased premium rates for flood
insurance up to $25 per $100 of insurance coverage. Such notification shall be
maintained with a record of all variance actions, including justification for
their issuance.
   (H)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all appeal
actions and report any variances to the FEMA and the State of North Carolina
upon request.
   (I)   Conditions for variances.
      (1)   Variances shall not be issued when the variance will make the
structure in violation of other federal, state, or local laws, regulations, or
ordinances.
      (2)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway or
non-encroachment area if the variance would result in any increase in flood
levels during the base flood discharge.
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (4)   Variances shall only be issued prior to development permit
approval.
      (5)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, or
extraordinary public expenses, create nuisance, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
   (J)   A variance may be issued for solid waste disposal facilities or sites,
hazardous waste management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage
facilities that are located in special flood hazard areas provided that all of
the following conditions are met.
      (1)   The use serves a critical need in the community.
      (2)   No feasible location exists for the use outside the special flood
hazard area.
      (3)   The reference level of any structure is elevated or flood-proofed
to at least the regulatory flood protection elevation.
      (4)   The use complies with all other applicable federal, state and local
laws.
      (5)   The Town of Swansboro has notified the Secretary of the North
Carolina Department of Public Safety of its intention to grant a variance at
least 30 calendar days prior to granting the variance.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2012-O4, passed 4-17-2012; Am. Ord.
2014-O13, passed 6-17-2014; Am. Ord. 2020-O3, passed 6-8-2020)
PART III: PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 152.440 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas the following provisions are required:
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be designed
(or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, and
lateral movement of the structure;
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage in accordance
with the FEMA Technical Bulletin 2, Flood Damage-Resistant Materials
Requirements;
   (C)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damages;
   (D)   All new electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, and other service equipment shall be located at or above the RFPE or
designed and installed to prevent water from entering or accumulating within
the components during the occurrence of the base flood. These include, but are
not limited to, HVAC equipment, water softener units, bath/kitchen fixtures,
ductwork, electric/gas meter panels/boxes, utility/cable boxes, water heaters,
and electric outlets/switches;
      (1)   Replacements part of a substantial improvement, electrical,
heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning equipment, and other service
equipment shall also meet the above provisions;
      (2)   Replacements that are for maintenance and not part of a substantial
improvement, may be installed at the original location provided the addition
and/or improvements only comply with the standards for new construction
consistent with the code and requirements for the original structure;
   (E)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system;
   (F)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into floodwaters;
   (G)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding;
   (H)   Nothing in this subchapter shall prevent the repair, reconstruction,
or replacement of a building or structure existing on the effective date of
this subchapter and located totally or partially within the floodway , non-
encroachment area, or stream setback, provided there is no additional
encroachment below the regulatory flood protection elevation in the floodway ,
non-encroachment area, or stream setback ,and provided that such repair,
reconstruction, or replacement meets all of the other requirements of this
subchapter;
   (I)   New solid waste disposal facilities and sites, hazardous waste
management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage facilities shall not
be permitted, except by variance as specified in §
152.429. A structure or tank for chemical or fuel storage incidental to an
allowed use or to the operation of a water treatment plant or wastewater
treatment facility may be located in a special flood hazard area only if the
structure or tank is either elevated or flood-proofed to at least the
regulatory flood protection elevation and certified in accordance with the
provisions of §
152.426(C);
   (J)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall be
consistent with the need to minimize flood damage;
   (K)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water
systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage;
   (L)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards;
   (M)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
received all necessary permits from those governmental agencies for which
approval is required by federal or state law, including Section 404 of the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. 1334;
   (N)   When a structure is partially located in a special flood hazard area,
the entire structure shall meet the requirements for new construction and
substantial improvements; and
   (O)   When a structure is located in multiple flood hazard zones or in a
flood hazard risk zone with multiple base flood elevations, the provisions for
the more restrictive flood hazard risk zone and the highest BFE shall apply.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2020-O3, passed 6-8-2020)
§ 152.441 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas where base flood elevation (BFE) data has
been provided, as set forth in §
152.407, §
152.443 the following provisions in addition to §
152.440, are required.
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure (including manufactured homes) shall have the
reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the regulatory
flood protection elevation, as defined in §
152.405.
   (B)   Nonresidential construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or non-residential structure shall
have the reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the
regulatory flood protection elevation, as defined in §
152.405. Structures located in Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A99 may be flood-proofed to
the regulatory flood protection elevation in lieu of elevation provided that
all areas of the structure, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, below the regulatory flood protection elevation are watertight with
walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water, using structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads and the effect of buoyancy. For AO Zones, the floodproofing elevation
shall be in accordance with §
152.447. A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that the
floodproofing standards of this subsection are satisfied. Such certification
shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator as set forth in §
152.426(C), along with the operational plan and the inspection and maintenance
plan.
   (C)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   New and replacement manufactured homes shall be elevated so that
the reference level of the manufactured home is no lower than the regulatory
flood protection elevation, as defined in §
152.405.
      (2)   Manufactured homes shall be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement, either
by certified engineered foundation system, or in accordance with the most
current edition of the State of North Carolina Regulations for Manufactured
Homes adopted by the Commissioner of Insurance pursuant to G.S. § 143-143.15.
Additionally, when the elevation would be met by an elevation of the chassis 36
inches or less above the grade at the site, the chassis shall be supported by
reinforced piers or engineered foundation. When the elevation of the chassis is
above 36 inches in height, an engineering certification is required.
      (3)   All enclosures or skirting below the lowest floor shall meet the
requirements of §
152.441.
      (4)   An evacuation plan must be developed for evacuation of all
residents of all new, substantially improved or substantially damaged
manufactured home parks or subdivisions located within flood prone areas. This
plan shall be filed with and approved by the Floodplain Administrator and the
local emergency management coordinator.
   (D)   Elevated buildings. Fully enclosed area, of new construction and
substantially improved structures, which is below the lowest floor or below the
lowest horizontal structural member in VE Zones:
      (1)   Shall not be designed or used for human habitation, but shall only
be used for parking of vehicles, building access, or limited storage of
maintenance equipment used in connection with the premises. Access to the
enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow for parking of vehicles
(garage door) or limited storage of maintenance equipment (standard exterior
door), or entry to the living area (stairway or elevator). The interior portion
of such enclosed area shall not be finished or partitioned into separate rooms,
except to enclose storage areas;
      (2)   Shall be constructed entirely of flood resistant materials at least
to the regulatory flood protection elevation; and
      (3)   Shall include, in Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A99flood openings to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on walls by allowing for the
entry and exit of floodwaters. To meet this requirement, the openings must
either be certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed
the following minimum design criteria:
         (a)   A minimum of two flood openings on different sides of each
enclosed area subject to flooding;
         (b)   The total net area of all flood openings must be at least one
square inch for each square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding;
         (c)   If the building has more than one enclosed area, each enclosed
area must have flood openings to allow floodwaters to automatically enter and
exit;
         (d)   The bottom of all required flood openings shall be no higher
than one foot above the higher of the interior or exterior adjacent grade;
         (e)   Flood openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other
coverings or devices, provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions; and
         (f)   Enclosures made of flexible skirting are not considered
enclosures for regulatory purposes, and, therefore, do not require flood
openings. Masonry or wood underpinning, regardless of structural status, is
considered an enclosure and requires flood openings as outlined above.
      (4)   Shall, in Coastal High Hazard Areas (Zone VE), meet the
requirements of §
152.445.
   (E)   Additions/improvements.
      (1)   Additions and/or improvements to pre-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
         (a)   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or improvements
must be designed to minimize flood damages and must not be any more non-
conforming that the existing structure; and
         (b)   A substantial improvement, with modifications/rehabilitations/
improvements to the existing structure or the common wall is structurally
modified more than installing a doorway, both the existing structure and the
addition must comply with the standards for new construction.
      (2)   Additions to pre-FIRM or post-FIRM structures that are a
substantial improvement with no modifications/rehabilitations/improvements to
the existing structure other than a standard door in the common wall, shall
require only the addition to comply with the standards for new construction.
      (3)   Additions and/or improvements to post-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
         (a)   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or improvements
only must comply with the standards for new construction consistent with the
code and requirements for the original structure; and
         (b)   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and the
addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
      (4)   Any combination of repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition
or improvement of a building or structure taking place during a one year
period, the cumulative cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value
of the structure before the improvement or repair is started must comply with
the standards for new construction. For each building or structure, the one
year period begins on the date of the first improvement or repair of that
building or structure subsequent to the effective date of this subchapter. If
the structure has sustained substantial damage, any repairs are considered
substantial improvement regardless of the actual repair work performed. The
requirement does not, however, include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a building required to correct
existing health, sanitary or safety code violations identified by the Building
Official and that are the minium necessary to assume safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a historic structure provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure.
   (F)   Recreational vehicles. Recreational vehicles shall either:
      (1)   Temporary placement.
         (a)   Be on site for fewer than 180 consecutive days; or
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use. A recreational
vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or a jacking system, is
attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and has no
permanently attached additions.
      (2)   Permanent placement. Recreational vehicles that do not meet the
limitations of temporary placement shall meet all the requirements for new
construction.
   (G)   Temporary non-residential structures. Prior to the issuance of a
floodplain development permit for a temporary structure, the applicant must
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a plan for the removal of such structure
(s) in the event of a hurricane, flash flood or other type of flood warning
notification. The following information shall be submitted in writing to the
Floodplain Administrator for review and written approval:
      (1)   A specified time period for which the temporary use will be
permitted. Time specified may not exceed three months, renewable up to one
year;
      (2)   The name, address, and phone number of the individual responsible
for the removal of the temporary structure;
      (3)   The time frame prior to the event at which a structure will be
removed (i.e., minimum of 72 hours before landfall of a hurricane or
immediately upon flood warning notification);
      (4)   A copy of the contract or other suitable instrument with the entity
responsible for physical removal of the structure; and
      (5)   Designation, accompanied by documentation of a location outside the
special flood hazard area, to which the temporary structure will be moved.
   (H)   Accessory structures . When accessory structures  (sheds, detached
garages, etc.) are to be placed within a special flood hazard area, the
following criteria shall be met:
      (1)   Accessory structures shall not be used for human habitation
( including working, sleeping, living, cooking, or restroom areas);
      (2)   Accessory structures shall not be temperature-controlled;
      (3)   Accessory structures shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential;
      (4)   Accessory structures shall be constructed and placed on the
building site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
      (5)   Accessory structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance with
the provisions of §
152.440(A);
      (6)   Accessory structures , regardless of the size or cost, shall not be
placed below elevated buildings in V and VE Zones;
      (7)   All service facilities such as electrical shall be installed in
accordance with the provisions of §
152.440; and
      (8)   Flood openings to facilitate automatic equalization of hydrostatic
flood forces shall be provided below regulatory flood protection elevation in
conformance with the provisions of division (D) of this section.
      (9)   An accessory structure with a footprint less than 150 square feet
or that is a minimal investment of $5,000 or less and satisfies the criteria
outlined above is not required to meet the elevation or flood-proofing
standards of this section. Elevation or flood-proofing certifications are
required for all other accessory structures in accordance with §
152.426(C).
   (I)   Tanks. When gas and liquid storage tanks are to be placed within a
special flood hazard area, the following criteria shall be met:
      (1)   Underground tanks. Underground tanks in flood hazard areas shall be
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads during conditions of the design flood,
including the effects of buoyancy assuming the tank is empty;
      (2)   Above-ground tanks, elevated. Above-ground tanks in flood hazard
areas shall be elevated to or above the regulatory flood protection elevation
on a supporting structure that is designed to prevent flotation, collapse or
lateral movement during conditions of the design flood. Tank-supporting
structures shall meet the foundation requirements of the applicable flood
hazard area;
      (3)   Above-ground tanks, not elevated. Above-ground tanks that do not
meet the elevation requirements of this section shall not be permitted in V or
VE Zones. Tanks may be permitted in other flood hazard areas provided the tanks
are designed, constructed, installed, and anchored to resist all flood-related
and other loads, including the effects of buoyancy, during conditions of the
design flood and without release of contents in the floodwaters or infiltration
by floodwaters into the tanks. Tanks shall be designed, constructed, installed,
and anchored to resist the potential buoyant and other flood forces acting on
an empty tank during design flood conditions.
      (4)   Tank inlets and vents. Tank inlets, fill openings, outlets and
vents shall be:
         (a)   At or above the regulatory flood protection elevation or fitted
with covers designed to prevent the inflow of floodwater or outflow of the
contents of the tanks during conditions of the design flood; and
         (b)   Anchored to prevent lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic
and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy, during conditions of
the design flood.
   (J)   Other development.
      (1)   Fences in regulated floodway s and non-encroachment areas that have
the potential to block the passage of floodwaters, such as stockade fences and
wire mesh fences, shall meet the limitations of §
152.444.
      (2)   Retaining walls, sidewalks and driveways in regulated floodway s
and non-encroachment areas. Retaining walls and sidewalks and driveways that
involve the placement of fill in regulated floodway s shall meet the
limitations of §
152.444.
      (3)   Roads and watercourse crossings in regulated floodway s and non-
encroachment areas. Roads and watercourse crossings, including roads, bridges,
culverts, low-water crossings and similar means for vehicles or pedestrians to
travel from one side of a watercourse to the other side, that encroach into
regulated floodway s shall meet the limitations of §
152.444.
      (4)   Commercial storage facilities are not considered "limited storage"
as noted in this subchapter, and shall be protected to the regulatory flood
protection elevation as required for commercial structures.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2020-O3, passed 6-8-2020)
§ 152.442 STANDARDS FOR FLOODPLAINS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS.
   Within the special flood hazard areas designated as Approximate Zone A and
established in §
152.407, where no base flood elevation (BFE) data has been provided by FEMA,
the following provisions, in addition to §
152.440, shall apply:
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements or new development shall be permitted within a distance of 20 feet
each side from top of bank or five times the width of the stream, whichever is
greater, unless certification with supporting technical data by a registered
professional engineer is provided demonstrating that such encroachments shall
not result in any increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the base
flood discharge; and
   (B)   The BFE used in determining the regulatory flood protection elevation
shall be determined based on the following criteria:
      (1)   When BFE data is available from other sources, all new construction
and substantial improvements within such areas shall also comply with all
applicable provisions of this subchapter and shall be elevated or floodproofed
in accordance with standards in §§
152.440 and
152.441;
      (2)   When floodway or non-encroachment data is available from a federal,
state, or other source, all new construction and substantial improvements
within floodway and non-encroachment areas shall also comply with the
requirements of §
152.441 and §
152.444;
      (3)   All subdivision, manufactured home park and other development
proposals shall provide BFE data if development is greater than five acres or
has more than 50 lots/manufactured home sites. Such BFE data shall be adopted
by reference in accordance with §
152.407 and utilized in implementing this subchapter; and
      (4)   When BFE data is not available from a federal, state, or other
source as outlined above, the reference level shall be elevated or floodproofed
(non-residential) to or above the regulatory flood protection elevation, as
defined in §
152.407. All other applicable provisions of §
152.405 shall also apply.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2020-O3, passed 6-8-2020)
§ 152.443 STANDARDS FOR RIVERINE FLOODPLAINS WITH BFE BUT WITHOUT ESTABLISHED
FLOODWAYS OR NON-ENCROACHMENT AREAS.
   Along rivers and streams where BFE data is provided by FEMA or is available
from another source but neither floodway nor non-encroachment areas are
identified for a special flood hazard area on the FIRM or in the FIS report,
the following requirements shall apply to all development within such areas:
   (A)   Standards outlined in §§
152.440 and
152.441; and
   (B)   Until a regulatory floodway or non-encroachment area is designated, no
encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial improvements, or
other development, shall be permitted unless certification with supporting
technical data by a registered professional engineer is provided demonstrating
that the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined with all
other existing and anticipated development, will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2020-O3, passed 6-8-2020)
§ 152.444 FLOODWAYS AND NON-ENCROACHMENT AREAS.
   Areas designated as floodways or non-encroachment areas are located within
the special flood hazard areas established in §
152.407. The floodways and non-encroachment areas are extremely hazardous areas
due to the velocity of floodwaters that have erosion potential and carry debris
and potential projectiles. The following provisions, in addition to standards
outlined in §§
152.440 and
152.441, shall apply to all development within such areas:
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements and other developments shall be permitted unless:
      (1)   It is demonstrated that the proposed encroachment would not result
in any increase in the flood levels during the occurrence of the base flood
discharge, based on hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance
with standard engineering practice and presented to the Floodplain
Administrator prior to issuance of floodplain development permit; or
      (2)   A Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR) has been approved by
FEMA. A Letter of Map Revision (LOMR) must also be obtained within six months
of completion of the proposed encroachment.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section is satisfied, all development shall
comply with all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of this
subchapter.
   (C)   Manufactured homes may be permitted provided the following provisions
are met:
      (1)   The anchoring and the elevation standards of §
152.441; and
      (2)   The no encroachment standards of division (A) of this section are
met.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2020-O3, passed 6-8-2020)
§ 152.445 COASTAL HIGH HAZARD AREAS (ZONE VE).
   Coastal high hazard areas are special flood hazard areas established in §
152.407, and designated as Zone VE. These areas have special flood hazards
associated with high velocity waters from storm surges or seismic activity and,
therefore, all new construction and substantial improvements shall meet the
following provisions in addition to the provisions of §
152.440 and §
152.441.
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall:
      (1)   Be located landward of the reach of mean high tide; and
      (2)   Comply with all applicable CAMA setback requirements.
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be elevated so
that the bottom of the lowest horizontal structural member of the lowest floor
(excluding pilings or columns) is no lower than the regulatory flood protection
elevation. Flood-proofing shall not be utilized on any structures in coastal
high hazard areas to satisfy the regulatory flood protection elevation
requirements.
   (C)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall have the space
below the bottom of the lowest horizontal structural member of the lowest floor
either be free of obstruction or constructed with breakaway walls, open wood
latticework or insect screening, provided they are not part of the structural
support of the building and are designed so as to breakaway, under abnormally
high tides or wave action without causing damage to the elevated portion of the
building or supporting foundation system or otherwise jeopardizing the
structural integrity of the building. The following design specifications shall
be met:
      (1)   Material shall consist of open wood or plastic lattice having at
least 40% of its area open;
      (2)   Insect screening; or
      (3)   Breakaway walls which meet the following design specifications:
         (a)   Breakaway walls shall have flood openings that allow for the
automatic entry and exit of floodwaters to minimize damage caused by
hydrostatic loads, per §
152.441;
         (b)   Design safe loading resistance shall be not less than ten nor
more than 20 pounds per square foot; or
         (c)   Breakaway walls that exceed a design safe loading resistance of
20 pounds per square foot (either by design or when so required by state or
local codes) shall be certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect that the breakaway wall will collapse from a water load less than
that which would occur during the base flood event, and the elevated portion of
the building and supporting foundation system shall not be subject to collapse,
displacement, or other structural damage due to the effects of wind and water
loads acting simultaneously on all building components (structural and non-
structural). The water loading values used shall be those associated with the
base flood. The wind loading values used shall be those required by the North
Carolina State Building Code.
   (D)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be securely
anchored to pile or column foundations. All pilings and columns and the
structure attached thereto shall be anchored to resist flotation, collapse, and
lateral movement due to the effect of wind and water loads acting
simultaneously on all building components.
      (1)   Water loading values used shall be those associated with the base
flood.
      (2)   Wind loading values used shall be those required by the current
edition of the North Carolina State Building Code.
   (E)   For concrete pads, including patios, decks, parking pads, walkways,
driveways, pool decks, etc. the following is required:
      (1)   Shall be structurally independent of the primary structural
foundation system of the structure and shall not adversely affect structures
through redirection of floodwaters or debris;
      (2)   Shall be constructed to breakaway cleanly during design flood
conditions, shall be frangible, and shall not produce debris capable of causing
damage to any structure. The installation of concrete in small segments
(approximately four feet x four feet) that will easily break up during the base
flood event, or scoring the concrete in four feet x four feet maximum segments
is acceptable to meet this standard;
      (3)   Reinforcing, including welded wire fabric, shall not be used in
order to minimize the potential for concreted pads being a source of debris;
and
      (4)   Pad thickness shall not exceed four inches; or
      (5)   Provide a Design Professional's certification stating the design
and method of construction to be used meet the applicable criteria of this
section.
   (F)   For swimming pools and spas, the following is required:
      (1)   Be designed to withstand all flood-related loads and load
combinations;
      (2)   Be elevated so that the lowest horizontal structural member is
elevated above the RFPE;
      (3)   Be designed and constructed to break away during design flood
conditions without producing debris capable of causing damage to any structure;
or
      (4)   Be sited to remain in the ground during design flood conditions
without obstructing flow that results in damage to any structure.
      (5)   Registered design professionals must certify to local officials
that a pool or spa beneath or near a VE Zone building will not be subject to
flotation or displacement that will damage building foundations or elevated
portions of the building or any nearby buildings during a coastal flood.
      (6)   Pool equipment shall be located above the RFPE whenever
practicable. Pool equipment shall not be located beneath an elevated structure.
   (G)   All elevators, vertical platform lifts, chair lifts, etc., the
following is required:
      (1)   Elevator enclosures must be designed to resist hydrodynamic and
hydrostatic forces as well as erosion, scour, and waves.
      (2)   Utility equipment in Coastal High Hazard Areas (VE Zones) must not
be mounted on, pass through, or be located along breakaway walls.
      (3)   The cab, machine/equipment room, hydraulic pump, hydraulic
reservoir, counter weight and roller guides, hoist cable, limit switches,
electric hoist motor, electrical junction box, circuit panel, and electrical
control panel are all required to be above RFPE. When this equipment cannot be
located above the RFPE, it must be constructed using flood damage-resistant
components.
      (4)   Elevator shafts/enclosures that extend below the RFPE shall be
constructed of reinforced masonry block or reinforced concrete walls and
located on the landward side of the building to provide increased protection
from flood damage. Drainage must be provided for the elevator pit.
      (5)   Flood damage-resistant materials can also be used inside and
outside the elevator cab to reduce flood damage. Use only stainless steel doors
and door frames below the BFE. Grouting in of door frames and sills is
recommended.
      (6)   If an elevator is designed to provide access to areas below the
BFE, it shall be equipped with a float switch system that will activate during
a flood and send the elevator cab to a floor above the RFPE.
   (H)   Accessory structures, regardless of size or cost, shall not be
permitted below elevated structures.
   (I)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that the
design, specifications and plans for construction are in compliance with the
provisions of §
152.426, and §
152.445 on the current version of the North Carolina V-Zone Certification form
or equivalent local version. In addition, prior to the certificate of
compliance/occupancy issuance, a registered professional engineer or architect
shall certify the finished construction is compliant with the design,
specifications and plans for VE Zone construction.
   (J)   Fill/grading.
      (1)   Minor grading and the placement of minor quantities of non-
structural fill may be permitted for landscaping and for drainage purposes
under and around buildings and for support of parking slabs, pool decks, patios
and walkways.
      (2)   The fill material must be similar and consistent with the natural
soils in the area.
      (3)   The placement of site-compatible, non-structural fill under or
around an elevated building is limited to two feet. Fill greater than two feet
must include an analysis prepared by a qualified registered design professional
demonstrating no harmful diversion of floodwaters or wave runup and wave
reflection that would increase damage to adjacent elevated building s and
structures.
      (4)   Nonstructural fill with finished slopes that are steeper than five
units horizontal to one unit vertical shall be permitted only if an analysis
prepared by a qualified registered design professional demonstrates no harmful
diversion of floodwaters or wave runup and wave reflection that would increase
damage to adjacent elevated building s and structures.
   (K)   There shall be no alteration of sand dunes or mangrove stands which
would increase potential flood damage.
   (L)   No manufactured homes shall be permitted except in an existing
manufactured home park or subdivision. A replacement manufactured home may be
placed on a lot in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision provided
the anchoring and elevation standards are in compliance with this section of
the subchapter.
   (M)   Recreational vehicles may be permitted in coastal high hazard areas
provided that they meet the recreational vehicle criteria of §
152.441.
   (N)   A deck that is structurally attached to a building or structure shall
have the bottom of the lowest horizontal structural member at or above the
regulatory flood protection elevation and any supporting members that extend
below the regulatory flood protection elevation shall comply with the
foundation requirements that apply to the building or structure, which shall be
designed to accommodate any increased loads resulting from the attached deck.
The increased loads must be considered in the design of the primary structure
and included in the V-Zone Certification required under §
152.426.
   (O)   A deck or patio that is located below the regulatory flood protection
elevation shall be structurally independent from buildings or structures and
their foundation systems, and shall be designed and constructed either to
remain intact and in place during design flood conditions or to break apart
into small pieces to minimize debris during flooding that is capable of causing
structural damage to the building or structure or to adjacent buildings and
structures.
   (P)   In coastal high hazard areas , development activities other than
buildings and structures shall be permitted only if also authorized by the
appropriate state or local authority; if located outside the footprint of, and
not structurally attached to, buildings and structures; and if analyses
prepared by qualified registered design professionals demonstrate no harmful
diversion of floodwaters or wave runup and wave reflection that would increase
damage to adjacent buildings and structures. Such other development activities
include but are not limited to:
      (1)   Bulkheads, seawalls, retaining walls, revetments, and similar
erosion control structures;
      (2)   Solid fences and privacy walls, and fences prone to trapping
debris, unless designed and constructed to fail under flood conditions less
than the design flood or otherwise function to avoid obstruction of
floodwaters.
      (3)   Docks, piers, and similar structures.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2020-O3, passed 6-8-2020; Am. Ord.
2024-O13, passed 8-13-2024)
§ 152.446 STANDARDS FOR COASTAL A ZONES (ZONE CAZ) LiMWA.
   Structures in CAZs shall be designed and constructed to meet V Zone
requirements, including requirements for breakaway walls. However, the NFIP
regulations also require flood openings in walls surrounding enclosures below
elevated buildings in CAZs (see Technical Bulletin 1, Openings in Foundation
Walls and Walls of Enclosures). Breakaway walls used in CAZs must have flood
openings that allow for the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters to minimize
damage caused by hydrostatic loads. Openings also function during smaller
storms or if anticipated wave loading does not occur with the base flood.
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be elevated so
that the bottom of the lowest horizontal structural member of the lowest floor
(excluding pilings or columns) is no lower than the regulatory flood protection
elevation. Floodproofing shall not be utilized on any structures in Coastal A
Zone s to satisfy the regulatory flood protection elevation requirements.
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall have the space
below the bottom of the lowest horizontal structural member of the lowest floor
either be free of obstruction or constructed with breakaway walls, open wood
latticework or insect screening, provided they are not part of the structural
support of the building and are designed so as to breakaway, under abnormally
high tides or wave action without causing damage to the elevated portion of the
building or supporting foundation system or otherwise jeopardizing the
structural integrity of the building. The following design specifications shall
be met:
      (1)   Material shall consist of open wood or plastic lattice having at
least 40% of its area open;
      (2)   Insect screening; or
      (3)   Breakaway walls shall meet the following design specifications:
         (a)   Breakaway walls shall have flood openings to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on walls by allowing for the entry and exit
of floodwaters. To meet this requirement, the openings must either be certified
by a professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the design criteria
in §
152.441; and
         (b)   Design safe loading resistance shall be not less than ten nor
more than 20 pounds per square foot; or
         (c)   Breakaway walls that exceed a design safe loading resistance of
20 pounds per square foot (either by design or when so required by state or
local codes) shall be certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect that the breakaway wall will collapse from a water load less than
that which would occur during the base flood event, and the elevated portion of
the building and supporting foundation system shall not be subject to collapse,
displacement, or other structural damage due to the effects of wind and water
loads acting simultaneously on all building components (structural and non-
structural). The water loading values used shall be those associated with the
base flood. The wind loading values used shall be those required by the North
Carolina State Building Code.
   (C)   Concrete pads, including patios, decks, parking pads, walkways,
driveways, etc. must meet the provisions of §
152.445(E).
   (D)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall meet the
provisions of §
152.445(C).
   (E)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that the
design, specifications and plans for construction are in compliance with the
provisions of §
152.426 and §
152.445, on the current version of the North Carolina V- Zone Certification
form or a locally developed V-Zone Certification form.
   (F)   Recreational vehicles may be permitted in Coastal A Zone s provided
that they meet the recreational vehicle criteria of §
152.441.
   (G)   Fill/grading must meet the provisions of §
152.445(J).
   (H)   Decks and patios must meet the provisions of §
152.445(N) and (O).
   (I)   In coastal high hazard areas , development activities other than
buildings and structures must meet the provisions of §
152.445(P).
(Ord. 2020-O3, passed 6-8-2020)
§ 152.447 STANDARDS FOR AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (ZONE AO).
   (A)   Located within the special flood hazard areas established in §
152.407, are areas designated as shallow flooding areas. These areas have
special flood hazards associated with base flood depths of one to three feet
where a clearly defined channel does not exist and where the path of flooding
is unpredictable and indeterminate. In addition to §
152.440 and §
152.441, all new construction and substantial improvements shall meet the
following requirements:
      (1)   The reference level shall be elevated at least as high as the depth
number specified on the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), in feet, plus a
freeboard of two feet above the highest adjacent grade; or at least two feet
above the highest adjacent grade if no depth number is specified.
      (2)   Non-residential structures may, in lieu of elevation, be
floodproofed to the same level as required in division (1) of this division (A)
so that the structure, together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities,
below that level shall be watertight with walls substantially impermeable to
the passage of water and with structural components having the capability of
resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy.
Certification is required in accordance with §
152.426 and §
152.441.
      (3)   Adequate drainage paths shall be provided around structures on
slopes, to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed structures.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2020-O3, passed 6-8-2020)
§ 152.448 STANDARDS FOR AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (ZONE AH).
   Located within the special flood hazard areas established in §
152.407, are areas designated as shallow flooding areas. These areas are
subject to inundation by 1%-annual chance shallow flooding (usually areas of
ponding) where average depths are one to three feet. Base flood elevations are
derived from detailed hydraulic analyses are shown in this zone. In addition to
§
152.440 and §
152.441, all new construction and substantial improvements shall meet the
following requirements:
   (A)   Adequate drainage paths shall be provided around structures on slopes,
to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed structures.
(Ord. 2020-O3, passed 6-8-2020)
PART IV: LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS
§ 152.460 EFFECT ON RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES UNDER THE EXISTING FLOOD DAMAGE
PREVENTION ORDINANCE.
   This subchapter in part comes forward by re-enactment of some of the
provisions of the flood damage prevention ordinance enacted in June 1987 as
amended, and it is not the intention to repeal but rather to re-enact and
continue to enforce without interruption of such existing provisions, so that
all rights and liabilities that have accrued thereunder are reserved and may be
enforced. The enactment of this subchapter does shall not affect any action,
suit, or proceeding instituted or pending. All provisions of the flood damage
prevention ordinance of the Town of Swansboro enacted in June 1987, as amended,
which are not re-enacted herein are repealed.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2020-O3, passed 6-8-2020)
§ 152.461 EFFECT UPON OUTSTANDING FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMITS.
   Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the plans,
construction, size, or designated use of any development or any part thereof
for which a floodplain development permit has been granted by the Floodplain
Administrator or his or her authorized agents before the time of passage of
this subchapter; provided, however, that when construction is not begun under
such outstanding permit within a period of six months subsequent to the date of
issuance of the outstanding permit, construction or use shall be in conformity
with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2020-O3, passed 6-8-2020)
§ 152.462 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter became effective June 8, 2020.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2020-O3, passed 6-8-2020)
HISTORIC DISTRICT
§ 152.475 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of establishing local historic districts and landmarks is to
encourage the (1) restoration; (2) preservation; (3) rehabilitation; and (4)
conservation of historically, architecturally, and archaeologically significant
areas, structures, buildings, sites, objects, and surroundings. To review new
designs to ensure compatibility with the character of the district. To
safeguard against any potentially adverse influences which may cause the
decline, decay, or total destruction of these important assets. Preservation
provides for education, pleasure, and enrichment of residents of Swansboro.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005) (Am. Ord. 2008-O4, passed 2-19-2008)
§ 152.476 HISTORIC DISTRICT.
   (A)   The Swansboro Historic District hereinafter referred to as the
“District” is one of the most valued and important assets of the Town of
Swansboro. It is established for the purpose of protecting and conserving the
heritage of Swansboro, Onslow County, and the State of North Carolina; for the
purpose of safeguarding the character and heritage of the District by
preserving the District as a whole and any individual property therein that
embodies important elements of its social, economic, cultural, political, or
architectural history; for the purpose of promoting the conservation of such
District for the education, pleasure, and enrichment of residents of the
District and Town of Swansboro, Onslow County, and North Carolina as a whole.
The purpose fosters civic beauty by the revitalization of once- deteriorating
areas, by stabilizing and enhancing educational, cultural, and economic
benefits to Swansboro’s current citizens and future generations of citizens.
   (B)   The Swansboro Historic District is hereby established as a district
and is indicated as such on the official zoning map for the Town of Swansboro.
   (C)   The Swansboro Historic District is composed of the area of the
original six streets and 48 lots laid out by Theophilus Weeks in 1773 plus the
streets containing the dwellings constructed by the Swansboro Land and Lumber
Company through 1910. The Historic District begins at the point where the White
Oak River intersects the South side of North Carolina Highway 24 and proceeds
westwardly along the South side of North Carolina Highway 24 to its
intersection with Main Street; thence, along the North Side of Main Street to
its intersection with the Northwest line of Walnut Street extended; thence,
Westwardly with Walnut Street to its intersection with Broad Street, provided
that all lots abutting Walnut Street on either side of Walnut Street between
Main Street and Broad Street are included in the Historic District; thence,
with the Northward side of Broad Street extended to Eastward side of Water
Street; thence, with the Eastward side of Water Street to a point approximately
90 feet to an existing iron pipe in the right-of-way line of Water Street,
which iron pipe is located at the Northeastern corner of the lot or parcel of
land now known as Casper’s Marina Property, further described in the deed
recorded at Book 228, Page 506, Onslow County Register of Deeds, and the
Northwestern corner of property described in the deed recorded at Deed Book
743, Page 604 of the Onslow County Register of Deeds; thence, from that point,
with the line dividing said properties approximately South 32 degrees, 7
minutes 32 seconds East, to the White Oak River; thence with the White Oak
River to the point and place of beginning. In addition, the Historic District
extends a distance of 300 into the White Oak River from all points of the
shoreline described herein.
   (D)   With respect to any changes in the boundaries of such district
subsequent to its initial establishment or the creation of additional districts
within the Town of Swansboro’s planning jurisdiction, the investigative studies
and reports shall be prepared by the Historic Preservation Commission and shall
be referred to the Town of Swansboro Planning Board for its review and comment
according to procedures set forth in the zoning ordinance. Changes in the
boundaries of an initial district or proposal for additional districts shall be
submitted to the Department of Cultural Resources in accordance with the
following provisions.
   (E)   Through this process, the Town of Swansboro Board of Commissioners may
refer these reports or proposed boundaries to any knowledgeable party for
review and input. Upon receipt of finished reports and all recommendations, the
municipality may proceed in the same manner as would otherwise be required for
the adoption or amendment of any appropriate zoning ordinance provisions.
   (F)   The Department of Cultural Resources, acting through the State
Historic Preservation Officer (SHOO) or his or her designee, shall have made an
analysis of and recommendations concerning such report and description of
proposed boundaries. Failure of the Department to submit its written analysis
and recommendations to the Board of Commissioners within 30 calendar days after
a written request for such analysis has been received by the Department of
Cultural Resources shall relieve the municipality of any responsibility for
awaiting such analysis, and the Board of Commissioners may at any time
thereafter take any necessary action to adopt or amend its zoning ordinance.
The Board of Commissioners may also, at its discretion, refer the report and
the proposed boundaries to any other interested body for its recommendations
prior to taking action to amend the zoning ordinance.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 152.477 SWANSBORO HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION.
   (A)   Creation.
      (1)   There is hereby established the Swansboro Historic Preservation
Commission (SHPC) hereafter referred to as the “Historic Preservation
Commission” or “Commission,” to consist of five regular members and two
alternate members appointed by the Board of Commissioners of the Town of
Swansboro. Those persons sitting as members of the existing Historic
Preservation Commission shall continue to serve out the terms to which they
have been appointed. Thereafter, members shall be appointed by the Board of
Commissioners of the Town of Swansboro to serve three year terms, and said
terms shall continue to be staggered. Members appointed to fill a vacancy shall
be appointed to serve the remainder of the vacated term. Alternate members may
serve in the absence or temporary disqualification of any regular member or to
fill a vacancy pending appointment of a member. Alternate members are expected
to attend and participate in all meetings of the Commission when required.
      (2)   Members shall have no limitation placed on the number of
consecutive terms they may hold. The Board of Commissioners may request
termination of a member at their privilege and reappoint or not reappoint
members when their term is complete.
      (3)   At the first regularly held meeting of the new calendar year, the
Historic Preservation Commission shall elect from among its regular members a
Chairman and Vice-Chairman to serve for one year.
      (4)   The Chairman of the Commission or his/her designee shall serve on
the Swansboro Planning Board , as the Commission’s representative and shall
have all rights and responsibilities of any other Planning Board member,
including the right to vote.
   (B)   Qualifications. All members of the Swansboro Historic Preservation
Commission shall reside within the planning and zoning jurisdiction of the Town
of Swansboro. It is desirable that a majority of members reside within the
Historic District. Pursuant to G.S. §160D-303, a majority of members shall have
demonstrated special interest, experience or education in history,
architecture, archeology, or related fields.
   (C)   Duties of the Swansboro Historic Preservation Commission. The duties
of the Swansboro Historic Preservation Commission shall include the following
pursuant to G.S. §160D-942:
      (1)   Undertake an inventory of properties of historical, prehistorical,
architectural, and/or cultural significance;
      (2)   Recommend to the Board of Commissioners areas to be designated by
ordinance as “Historic Districts” and individual structures, buildings, sites,
areas, or objects to be designated by ordinance as “Landmarks;”
      (3)   Acquire by any lawful means the fee or any lesser included
interest, including options to purchase, to properties within established
districts or to any such properties designated as landmarks to hold, manage,
preserve, restore, and improve such properties, and to exchange or dispose of
the property by private or public sale, lease or otherwise, subject to
covenants or other legally binding restrictions which will secure appropriate
rights of public access and promote the preservation of the property;
      (4)   Restore, preserve, and operate historic properties;
      (5)   Recommend to the Board of Commissioners that designation of any
area as an historic district or part thereof, or designation of any building,
structure, site, area, or object as a landmark, be revoked or removed for
cause;
      (6)   Conduct an educational program regarding historic properties and
districts within the town’s planning jurisdiction;
      (7)   Cooperate with the state, federal, and local governments in
pursuance of the purposes of this ordinance. The Board of Commissioners , or
the Commission, when authorized by the Board of Commissioners , may contract
with the state, the United States of America, or any agency of either, or with
any other organization provided the terms are not inconsistent with state or
federal law;
      (8)   Enter, solely in performance of its official duties and only at
reasonable times, upon private lands for examination of survey thereof.
However, no member, employee, or agent of the Commission may enter any private
building or structure without the express consent of the owner or occupant
thereof;
      (9)   Prepare and recommend the official adoption of a preservation
element as part of the town’s comprehensive plan ;
      (10)   Review and act upon proposals for alterations , demolitions, or
new construction within historic districts, or for the alteration or demolition
of designated landmarks, pursuant to this ordinance; and
      (11)   Negotiate at any time with the owner of a building, structure,
site, area or object for its acquisition or its preservation, when such action
is reasonably necessary or appropriate.
   (D)   Meetings.
      (1)   Regular meetings. Regular meetings of the Swansboro Historic
Preservation Commission shall be held in the Swansboro Town Hall Assembly Room
the first Tuesday of each month at a time to be determined by the Commission.
      (2)   Special meetings. Special meetings of the Commission may be called
at any time by the Chairman or by a majority of the members. At least 48 hours
notice of the time and place of such meeting shall be given by the Town Clerk
to each member and appropriate media organizations. Items of business at such
special meetings shall be limited to those set out in the notice of the
meeting. The order of business for special meetings shall be set out in the
meeting call. All meetings shall conform to the North Carolina Open Meetings
Law, G.S. Ch. 143, Art. 33C.
      (3)   Quorum. A quorum shall consist of a simple majority of the
Swansboro Historic Preservation Commission.
      (4)   Conduct of meetings.
         (a)   All meetings shall be open to the public, subject to the
provisions of the North Carolina Open Meetings Law.
         (b)   The Chairman, at his/her discretion, may impose time limits upon
those desiring to speak.
         (c)   At the close of discussion the Chairman may: (a) call for a
formal motion, a second and a vote for or against the motion; or (b) call for a
formal motion, a second and a vote by the members to table or continue the
matter being heard until such time as additional necessary information may be
obtained.
         (d)   1.   A member of the Commission exercising quasi-judicial
functions shall not participate in or vote on any quasi-judicial matter in a
manner that would violate affected persons’ constitutional rights to an
impartial decision maker. Impermissible violations of due process include, but
are not limited to, a member having a fixed opinion prior to hearing the matter
that is not susceptible to change, undisclosed ex parte communications, a close
familial , business, or other associational relationship with an affected
person, or a financial interest in the outcome of the matter.
            2.   If an objection is raised to a board member’s participation at
or prior to the hearing or vote on a particular matter and that member does not
recuse himself or herself, the remaining members of the board shall by majority
vote rule on the objection.
      (5)   Vote. The vote of a majority of those members present shall be
sufficient to decide matters before the Commission, provided three members are
present. Abstention counts as a “yes” vote. Chairman votes only to break ties.
   (E)   Attendance of meetings. Any member of the Swansboro Historic
Preservation Commission who misses more than three consecutive regular meetings
or more than half the regular meetings in a calendar year shall lose his or her
status as a member of the Commission and shall be replaced or re-appointed by
the Town Board. Absence due to sickness, death, or other emergencies of like
nature shall be recognized as approved absences and shall not affect the
members status on the Commission except that in the event of a long illness or
other such case for prolonged absence, the member shall be replaced.
   (F)   Meeting minutes. The Commission shall keep permanent minutes of all
its meetings. The minutes shall record attendance of its members, its
resolutions, findings, recommendations and actions.
   (G)   Rules of procedure. The Swansboro Historic Preservation Commission
shall adopt and publish rules of procedure for the conduct of its business.
   (H)   Annual report required. An annual report shall be prepared and
submitted by the Commission to the Board of Commissioners  on or before
February 15th each year. The report shall include a review of the activities,
actions and problems of the Commission along with any recommendations that the
Commission cares to make to the Board of Commissioners .
   (I)   An administrator will be appointed to oversee the administrative
functions of the Historic Preservation Commission by the Board of Commissioners
.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. passed 3-20-2007; Am. Ord. 2008-O4,
passed 2-19-2008; Am. Ord. 2008-O33, passed 11-8-2008; Am. Ord. 2010-O6, passed
2-16-2010; Am. Ord. 2012-O9, passed 8-21-2012; Am. Ord. 2016-O10, passed 9-13-
2016; Am. Ord. 2021-O3, passed 5-24-2021)
§ 152.478 CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS.
   (A)   When required. No person  shall be permitted to construct, alter, move
or demolish any building  or other structure  (including masonry walls, fences,
light fixtures, steps and pavement, or other appurtenant features), nor above-
ground utility structure , nor any type of outdoor advertising sign, in the
Historic District without first applying for and obtaining a certificate of
appropriateness for such construction, alteration, moving or demolition. The
Historic Preservation Commission shall have the authority to issue a
certificate of appropriateness subject to reasonable conditions necessary to
carry out the purposes of this ordinance. Any building permit or other such
permit not issued in conformity with this selection shall be invalid.
   (B)   For administrative purposes, exterior work items are divided into four
categories: routine maintenance, staff approval, minor work, and major work.
The category of review required for various types of exterior work shall be as
set forth in the Certificate of Appropriateness List (§
152.479).
      (1)   Routine maintenance does not require a certificate of
appropriateness for repairs using original materials or designs that do not
alter the exterior appearance of the property.
      (2)   Minor work will require a certificate of appropriateness, and will
be reviewed by the Minor Work Committee (M.C.) of the Swansboro Historic
Preservation Commission. Minor work may be referred to the full SHPC if the
staff/ committee determines that the change involves substantial alterations ,
additions, or removals that could impair the integrity of the district.
         (a)   Members of the M.C. will consist of the chairman, vice-chairman
of the SHPC, and the non-voting administrator of the SHPC. If either voting
committee member is not available, the other member will choose a committee
member from among the members of the SHPC including alternate members. If the
non-voting administrator is unable to attend, the administrator’s assistant
will take the position.
         (b)   The Minor Work Committee (M.C.) will consider minor work
applications within seven working days of application submittal. Should the two
voting members not agree on the request, it is the right of the applicant to be
heard by the full SHPC or if the two M.C. members decide that the item is best
heard before the SHPC. The minor work request shall be scheduled for the next
regular meeting, as long as the Town’s time policy for SUBMITTAL to the SHPC is
met. All decisions of the M.C. will be reported in writing to the SHPC at the
next regular meeting.
      (3)   Major work will require a certificate of appropriateness and is
reviewed by the Historic Preservation Commission. In general, major work
projects involve a change in the appearance of a structure, and are more
substantial in nature than routine maintenance or minor work projects. Where a
certificate of appropriateness is required, the Town of Swansboro and all
public utilities will conform in the same manner as private property owners .
   (C)   Required procedures.
      (1)   Application submitted to the Administrator or his or her authorized
agent. An application for a certificate of appropriateness shall be obtained
from the town, completed by the applicant, and filed with the town. The SHPC
application completed in form and content, and the application is filed within
the time frame according to town policy for application submittal, then the
application shall be considered by the SHPC at its next regular meeting.
Otherwise, consideration shall be deferred to the next regular meeting
thereafter. An applicant may file with his/her application any additional
information relevant to the application.
         (a)   An application for a certificate of appropriateness shall be
obtained from the town, completed by the applicant, and filed with the town.
The SHPC application completed in form and content, and the application is
filed within the time frame according to town policy for application submittal,
then the application shall be considered by the SHPC at its next regular
meeting. Otherwise, consideration shall be deferred to the next regular meeting
thereafter. An applicant may file with his/her application any additional
information relevant to the application.
         (b)   The Commission shall follow quasi-judicial procedures in acting
on applications for certificates of appropriateness as specified in §§
152.065 through
152.071.
      (2)   Contents of application.
         (a)   The SHPC shall require data as are reasonably necessary to
determine the nature of the application. An application for a Certificate of
Appropriateness shall not be considered complete until all required data have
been submitted.
         (b)   The applicant and/or his designee shall be present at the
meeting at which his application is to be considered. If a third party is to
represent the applicant, such permission must be in writing and become part of
the application for certificate of appropriateness. (Nov. 7, 1991)
         (c)   When the proposed application is also subject to any state/
federal regulations, the complete application from the appropriate officials
must be made a part of the application for certificate of appropriateness. The
certificate of appropriateness application will be put in a holding file
pending approval of the state and federal application.
         (d)   An application fee as established by the Town of Swansboro shall
be paid by the applicant upon filing of a major work application with the
Administrator. An approved certificate of appropriateness may be re-submitted
for minor revisions without payment of an additional application fee.
Significant changes will require approval by the Commission in the same manner
as the original application and appropriate fee.
      (3)   Notification of Swansboro Historic Preservation Commission. Upon
receipt of an application, the Administrator shall notify the Swansboro
Historic Preservation Commission at least five working days before its
regularly scheduled meeting.
      (4)   Review of application by SHPC. As part of its review procedure, the
SHPC may view the premises and seek the advice of the Department of Cultural
Resources or such other expert advice as it may deem necessary under the
circumstances.
      (5)   Swansboro Historic Preservation Commission action on application.
The SHPC shall take action on each application for a certificate of
appropriateness and shall take such action as shall provide a result that is
congruous and in keeping with the special character of the district and the
review criteria, contained in §
152.482. The SHPC’s action on the application shall be approval, approval with
modifications, disapproval or tabled. Prior to final action on an application,
the Commission, using the review criteria in §
152.482 and the Historic District Design Guidelines, shall make written
findings of fact indicating the extent to which the application is or is not
congruous with the historic aspects of the district.
      (6)   Reasons for SHPC’s actions to appear in minutes. The SHPC shall
cause to be entered into the minutes of its meeting the reasons for its
actions, whether it be approval, approval with modifications, or denial.
      (7)   Time limits. All matters will be processed by the SHPC at the
meeting when the matter is first considered, if reasonably possible. All
applications for certificate of appropriateness shall be reviewed and acted
upon within a reasonable time, not to exceed 180 days from the date the
application for a certificate of appropriateness is filed, as defined by the
ordinance.
      (8)   Submission of new application. If the SHPC determines that a
certificate of appropriateness should not be issued, a new application
affecting the same property may be submitted, only if substantial change is
made in plans for the proposed construction, reconstruction, alteration,
restoration, or moving.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. Ord. 2007-O4, passed 4-17-2007; Am.
Ord. 2008-O33, passed 11-18-2008; Am. Ord. 2016-O10, passed 9-13-2016; Am. Ord.
2021-O3, passed 5-24-2021)
§ 152.479 CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS LIST.
   Certificates of appropriateness shall be required for properties identified
as contributing (C) and non-contributing (N) in the Historic District according
to the chart which follows. In the chart, and “N” entry applies to those homes
built after 1938, and a “C” entry applies to those homes built before 1938. An
“X” entry applies to both Contributing and Non-contributing structures.
Type of Work Routine     Minor Work (M.C.) Major Work (SHP) Staff Approval
             Maintenance
Type of Work                 Routine     Minor Work  Major Work  Staff Approval
                             Maintenance (M.C.)      (SHP)
    New construction or
1   additions to principal                           X
    structures or buildings
2   Demolition of any                                X
    structure  or building
    Demolition of any part
3   of a structure  or                               X
    building
4   Relocation of structures                         X
    or buildings
    Removal/alteration of
5   architecturally                      N           C
    significant features
    Removal/alteration of
6   contributing historical                          X
    features
    Repair/replacement of
    existing accessory
    buildings  and
7   outbuildings when there  X
    is no change in design,
    materials, or general
    appearance
    Alteration /additions to
8   existing accessory                   X
    buildings  and
    outbuildings
    New accessory buildings
9   or outbuildings up to                X
    144 sq. ft.
    New accessory buildings
10  or outbuildings greater                          X
    than 144 sq. ft.
    Removal of existing
    accessory buildings  and
11  outbuildings which are               N           C
    not architecturally or
    historically significant
    Removal of existing
    accessory buildings  and
12  outbuildings which are               N           C
    architecturally or
    historically significant
    Repair or replacement of
    architectural details
13  when there is no change  X
    in design, materials, or
    general appearance
14  Alteration /addition of              X
    architectural details
15  Removal of architectural             N           C
    details
    Repair/replacement of
    awnings, canopies, or
16  shutters when there is   X
    no change in design,
    materials, or general
    appearance
    Alteration of existing
17  awnings, canopies, or                X
    shutters
18  Addition of awnings,                 X
    canopies, or shutters
19  Removal of awnings,                  X
    canopies, or shutters
    Removal of carports with
20  historical or                                    X
    architectural
    significance
    Repair/replacement of
    decks when there is no
21  change in design,        X
    materials, or general
    appearance
22  Alteration /addition to              N           C           X
    existing decks
23  Construction of new                  N           C
    decks
24  Removal of existing                  N           C
    decks
25  Alteration/addition of               N           C
    doors
26  Installation of storm                X
    doors
27  Removal of doors                     N           C
    Repair/replacement of
    existing driveways when
28  there is no change in    X
    design, materials, or
    general appearance
29  Alteration/addition to                                       X
    existing driveways
30  Construction of new                                          X
    driveways
31  Removal of driveways                                         X
    Repair/replacement of
    existing fences or walls
32  when there is no change  X
    in design, materials, or
    general appearance
33  Addition/alteration of                                       X
    fences or walls
34  Construction of new                                          X
    fences and walls
35  Removal of existing                                          X
    fences and walls
    Repair/replacement of
    exposed foundations when
36  there is no change in    X
    design, materials, or
    general appearance
37  Alteration of exposed                N           C
    foundations
    Repair/replacement of
    gutters and downspouts
38  when there is no change  X
    in design, materials, or
    general appearance
39  Installation of gutters                                      X
    and downspouts
40  Removal of gutters and   X
    downspouts
41  Installation of house    X
    numbers and mailboxes
    Minor plantings of
42  flowers and shrubbery in X
    existing beds
    Alteration /addition of
    gardens, planting beds,
    or shrubbery. Refer to
    Appendix III, Section 25
    Historic District
    Landscape for additional
43  requirements and the     X
    approved list of
    planting materials such
    as trees and shrubs.
    Vines, perennials, and
    annuals are the choice
    of the property owner.
    Removal of gardens,
44  planting beds, or        X
    shrubbery
45  Minor pruning of trees   X
    and/or shrubbery
    Removal of trees less
    than 8 inches in
46  diameter, measured 4-1/              X
    2 feet above ground
    level
    Removal of trees 8
    inches and greater in
47  diameter, measured 4-1/                          X
    2 feet above ground
    level
    Significant pruning of
    trees 8 inches and
48  greater in diameter,                 X
    measured 4-1/2 feet
    above ground level
    Addition of trees. Refer
    to
    Appendix III, Section 25
    Historic District
49  Landscape for additional X
    requirements and the
    approved list of
    planting materials for
    trees.
    Removal of dead,
50  diseased, or dangerous               X
    trees
    Repair/replacement of
    exterior lighting
51  fixtures when there is   X
    no change in design,
    materials, or general
    appearance
    Installation/alteration
52  of exterior lighting                 X
    fixtures
53  Removal of exterior                  X
    lighting fixtures
    Repairs/replacement,
    including repointing, to
    existing masonry when
    the color and
54  composition of the       X
    mortar match the
    original, and new brick
    or stone matches the
    original
    Installation of
55  mechanical equipment,                                        X
    such as heating and air
    conditioning units
56  Installation of air                                          X
    conditioners in windows
57  Painting when there is   X
    no change in color
    Painting when there is a
    change in color which
    conforms to the approved
    color palette. Should
    staff find colors are
58  out of character with                                        X
    the architecture or a
    strange combination of
    colors is proposed it
    will be forwarded to
    SHP.
    Painting when there is a
59  change in color which                            X
    does not conform to the
    approved color palette
    Repair/Replacement of
    existing parking lots
60  when there is no change  X
    in design, materials, or
    general appearance
61  Alteration /addition to  X
    existing parking lots  
62  Construction of new      X
    parking lots
63  Removal of parking lots  X
    Repair/replacement of
    existing patios when
64  there is no change in    X
    design, materials, or
    general appearance
65  Alteration /addition to                                      X
    existing patios
66  Construction of new                                          X
    patios
67  Removal of existing                                          X
    patios
    Repair/replacement of
    sloped roof coverings
    when there is no change
68  in design, materials, or X                                   X
    general appearance
    (staff approval required
    when the color changes)
69  Alteration of sloped                 N           C
    roof coverings
    Repair/replacement of
    flat roof coverings when
    there is no change in
70  design, materials, or    X                                   X
    general appearance(staff
    approval required when
    the color changes)
    Alteration of roof form
71  to prevent damage to the             X
    resource
    Installation of
72  satellite dishes and/or              X
    television antennas
    Repair/replacement of
    exterior surfaces when
73  there is no change in    X
    design, materials, or
    general appearance
74  Alteration /addition of              N           C
    exterior surfaces
75  Removal of exterior                  N           C
    surfaces
    Repair/replacement of
    Signs when there is no
76  change in design,        X
    materials, or general
    appearance
77  Installation of signs                                        X
78  Removal of existing      X
    signs
    Repair/replacement of
    exterior stairs , steps
79  and handrails when there X
    is no change in design,
    materials, or general
    appearance
    Alteration to exterior
80  stairs, steps and                    N           C
    handrails
    Construction of exterior
81  stairs, steps and                    X
    handrails
    Removal of exterior
82  stairs, steps and                    N           C
    handrails
    Repair to existing
    swimming pools when
83  there is no change in    X
    design, materials, or
    general appearance
84  Construction of swimming                         X
    pools
    Alteration/construction/
    removal of temporary
    features that are
85  necessary to ease        X
    difficulties associated
    with a medical condition
    that will be removed
    when no longer needed
    Repair/replacement of
    existing vents and
86  ventilators when there   X
    is no change in design,
    materials, or general
    appearance
87  Alteration /installation                                     X
    of vents and ventilators
88  Removal of vents and     X
    ventilators
    Repair/replacement of
    existing walks when
89  there is no change in    X
    design, materials, or
    general appearance
90  Alteration /addition to  X
    existing walks
91  Construction of new                                          X
    walks
92  Removal of walks         X
93  Walls (see fences )
    Repair/replacement of
    windows when there is no
94  change in design,        X
    materials, or general
    appearance
95  Alteration of existing               N           C
    windows
96  Addition/installation of             N           C
    new windows
97  Installation of storm                                        X
    windows
98  Removal of windows                   N           C
    Caulking and weather
    stripping windows when
99  there is no change in    X
    design, materials, or
    general appearance
    Repair/replacement of
    other appurtenant
    Features and accessory
100 site features not        X
    specifically listed when
    there is no change in
    design, materials, or
    general appearance
    Addition/alteration/
    removal of other
101 appurtenant features and                         N           C
    accessory site features
    not specifically listed
    Changes to previous
102 certificates of                                  X
    appropriateness
    Renewal of expired
103 certificates of                                  X
    appropriateness
    Emergency installation
    of temporary features to
    protect a historic
    resource (that do not
    permanently alter the
104 resource); six month     X
    duration; replacement
    with in-kind
    reconstruction or an
    approved certificate of
    appropriateness
 
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005) (Am. Ord. 2008-O33, passed 10-21-2008, Am.
Ord. 2016-O10, passed 9-13-2016; Am. Ord. 2024-O2, passed 2-13-2024; Am. Ord.
2024-O3, passed 2-13-2024)
§ 152.480 APPEALS OF DECISIONS.
   (A)   Appeals of any administrative decision may be made to the Historic
Preservation Commission.
   (B)   All decisions of the Historic Preservation Commission in granting or
denying a certificate of appropriateness may be appealed to the Board of
Adjustment in the nature of certiorari within times prescribed for appeals of
administrative decision s in G.S. §160D-405(c). To the extent applicable, the
provisions of G.S. §160D-1402 shall apply to appeals in the nature of
certiorari to the Board of Adjustment.
   (C)   Appeals from the Board of Adjustment may be made pursuant to G.S.
§160D-1402. Petitions for judicial review shall be taken within the times
prescribed for appeal of quasi-judicial decision s in G.S. §160D-1404. Appeals
in any such case shall be heard by the Onslow County Superior Court.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2021-O3, passed 5-24-2021)
§ 152.481 ZONING ORDINANCE COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Affirmation of existing zoning. Property located within the Historic
District will continue to be subject to all Zoning Ordinances of the Town of
Swansboro. This Ordinance shall not be construed as impairing the Zoning
Ordinance in any manner.
   (B)   Required conformance to dimensional regulations. Any structure
erected in the Historic District shall be subject to the dimensional and other
regulations of the Zoning Ordinance, except as follows:
      (1)   No structure or part thereof shall extend nearer to or be required
to be set back farther from the front lot line than the average distance of the
setbacks of the nearest principal building (s) within 100 feet on each side of
such building and fronting on the same side of the street ;
      (2)   No building shall exceed a maximum height established by §§
152.195 through
152.196 without a variance from the Board of Adjustment and recommendations for
variance from the Historic Preservation Commission; and
      (3)   The Commission shall place emphasis on adherence to and
preservation of appropriate historic scale, mass, height, and architectural
detail of the Historic District. However, if the property for which a
certificate of appropriateness is sought is located in a flood hazard area, or
in any other area such that the first habitable floor of the replacement
building must be elevated above the elevation of the first habitable floor of
the building, the Historic Preservation Commission shall give due regard to
balancing the mass and scale of the building with the increased height of the
building, and to balancing the mass, scale, and height of the building with the
mass, scale, and height of other buildings in the Historic District by the use
of setbacks and other creative architectural and landscaping designs to create
a building which complies with this §
152.481.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 152.482 REVIEW CRITERIA.
   (A)   Intent.
      (1)   The SHPC shall take no action under this section except to prevent
the construction, reconstruction, alteration, restoration, moving, or
demolition of buildings, structures, appurtenant fixtures, outdoor advertising
signs, or other significant features in the district which would be incongruous
with the special character of the district. Nothing in this subchapter is
construed to prevent the ordinary maintenance or repair of any exterior
elements of any building or structure within the Historic District.
      (2)   Authorized town officials may certify that a building in an
unusually deteriorated condition is dangerous, hazardous, or unsafe; however,
before a razing can be ordered, the Swansboro Historic Preservation Commission
should have both the opportunity and authority to make recommendations to the
property owner (s), town officials, and other interested parties in order to
avert the necessity for the building’s demolition.
      (3)   In granting a certificate of appropriateness, the Commission shall
take into account the historic or architectural significance of the structure
under consideration and the exterior form and appearance of any proposed
additions or modifications to that structure as well as the effect of such
change or additions upon other structures in the vicinity.
   (B)   Exterior form and appearance.
      (1)   All applications for certificates of appropriateness shall be
subject to review based upon the design guidelines in effect. The Historic
Preservation Design Guidelines are an appendix in the Unified Development
Ordinance.
      (2)   The characteristics and aspects of design that are illustrated and
detailed in the Swansboro Historic Preservation Design Guidelines shall be
considered, when relevant, by the SHPC in reviewing applications for a
certificate of appropriateness.
   (C)   Interior arrangements not considered. The Historic Preservation
Commission shall not consider interior arrangements.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005) (Am. Ord. 2007-O4, passed 4-17-2007; Am. Ord.
2008-33, passed 11-18-2008)
§ 152.483 CERTAIN CHANGES NOT PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to prevent the ordinary
maintenance or repair of any exterior architectural feature in the Swansboro
Historic District which does not involve a change in design, material, or outer
appearance thereof, nor to prevent the construction, reconstruction,
alteration, restoration, moving or demolition of any such feature which the
building inspector or similar official shall certify in writing to the SHPC is
required by the public safety because of an unsafe or dangerous condition.
   (B)   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to prevent a property
owner from making any use of his or her property that is not prohibited by
other law, or in the event of an emergency, the immediate restoration of any
existing above-ground utility structure without approval by the Historic
Preservation Commission.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2021-O3, passed 5-24-2021)
§ 152.484 DEMOLITION.
   (A)   An application for a certificate of appropriateness authorizing the
relocation, demolition, or destruction of a designated landmark or a building,
structure, or site within the district may not be denied. However, the
effective date of such a certificate may be delayed for a period of up to 365
days from the date of approval. The maximum period of delay authorized by this
section shall be reduced by the Commission where it finds that the owner would
suffer extreme hardship or be permanently deprived of all beneficial use of or
return from such property by virtue of the delay. During such period the
Swansboro Historic Preservation Commission may negotiate with the owner and
with other parties in an effort to find means of preserving the building. If
the Swansboro Historic Preservation Commission finds that the building has no
particular significance or value toward maintaining the character of the
district, it shall waive all or part of such period and authorize earlier
demolition or removal.
   (B)   An application for a certificate of appropriateness authorizing the
demolition or destruction of a building, site, or structure determined by the
State Historic Preservation Officer as having statewide significance as defined
in the criteria of the National Register of Historic Places may be denied,
except in cases where the Commission finds that the owner would suffer extreme
hardship or be permanently deprived of all beneficial use or return by virtue
of the denial.
   (C)   If the Historic Preservation Commission or Planning Board has voted to
recommend designation of a property as a landmark or designation of an area as
a district, and final designation has not been made by the Board of
Commissioners, the demolition or destruction of any building, site, or
structure located on the property of the proposed landmark or in the proposed
district may be delayed by the Commission or Planning Board for a period of up
to 180 days or until the Board of Commissioners takes final action on the
designation, whichever occurs first.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2021-O3, passed 5-24-2021)
§ 152.485 DEMOLITION BY NEGLECT.
   (A)   Defined. DEMOLITION BY NEGLECT ("DBN") shall mean and include the
failure to keep the exterior features of any historic building and/or
structures free of decay, deterioration, and structural defects in order to
ensure that the same shall be preserved. The owner or such other person who may
have legal possession, custody, and control of any building or structure on the
DBN List (hereafter defined) is hereafter called an “offender”. Historic
buildings and structures subject to this DBN provision include walls, fences,
light fixtures, steps, pavement, paths, or any other appurtenant features,
either designated as an historic landmark or found to have historic
significance. DBN shall also include the failure of the offender to repair such
exterior features as are found to be deteriorating, or to correct any condition
contributing to deterioration, including, but not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Deterioration of exterior walls, foundations, or other vertical
supports that cause leaning, sagging, splitting, listing, or buckling;
      (2)   Deterioration of flooring or floor supports, roofs, or other
horizontal members that cause leaning, sagging, splitting, listing, or
buckling;
      (3)   Deterioration of external chimneys causing leaning, sagging,
splitting, listing, or buckling;
      (4)   Deterioration or crumbling of exterior plasters or mortars;
      (5)   Ineffective waterproofing of exterior walls, roofs, and
foundations, including broken windows or doors;
      (6)   Defective protection or lack of weather protection for exterior
walls and roof coverings, including lack of paint, or weathering due to lack of
paint and/or other protective coverings;
      (7)   Rotting holes, and other forms of decay;
      (8)   Deterioration of exterior stairs, porches, handrails, windows, and
door frames, cornices, entablatures, wall facings, and architectural details
that cause the delamination, instability, loss of shape and form, or crumbling;
      (9)   Heaving, subsidence, or cracking of sidewalks, steps or pathways;
      (10)   Deterioration of fences, gates, and/or accessory structures ;
      (11)   Deterioration of any exterior feature so as to create or permit
the creation of any hazardous or unsafe conditions to life, health, or other
property.
   (B)   DNB List. The Town Planner, at his or her sole discretion, may declare
a person or entity as an offender under this section. The Town Planner shall
add any offenders and their properties to a list (the “DBN List”) and proceed
according to the provisions in § 152.487.
(Ord. 2023-O1, passed 3-13-2023)
§ 152.486 PROCEDURAL REMEDIES WHEN DEMOLITION BY NEGLECT IS DETERMINED.
   At the Town Planner’s discretion, offenders may be required to:
   (A)   Provide a sealed report from a structural engineer who has inspected
the site and consult with the Town Planner who will consult with the State
Historic Preservation Office on the submittal and ask for additional
information if needed, as well as the Town Building Official and Town Engineer.
The report must contain a breakdown of the structural integrity of the
building, including the roof, walls, floors, windows, doors, and foundation. A
detailed description of each structural component that needs work must be
provided with the remedy for repair, along with documentation that the
component is 50% or more structurally unsound.
   (B)   If water infiltration is occurring, provide a sealed site plan from an
engineer showing solutions to the stormwater issue. The calculations will be
reviewed by the Town Engineer.
   (C)   Submit two sealed sets of building plans and a site plan, along with
any exhibits that are needed for the review. Town staff will work through the
review process prior to taking the recommended drawings and exhibits to the
Swansboro Historic Commission for consideration of a certificate of
appropriateness to facilitate and document the corrective action needed.
(Ord. 2023-O1, passed 3-13-2023)
§ 152.487 COMPLIANCE AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Compliance with the terms of the certificate of appropriateness shall
be enforced by the Administrator and when appropriate by the Board of
Commissioners . The discontinuance of work or the lack of progress toward
achieving compliance with a certificate of appropriateness for a continuous
period of six months shall be deemed a failure to comply with the certificate
of appropriateness, and, without further action, the certificate of
appropriateness shall be null and void. In addition to any other remedy
provided by this chapter or by law, this chapter may be enforced in the same
manner and violations hereof are punishable according to the procedures and
penalties for violations of the zoning ordinance and town codes. In case any
building, structure, site, area or object within the Historic District is about
to be demolished, whether as a result of deliberate neglect or otherwise,
materially altered, remodeled, removed, or destroyed except in compliance with
the ordinance, the Town Board, the Commission, or other party aggrieved by such
action may institute any appropriate action or proceeding to prevent such
unlawful demolition, destruction, material alteration, remodeling, or removal;
to restrain, correct or abate such violation, or to prevent any illegal act or
conduct with respect to such a building or structure.
   (B)   Additionally, nothing contained in this ordinance shall prohibit,
impair, or limit in any way, the power of the Town of Swansboro to prevent the
construction, reconstruction, alteration, restoration, or removal of buildings,
structures, appurtenant fixtures, or outdoor signs in the Historic District in
violation of the provisions of this chapter. The enforcement of any remedy
provided herein shall not prevent the enforcement of other remedy or remedies
provided herein or in other ordinances or laws. (See G.S.§§160A-175 and 160A-
389).
   (C)   When DBN properties have been identified and added to the DBN List,
the general steps, actions, decision points, and offender’s needed responses
when receiving notice of violation from the Town Planner, are as follows:
      (1)   A completed DBN complaint form is submitted to the Town Planner and
stamped with the received date and initials. Staff may fill out the complaint
form based on email or phone call from a complaint. Email or regular mail is
preferred. However, if a phone call is received, the Town Planner will respond
by email, which should be sent to the complainer and the Swansboro Historic
Preservation Commission (“SHPC”). The Town Planner will report to the SHPC at
the next regular meeting.
      (2)   The Town Planner shall investigate any complaint. Within 14 days
following receipt of the DBN complaint, the Town Planner shall send a status
report of the complaint investigation and actions taken to the complainant and,
if warranted, send a notice of violation to the offender. The Town Planner
shall report the complaint investigation to the SHPC at its next regular
meeting if there is a basis for the complaint.
      (3)   If the Town Planner determines there is a basis for the complaint,
the offender has 30 calendar days to respond to the notice of violation,
documenting violation(s) contributing to the DBN. The offender may respond by
phone, email or in writing. The Town Planner shall send a follow-up email in
the event the offender responds by phone. The Town Planner shall send a copy of
that email to the SHPC within two business days of the call. The Town Planner
shall maintain a record of communication with the offender. The Town Planner is
the responsible party to prepare and present the reports to the SHPC.
      (4)   If the offender fails to respond or fails to address the violation
(s) by the required deadline, the town may take all action allowed under this
chapter or other applicable law related to code enforcement. The Town Planner
shall report any town enforcement action at the next SHPC meeting.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2023-O1, passed 3-13-2023)
§ 152.487 MUNICIPALLY OWNED PROPERTY.
   (A)   Municipally owned property will be subject to the same regulations as
privately owned property if located within the Historic District.
   (B)   If consideration is being made for possible town acquisitions of
historic property, the Swansboro Historic Preservation Commission should
provide input in all stages of planning on the usefulness of the acquisition.
However, acquisition and restoration of historic property should remain the
domain of private enterprise whenever possible.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2023-O1, passed 3-13-2023)
LIGHTING
§ 152.500 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   All outdoor lighting, such as that used in and around buildings,
recreation areas, parking lots and signs, shall be designed to protect against
the spillover of light to adjacent properties. It shall also be designed to
protect against glare onto public rights-of way thereby impairing the vision of
motorists and adjoining properties.
   (B)   All outdoor lighting shall be shielded from adjacent properties by
thick evergreen vegetated buffers, berms, walls, or fences , and/or the use of
directional lighting, lighting shields, special fixtures, timing devices,
appropriate light intensities, luminaries, and mountings at appropriate
heights.
   (C)   Outdoor lighting shall be architecturally integrated with the
building’s style, materials, and colors in the selection and design of light
poles, brackets, and fixtures. Only in the B-2 portion of the Historic District
Overlay is an exception to allow low lumen lighting to illuminate the historic
commercial buildings to create night time ambiance.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005) (Am. Ord. 2016-O14, passed 10-25-2016)
§ 152.501 LIGHTING PLAN REQUIRED.
   (A)   A lighting plan indicating illumination intensities shall be submitted
with site plans, plot plans and subdivision plats . The Town Planner is
authorized to waive this requirement for small independent development projects
on less than an acre if the fixture types are specified on the site plan or
plat .
   (B)   Any changes to the lighting plan must be approved by the Town Planner
through a site or plot plan revision and/or subdivision plat revision.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005) (Am. Ord. 2013-O13, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 152.502 LIGHT MEASUREMENT TECHNIQUE.
   Light level measurements shall be made at the property line of the property
upon which the light to be measured is being generated. If measurement on
private property is not possible or practical, light level measurements may be
made at the boundary of the public street   right-of-way that adjoins the
property of the complainant or at any other location on the property of the
complainant. Measurements shall be made at finished grade (ground level), with
the light- registering portion of the meter held parallel to the ground
pointing up. The meter shall have cosine and color correction and have an
accuracy tolerance of no greater than plus or minus 5%. Measurements shall be
taken with a light meter that has been calibrated within the year. Light levels
are specified, calculated, and measured in footcandles (FC). All FC values
below are maintained footcandles .
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 152.503 GENERAL STANDARDS FOR OUTDOOR LIGHTING.
   (A)   Unless otherwise specified in §§
152.503 through
152.508, the maximum light level shall be 0.5 maintained footcandle at any
property line in a residential district, or on a lot occupied by a dwelling ,
congregate care, or congregate living structure, and 2.0 maintained footcandle
at any public street   right-of-way , unless otherwise approved by the Planning
Board and Board of Commissioners .
   (B)   All flood lights , spotlights and other types of outdoor lighting
shall be installed such that the fixture shall be aimed down at least 45
degrees from vertical, or the front of the fixture is shielded such that no
portion of the light bulb extends below the bottom edge of an external shield.
Flood lights and display lights shall be positioned such that any such fixture
located within 50 feet of a public street   right-of-way is mounted and aimed
perpendicular to the right-of-way , with a side-to-side horizontal aiming
tolerance not to exceed 15 degrees from perpendicular to the right-of-way .
These type lights shall not be used to illuminate buildings or other site
features unless approved as an integral architectural element on the
development plan. On-site lighting may be used to accent architectural elements
and not be used to illuminate entire portions of building(s).
   (C)   All flood lamps emitting 1,000 or more lumens shall be aimed at least
60 degrees down from horizontal, or shielded such that the main beam from the
light source is not visible from adjacent properties or the public street  
right-of-way .
   (D)   All wall pack fixtures on buildings may be used at entrances to a
building to light unsafe areas. They are not intended to draw attention to the
building or provide general building or site lighting. All wall pack fixtures
shall be true cutoff fixtures.
   (E)   Service connections for all freestanding fixtures installed after
application of this subchapter shall be installed underground.
   (F)   Within the B1, B2, and B3 districts, all outdoor lighting fixtures
shall be at minimum full-cutoff fixtures .
   (G)   All light fixtures installed by public agencies, their agents, or
contractors for the purpose of illuminating public streets are otherwise exempt
from this regulation. For regulations regarding street Lighting, see §§
152.350 through
152.367.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005) (Am. Ord. 2013-O13, passed 5-21-2013; Am. Ord.
2016-O14, passed 10-25-2016)
§ 152.504 LIGHTING IN PARKING LOTS AND OUTDOOR AREAS.
   (A)   Other than flood lights and flood lamps , all outdoor area and parking
lot lighting fixtures of more than 2,000 lumens shall be cutoff fixtures, or
comply with division (C) of this section.
   (B)   The mounting height of all outdoor lighting, except outdoor sports
field lighting and outdoor performance area lighting, shall not exceed 41 feet
above finished grade , unless approved by the Planning Board and Board of
Commissioners as having no adverse effect.
   (C)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Non-cutoff fixtures may be used when the maximum initial lumens
generated by each fixture shall not exceed 9,500 initial lamp lumens per
fixture.
      (2)   All metal halide, mercury vapor, fluorescent, induction, white high
pressure sodium, and color improved high pressure sodium lamps used in non-
cutoff fixtures shall be coated with an internal white frosting inside the
outer lamp envelope.
      (3)   All metal halide fixtures equipped with a medium base socket must
utilize either an internal refractive lens or a wide-body refractive globe .
      (4)   All non-cutoff fixture open-bottom lights shall be equipped with
full cutoff fixture shields that reduce glare and limit uplight.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 152.505 LIGHTING FOR VEHICULAR CANOPIES.
   Areas under a vehicular canopy shall have a maximum point of horizontal
illuminance of 24 maintained footcandles (FC). Areas outside the vehicular
canopy shall be regulated by the standards of §
152.504. Lighting under vehicular canopies shall be designed so as not to
create glare off-site. Acceptable methods include one or more of the following:
   (A)   Recessed fixture incorporating a lens cover that is either recessed or
flush with the bottom surface (ceiling) of the vehicular canopy .
   (B)   Light fixture incorporating shields, or shielded by the edge of the
vehicular canopy itself, so that light is restrained to five degrees or more
below the horizontal plane.
   (C)   Surface mounted fixture incorporating a flat glass that provides a
cutoff fixture or shielded light distribution.
   (D)   Surface mounted fixture, typically measuring two feet by two feet,
with a lens cover that contains at least 2% white fill diffusion material.
   (E)   Lighting shall be restricted to lighting fixtures (including lenses)
that do not project below the bottom of the canopy. Lighting for canopies for
service stations and other similar uses shall not exceed an average of 20
footcandles as measured at ground level at the inside of the outside edge of
the canopy.
   (F)   Canopies used for building accents over doors, windows, etc. shall not
be internally lit (i.e. from underneath or behind the canopy).
   (G)   Indirect lighting where light is beamed upward and then reflected down
from the underside of the vehicular canopy . Such fixtures shall be shielded
such that direct illumination is focused exclusively on the underside of the
vehicular canopy .
   (H)   Other methods approved by the Planning Board .
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005) (Am. Ord. 2013-O13, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 152.506 OUTDOOR SPORTS FIELD/OUTDOOR PERFORMANCE AREA LIGHTING.
   (A)   The mounting height of outdoor sports field and outdoor performance
area lighting fixtures shall not exceed 80 feet from finished grade unless
approved by the Planning Board as having no adverse effect or approved by the
board of commissioners as part of a special use permit.
   (B)   All outdoor sports field and outdoor performance area lighting
fixtures shall be equipped with a glare control package (louvers, shields, or
similar devices). The fixtures must be aimed so that their beams are directed
and fall within the primary playing or performance area.
   (C)   The hours of operation for the lighting system for any game or event
shall not exceed one hour after the end of the event.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 152.507 LIGHTING OF OUTDOOR DISPLAY AREAS.
   (A)   Parking lot outdoor areas shall be illuminated in accordance with the
requirements for Section §
152.503. Outdoor display areas shall have a maximum point of illuminance of 24
maintained footcandles (FC).
   (B)   All light fixtures shall meet the IESNA definition of cutoff fixtures.
Forward throw fixtures (type IV light distribution, as defined by the IESNA )
are required within 25 feet of any public street   right-of-way .
Alternatively, directional fixtures (such as flood lights ) may be used
provided they shall be aimed and shielded in accordance with §
152.502(A) and (B).
   (C)   The mounting height of outdoor display area fixtures shall not exceed
41 feet above finished grade , unless approved by the Planning Board and Board
of Commissioners as having no adverse effect.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 152.508 SIGN LIGHTING.
   Lighting fixtures illuminating signs shall comply with the requirements of §
152.265 through
152.277, Signs, and such fixtures shall be aimed and shielded so that direct
illumination is focused exclusively on the sign.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005) (Am. Ord. 2013-O13, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 152.509 LIGHTING OF BUILDINGS AND LANDSCAPING.
   Lighting fixtures shall be selected, located, aimed, and shielded so that
direct illumination is focused exclusively on the building  facade , plantings,
and other intended site feature and away from adjoining properties and the
public street   right-of-way .
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 152.510 TIMER DEVICES.
   Timer devices shall be employed to shut off luminaries or to reduce light
levels when full lighting is not required, such as after normal business hours.
Special attention shall be given to protecting adjoining residential properties
from off-site illumination after 10:00 p.m.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005) (Am. Ord. 2013-O13, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 152.511 PERMITS.
   (A)   The applicant for any permit required for work involving outdoor
lighting shall submit documentation at time of site plan or plot plan approval
that the proposed lighting plan complies with the provisions of this
subchapter. The submission shall contain, but not be limited to the following,
all or part of which may be part of or in addition to the information required
elsewhere in this subchapter:
      (1)   A point-by-point footcandle array in a printout format indicating
the location and aiming of illuminating devices. The printout shall indicate
compliance with the maximum maintained footcandles required by this subchapter.
      (2)   Description of the illuminating devices, fixtures, lamps, supports,
reflectors, poles, raised foundations and other devices (including but not
limited to manufacturers or electric utility catalog specification sheets and/
or drawings, and photometric report indicating fixture classification [cutoff
fixture , wall pack , flood light , and the like]).
   (B)   The Administrator or his/her designee(s) may waive any or all of the
above permit requirements, provided the applicant can otherwise demonstrate
compliance with this subchapter.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 152.512 NONCONFORMITIES.
   (A)   Following application of this regulation, the installation of outdoor
lighting, replacement of outdoor lighting, and changes to existing light
fixture wattage, type of fixture, mounting, or fixture location shall be made
in strict compliance with this subchapter. Routine maintenance, including
changing the lamp, ballast, starter, photo control, fixture housing, lens and
other required components, is permitted for all existing fixtures not subject
to division (B) of this section.
   (B)   All outdoor lighting that fails to conform with §
152.502 above which is either located in a residential zoning district or which
affects a lot occupied by a dwelling , congregate care, or congregate living
structure located in a residential zoning district shall be discontinued,
removed, or made to conform with §
152.502 within five and one-half years from the effective date of this
provision. All such lights which are made nonconforming by a subsequent
amendment to this subchapter or extension of areas in which this section is
applicable shall be discontinued, removed, or made to conform within five and
one-half years after the date of such amendment or extension.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
REGULATIONS FOR LANDSCAPING
§ 152.525 PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Purpose. Protection of the Town of Swansboro’s natural environment and
enhancement of the community’s built environment with installation and
maintenance of new landscape areas are important to the Town of Swansboro and
its citizens. The regulations of this section are a tool to ensure these goals
are accomplished. The purposes of this subchapter are:
      (1)   To enhance the visual character of the community , and preserve the
economic value of property by screening objectionable views within and between
uses and provide assistance in noise abatement;
      (2)   To encourage the proper use of land by promoting an appropriate
balance between the built environment and preservation/conservation of open
space ;
      (3)   To preserve and improve property values and protect private and
public investment through preservation of open space , protection of the
existing tree canopy, providing buffers between incompatible uses and along
roadways, and encouraging the planting of new vegetation as deemed appropriate;
      (4)   To promote the aesthetic quality of property that provides
important psychological, sociological, and aesthetic counterpoints to the man-
made urban setting;
      (5)   To preserve the climatic balance while contributing to the process
of air purification and oxygen regeneration and to add environmental value by
reducing glare and heat, decrease wind velocity, and to promote energy
conservation by maximizing the shading and cooling effects of trees;
      (6)   To preserve the ecological value of property by the stabilization
and fertilization of soil and the prevention of soil erosion;
      (7)   To consider the guidelines and recommendations in Swansboro’s CAMA
Land Use Plan;
      (8)   To preserve, protect and enhance the identity, character and
business economy of Swansboro, and
      (9)   To set forth development standards and requirements for preserving
existing vegetation and installation of new landscape areas.
      (10)   Low impact development design shall be allowed in required
buffer yards.
   (B)   Application. The requirements of this section shall apply to:
      (1)   All new or changed uses of land, buildings, and structures located
within the Town of Swansboro Planning and Zoning Jurisdiction which are not
exempted in division (C) of this section; and
      (2)   Any use of building or structure which sits idle more than 180
consecutive days or is abandoned, except those uses exempted in sections (C)(1)
through (C)(3).
   (C)   None of the landscaping and screening requirements of this section
shall apply to:
      (1)   Existing uses and buildings, including repairs, alterations , or
improvements to the interiors and exteriors of existing buildings which do not
result in a change of use or additions or expansions to the buildings;
      (2)   Expansion of existing structures where the cost of the expansion
project is less than or equal to 50% of either the current tax value or
appraised value of the existing structure(s). In the event the expansion of
existing structures does not exceed the 50% of either the current tax value or
appraised value of the existing structure, and future subsequent expansions and
prior expansions occur within a five-year period that accumulatively exceeds
the 50% of either current tax value or appraised value, this subchapter shall
apply;
      (3)   Areas inside the designated right-of-way of a public or private
street ;
      (4)   Existing single-family  lots of record ; and
      (5)   Accessory structures constructed on the same lot and incidental to
the principal structure which are less than or equal to 50% of either the
current tax value or appraised value of the existing structure(s).
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005) (Am. Ord. 2005-O8, passed 7-19-2005; Am. Ord.
2013-O15, passed 7-16-2013; Am. Ord. 2015-O3, passed 9-15-2015)
§ 152.526 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Landscaping plans. Landscaping plans shall be submitted for projects
described in §
152.525(B), as part of required site plan approvals for the applicable zoning
permits  specified in §§
152.105 through
152.118, Permits and Final Plat Approval.
   (B)   Plant species and sizes. Recommended plant species and minimum plant
sizes that meet the requirements of this Section for landscaping buffers,
parking areas  and other development areas are defined in §
152.532 Other Landscaping Requirements.
   (C)   Pre-design conference. A ‘pre-design’ conference with the Town Planner
is strongly encouraged to understand the requirements of this section.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005) (Am. Ord. 2005-O8, passed 7-19-2005; Am. Ord.
2013-O15, passed 7-16-2013)
§ 152.527 ALTERNATIVE METHODS OF COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Alternative landscaping plans, plant materials or planting methods may
be used where unreasonable or impractical situations would result from strict
application of landscaping requirements or where necessary to protect existing
vegetation . Such situations may result from streams, natural rock formations,
topography, protected riparian buffer locations, other physical conditions; or
from lot configuration, utility easements or unusual site conditions.
Alternative landscaping plans may propose different plant materials, methods
and locations if the quality, effectiveness, durability and performance are
equivalent to that required by this section. Sufficient evidence or proof shall
be required with alternative landscaping plans to substantiate any claim that
may be made regarding the proposed plans, materials or methods. Alternative
plans shall be considered for approval as part of the normal site or
subdivision plan approval process.
   (B)   A combination of natural vegetation , fences , walls, stones and berms
may be utilized to achieve the requirements of this section provided that the
following standards are met:
      (1)   Walls (a minimum of five feet in height), or an opaque fence (a
minimum of five feet in height) may be used to reduce the width of a required
buffer  yard , excluding the streetscape bufferyard.
      (2)   Understory trees may be substituted for canopy trees if, in the
opinion of the Town Planner upon conferring with the electrical utility
provider, a conflict exists with overhead utility lines.
      (3)   Wall planters shall be constructed of masonry, stone or pressure
treated lumber and shall have a minimum height of 30 inches. The minimum height
of shrubs in wall planters shall be 12 inches. The effective planting space of
the wall planter shall be four feet in width. The minimum height of trees in
wall planters shall be six feet. The effective planting space of the wall
planter shall be seven feet in width.
      (4)   Any berm utilized for screening purposes shall comply with the
standards and requirements of §
152.530 Other Landscaping Requirements.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005) (Am. Ord. 2005-O8, passed 7-19-2005; Am. Ord.
2013-O15, passed 7-16-2013)
§ 152.528 PERIMETER AND STREETSCAPE BUFFER YARDS.
   (A)   Applicability. All land uses as defined in §
152.525 Purpose and Applicability shall provide perimeter buffer  yards and
streetscape buffer  yards , as defined herein, to separate that use from
adjacent land uses.
   (B)   Purpose of buffers. Preserving existing vegetation or planting new
landscaping shall be provided in order to:
      (1)   Shield properties from any adverse external effects of adjacent
development , so as to mitigate incompatibilities between adjacent uses;
      (2)   Mitigate residential development from the noise and glare impacts
of major collector and thoroughfare roadways;
      (3)   Preserve open space ;
      (4)   Preserve or create tree canopy and vegetation :
      (5)   Minimize future increases in stormwater runoff ; and
      (6)   Improve appearance of developments .
   (C)   Landscaped or re-vegetated buffers. If the Town Planner determines
that there is not an existing buffer or it has been disturbed to the extent it
does not meet the specifications herein described, then a re-vegetated buffer
shall be installed pursuant to this section.
   (D)   Type and width of buffer required.
      (1)   
Table 152.528-1 determines the type and minimum width of existing or landscaped
perimeter and streetscape buffer yards that must be preserved or installed on-
site for each proposed principal land use. Buffer types are defined in division
(E) of this section.
      (2)   Any side or rear yard of any proposed principal use that abuts a
residential use or residential district shall provide, in addition to the
buffer requirements of
Table 152.528-1, a six-foot fence with 80% opacity. The buffer required by
Table 152.528-1 shall be in addition to the required building setback .
   (E)   Types and required criteria for buffers. The four types of natural and
landscaped buffers that appear in
Table 152.528-1  are described below along with criteria for each. Each of
these buffer types may be achieved by meeting the requirements listed below or
by an approved alternative method that meets the performance requirements. The
preservation and use of natural vegetation is the preferred method of meeting
the buffer and landscape requirements, as specified in divisions (F)(4) and (F)
(7) of this section.
      (1)   Type A.   For every 50 linear feet, or fraction thereof, the five
foot-wide buffer  yard shall contain: one canopy tree, two under story trees or
four under story trees, and six shrubs.
      (2)   Type B. For every 50 linear feet, or fraction thereof, the ten
foot-wide buffer  yard shall contain: two canopy trees or four under story
trees, and 12 shrubs.
      (3)   Type C. For every 50 linear feet, or fraction thereof, the 15-foot
wide buffer  yard shall contain: two canopy trees or four under story trees,
and twelve shrubs and a six-foot fence with 80% opacity.
      (4)   Type D. For every 50 linear feet of frontage, or fraction thereof,
the ten-foot wide street yard shall contain: one under story tree with
sidewalks or planters built within or upon the sidewalk. Sidewalk requirements
are detailed in §§
152.353 and
152.356. Type D buffer  yards are intended to be used as streetscapes in new
subdivisions in addition to required buffer  yards as listed in
Table 152.528-1 .
Table 152.528-1
Minimum Perimeter and Streetscape Buffer  Yard Widths
Buffer Type Proposed Principal Use Type Perimeter/Streetscape Yard Width
Table 152.528-1
Minimum Perimeter and Streetscape Buffer  Yard Widths
Buffer                                                                               Perimeter/
Type   Proposed Principal Use Type                                                   Streetscape
                                                                                     Yard Width
Type A Commercial Development 10,000 square feet or less; Includes Mixed-Use and     5 feet
       Multi-Family  Development , and parking facilities
Type A Office and Institutional Development (Includes Town Facilities) 10,000 square 5 feet
       feet or less
Type B Commercial Development 10,000 square feet or more; Includes Mixed-Use and     10 feet
       Multi-Family  Development , and parking facilities
Type B Office and Institutional Development (Includes Town Facilities) 10,000 square 10 feet
       feet or more
Type C M-I (Light Industrial)                                                        10 feet
Type D Streetscape for Residential Subdivision  Development or Manufactured Housing 10 feet
       Development
 
   (F)   General buffer standards.
      (1)   Coverage. All portions of required perimeter and streetscape buffer
 yards not planted with trees or shrubs or covered by a wall, driveway, or
other barrier shall be planted with grass, ground cover, or natural mulch of a
minimum depth of three inches.
      (2)   Placement. New plantings comprising the buffer shall be spread
across the entire span of the buffer , not planted in a row or rows, and not
concentrated in a limited number of clustered locations such that the purpose
of the buffer is violated (as defined in division (B) of this section).
      (3)   Location.
         (a)   The perimeter buffers shall be located along the outer perimeter
of the parcel and shall extend to the parcel boundary line or right-of-way
line; however, the buffers may be located along shared access easements between
parcels in non-residential developments . Within non-residential centers/
developments , the perimeter buffer area between outparcels may be shifted
totally or in part, elsewhere on the site. For example a 10-foot buffer between
like uses may be shifted elsewhere on the site preferably interior to the site
as long as the total area is provided for. The intent of this section is to
provide for more flexibility in designing sites and potentially save larger
natural areas elsewhere on the site.
         (b)   Stormwater management structures may be allowed in a buffer
provided that it can be landscaped to meet the intent of the buffer
requirements.
         (c)   All perimeter buffer yards and streetscape buffer yards shall
not obstruct the view of motorists using any street , private driveway ,
parking aisles , or the approach to any street intersection so as to constitute
a traffic hazard or a condition dangerous to the public safety upon any such
street , driveway , parking aisle , or street intersection. Existing healthy
vegetation may be removed and no new plantings shall be installed, within
required sight triangles as noted in §§
152.265 through
152.277.
      (4)   Existing vegetation , fences , walls, and berms.
         (a)   An existing natural buffer consists of existing vegetation ,
soils, surface waters and topography. Where possible, required buffers should
remain in an undisturbed condition; but if the buffer is not a stream buffer or
located in a floodplain, some maintenance may be necessary to prevent
overgrowth or removal of noxious or poisonous species.
         (b)   Existing healthy and significant vegetation within the required
buffer shall be preserved where possible and credited toward standards for the
type of buffer required, unless otherwise approved by the Town Planner at the
time of site plan approval, pursuant to division (F)(7) of this section.
         (c)   Existing soils within the buffers shall remain intact and
undisturbed, unless otherwise approved by the Town Planner at the time of site
plan approval, pursuant to division (F)(7) of this section.
         (d)   Existing berms, walls, or fences within the buffer, but not
including chain link fencing, may be used in part to fulfill the requirements
for the six-foot tall screen where required, provided that these elements are
healthy and/or in a condition of good repair.
         (e)   Other existing site features within the required buffer area
which do not otherwise function to meet the standards for the required buffer
shall be screened from the view of other properties or removed, as determined
during review and approval of the site plan .
      (5)   New vegetation and other features. If existing significant
vegetation and other site features do not fully meet the standards for the type
of buffer required, then additional vegetation and site features shall be
planted or installed within the required buffer area in order to meet the
criteria outlined in division (E) of this section.
      (6)   No development within required buffers. With the exceptions noted
in this division (F) and below, the required buffer shall not contain any
development , impervious surfaces , or site features that do not function to
meet the standards of this section or that require removal of existing
vegetation. Grading, development , or land-disturbing activities shall not
occur within the buffer or within the tree protection fence area unless
approved by the Town Planner.
         (a)   Sidewalks and trails may be placed in buffers provided that
damage to existing vegetation is minimized.
         (b)   Utilities are not permitted in buffers unless no reasonable
alternative exists. If utilities are placed in a buffer, they shall be located
and installed in a way that minimizes disturbance of the buffer area (for
example, installed not parallel but perpendicular or not less than at a 75
degree angle).
         (c)   Streets may not be placed within a buffer except to cross the
buffer where necessary to connect to adjoining properties.
      (7)   Natural area buffer credits. The Town Planner may grant credit for
the preservation of existing natural vegetation (pursuant to §
152.536) and apply this credit toward meeting perimeter buffer requirements,
provided the caliper and quantity of the vegetation is equal to or exceeds the
specifications herein described. If an existing natural area is to be preserved
and used as a required perimeter, but it does not meet the required buffer type
as specified in
Table 152.528-1 , it must be enhanced to meet the specifications. The final
buffer shall have the width, amount of vegetation, and other features to
properly mitigate negative effects of contiguous land uses.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005) (Am. Ord. 2005-O8, passed 7-19-2005; Am. Ord.
2013-O15, passed 7-16-2013; Am. Ord. 2015-O3, passed 9-15-2015)
§ 152.529 LANDSCAPING FOR PARKING AREAS.
   (A)   Minimum standards.
      (1)   At least 8% of the gross paved area of a parking facility shall be
landscaped and located in the interior. For purposes of this section, interior
shall mean the area within the parking facility curb or pavement and extensions
that create a common geometric shape such as a square.
      (2)   Plantings shall be distributed evenly throughout the parking
facility.
      (3)   All interior plantings shall be physically protected. Non-mountable
concrete curbing shall be provided to prevent vehicles from encroaching onto
and overhanging required plantings unless otherwise approved.
      (4)   Consecutive parking spaces shall incorporate landscaped peninsulas
no more than 15 spaces apart and at the ends of all parking rows. Peninsulas
shall contain at least 100 square feet in area and at least eight feet in
width, measured from back of curb/barrier to back of curb/barrier.
   (B)   Existing vegetation .
      (1)   Existing healthy, well-formed, canopy trees that are preserved on
site according to §
152.536 may be counted toward the requirements of this section, provided that
these trees are protected, in accordance with sections §§
152.531 and
152.536, before and during development of the site and maintained after
development in a healthy growing condition.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005) (Am. Ord. 2005-O8, passed 7-19-2005; Am. Ord.
2013-O15, passed 7-16-2013; Am. Ord. 2015-O3, passed 9-15-2015)
§ 152.530 TREES AND SHRUBBERY IN OR ALONG STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Citizens may plant trees in front of their lots and along the
sidewalks adjacent to their property under the supervision of the Town Planner,
but no trees or other plantings shall be planted in the streets , gutters, or
ditches of the town. The Town Planner shall notify all persons having trees in
front of their lots to have them properly trimmed either by a company engaged
in the business of tree trimming or by the property owners themselves following
published pruning standards. During normal street   right-of-way maintenance by
the Public Works Department, all town employees involved in trimming of trees
shall operate under the direction of the Town Planner and in accordance with
published pruning standards. In addition, all other public service or utility
companies shall also follow published pruning standards and shall notify the
town prior to maintenance within the jurisdiction.
   (B)   The cutting, trimming, destruction, lopping of branches of any manner
of trees or shrubbery standing along, in or extending over the street   right-
of-way of any municipal or state maintained street by any person is hereby
prohibited, except when done under the supervision and according to the
direction of the Administrator .
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005) (Am. Ord. 2005-O8, passed 7-19-2005; Am. Ord.
2013-O15, passed 7-16-2013)
§ 152.531 TREE PLANTING ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   The town encourages the planting of trees and other approved vegetation by
private individuals, groups, and businesses on public property and along street
 rights-of-way . However, to obtain maximum benefit from those efforts, all
plantings on public rights-of-way or public property owned by the town, its
agents, boards, or commissions shall be done in accordance with predetermined
guidelines set forth in this Article and approved by the Town Planner utilizing
such professional criteria and technical assistance as deemed necessary.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005) (Am. Ord. 2005-O8, passed 7-19-2005; Am. Ord.
2013-O15, passed 7-16-2013)
§ 152.532 OTHER LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Applicability. The following requirements apply to all landscaping and
buffers installed under this subchapter.
      (1)   Plant materials.
         (a)   All tree and plant material selections shall be native or
adaptable to the Swansboro region and its climate.
         (b)   The town recognizes Crape Myrtle as a widely planted species.
The practice of topping such species is discouraged. Topping of this species
can contribute to a decline in tree cover canopy and is in direct conflict with
the goals of this section. Minimum pruning to develop the crape myrtle’s
natural tree form is encouraged.
         (c)   A recommended plant materials list is provided in Appendix I.
      (2)   Plant size. The following are the minimum required sizes at
planting:
         (a)   Shrubs: minimum of three gallons and 12 inches in height.
         (b)   Understory trees: six feet in height.
         (c)   Canopy trees: three inch in caliper, 12 feet in height.
      (3)   Berms. All berms used in a perimeter buffer , streetscape buffer or
other landscape area shall meet all of the following design standards:
         (a)   The slope of all berms shall not exceed a 2:1 ratio (horizontal
to vertical), shall have a top width at least one-half the berm height, and a
maximum height of four feet above the toe (top) of the berm. The Town Planner
shall approve all berms. Berms proposed to be greater than four feet in height
may be permitted if deemed appropriate by the Town Planner.
         (b)   Proposed berms to be placed over an existing or proposed utility
easement (s) shall be approved by the Town Planner;
         (c)   Berms shall be vegetated as required by this section. Berms must
be stabilized with ground cover to prevent erosion and sedimentation. It is
strongly discouraged to use berms as a substitute for existing healthy
vegetation . However, if berms are allowed to replace existing vegetation which
already meets the standards in this section then they must also meet the buffer
standards and must be approved by the Town Planner; and
         (d)   Berms shall in no case damage the roots of existing healthy
vegetation designated to be preserved.
      (4)   Installation standards.
         (a)   All required landscaping shall be installed in a manner that
insures the availability of sufficient soil and water for healthy growth and
that is not intrusive to aboveground and underground utilities.
         (b)   In order to reduce the damage to root systems of existing
vegetation within streetscapes, buffers or any other tree save areas,
designation of planned utility connection corridors is required to be shown on
all development plans to coordinate the location of electrical, telephone,
cable and other similar utilities.
         (c)   Understory trees are required to be substituted for canopy trees
whenever located within 25 feet of an overhead utility line.
         (d)   Nothing shall be planted or installed within an underground or
overhead utility easement or a drainage easement without the consent of the
Town and the easement holder at the time of site plan approval.
         (e)   Tree planting in or about sidewalks and pavement areas with
inappropriate tree species and inadequate soil volume may create damage to
sidewalks and pavement and block light penetration to the pavement, preventing
rapid evaporation of precipitation. To avoid potential damage to sidewalks and
pavement and pooling of precipitation from such situations, a minimum soil
volume of two cubic feet shall be reserved per one square foot of crown spread
for every tree proposed for planting near sidewalks and pavement areas. The
circumference of the tree planting area shall be protected with either mulch
mounds or tree grates that will prevent root damage. Detail of this ratio must
be included on the landscape plan.
         (f)   A minimum of 300 square feet of pervious ground area per canopy
tree shall be provided (understory trees may be allowed in less area but no
less than 240 square feet). Any planting area bounded by an impervious surface
should be at least ten feet wide. No canopy tree should be planted closer than
five feet to a sidewalk, paved areas or other impervious surfaces (other types
of trees may be closer).
         (g)   Culverts, rip rap structures, holding ponds, and other
stormwater- related devices must be landscaped to reduce their visual impacts.
This landscape screening must consist of evergreen plantings and be part of the
approved landscape plan.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005) (Am. Ord. 2005-O8, passed 7-19-2005; Am. Ord.
2013-O15, passed 7-16-2013)
§ 152.533 TREE PROTECTION DURING CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Minimum standards. The following minimum standards apply during
construction, in addition to applicable standards from §
152.536.
      (1)   Responsibility. During development of the property, the owner shall
be responsible for the erection of barriers necessary to protect any existing
or installed vegetation  located within the preservation or undisturbed buffer
areas from damage both during and after construction.
      (2)   Tree protection fencing. All existing vegetation  that is to be
preserved, including buffers, shall be fenced with a sturdy and visible fence
before grading begins. Fencing of these areas adjacent to existing and proposed
roadways is also required. Fencing is required on all Town and NCDOT road
projects that are adjacent to protected streetscapes or buffers. The fencing
must be a minimum four feet high and of durable construction and must be placed
outside of the drip line of the tree to be protected. Passive forms of tree
protection, such as continuous rope or flagging, may be used to delineate tree
save areas that are remote from the area of land disturbance. Both applicant
and the Town Planner, in determining the exact location of any tree protection
fencing, will consider the existing site conditions. The fence shall be
maintained on the site until all site work is completed. It shall be removed
before final site inspection for the certificate of occupancy.
      (3)   Tree protection zone signs. Tree Protection Zone signs must be
installed on the tree protection fence visible on all sides of the fenced in
area (minimum one on each side and/or every 300 linear feet).
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005) (Am. Ord. 2005-O8, passed 7-19-2005; Am. Ord.
2013-O15, passed 7-16-2013)
§ 152.534 TIME LIMIT, INSTALLATION GUARANTEES, INSPECTIONS AND CERTIFICATE OF
OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Time limit.
      (1)   Installation guarantee. All landscaping, including mulching and
seeding shall be completed in accordance with the approved development plan
before a permanent certificate of occupancy for the site is issued unless the
Town Planner grants an exception pursuant to §
152.532(A)(2). If an exception is granted, an installation guarantee shall be
required that includes:
         (a)   A cost estimate provided by a landscape contractor and/or
engineer.
         (b)   Cash, surety/performance bond or letter of credit that ensures
the required landscaping will be completed at a predetermined later date,
normally the next planting season but not to exceed one year from date of
exception.
         (c)   The amount of the bond/letter of credit shall be for the cost of
the plant materials plus the cost of labor to install the plants, plus 10%.
      (2)   Extensions and exceptions. Extensions and exceptions to the above
time limit may only be granted under one of the following conditions:
         (a)   Unusual environmental conditions, such as drought, ice, over-
saturated soil, or inappropriate planting season for the plant species
(plantings between June through August are strongly discouraged);
         (b)   Substitution or unavailability of plant species or acceptable
plant size as specified on the site plan; or
         (c)   Circumstances beyond the developer’s or property owner ’s
control, such as incomplete construction or utility work to occur in a proposed
landscaped area within 30 days after expected site completion.
      (3)   Inspections. The Town Planner shall inspect the site before the
issuance of a permanent certificate of occupancy for the development , unless
exempted under §
152.532(2), and shall not issue the permanent certificate of occupancy if the
landscaping required under this section is not living or healthy or is not
installed in accordance with the standards set forth in this section and in
accordance with the approved site plan.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005) (Am. Ord. 2005-O8, passed 7-19-2005; Am. Ord.
2013-O15, passed 7-16-2013)
§ 152.535 MAINTENANCE RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   In order for any landscaping and screening to fulfill the purpose for
which it was established, it must be properly maintained. The owner of the
property and any tenant on the property where screening is required will be
jointly responsible for the maintenance of all landscaping and screening
materials required under this UDO. Maintenance includes actions necessary to
keep screening materials healthy, neat and orderly in appearance and free of
litter and debris.
   (B)   All screening and landscaping areas must be protected from damage by
motor vehicles or pedestrians which could reduce the effectiveness of the
screening.
   (C)   Any dead, unhealthy, or missing vegetation , or vegetation disfigured
by severe or excessive pruning, shall be replaced with locally adopted
vegetation that conforms to the standards of this UDO and the approved site
and/or subdivision plan. In the case of removal of existing original vegetation
from required vegetation protection areas, the replacement requirements of§
152.535 shall apply.
   (D)   In the event that any vegetation or physical element functioning to
meet the standards of this UDO is severely damaged due to an unusual weather
occurrence or natural catastrophe, or other natural occurrence such as damage
by wild or domestic animals, the owner may be required to replant if the buffer
standards are not being met. The owner shall have one growing season to replace
or replant after reconstruction is complete. The Town Planner shall consider
the type and location of the landscape buffer or required vegetation area as
well as the propensity for natural revegetation in making a determination on
the extent of replanting requirements.
   (E)   Any appeals of the Town Planner’s decision relating to the amount of
required revegetation shall be made to the Board of Adjustment within ten days
following the notice of decision, and the Board of Adjustment shall consider
reduction requests at the next available regular meeting.
   (F)   All required buffers, streetscapes, vehicular use areas, and other
landscaped areas shall be free of refuse and debris, shall be treated for pest/
diseases in accordance with the approved site and/or subdivision plan, and
shall be maintained so as to prevent mulch, straw, dirt, grass clippings, or
other materials from washing onto streets and sidewalks.
   (G)   The owner should take actions to protect trees and landscaping from
unnecessary damage during all facility and site maintenance operations. Plants
must be maintained in a way that does not obstruct sight distances at roadway
and drive intersection, obstruct traffic signs or devices, and/or interfere
with the use of sidewalks or pedestrian trails. Viable plants shall not be
removed, damaged, cut or severely pruned so that their natural form is impaired
(shrubs within existing vehicle use areas and streetscapes may be pruned, but
must maintain the minimum required height).
   (H)   In the event that existing required vegetation located within any
required buffers, streetscapes, vehicular use or other landscape areas poses an
immediate or imminent threat to improved structures on private or public
property, severe pruning and/or removal of the vegetation is allowable provided
prior approval from the Town Planner is obtained, and the performance standard
of the landscape area is maintained consistent with this UDO.
   (I)   Unapproved removal of vegetation and/or severe or excessive pruning in
non-emergency situations will result in a violation of this UDO.
   (J)   The owner of the property on which a required fence or wall is located
shall maintain the fence or wall in a safe and attractive condition. This shall
mean the following:
      (1)   No fence or wall shall have more than 20% of its surface area with
disfigured, cracked, ripped or peeling paint or other material;
      (2)   A fence or wall shall not stand with bent or broken supports,
including loose or missing appendages; and
      (3)   Fences and walls shall be plumb (vertical) to the ground.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005) (Am. Ord. 2005-O8, passed 7-19-2005; Am. Ord.
2013-O15, passed 7-16-2013)
§ 152.536 REPLACEMENT OF DISTURBED AND DAMAGED VEGETATION.
   (A)   The disturbance or damage of vegetation within any required buffers,
streetscapes, vehicular use areas, or other landscape areas required by this
section, or by zoning condition, shall constitute a violation of the UDO.
   (B)   The natural death of existing vegetation within any required landscape
area does not constitute a violation and would not require revegetation to
replace the plant material unless the required landscape area no longer
achieves the required performance standards of this section.
   (C)   All disturbed or damaged landscaped areas and natural vegetation shall
be replanted so as to meet the standards of this section, as well as the
approved site and/or subdivision plat , if applicable. A replacement planting
plan shall be submitted for review and approval by the Town Planner prior to
replacement. This plan will ensure proper replacements are made.
   (D)   In situations where existing required vegetation on a developed site
or vacant site with an approved site and/or subdivision plat has been removed
or damaged in violation of this section, the Town Planner may require that the
entire site be reviewed and revegetated consistent with the current provisions
of this section.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005) (Am. Ord. 2005-O8, passed 7-19-2005; Am. Ord.
2013-O15, passed 7-16-2013)
§ 152.537 COMPLIANCE.
   The property owner shall be held responsible for compliance with the
provisions of this subchapter and shall cooperate with the town in its efforts
to administer and enforce these requirements. Any act constituting a violation
of this subchapter that results in destruction, removal, or damage of trees,
shrubs and any other regulated vegetation without a permit, shall subject the
property owner to enforcement proceedings as cited in §§
152.130 through
152.135.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005) (Am. Ord. 2005-O8, passed 7-19-2005; Am. Ord.
2013-O15, passed 7-16-2013)
§ 152.538 TREE PRESERVATION AND REPLACEMENT.
   (A)   Existing vegetation on all development sites should be preserved to
the greatest extent possible and incorporated in the project landscape plan in
order to promote the preservation of existing natural areas. A land improvement
permit issued by the Town Manager or his/her designee is required prior to the
alteration or improvement of any commercial or residential (excluding single-
family) development site. The permit application must include a site plan
identifying the location of temporary tree protection zones (TPZ) to protect
trees and their roots during construction. Temporary protection fences shall be
erected and encroachment prohibited in the TPZ area. For the purpose of
achieving the objectives outlined in §
152.525 and §
152.538, all new commercial or residential developments shall provide for the
preservation or replacement of regulated trees using the following minimum
standards:
      (1)   The total number of regulated trees to be retained should be at
least 15 trees per acre (less impervious surface area (ex. parking, building)).
      (2)   If there are less than 15 regulated trees per acre on the site,
then the difference shall be replaced with new trees, to a total of 15 trees
per acre equaling at least three caliper inches per tree planted or retained.
      (3)   If there are no regulated trees on the site, then at least 15 new
or existing trees per acre (less impervious surface area) equaling at least
three caliper inches per tree shall be planted or retained.
      (4)   In the event a developer clear-cuts a lot or tract and has failed
to provide a site plan to the Planning and Code Enforcement office, the
developer shall be required to plant 23 trees per acre (less impervious surface
area), each with a minimum caliper of three inches, and is responsible for
paying a penalty fee as established by the town’s schedule of fees. The money
collected shall be deposited into the Stormwater Enterprise Fund to aid in
stormwater compliance, drainage problem identification and prioritization and
proactive maintenance of town owned and operated drainage facilities.
      (5)   Regulated trees that are retained may be used to fulfill some of
the planting requirements of street yard, parking facilities, or buffering,
provided they are not damaged by construction activities or the intended use of
the property.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; (Am. Ord. 2005-O8, passed 7-19-2005; Am. Ord.
2013-O15, passed 7-16-2013; Am. Ord. 2021-O4, passed 6-28-2021)
§ 152.539 TRASH CONTAINMENT AREAS.
   (A)   All site plan s shall show method of garbage collection as well as
appropriate details to demonstrate compliance with this subchapter.
   (B)   All trash containment devices, including compactors and dumpsters,
shall be screened on all four sides.
   (C)   All trash containment devices shall meet the following standards.
      (1)   All trash containment areas shall be enclosed with walls and gates
designed to contain windblown litter.
      (2)   The enclosure shall be at least eight feet tall or two feet taller
than (whichever is greater) the highest point of the compactor or dumpster.
      (3)   The enclosure shall be made of a material that is at least 80%
opaque and compatible with the design and materials of the principal building .
The preferable material is masonry with solid metal gates ; however, wood or
other similar material may be used as long as the material used protects the
enclosure from damage caused by unloading the trash container.
      (4)   The screening enclosure must be surrounded with a continuous
landscaped buffer composed of shrubs, ground cover and trees that further
visually hide the compactor or dumpster from view. Mulch and ground cover used
with the vegetative buffer shall be composed of organic materials.
      (5)   Because of the environmental risk from spills, dumpster pads cannot
be in a drainage flow area and must be designed to prevent the leaching of
waste.
      (6)   The enclosure shall contain gates to allow for access and security.
Gates must be maintained in good working order, and remain closed and secured
during inactivity.
   (D)   All driveways and turnarounds leading to the enclosure for use by
trash collection vehicles shall be paved with concrete or asphalt.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005) (Am. Ord. 2005-O8, passed 7-19-2005; Am. Ord.
2013-O15, passed 7-16-2013)
§ 152.540 MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   All planted and retained living material, required to meet the
provisions of this section, shall be maintained by the owner of the property on
which the material is located. Any planted material which becomes damaged or
diseased or dies shall be replaced by the owner within 60 days of the
occurrence of such condition. If, in the opinion of the Administrator , there
are seasonal conditions which will not permit the timely replacement of the
vegetation (e.g., too hot or too cool for successful replanting), this
requirement may be administratively waived until a time certain.
   (B)   Nonliving screening buffers and enclosures shall be maintained,
cleaned, or repaired by the owner of the property on which the buffer is
located. Such buffers and enclosures shall be kept free of litter and
advertising.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005) (Am. Ord. 2005-O8, passed 7-19-2005; Am. Ord.
2013-O15, passed 7-16-2013)
§ 152.541 TREES/SHRUBS CAUSING PROBLEMS WITH SAFE TRAFFIC MOVEMENT OR
PEDESTRIAN MOVEMENT.
   The Administrator may order corrective action to prevent any unsafe
condition over public right-of-ways from the overgrowth of trees or other types
of plantings, this shall also apply to shrubs, bushes, or trees which block
visibility from driveway egress, parking lots , or at intersections and no
foliage shall be allowed to extend from public or private property into any
portion of a street   right-of-way below a height of eight feet above the grade
of the sidewalk at the property line.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005) (Am. Ord. 2005-O8, passed 7-19-2005; Am. Ord.
2013-O15, passed 7-16-2013)
§ 152.542 PRUNING REQUIREMENTS.
   A permit is not required for the pruning of trees. However, in order to
prevent excessive pruning and topping of trees and to prevent pruning that will
be hazardous to the health and natural appearance to the tree, compliance with
approved pruning standards is required, and failure to meet these standards is
a violation of this section. The Administrator shall maintain on file at all
times a copy of the current edition of Pruning Standards by the American
Society of Consulting Arborists and shall make copies of such standards
available for the cost of reproduction upon request.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005) (Am. Ord. 2005-O8, passed 7-19-2005; Am. Ord.
2013-O15, passed 7-16-2013)
§ 152.543 RECOMMENDED TYPES OF VEGETATION/PLANTING.
   See Appendix I for recommended vegetation /plantings and consult with the
Tree Protection and Landscaping Advisory Committee with questions on
appropriate vegetation or trees within the Town of Swansboro jurisdictional
area.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 152.544 APPEAL PROCESS.
   The Town Board of Commissioners shall be the reviewing authority for all
appeals under the provisions of these regulations. Notice of intent to appeal
an administrative decision and request for a hearing shall be addressed to the
Town Manager in writing and shall detail the nature of the appeal. A date for
the hearing shall be set by the Town Board of Commissioners and the appellant
promptly notified in writing and letter sent by certified mail. The decision of
the Town Board of Commissioners after the hearing shall be final and inclusive
and shall be conveyed to the appellant in writing and sent by certified mail.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005) (Am. Ord. 2005-O8, passed 7-19-2005; Am. Ord.
2013-O15, passed 7-16-2013)
BUILDING DESIGN AND COMPATIBILITY
§ 152.555 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The Town of Swansboro Planning Board and Board of Commissioners deem it
necessary and desirable in the interest of encouraging high quality
nonresidential and mixed-use  development by avoiding poor building design and
by creating a rich, harmonious blend of quality buildings. These regulations
are intended to influence architectural design, construction and reconstruction
of buildings in a manner that achieves a visually desirable environment to
allow for creativity and diversity and avoid monotony in design. Unless
otherwise specifically provided, or unless clearly required by the context, the
words and phrases used in this article shall have the meanings defined in §
152.016, Basic Definitions and Interpretations.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005) (Am. Ord. 2013-O13, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 152.556 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   (1)   The standards and guidelines contained in this subchapter shall
apply to all new nonresidential and mixed-use  development and to expansions or
alterations of any such existing building where the expansion or alteration
exceeds 50% of the building value as assessed for real property taxes within
the current tax year.
      (2)   Accessory structures constructed on the same lot and incidental to
the principal structure which are less than or equal to 50% of the building
value as assessed for real property taxes shall be exempt from this
requirement.
   (B)   All development subject to this article shall utilize a design that
enhances existing Town architectural styles, designs, and forms and creates
visual character. Enhancement shall be achieved through techniques such as
varied roof lines, the use of similar proportions in building mass and outdoor
spaces, similar relationships to the street , relief of the visual effect of
long extensive walls, and the use of building materials that have natural
color, including primary colors, shades, and textures that adds architectural
interest to the façade .
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005) (Am. Ord. 2014-O18, passed 10-21-2014)
§ 152.557 BUILDING DESIGN STANDARDS.
   Design standards promote creativity and innovation while discouraging
obtrusive, incongruous structures. The town discourages architectural styles
that do not enhance or add visual character to the Town. The town supports the
view that inspiring, well maintained, and harmonious development is in the best
economic development interests of all residents and businesses.
   (A)   Emphasize human scale. Building design shall emphasize a human scale
at ground level, at entryways, and along street  frontages through the creative
use of windows, doors, columns, canopies, and awnings.
   (B)   Major building design features proportional. Major building  design
features, such as windows, doors, eaves, and parapets , shall be designed to be
in proportion to one another.
   (C)   Structural lines retained at storefront level. The structural lines of
a building  and its materials shall be retained at the storefront level. For
instance, brick piers and columns shall be carried down to street  level.
   (D)   Awnings and canopies. Awnings and canopies shall complement the color
and material of the building  to which they are affixed.
   (E)   Massing. A single, large, dominant building  mass shall be avoided.
Where large structures are required, mass should be broken up through the use
of setbacks , projecting and recessed elements, and similar design techniques.
Changes in mass shall be related to entrances, the integral structure, and/or
the organization of interior spaces and activities and not merely for cosmetic
effect.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 152.558 AVOIDING MONOTONY OF DESIGN.
   Monotony of design in single or multiple building projects shall be avoided
by varying detail, form, and siting to the maximum extent practicable, within
the standards set forth in this article, to provide visual interest.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 152.559 HARMONY OF DESIGN.
   The purpose of this section is to enhance the design character of existing
development, to add visual character to the community , and to promote harmony
in the visual relationships and transitions between new and older buildings or
an upgrade from the surrounding area by complementing other buildings of good
design. New buildings should respect the scale, and proportion of existing
development.
   (A)   Building color shades. Building color shades shall be used to
facilitate blending into the neighborhood and unify the development . The color
shades of building  materials shall draw from the range of color shades that
already exist on the block or it the adjacent neighborhood.
   (B)   Building materials. Building materials shall either be similar to the
materials already being used in the neighborhood or, if dissimilar materials
are being proposed, other characteristics such as scale and proportions, form,
architectural detailing, color, and texture, shall be utilized to ensure that
enough similarity exists for the building  to be compatible, despite the
differences in materials.
   (C)   Similar size and height for infill development . New infill
development shall either be similar in size and height or, if larger, be
articulated and subdivided into massing that is proportional to the mass and
scale of other structures on the same block, or if buildings  do not exist
thereon, then on adjoining blocks.
   (D)   Unify individual storefronts. If several storefronts are located in
one building , the individual storefronts shall be unified in all exterior
design elements, such as mass, window and door placement, color, materials, and
signage.
   (E)   Additions and renovations. Building additions and façade  renovations
should be designed to reflect existing buildings  in scale. A change in scale
may require a transitional design element between the new development and
existing buildings .
   (F)   Varying architectural styles. In developments with multiple structures
of varying architectural styles, buildings  shall be compatible by such means
as a pattern of architectural features, similar scale and proportions, and
consistent location of signage.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
§ 152.560 ARCHITECTURAL CHARACTER.
   Architectural character focuses on the specific details that greatly affect
the overall appearance of a particular development. These architectural
character standards in this section provide direction in aspects of color,
facade materials, rooflines, and the enhancement of entryways. The primary goal
is to define the ‘finishing touches’ that provide the development with a sense
of permanence, style, and compatibility. The Town discourages proposals that
have not taken these matters into account. The Town policy is that all
development is compatible of surrounding areas and that it ensures privacy,
safety, and visual coherency.
   (A)   General form.
      (1)   Each building shall have a primary façade that faces a public
street , private street , or which has the main public entrance.
      (2)   The primary façade may have a clearly identifiable base, body, and
cap with defining elements, or may have other architectural features that
express quality design characteristics by providing other coherent and complete
styles of architecture (See
152.560.1).
      (3)   Any building façade that is not the primary façade , and that has
frontage along a private drive , parking area , or street , shall be considered
a secondary façade .
       (4)   Secondary facades shall also have a clearly-identifiable design
quality, using materials and architectural elements similar to the primary
façade .
      (5)   Any façade that does not face a street , private drive , or parking
area , but is adjacent to a primary or secondary façade , shall continue around
the corner any required architectural elements of the adjoining façade for a
distance equaling at least 20% of the length of the façade .
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2450.png]
Figure 152.560.1
   (B)   Wall plane.
      (1)   Architectural elements can be used to define bays, add interest and
variety; relieve the visual effect of long extensive walls; and split tall
structures into human scale.
      (2)   Recesses and projections. All primary and secondary facades greater
than 100 feet in length, measured horizontally, shall incorporate building
wall offsets including recesses and projections along at least 20% of the
length of the façade . Windows, awnings, and arcades shall total at least 60%
of the façade  length abutting a public street.
      (3)   Repeating design patterns. Facades greater than 100 feet in length,
measured horizontally, shall incorporate a repeating pattern of change in
color, texture, and material modules. All elements should repeat at intervals
of no more than 30 feet, either horizontally or vertically.
      (4)   Rooflines, windows, doors, stairwells, porches, pilasters and
breaks in the facades may be used to establish bays.
      (5)   Replacement of windows. Replacement of windows on the façade  of an
existing building  shall be accomplished by using windows of the same trim,
size, and character as the original or by using a different style of window
that complements the architectural style of the building .
      (6)   Bays may project or recess four inches or greater.
      (7)   Landscaping may be used to give the sense of break in long facades
. Berms with shrubs and trees of sufficient size to break up façade planted
next to the building may be used. Landscaping should be shown on architectural
rendering or elevation and meet the requirements of §§
152.500 through
152.512, Regulations for Landscaping.
Figure 152.560.2 depicts acceptable method for breaking long façade and Figure
152.560.3 does not.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2452.png]      [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/IMAGES/0-0-0-2454.png]
Figure 152.560.2                        Figure 152.560.3
      (8)   Canopies and awnings may be used and are encouraged.
      (9)   Another way to break façade is through a change of materials or
textures.
(See
Figure 152.560.4)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2456.png]
Figure 152.560.4
   (C)   Entryways.
      (1)   Required entryway features. Entryway design elements and variations
shall provide orientation and aesthetically pleasing character to the building
. The following standards identify desirable entryway design features. Each
principle building  on a site shall have clearly defined, highly visible
customer entrances featuring no less than three of the following: (See also
Figures 152.560.5 and
152.560.6 as examples)
         (a)   Canopies or Porticos;
         (b)   Arcades;
         (c)   Overhangs;
         (d)   Recesses/projections;
         (e)   Raised corniced parapets over the doors;
         (f)   Peaked roof forms;
         (g)   Arches
         (h)   Wing walls;
         (I)   Outdoor patio
         (j)   Display windows;
         (k)   Planters; and
         (l)   Architectural details such as tile work and moldings which are
designed into the building structure and overall design.
      (2)   Sides facing abutting street . All sides of a principal building
that directly face an abutting public street shall feature at least one
customer entrance.
      (3)   Variations in color schemes are encouraged in order to articulate
entryways and public amenities so as to give greater recognition to these
features.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2462.png]         [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/IMAGES/0-0-0-2464.png]
Figure 152.560.5                           Figure 152.560.6
      (4)   Building materials/colors.
         (a)   Each building shall be constructed with approved primary surface
materials.
         (b)   Approved primary surface materials shall include:
            1.   Brick or glazed brick;
            2.   Wood;
            3.   Fiber Cement (Hardiplank);
            4.   Stucco or synthetic stucco;
            5.   Tinted and textured concrete masonry;
            6.   Concrete (Pre-Cast or Cast-in-place);
            7.   Glass;
            8.   Split face block; and
            9.   Concrete block may be permitted on interior sides and rears
provided it matches the color of the corresponding surface materials.
         (c)   If renovating the structure, brick, stone, or wood facades shall
not be covered or replaced with artificial siding or panels. Synthetic
materials that resemble or match the original façade can be used.
         (d)   Secondary materials may be used to add architectural interest.
They may consist of one or more primary materials. Metal is allowed as a
secondary material in the MI zoning district only.
         (e)   Façade with main entrance may be glass (including windows and
doors) or combinations of glass and materials listed in item division (C)(4)(b)
of this section.
         (f)   Variations of materials and textures are encouraged with each
storefront in multi-tenant buildings.
         (g)   It is recommended that primary surface materials shall be
natural colors including primary colors, or have “earth” tones (i.e. gray,
white, beige, brown, or brick) (See
Figure 152.560.7).
         (h)   For secondary materials, additional colors may be used.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2468.png]
Figure 152.560.7
      (5)   Base.
         (a)   Each primary façade may have a clearly identifiable base, or the
wall materials may extend to the floor slab or into the ground if the material
is appropriate for ground contact (such as masonry or stone). Wood, glass,
stucco, etc. will terminate above grade .
         (b)   Building yards . A landscaped building  yard may be used to
define the base. The landscaped building  yard shall be consistent with Article
24 Regulations for Landscaping. (See
Figures 152.560.8 and
Figure 152.560.9).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2484.png]      [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/IMAGES/0-0-0-2486.png]
Figure 152.560.8                      Figure 152.560.9
         (c)   Soldier course may be used to define the base.
            1.   Soldier course - often a complete course  of brick laid on end
vertically, with narrow side exposed in the face of the wall (See
Figure 152.560.10 and
Figure 152.560.11).
Examples of Soldier Course (Figures 152.560.10 & 152.560.11)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2488.png]         [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/IMAGES/0-0-0-2490.png]
Figure 152.560.10                        Figure 152.560.11
         (d)   A change of materials may be used to define the base.
         (e)   A “water table ” may be used to provide a clear distinction
between the base of the building and the middle (See
Figures 152.560.12 through
152.560.14).
Examples of “water tables ” (
Figures 152.560.12 through
152.560.14)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2492.png]      [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/IMAGES/0-0-0-2494.png]      [https://
export.amlegal.com/media/c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/IMAGES/0-0-0-
2496.png]
Figure 152.560.12            Figure 152.560.13            Figure 152.560.14
      (6)   Body.
         (a)   Each required façade shall have a defined body.
         (b)   The body should be the area between the base and the cap.
         (c)   The body of the building should be broken up in order to avoid
long monotonous walls as described in division (B) of this section, Wall
Planes, unless the wall is a design element.
         (d)   Structures in complexes, without street   frontage shall have
their main entrance on a primary façade .
         (e)   Building orientation. To the maximum extent feasible, new
buildings  shall be oriented or designed to minimize shadows falling on public
or semi-public spaces. New buildings  should minimize the visual impact on Hwy
24 where possible.
         (f)   Exterior wall cladding. All exterior walls visible from a
parking lot or public right-of-way in any zoning district except the MI (Light
Industrial) shall be clad with the same material required for the front of the
building .
      (7)   Roofs. The following standards are intended to foster variations in
roof lines to soften and reduce the massive scale of large buildings :
         (a)   Roof lines shall be varied to reduce the scale of structures and
add visual interest (See
Figures 152.560.15 through 152.560.26)
         (b)   Roof shape (for example: flat, hip, mansard, or gable) and
material shall be architecturally compatible with façade elements and the rest
of the building. Can include cornices, fascias, dormers and overhangs (See
Figures 152.560.15 through
152.560.18).
         (c)   Roof cornices. If roof cornices have been removed or damaged on
an existing building , renovations of that building  must include retaining,
repairing, and replacing the roof cornices if previously removed.
         (d)   Flat roofs must be enclosed by a parapet that screens mechanical
equipment from view by pedestrians at street level.
         (e)   The height of the parapet shall not exceed 1/3 of the height of
the supporting wall and should not exceed a maximum height of six feet. Such
parapet shall not be of a constant height for a distance of greater than 150
feet.
         (f)   Green roofs and solar panels are encouraged. Solar panels shall
be at the same slope of the roof. Otherwise they should be located at the rear
of the building or on the ground (See
Figures 152.560.22 through
152.560.23).
Examples of Roof Options (Figures 152.560.15 through 152.560.18)
      Figure 152.560.15                  Figure 152.560.16
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2498.png]            [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/IMAGES/0-0-0-2500.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2502.png]            [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/IMAGES/0-0-0-2504.png]
      Figure 152.560.17                   Figure 152.560.18
Examples of Roof Overhang (Figures 152.560.19 through 152.560.20)
    Figure 152.560.19                     Figure 152.560.20
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2506.png]
      Figure 152.560.21
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2508.png]
     Figure 152.560.22                     Figure 152.560.23
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2510.png]
Examples of Solar Panels (Figures 152.560.24 through 152.560.25)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2535.png]
   Figure 152.560.24                     Figure 152.560.25
         (f)   Evidence of compliance. The Town Planner shall require such
evidence of ability to comply with the building  design standards as set forth
in this article as the Town Planner deems necessary prior to issuance of a
certificate of zoning compliance .
         (g)   Appeal. Appeals of the Town Planner’s interpretation of this
subchapter shall be made to the Board of Adjustment.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2022-O11, passed 8-8-2022)
§ 152.561 COMPATIBILITY STANDARDS.
   The operational compatibility standards in this article shall apply to all
uses and shall be in addition to all other requirements of the UDO.
   (A)   Glare . Glare from arc welding, acetylene torch cutting, or similar
processes shall be contained within a completely enclosed and vented building .
   (B)   Heat and humidity. Uses, activities, and processes shall not produce
any unreasonable, disturbing, or unnecessary emissions of heat or humidity at
the property line of the site on which they are situated, which cause material
distress, discomfort, or injury to a reasonable person .
   (C)   Noise. No activity or operation subject to this UDO shall exceed the
maximum permitted sound as allowed within the town’s Code of Ordinances,
Chapter 92: Nuisances; Health, §
92.01 Noise Control.
   (D)   Vibration. No use, activity, or process shall produce vibrations that
are perceptible without instruments at the property line for more than three
minutes in any one hour of the day between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00
p.m., or for more than 30 seconds in any one hour between the hours of 10:00
p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
   (E)   Operational/physical compatibility. The following conditions may be
imposed upon the approval of any development to ensure that it is compatible
with existing uses, including but not limited to, restrictions on:
      (1)   Hours of operation and deliveries;
      (2)   Location on a site of activities that generate potential adverse
impacts on adjacent uses, such as noise and glare ;
      (3)   Placement of trash receptacles;
      (4)   Location of loading and delivery areas;
      (5)   Location, intensity, and hours of illumination;
      (6)   Placement and illumination of outdoor vending machines, telephones,
ATMs, and similar outdoor services, structures, and activities;
      (7)   Additional landscaping and buffering;
      (8)   Height restrictions to preserve light and privacy and views of
significant features from public property and rights-of-way ;
      (9)   Preservation of natural lighting and solar access;
      (10)   Ventilation and control of odors and fumes; and
      (11)   Dust-control paving.
   (F)   Evidence of compliance. The Town Planner shall require such evidence
of ability to comply with appropriate performance standards, mitigation
measures, and conditions as set forth in this article as the Town Planner deems
necessary prior to issuance of a certificate of zoning compliance .
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005) (Adopted 5-21-2013)
Appendix I
PREFACE
   The Regulated Tree List is intended to help the developer, as well as Town
and ETJ Citizens, in identifying and preserving one of our most precious
resources; The indigenous trees of Eastern North Carolina. It is not intended
to prevent or hinder the full enjoyment and use of one’s property. Preserving
what we have today will insure that we can enjoy it tomorrow.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005) (Am. Ord. 2013-O15, passed 7-16-2013)
Regulated Trees
Botanical Name Common Name Height Spread Form Foliage Flowers Fruit
Regulated Trees
Botanical    Common   Height   Spread   Form      Foliage   Flowers   Fruit
Name         Name
Acer         Maple    50 ft    50 ft    Oval      Dark      Yellow/   Seed
Platanoides                                       Green     Green
Acer Rubrum  Red      70 ft    40 ft    Round     Medium    Red       Seed
             Maple                                Green
Quercus      Post Oak 60 ft    40 ft    Round     Green     Yellow/   Acorn
Stellata                                                    Red
Carya        Hickory  60-70 ft 25-35 ft Oblong    Yellow    Yellowish Nut
Cordiformis                                       Green
Liqulambar   Sweet    60 ft    40 ft    Upright   Dark      Greenish  Spiny
Ciflua       Gum                                  green               Ball
Ilex Opaca   Holly    40 ft    20 ft    Pyramidal Dark                Red Berry
                                                  Green
Pinus Tarta  Loblolly 60-85 ft 40 ft    Upright   Light     Green/    Cone
             Pine                                 Green     Yellow
Botula Nigra Birch    60 ft    40 ft    Oval      Medium    Catkins   Catkins
                                                  Green
Cornus       Dogwood  15-20 ft 10-20 ft Oval      Medium    White     Red Berry
Florida                                           Green
Grand Floria Magnolia 40-60 ft 30 ft    Round     Bright    White     Red Berry
                                                  Green
Morus Alba   Mulberry 60 ft    60 ft    Round Top Dark      Greenish  Berries
                                                  Green
Juniperus    Cedar    45 ft    15 ft    Pyramidal Green
Virginana
Taxedium     Cypress  70 ft    25 ft    Pyramidal Green
Species
Quercus Alba White    70 ft    70 ft    Round     Dark      Yellow/   Acorns
             Oak                                  Green     Red
Liriodendron Poplar   80 ft    40 ft    Pyramidal Med Green Green/    Seed
tulipifera                                                  Yellow
Oxydendrum   Sourwood 20-30 ft 10-15 ft Pyramidal Green     White     Seed
Arboreum
 
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005) (Am. Ord. 2013-O15, passed 7-16-2013)
APPROVED PLANT LIST
The following recommended list of plants has been chosen for use in the town
due to their survival rate in certain planting scenarios in the county:
   (1)   Canopy trees for buffer yards.
      (a)   Southern Magnolia (Magnolia grandiflora).
      (b)   Longleaf Pine (Pinus palustris).
      (c)   Live Oak (Quercus virginiana).
      (d)   Sweetgum (fruitless) (Liquidambar styraciflua (Rotundiloba)).
      (e)   Black Tupelo (Nyssa sylvatica).
   (2)   Understory trees for buffer yards.
      (a)   Loquat (Eriobotrya japonica).
      (b)   Dahoon (Ilex cassine).
      (c)   Foster Holly (Ilex x attenuate Fosteri).
      (d)   American Holly (Ilex opaca).
      (e)   Flowering Dogwood (Cornus florida).
      (f)   Crape Myrtle (Lagerstroemia indica, Lagerstroemia faurieri and
hybrids between the two such as Natchez).
   (3)   Street trees.
      (a)   Trident Maple (Acer buergerianum).
      (b)   Crape Myrtle (Lagerstroemia indica, Lagerstroemia fauriei, and
hybrids between the two such as Natchez).
      (c)   Chinese Pistache (Pistacia chinensis).
      (d)   Shumard Oak (Quercus shumardii).
      (e)   Nutall Oak (Quercus nutalli).
      (f)   Chinese Fringetree (Chionanthus retusus).
      (g)   White Fringetree (Chionanthus virginicus).
      (h)   Savannah Holly and Foster Holly (cultivars of Ilex x attenuate).
      (I)   Zelkova (Zelkova serrata).
      (j)   Lacebark Elm (Ulmus parvifolia).
      (k)   Eastern Redcedar (Juniperus virginiana).
      (l)   Chanticleer Callery Pear (Pyrus calleryana Chanticleer).
      (m)   Hibiscus Syriacus - known as Rose of Sharon or Althea.
      (n)   Ilex Vomitoria - the weeping form.
      (o)   Chinese Snowball Viburnum (Virburnum macrocephalum).
   (4)   Shrubs used within buffer yards.
      (a)   Indian Azalea (Azalea indica).
      (b)   Camellia (Camellia japonica).
      (c)   Sasanqua Camellia (Camallia sasanqua).
      (d)   Chinese Holly (Ilex cornuta).
      (e)   Dwarf Burford Holly (Ilex cornuta Burfordii).
      (f)   Lusterleaf Holly (Ilex latifolia).
      (g)   Nellie R. Stevens Holly (Ilex Nellie R. Stevens).
      (h)   Loropetalum (Loropetalum chinense).
      (I)   Wax-Myrtle (Myrica cerifera).
   (5)   Shrubs within street yards.
      (a)   Dwarf Yaupon (llex vomitora Nana).
      (b)   Nandina (Nandina domestica).
   (6)   Shrubs within 40 feet of driveway.
      (a)   Alexandrian Laurel (Danae racemosa).
      (b)   Dwarf Gardenia (Gardenia jasminoides radicans).
      (c)   Dward Horned Holly (Ilex cornuta Rotunda).
      (d)   Rosemary (Rosmarinus officinalis).
      (e)   David Viburnum (Viburnnum davidii).
   (7)   Parking lot buffer yards (side and rear yards).
      (a)   Camellia (Camellia japonica).
      (b)   Sasanqua Camellia (Camellia sasanqua).
      (c)   Cleyera (Cleyera japonica).
      (d)   Chinese Holly (Ilex cornuta).
      (e)   Dwarf Burford Holly (Ilex cornuta Burfordii).
      (f)   Lusterleaf Holly (Ilex cornuta Burfordii).
      (g)   Anisetree (Illicium anisatum).
      (h)   Loropetalum (Loropetalum chinense).
      (I)   Wax Myrtle (Myrica cerifera).
      (j)   Oleander (Nerium oleander).
      (k)   Pittosporum (Pittosporum tobira).
   (8)   Parking lot islands and planter areas.
      (a)   Abelia (Abelia x grandiflora).
      (b)   Crape Myrtle (Lagerstroemia indica, Lagerstroemia faurieri and
hybrids between the two such as Natchez).
      (c)   Dwarf Horned Holly (Ilex cornuta Rotunda).
      (d)   Dwarf Yaupon (Ilex vomitoria Nana).
      (e)    Nandina (Nandina domestica).
Appendix II
RECOMMENDED ROAD CONNECTION
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2537.png]
NEW RESIDENTIAL ROAD OR RESIDENTIAL COLLECTOR ROAD WITH CURB AND GUTTER AND
EXISTING STATE MAINTAINED ROAD WITH SHOULDER SECTION
Appendix III
HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION 1 COMMISSION PROCEDURES.
   1.1   Obtaining A Certificate of Appropriateness (COA)
   A Certificate of Appropriateness (COA) is a permit that a property owner
receives indicating that a proposed exterior change has been reviewed and
approved by the historic preservation commission for consistency with
established historic district standards. A COA is required for any type of
building exterior alteration, new construction, relocation, demolition, utility
installation, placement of vending machines and other street furniture in
public areas, dock installation, and substantial landscaping. No COA is
required for interior modifications or the ordinary maintenance or replacement
“in-kind” of a property feature. Replacement “in-kind” refers to the
replacement of damaged or deteriorated building or site features with the same
design and material so that the integrity of the original design is maintained.
   Upon consideration of exterior work, contact the Administrator at (910) 326-
4428 to determine if a COA is required. Applications for a COA may be obtained
from the                                                  ,
                                                                       ,
between                     and
                                                  , Monday through Friday.
Contact the Administrator for assistance with the application process.
   1.2   Completing and Filing the COA Application
   After obtaining a certificate of appropriateness application form from the
Town of Swansboro, it is important that the form be filled out completely.
Proposed changes should be clearly explained in a narrative scope of work and
presented in sufficient detail with accompanying photographs, drawings, and
materials lists. These application components are important in helping the
commission evaluate the proposal request promptly. Once the COA application has
been completed, it, along with the supporting materials, must be returned to
the town Administrator not less than 14 working days prior to the regularly
scheduled meeting of the Swansboro Historic Preservation Commission (SHPC). A
fee to cover administrative and legal notification costs is charged to all
applicants. This fee must be paid at the time of application submission.
   1.3   COA Application Review and Processing
   Once a completed COA application has been received by the town, it is
reviewed by the Administrator for compliance with all applicable town zoning
ordinances and codes. Applications that are not in compliance with zoning and
other town code provisions will be returned to the applicant and will not be
forwarded to the commission for review. Applicants should note that additional
permits may be required (e.g., building permit, CAMA permit, or Army Corps of
Engineers approval). Early consultation with applicable permit agencies is
advisable so that the impact of requirements on the COA proposal may be
assessed. The commission may choose to delay consideration of an application to
consult with applicable federal, state, or local agencies. This is particularly
important when the North Carolina State Historic Preservation Office (NC-SHOO)
is asked to review and comment on the project as part of a required
environmental review process.
   Upon completion of local zoning and code review, the Administrator will
forward the applications to the SHPC for review and action. Notification of the
meeting date, time, and place will be sent to the applicant and adjoining
property owners by mail no less than seven (7) working days prior to the
meeting. Attendance at the meeting by the applicant or his/her representative
is required should any questions or concerns regarding the project arise. The
failure of the applicant or the applicant’s representative to attend a meeting
may result in unnecessary delay if the SHPC fails to obtain information deemed
necessary to make an informed decision. Any interested party is also welcome to
attend the meeting or to review the application at town hall prior to the SHPC
hearing.
   Most certificate of appropriateness applications are reviewed and decided
upon the day of the meeting. The commission must issue or deny a COA within 60
days after a completed application has been filed, except when the time limit
has been extended by mutual agreement between the applicant and the historic
preservation commission or more time is needed to obtain comments from other
federal, state, or local agencies involved in the permitting, funding, or
approval of the project. All commission decisions are furnished in writing and
mailed to the applicant within 30 days of the meeting. There will be two
identical certificates mailed - one for posting and one for records. The mailed
Certificate of Appropriateness must be visibly displayed at the project site
during the entire duration of the project.
   Once issued, a Certificate of Appropriateness is valid for six months and
may be renewed at the written request of the applicant. An approved COA may
also be transferred to a new property owner if that owner certifies in writing
that he has reviewed the approved application and agrees to comply with all of
the terms and conditions of the COA.
   An approved or pending COA application may be modified by a written request
from the applicant to the commission. The request should include a description
of the proposed changes, as well as drawings, a site plan , and other
appropriate documentation if necessary. If the Swansboro Historic Preservation
Commission finds that the modifications constitute a substantial change from
the previous application, a new application submission will be required and all
public notification procedures will be followed.
   1.4   Treatment of “Minor Works” Projects
   In an effort to expedite the review of Certificate of Appropriateness
applications, the Swansboro Historic Preservation Commission recognizes that
certain proposed building and/or site changes are minor in nature and will have
no discernible impact on the special character of the building, site, and
district. Given this, the SHPC has instituted a category of exterior activities
known as “minor works” that may be undertaken without review by the commission.
These projects must be consistent with the SHPC’s standards and approved by the
Minor Works Committee. “Minor works” activities do require the submission of a
completed Minor Works COA application form. (Note: The town does not provide
notice to adjoining property owners for a “minor works” submission.)
   The following is a list of exterior work items that fall under the “minor
work” category:
-Installation of “full-view” storm or louver wooden storm doors or “full-view”
metal storm doors with baked-on paint finish;
-Installation of metal storm windows with baked on paint finish and horizontal
dividers that are in alignment with the horizontal meeting rails of the
original upper and lower sashes;
-Installation of half-round gutters and downspouts made of copper or with
painted finish;
-Fence installation in rear yards or other areas not visible from the public
view;
-Installation of window air conditioning units, window fans, and TV antennas ;
-Installation of skylights and solar collectors in areas not visible from
public view;
-Installation of HVAC units and other mechanical equipment in areas not visible
from public view;
-Removal of existing incongruous synthetic siding if original siding exists
underneath; and
-Installation of private walkways or back yard patio areas (decks not
included).
   Note: The Minor Works Committee shall forward a “minor works” item to the
SHPC for full review if the activity does not fall directly into one of the
above categories or is inconsistent with the commission’s established
standards.
   1.5   Pre-Application Review of Projects
   Property owners considering projects in the Swansboro historic district are
encouraged to take advantage of free technical advice and design assistance
provided by the SHPC prior to the submission of a Certificate of
Appropriateness application. This pre-review, usually held with a preappointed
subcommittee of the commission during the regularly scheduled work session, may
help expedite the review process because it familiarizes the applicant in the
early stages of project development with the applicable standards that will be
used to evaluate the project proposal. It also gives commissioners an
opportunity to discuss the project concept informally and identify issues that
may be of concern. Informal meetings to become familiar with the SHPC’s design
standards may be arranged by contacting the Administrator. The Administrator
can determine if a preapplication review is needed. However, a preapplication
review is required for any exterior project involving:
      -   New construction (excluding accessory structures under 500 square
feet).
      -   Any exterior building or site alteration involving a cost of more
than $10,000.
   Property owners requesting a preapplication review should provide
commissioners with photographs of the subject property showing existing
conditions and preliminary drawings indicating desired changes. A site plan of
the property should also be furnished. This information is necessary to
facilitate a reasonable discussion of the project. Preapplication review
materials shall be submitted to the Administrator at least fourteen (14)
working days prior to the meeting of the preapplication review subcommittee.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2021-O3, passed 5-24-2021)
SECTION 2: DEFINITIONS.
   2.1   Roof Form and Pitch
   The Roof Form and Pitch are among the major distinguishing characteristics
of different styles of architecture. Roofs can be flat, pitched, hipped,
curved, or arranged in various combinations of all of these forms. Certain
architectural styles are distinguished by roof types - for example, a Second
Empire style building always displays some form of a mansard or curved roof.
Buildings styled after Classical forms usually feature simple hipped or pitched
roofs.
   Roofing materials contribute to the character of early Swansboro buildings.
Depending on the ages and styles of the buildings, roofs can be covered with a
variety of materials ranging from asphalt shingles to terne-plated metal. It is
extremely important to install appropriate roofing material when conserving the
character of early buildings.
      1)   ASPHALT SHINGLES. Shingles manufactured from saturated roofing felts
(rag, asbestos, or fiber glass) coated with asphalt and having mineral granules
on the side exposed to weather.
      2)   DOWNSPOUT. A vertical pipe, often of sheet metal, used to conduct
water from a roof drain or gutter to the ground or cistern.
      3)   FLASHING. A thin impervious material placed in construction to
prevent water penetration, to provide water drainage or both, especially
between a roof and a wall.
      4)   GABLE. The vertical triangular piece of a wall at the end of a
ridged roof, from the level of the eaves to the summit.
      5)   GALVANIZE. To coat steel or iron with zinc, as for example, by
immersing it in a bath of molten zinc.
      6)   GAMBREL ROOF. A gable roof more or less symmetrical, having four
inclined surfaces, the pair meeting at the ridge having a shallower pitch.
      7)   GUTTER. A shallow channel of metal or wood set immediately below or
built in along the eaves of a building to catch and carry off rainwater.
      8)   HIPPED ROOF. A roof without gables, each of whose sides, generally
four, lies in a single plane and joins the others at an apex or ridge.
      9)   JERKIN HEAD ROOF. A roof whose end had been formed into a shape
midway between a gable and a hip, resulting in a truncated or “clipped”
appearance; sometimes called a “clipped gable”.
      10)   LEAD ROOF. A flat roof covered with sheet lead.
      11)   MANSARD ROOF. A modification of the hipped roof in which each side
has two planes, the upper being more shallow. This roof is characteristic of
the Second Empire style.
      12)   PANTILES. A roofing tile that has the shape of an S laid on its
side.
      13)   PITCHED ROOF. A roof having two slopes that meet at a central
ridge, sometimes called a “gable end roof”.
      14)   ROOFING TILE. A tile for roofing, usually of burnt clay; available
in many configurations and types such as plain tiles, single-lap tiles, and
interlocking tiles.
      15)   SHAKES. Any thick, handsplit shingle usually edge-grained; formed
by splitting a short log into tapered radial sections.
      16)   SHEET METAL. A flat, rolled metal product, rectangular in cross
section and form; when used as roofing material, it is usually terne or zinc-
plated.
      17)   SHINGLES. A roofing unit of wood, asphalt, slate, tile or other
materials cut to stock lengths, widths and thicknesses; used as an exterior
covering on roofs and applied in an overlapping fashion.
      18)   SLATE. A hard, brittle, metamorphic rock consisting mainly of clay
materials characterized by good cleavage along parallel planes; used in thin
sheets as roofing or in thicker slabs for flooring.
      19)   TARPAPER. A roofing material manufactured by saturating a dry felt
with asphalt and then coating it with a harder asphalt mixed with a fine
mineral.
      20)   TERNE-PLATE. Sheet metal coated with terne metal which is an alloy
of lead containing up to 20% tin.
      21)   TERRA-COTTA. Hard, unglazed fired clay; used for ornamental work
and roof and floor tile.
      22)   TIN.
         (1)   A lustrous white, soft and malleable metal having a low melting
point; relatively unaffected by exposure to air; used for making alloys and
coating sheet metal;
         (2)   To coat with a layer of tin.
      23)   ZINC. A hard bluish-white metal, brittle at normal temperatures and
not subject to corrosion; used in making alloys and for galvanizing sheet
metal.
   2.2   Fenestration Pattern
   The FENESTRATION PATTERN of a building is the arrangement of doors and
windows in its facades. Builders use these various arrangements, the sizes and
proportions of openings and the decorative elements associated with them, to
achieve stylistic effects on buildings.
      1)   AWNING. A roof-like covering of canvas, often adjustable, over a
window, door, etc., to provide protection against the sun, rain, and wind.
Aluminum awnings were developed in the 1950s.
      2)   BAY WINDOW. A projecting bay with windows that extend floor space on
the interior and usually extends to ground level on the exterior.
      3)   BEVELED GLASS. Glass panes whose edges are ground and polished at a
slight angle so that patterns are created when panes are set adjacent to one
another.
      4)   BLINDS. External or internal louvered wooden shutters that exclude
direct sunlight but admit light through a window or door. This feature is found
on many southern houses since its exterior placement intercepts the sun’s heat
before it strikes a window pane, thereby helping to cool the interior.
      5)   BOW WINDOW. A curved bay window.
      6)   CASEMENT WINDOW. A window which swings open along its entire length,
usually on hinges fixed to the sides of the opening into which it is fitted.
      7)   CASING. The exposed trim molding, framing, or lining around a door
or window; may be either flat or molded.
      8)   CLERESTORY WINDOWS. Windows located relatively high up in a wall
that often tend to form a continuous band. This was a feature of many Gothic
cathedrals and was later adapted to many of the Revival styles found here.
      9)   CORNER BLOCK. A block placed at a corner of the casing around a
wooden door or window frame, usually treated ornamentally
      10)   DOUBLE-HUNG WINDOW. A window with two sashes which open by sliding
up and down in a cased frame.
      11)   ETCHED GLASS. Glass whose surface has been cut away with a strong
acid or by abrasive action in a decorative pattern.
      12)   FANLIGHT. An arched overdoor light whose form and tracery suggest
an open fan.
      13)   FRENCH WINDOW. A long window reaching to floor level and opening in
two leaves like a pair of windows.
      14)   GLUE-CHIP GLASS. A patterned glass with a surface resembling frost
crystals; common in turn-of-the-century houses and bungalows.
      15)   JAMB. The vertical sides of an opening, usually for a door or
window.
      16)   LANCET. A narrow window with a sharp pointed arch typical of Gothic
architecture.
      17)   LUNETTE. A semicircular opening.
      18)   MOLDED SURROUND. A decorative molded frame around an opening such
as a window or door.
      19)   MULLION. A vertical member dividing a window area and forming part
of the window frame.
      20)   MUNTIN. A molding forming part of the frame of a window sash and
holding one side of a pane.
      21)   ORIEL WINDOW. A projecting bay with windows, generally on the
second story of a building. An oriel is adopted from Gothic forms.
      22)   OVERDOOR LIGHT. A glazed area above a doorway and sometimes
continued vertically down the sides; often decoratively treated. An overdoor
light is common feature on many 19th and early 20th century buildings.
      23)   PALLADIAN WINDOW. A window with three openings, the central arched
and usually wider and taller than the others.
      24)   PANE. A flat sheet of glass, cut to size for glazing a window,
door, etc.; often a small size, larger ones being usually called “sheets.” Once
installed, the pane is referred to as a Light or Window Light.
      25)   SASH. The moving part of a window.
      26)   SHUTTERS. Small wooden “doors” on the outside (of windows),
originally used for security purposes. In the 19th century, they were closed
over windows at night or during storms.
      27)   SIDELIGHT. A narrow window area beside an outside door, generally
seen in the Greek Revival Style.
      28)   SILL. The lowest horizontal member in a wall opening.
      29)   TRABEATED ENTRANCE. A standard classical entrance, featuring an
overdoor light and sidelights.
      30)   TRACERY. An ornamental division of an opening, especially a large
window, usually made with wood. Tracery is found in buildings of Gothic
influence.
      31)   TRANSOM. An overdoor light, usually hinged to be opened for secure
ventilation at ceiling level.
      32)   WINDOW CAP. The uppermost part of a window frame.
      33)   WINDOW GLASS. A hard, brittle inorganic substance; ordinarily
transparent or translucent, normally a soda-lime-silica compound fabricated in
continuous flat sheets up to six feet wide, in thickness from 0.05 to 0.22
inches thick.
   2.3   Vernacular Forms
   Vernacular Forms, or native, local forms, are more commonly found in 19th
and early 20th century buildings and neighborhoods than in newer construction.
Many buildings in early Swansboro feature roomy porches and similar structures
that function as outdoor living rooms. There are several types of porches and
outdoor spaces that lend character to early Swansboro buildings.
   1)   ARBOR. A open structure of trees or shrubs closely planted, either
twined together and self-supporting or supported on a light, lattice-work
frame.
   2)   BALCONY. A projecting platform on a building, sometimes supported from
below, sometimes cantilevered; enclosed with a railing or balustrade.
   3)   DECK. An uncovered porch, usually at the rear of the building; popular
in modern residential design.
   4)   FLORIDA ROOM. A glass enclosed porch, usually placed in order to obtain
maximum advantage of the winter sun and usually furnished with potted plants; a
conservatory.
   5)   GAZEBO. A summer house situated to take advantage of a view.
   6)   PATIO. An open, paved court enclosed on three sides by elements of a
building.
   7)   PORCH. A covered outdoor area attached to the house, usually roofed and
generally open sided with a floor and balustrades.
   8)   PORTICO. A small entrance porch or covered walk consisting of a roof
supported by open columns.
   9)   SCREEN PORCH. A porch or veranda space that is enclosed with woven wire
cloth, or screening, to keep insects out while allowing maximum ventilation.
   10)   SUMMER HOUSE. A garden house of light, airy design used in the summer
for protection from the sun.
   11)   VERANDA, VERANDAH. A covered porch or balcony, extending along the
outside of a building, planned for summer leisure.
   2.4   Principals of Construction Uses - Vernacular Forms
   These structural elements, combined with landscaping techniques, were used
in the late 19th and early 20th centuries to incorporate comfortable living
into the regional climate. They also seem to indicate different social
attitudes than those existing today - verandas and other outdoor living spaces
in early Swansboro neighborhoods tend to be found on or near the building’s
street facade. This apparently encouraged neighborly dropping-in and visiting.
Today most builders of new homes situate outdoor living space to the rear of
the structure and present a formal facade to the street.
   Decks are a modern amenity that an individual may wish to add to an early
Swansboro building. If this is the case, every effort should be made to place
them to the rear of the building. Decks should be incorporated into the facade
of the house by screening under them with an architectural element such as
lattice, or with vegetation that displays a good screening quality.
   2.5   Color
   Color schemes for early Swansboro buildings may be one of the most discussed
subjects among local preservationists. Many times, one of the first exterior
projects a new owner of an early home undertakes is the exterior repainting of
the house. While an exterior paint job is not an irreversible change to a
building, it is an expensive one; so a careful study of the style of the
building and the color scheme appropriate to that style makes sense.
   Color was an element of the original design intent of an architect or
builder; but since early photographs are black and white, only tones and
contrasts can be determined. However, if an individual wishes to reproduce
accurately the original color scheme of an early Swansboro building, he can
sometimes obtain written documentation describing it. If this is not available,
paint scraping samples can be made; professional preservationists such as those
on the staff of the North Carolina Division of Archives and History can assist
in this process.
   If the original color scheme of an early Swansboro building is not pleasing
to its new owner, then it is appropriate to choose a different combination,
bearing in mind the architectural style of the building, the surrounding
streetscape and the climatic conditions of this region.
   1)   ALKYD RESIN PAINT. A common modern paint using alkyd (of a group of
thermoplastic synthetic resins) as the vehicle for the pigment; often confused
with oil paint.
   2)   CAULK. To fill a joint, crack, and the like, with caulking.
   3)   CAULKING. A resilient mastic compound, often having a silicone,
bituminous or rubber base; used to seal cracks, fill joints, prevent leakage
and/or provide waterproofing.
   4)   CHALKING. The formation of a powder surface condition from the
disintegration of a binder or elastomer in a paint coating; caused by
weathering or otherwise destructive environment.
   5)   CHECKING. Small cracks in film of paint or varnish which do not
completely penetrate to the previous coat; the cracks are in a pattern roughly
similar to a checkerboard.
   6)   LATEX PAINT. A paint having a latex binder ( an emulsion of finely
dispersed particles of natural or synthetic rubber or plastic materials in
water).
   7)   MILDEW. A fungus that grows and feeds on paint, cotton and linen
fabrics, etc., which are exposed to moisture; causes discoloration and
decomposition of the surface.
   8)   OIL PAINT. A paint in which a drying oil is the vehicle for the
pigment; rarely used since the mid-20th century.
   9)   PAINT. A liquid solution of pigment in a suitable vehicle of oil,
organic solvent or water; liquid when applied, but dries to form an adherent,
protective and decorative coating.
   10)   PAINT STRIPPER. A liquid which is applied to a dry paint to cause it
to soften or lose adhesion so that it may be removed easily.
   11)   PIGMENT. A finely ground inorganic powder which is dispersed in a
liquid vehicle to make paint; may provide, in addition to color, many of the
essential properties of paint - opacity, hardness, durability and corrosion
resistance.
   12)   PRIMER. A paint, applied as first coat, which serves the function of
sealing and filling on wood, plaster and masonry.
   13)   SANDING, FLATTENING DOWN, RUBBING. Smoothing a surface with abrasive
paper or cloth, either by hand or by machine.
   14)   SANDBLAST. An extremely abrasive method of cleaning brick, masonry, or
wood that involves directing high-powered jets of sand against a surface.
   15)   WATERBLAST. Similar to sandblast except water is used as an abrasive;
like sandblasting, high pressure water streams can damage wood and masonry
surfaces.
   2.6   Elements of Composition
   The composition of a building is the arrangement or the bringing together of
its parts or elements. Architectural compositions in early buildings can range
from simple, straightforward designs to complex arrangements that create visual
interest both in the building and in the surrounding streetscape.
   While an architectural composition is made up of all the elements of the
various styles - materials, roof forms, fenestration patterns, and so on -
there are some elements of composition that are added to various architectural
styles that do not fall under the various other categories. The following list
describes some of those that are found on early Swansboro buildings.
   1)   ANTA (pl. Antae). A pier, square in plan and having a capital; this was
sometimes used in Neoclassical architecture in place of a round column.
   2)   ARCADE. A row of arches with their supporting columns or piers.
   3)   ARCH. A structure formed of wedge-shaped stones, bricks, or other
objects laid so as to maintain one another firmly in position; a rounded arch
generally represents Classical or Romanesque influence while a pointed arch
denotes Gothic influence.
   4)   COLONNADE. A row of columns which supports an entablature; this is a
feature of Greek Revival and Neoclassical styles.
   5)   COLUMN. A vertical shaft or pillar that supports or appears to support
a load.
   6)   CRENELLATED PEDIMENT. A triangular gable end with alternating
indentations and raised portions.
   7)   CUPOLA. A small vault on top of a roof; sometimes spherical in shape,
sometimes square with a mansard or conical roof.
   8)   DORMER. A structure containing a window (or windows) that projects
through a pitched roof.
   9)   EAVE. The part of a sloping roof that projects beyond a wall.
   10)   ENTABLATURE. A horizontal member divided into triple sections
consisting from bottom to top, of an architrave (symbolizing a beam), a frieze,
usually ornamented, and cornice.
   11)   FOUNDATION. The supporting portion of a structure below the first
floor construction, or below grade, including footings.
   12)   FRONTISPIECE. A decorated chief pediment or ornamental details on the
bay of a building.
   13)   HALF-TIMBERED. Descriptive of buildings of the Tudor style (16th and
17th centuries) which were built with strong timber foundations, support knees
and studs, and whose walls were filled with plaster or masonry materials such
as brick. In the United States, buildings in the Tudor Revival style of
architecture feature half-timbered construction.
   2.7   Basic Shape and Form
   The basic shape and form of a building generally can be seen by looking at
its floor plans and elevations. The style of an older building usually dictated
its shape. Buildings inspired by classical forms are generally foursquare or
rectangular in shape while those inspired by Gothic forms or vernacular
revivals can display complex or fanciful arrangements of shapes.
   Surviving early Swansboro buildings dating from before the advent of central
heating usually display floor plans that allow individual rooms to be shut off.
The styles of architecture from those years - Georgian, Federal, and Greek
Revival - suited themselves to the need to conserve heat through a symmetrical
arrangement of rooms, each of which could be closed off, and usually reflected
a symmetrical arrangement of shapes on the exterior of the buildings.
   1)   BAY. Within a structure, a regularly repeated spatial element usually
defined in plan by beams and their supports, or in elevation by repetition of
windows and doors in the building facade.
   2)   ELEVATION. A drawing showing the vertical elements of a building,
either exterior or interior, as a direct projection to a vertical plane.
   3)   STORY. The space in a building between floor levels or between a floor
and a roof above.
   2.8   Principals of Construction Methods - Basic Shape and Form
   The relationships and proportions of shapes and forms make the basis for the
character of a building. They are the anchor on which the other structural
elements are applied. During a restoration or rehabilitation project, special
note should be made of the shape and form of the building. If an addition to an
early Swansboro building is needed, it should reflect the proportions of the
original design and complement the character of the building. A well designed,
skillfully executed contemporary addition often can add an intriguing quality
to a historic building. Where this has occurred successfully, the designer
usually is completely familiar with the significant characteristics of the
older building and respects them in the design of the addition.
   The removal of an unsympathetic, poorly designed addition to an early
Swansboro building can greatly enhance its appearance. But the removal of
exemplary later additions in order to restore a building to its original or
conjectured original appearance should be carefully studied. Just as a well
done contemporary addition can enhance a building, an accumulation of good
earlier additions can add depth and quality to it. Before any addition is
removed, it should be evaluated for its character, significance, and utility.
It is wise to determine exactly what is being removed and retained by sketching
floor plans and elevations.
   2.9   Materials
   Materials are the substance or matter that are used to construct a building
or from which elements of a building are fabricated. Wood was the most commonly
used building material in Swansboro neighborhoods. Most of the homes in these
areas are of “balloon frame” construction, a Victorian era building innovation
that set up all exterior bearing walls and partitions with single vertical
studs and nailed the floor joists to those studs. This was an important advance
in building technology as it allowed the rapid construction of larger numbers
of houses by fewer men. Before this, buildings exhibited “post and beam”
framing; that is a system in which the horizontal members rest on posts that
were separate from walls. This method, while time-consuming, produced very
sturdy buildings and occasionally one finds building contracts from the
Victorian era that specify this earlier type of construction. Clapboard, flush
siding, board and batten, or textured siding was then applied to the exterior;
and depending on the styles of the era and the taste and financial conditions
of the owner, decorative details were added.
   2.10   Siding
   Exterior siding is the most common architectural element that is fabricated
from wood. There are a multitude of forms that wood siding can take; it can be
clapboard, flush, textured, or board and batten. Many times the form of siding
displayed on a Swansboro building is one of the hallmarks of its style. There
also are many commercial imitations of wooden siding of which one should be
aware.
   1)   ALUMINUM SIDING. Sheets of exterior architectural covering, usually
with a colored finish, fabricated from aluminum, a lustrous silver-white,
nonmagnetic, lightweight metal which is very malleable and possesses good
thermal and electrical conductivity and is a good reflector of heat and light.
Aluminum siding was developed in the early 1940s and became increasingly common
in the 1950s and 1960s.
   2)   ASBESTOS SIDING. Dense, rigid board containing a high proportion of
asbestos fibers bonded with Portland cement; resistant to fire, flame or
weathering and has a low resistance to heat flow. It is usually applied as
large overlapping shingles. Asbestos siding was applied to many buildings in
the 1950s.
   3)   ASPHALT SIDING. Siding manufactured from saturated construction felts
(rag, asbestos, or fiberglass) coated with asphalt and finished with mineral
granules on the side exposed to the weather; it sometimes displays designs
seeking to imitate brick or stone. Asphalt siding was applied to many buildings
in the 1950s.
   4)   BOARD AND BATTEN. Closely applied vertical boards, the joints of which
are covered by vertical narrow wooden strips; usually found on Gothic Revival
style buildings.
   5)   CLAPBOARD. Horizontal wooden boards, tapered at the upper end and laid
so as to cover a portion of a similar board underneath and to be covered by a
similar one above. The exposed face of clapboard is usually less than 6" wide.
This was a common outer face of 19th and early 20th century buildings.
   6)   COMPOSITION BOARD. A building board, usually intended to resemble
clapboard, fabricated from wood or paper fabric under pressure and at an
elevated temperature, usually with a binder.
   7)   FLUSH SIDING. Wooden siding which lies on a single plane. This was
commonly applied horizontally except when it was applied vertically to accent
an architectural feature.
   8)   GERMAN SIDING.  Wooden siding with a concave upper edge which fits into
a corresponding rabbet in the siding above.
   9)   PLYWOOD SIDING. Laminated wood sheets fabricated of veneers bonded
together with waterproof glue; the exposed surface is usually grooved to
resemble vertical ship lap boards or board and batten in reverse relief.
   10)   TEXTURED SIDING. Wood cut in various flat patterns such as half-rounds
or scallops and applied to portions of facades to create a picturesque or
romantic look. This treatment was generally used in Queen Anne style buildings.
Surface textures are often found in the following designs:
      a)   COMPOSITE. A design formed by two overlapping rows of scallop-shaped
shingles overlapped by a row of diamond-shaped shingles overlapped by two
overlapping rows of scallop-shaped shingles.
      b)   DIAMOND. A design formed by overlapping rows of shingles shaped like
vertical parallelograms.
      c)   SCALLOP. A design formed by overlapping rows of shingles shaped like
a rectangle with rounded ends; sometimes called “fish scale.”
      d)   STAGGERED BUTT. A design formed by overlapping rows of alternating
small and large rectangular-shaped shingles.
   11)   VINYL SIDING. Sheets of thermal plastic compound made from chloride or
vinyl acetates, as well as some plastics made from styrene and other chemicals,
usually fabricated to resemble clapboard.
   2.11   Principals of Construction Methods - Siding
   Synthetic sidings destroy the aesthetic appeal of the building to which they
are applied. At their best, they conceal the historic fabric of a building and
at worst, they remove or destroy with nail holes the materials and
craftsmanship which reflect our cultural heritage. Owners should avoid the use
of such materials and maintain the wood siding of the buildings instead.
   Textured wall shingles on early Swansboro buildings were usually painted,
sometimes the same color as the rest of the siding, sometimes in a
complementary color to add emphasis, and sometimes left natural. When restoring
or rehabilitating a building with siding, it is very wise to retain as many of
the original wooden shingles as possible and to replace lost or damaged ones
with the same type and in the same design. Removing or covering original siding
on early Swansboro buildings can subvert the intentions of the original
designer and harm the character and unique quality of the building.
   2.12   Brick
   Brick was a more expensive building material than wood and therefore is not
as common in early Swansboro neighborhoods. Old brick walls have certain
characteristics which should be preserved and enhanced. Properly cared for, a
brick wall develops a patina with age and possesses a definite maintenance
advantage over wood siding.
   Brick is laid in a pattern known as bond. Most buildings display the pattern
called common bond that features a variety of stretcher - header ratios. Before
the use of wire wall reinforcement became widespread, bond was an important
element in the stability of brick construction. Today it creates a pattern of
order and repetition that adds a pleasing element to the facade of a brick
building.
   1)   BOND. The laying of bricks or stones regularly in a wall according to a
recognized pattern for strength. Masonry bond is essential to brickwork when
wire reinforcement is not used.
      a)   COMMON BOND. Also called American bond; a brick wall pattern in
which the fifth, sixth, or seventh course is a header course.
      b)   ENGLISH BOND. Brick walling in which alternate courses are composed
entirely of stretchers or entirely of headers.
      c)   FLEMISH BOND. Brick walling in which every course is composed of
alternating headers and stretchers.
      d)   RUNNING BOND. A common contemporary pattern of continuous stretcher
courses with no headers; used only with single wythe walls or reinforced
masonry.
   2)   BOND COURSE. A course of headers.
   3)   BRICK. In temperate climates, bricks are made of clay mixed with some
coarser materials such as silt or sand, and burnt, not baked, in a kiln. The
common standard brick is now about 7-3/4 x 3-5/8 x 2-1/4 inches, but many other
sizes exist.
   4)   BRICK VENEER. An outer covering, usually for a timber building,
consisting of a single wythe brick wall attached to the supporting wall with
ties.
   5)   COURSES. Parallel layers of bricks, stones, blocks, slates, tiles,
shingles, etc., usually horizontal, including any mortar laid with them.
   6)   HEADER. A brick laid across the thickness of a wall to bond together
different wythe of a wall; the exposed end of a brick.
   7)   HYDRATED LIME. Quicklime which has been submerged in water to make lime
putty.
   8)   JOINTS. The mortar between adjacent bricks or stones.
      a)   CONCAVE JOINT. A durable mortar joint, hollowed out by drawing a 1/
2-inch diameter bar tool along it while green; this is the most common joint
used today.
      b)   FLAT JOINT. A mortar joint whose surface is flush with the
brickwork; usually used for concealed or unfinished surfaces.
      c)   GRAPEVINE JOINT. An archaic joint similar to a concave joint with a
groove scribed into the center of it; rarely used after Colonial times, it is
not often seen in early Swansboro buildings.
      d)   KEYED JOINT. Concave pointing of a mortar joint.
      e)   WEATHER-STRUCK JOINT. A mortar joint smoothed off by pressing the
trowel in at the upper edge so as to throw rain out to the face of the brick.
   9)   MORTAR. A mixture of Portland cement, lime, putty, and sand in various
proportions used for laying bricks or stones. Until the use of hard Portland
cement became general, the softer lime-clay or lime-sand mortars and masonry
cement were common.
   10)   POINTING. Raking out deteriorated mortar joints and filling into them
a surface mortar to repair the joint.
   11)   PORTLAND CEMENT. A very hard and strong hydraulic cement (one that
hardens under water) made by heating a slurry of clay and limestone in a kiln.
   12)   SANDBLAST. An abrasive method of cleaning bricks, masonry, or wood
that involves directing high-powered jets of sand against a surface;
sandblasting damages wood or masonry surfaces.
   13)   STRETCHER. A brick or stone laid with its length parallel to the
length of the wall.
   14)   WATERBLAST. Similar to sandblast except that water is used as an
abrasive; like sandblasting, high pressure water jets can damage wood and
masonry surfaces.
   15)   WYTHE. Parallel vertical layers of masonry units that make up the
thickness of a wall.
   2.13   Architectural Details
   The architectural details of an older building, whether they are applied
with the exuberance of Victorian-era styles or with the restraint of the
classically inspired, are signatures of design. Often, an individual will be
attracted to a building because of the presence of these details - the
“gingerbread” or carvings associated with Victorian houses, or because of the
simple but proportional lines of a shotgun or four square house.
   1)   ADAMESQUE. Details in the style of the Adam brothers, designers whose
work was characterized by the use of classical ornament.
   2)   ARCHITRAVE. The lowest part of a classical entablature, symbolizing a
beam laid across capitals of columns, or as more commonly used in connection
with houses, the molded trim around a door or window opening.
   3)   ART DECO. A style popular in the 1920s and 1930s which emphasized
modern streamlining and geometric ornament.
   4)   ATTIC VENTILATORS. In houses, screened or louvered openings, sometimes
in decorative shapes, located on gables or soffits. Victorian styles sometimes
feature sheet soffits or metal ventilators mounted on the roof ridge above the
attic.
   5)   BALUSTRADE. A low barrier formed of uprights supporting a railing.
   6)   BAND, BAND COURSE, BANDMOLD, BELT. Flat trim running horizontally in
the wall to denote a division in the wall plane or change in level.
   7)   BARGEBOARD (also VERGEBOARD). A wooden member, usually decorative,
suspended from and following the slope of a gable roof. BARGEBOARDS are used on
buildings inspired by Gothic forms.
   8)   BEAD, BEAD MOLDING. A wooden strip with a round molded edge against
which a window slides or door closes, or a cylindrical molding resembling a
string of beads.
   9)   BEAUX ARTS. A monumental style featuring classical details taught by
the Ecole de Beaux Arts in Paris during the late 19th century.
   10)   BELT COURSE (also STRING COURSE). A horizontal “belt” for decorative
purposes formed by a projecting course (or courses) in a masonry wall.
   11)   BEVELED GLASS. A type of decorative glass on which the edges of each
pane are beveled or cut to an angle less than 90 degrees.
   13)   BLINDS. An external or internal louvered wooden shutter on windows or
doors that excludes direct sunlight but admits light when the louvers are
raised.
   12)   BOX CORNICE. A bulky hollow cornice concealing a roof gutter and
suggesting masonry, though usually of wood.
   14)   BRACKET. A symbolic cantilever, usually of a fanciful form, used under
the cornice in place of the usual mutile or modillion. BRACKETS were used
extensively in Victorian architecture and gave rise to a style known as
Bracketed Victorian.
   15)   BULLNOSE. A convex rounding of a horizontal member as the edge of a
stair tread.
   16)   CANTILEVER. A horizontal structural member supported at one end, a
bracket.
   17)   CAPITAL. The top or head of a column. In classical architecture, there
exist orders of columns; these are proportioned and decorated according to
certain modes, the three basic ones being established by the ancient Greeks.
These are the Doric, the Ionic, and the Corinthian. These were modified by the
Romans who added the Tuscan, the Roman Doric, and the Composite, the latter
being a combination of the Greek Ionic and Corinthian orders. In American 19th
building, the Greek Revival style is a conscious effort to reproduce and adapt
the styles and ideals of ancient Greece. The later “classical” styles tend to
be borrowed from the Renaissance forms which were borrowed from ancient Roman
forms.
   18)   CARPENTER GOTHIC. A style of wooden building characterized by sawn
ornament, pointed openings and board and batten siding, popular in the 1870s
and 1880s. This style is also known as sawnwork Victorian.
   19)   CEILING MEDALLION. A large ornament , generally circular, which adorns
the center of ceilings.
   20)   CHAMFER. A beveled edge or corner.
   21)   CLASSICAL. A loose term to describe the architecture of ancient Greece
and Rome and their later European offshoots - the Renaissance, Baroque, and
Rococco styles. In the United States, classical embraced Georgian, Federal,
Greek Revival, and Renaissance Revival (or Neoclassical).
   22)   COLONIAL ARCHITECTURE. Architecture transplanted from the motherlands
to overseas colonies such as Portuguese Colonial architecture in Brazil, Dutch
Colonial architecture in New York, and above all, English Georgian architecture
of the 18th century in the North American colonies.
   23)   COLUMN. Vertical shafts or pillars that support construction above;
usually fabricated out of wood in residential buildings and often from iron or
stone in commercial buildings.
   24)   CORBEL. A projection (or building out) from a masonry wall, sometimes
to support a load and sometimes for decorative effect.
   25)   CORNER BLOCK. A block placed at a corner of the casing around a wooden
door or window frame, usually treated ornamentally.
   26)   CORNER BOARD. One of the narrow vertical boards at the corner of a
traditional wood frame building into which the clapboards butt.
   27)   CORNICE. The top part of an entablature, usually molded and
projecting; originally intended to carry the eaves of a roof beyond the outer
surface.
   28)   CRESTING. Decorative iron tracery or jigsaw work placed at the ridge
of a roof.
   29)   DADO. A rectangular groove across the width of a board or plank. (In
interior decoration it is the lower part of the wall that has been divided
horizontally by the use of different materials or treatments).
   30)   DENTIL. A number of small cubical members at the base of a classical
cornice that resemble teeth.
   31)   DOWNSPOUT. A pipe, usually of metal, for carrying rainwater from roof
gutters.
   32)   EASTLAKE CARVING. Heavily carved woodwork found on many Victorian
houses, usually in scroll or floral motifs. It is three dimensional as it was
formed with a chisel and lathe.
   33)   EASTLAKE STYLE. The heavily carved woodwork found on many Victorian
houses, usually in scroll or floral motifs.
   34)   ESCUTCHEON. A protective plate, sometimes decorated, surrounding the
keyhole of a door, a light switch, or similar device.
   35)   FASCIA. A flat board with a vertical face that forms the trim along
the edge of a flat roof, or along the horizontal, or “eaves” side of a pitch
roof. The rain gutter is often mounted on it.
   36)   FESTOON. The same as a swag, festive decoration of pendant semiloops
with attachments and loose ends, especially a swag of fabric or representations
of such decorations.
   37)   FINIAL. A formal ornament at the top of a canopy, gable, pinnacle,
street lights, etc.
   38)   FLUTING. A system of vertical grooves (flutes) in the shaft of an
Ionic, Corinthian, or Composite column. Doric columns have portions of the
cylindrical surface of the columns separating the flutes.
   39)   FRETWORK. A geometrically meandering strap pattern; a type of ornament
consisting of a narrow fillet or band which is folded, crossed, and interlaced.
   40)   FRIEZE. The intermediate member of a classical entablature, usually
ornamented. Also a horizontal decorative panel. A FRIEZE is a feature of the
Greek Revival style, but may be found in other types of architecture.
   41)   GINGERBREAD. Thin, curvilinear ornament produced with machine-powered
saws.
   42)   GOUGED AND PIERCED. Ornamental wood that has been grooved, channeled,
or perforated through the use of a chisel called a gouge.
   43)   GRAIN. The direction, size, arrangement, appearance, or quality of the
fibers in wood.
   44)   GUTTER OR EAVE TROUGH. A shallow channel or conduit of metal or wood
set below and along the eaves of a house to catch and carry off rainwater from
the roof.
   45)   HEARTWOOD. The wood extending from the pith to the sapwood, the cells
of which no longer participate in the life processes of the tree.
   46)   IONIC. Noting or pertaining to a Greek or Roman order of architecture
typically characterized by a slender, fluted column with a low capital having
projecting volutes, an architrave in three levels, a shallow frieze that is
sometimes ornamented and a cornice that is sometimes supported by dentils.
   47)   KNOB. A projecting round or oval decorative element simulating the
shape of a functional knob.
   48)   LATTICE. A network, often diagonal, of interlocking lathe or other
thin strips used as screening, especially in the base of the porch.
   49)   LINTEL. A horizontal member spanning an opening and supporting
construction above; a beam.
   50)   MODILLION CORNICE. Cornice with classical brackets forming a molding.
   51)   MOLDING. A decorative band having a constant profile or having a
pattern in low relief, generally used in cornices or as trim around openings.
   52)   MULLION. A vertical member dividing a window area and forming part of
the window frame.
   53)   MUNTIN. A molding forming part of the frame of the window and holding
one side of a pane.
   54)   NEWEL POST. A vertical member or post, usually at the start of the
stair or any place the stair changes direction. Usually large and ornate, it is
the principal support for the handrail.
   55)   OGEE. A double curve formed by the combination of a convex and concave
line, similar to an S-shape.
   56)   PANEL. A thin, flat piece of wood framed by stiles and rails as in a
door or fitted into grooves of thicker material with molded edges for
decorative wall treatment.
   57)   PEDESTAL. A base for a column or for a piece of sculpture or the like.
   58)   PERGOLA. A structure usually consisting of parallel colonnades
supporting an open roof of girders and cross rafters.
   59)   PILASTER. A flat or half-round decorative member applied at a wall
suggesting a column; sometimes called an engaged column.
   60)   PLINTH. The base block of a column.
   61)   QUARTER ROUND. A small molding that has the cross section of a quarter
circle.
   62)   QUOIN. In masonry, a hard stone or brick used, with similar ones, to
reinforce an external corner or edge of a wall or the like; often distinguished
decoratively from adjacent masonry.
   63)   RABBET. A rectangular groove cut in the corner edge of a board or
plank.
   64)   RAKE. Trim members that run parallel to a roof slope and form the
finish between the wall and a gable roof extension.
   65)   RISER. Each of the vertical board closing the spaces between the
treads and stairways.
   66)   ROSETTE. A conventionalized circular (floral) motif, usually
sculptural.
   67)   RUSTICATION. Masonry or wood in which each principal face is rough or
highly patterned with a tooled margin.
   68)   SAWNWORK. Ornamentation in cut-out planking, formed with a bandsaw,
popular in the 1880s and 1890s. This decorative detailing is flat.
   69)   SHAKE. A thick shingle formed by splitting a short log into tapered
radial sections, usually edge-grained.
   70)   SHUTTERS. Small wooden “doors” on the outside of windows, originally
used to close for security purposes.
   71)   SILL. The lowest horizontal member in a wall opening.
   72)   SOFFIT. The exposed undersurface of any overhead component of a
building such as an arch, balcony, beam cornice, lintel, or vault.
   73)   SURROUND. The molded trim around a door or window opening.
   74)   SWAG. A conventionalized motif resembling a drapery of heavy fabric; a
festoon.
   75)   TERRA-COTTA. Hard unglazed fired clay; used for ornamental work and
roof and floor tile. Also fabricated with a decorative glaze and used as a
surface finish for buildings in the Art Deco style.
   76)   TONGUE AND GROOVE. Boards having a tongue on one edge and a groove on
the next for tight joining and surface alignment.
   77)   TRACERY. An ornamental division of an opening, especially a large
window.
   78)   TREAD. The horizontal board in a stairway on which the foot is placed.
   79)   TRIM. The finish material on a building, such as moldings applied
around openings or at the floor and ceilings of rooms.
   80)   VENEER. Thin sheets of wood made by rotary cutting or slicing of a
log. Also, an outside facing of brick, stone, and the like, that provides a
decorative, durable surface but is not load-bearing.
   81)   VERGEBOARD. See BARGEBOARD.
   82)   VOLUTE. The ornamental spiral at the ends of an Ionic capital.
   83)   WILLIAMSBURG STYLE. Of or pertaining to the styles of architecture and
furnishings displayed in the restoration of Colonial Williamsburg, an early
18th century town in Virginia.
   84)   WINDER. Tapered treads in a staircase allowing the stair to turn as it
climbs.
   85)   WROUGHT IRON. Iron that is rolled or hammered into shape, never
melted.
   2.14   Principals of Construction Methods - Architectural Details
   Many of the architectural details found on older buildings are no longer
available or are very expensive to reproduce. Those that are characteristic to
particular buildings should be regarded as valuable antiques and treated as
such. If a property owner is restoring the exterior of a building and is
seeking to replace missing architectural details, it may be possible to find
some of them in salvage yards or in antique shops. Before undertaking the
replacement of details, it is wise to be completely familiar with the style and
characteristics of the building so that the introduction of inappropriate
details can be avoided.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
SECTION 3: ROOFS.
   3.1   Roofs - Standards
   1)   Preserve or restore original and significant terne or double lock roof
forms, shapes, and major roof architectural elements such as dormers, gables,
chimneys, and eave overhangs. It is not appropriate to make alterations to the
front or other primary portions of the roof of a contributing structure if that
roof slope can be seen from the public view.
   2)   Preserve, maintain, and repair historic roofing details and materials
such as slate, standing-seam metal, and tile wherever possible. Replace in-kind
only if necessary due to deterioration or damage. Rust and holes that can be
repaired are not an appropriate reason for replacement, please schedule
consultation with town staff or SHPC to review preservation methods.
      Figure 3.1.1 depicts example of original terne roof that could be
repaired by available mastic product.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/
IMAGES/0-0-0-7087.gif]
   Figure 3.1.1 Original Terne Roof
 
   3)   New metal or aluminum roofing materials should be compatible with
original roofing material. The new material must match the historic material as
closely as possible in color, shape, size, and texture. Appropriate colors are
shades of white, gray, or silver. Appropriate panel width is 16 inches with max
of 20 inches and rib or seam must be 1.5 inches or under. The material between
the seams must be flat. Please see examples in color palette of appropriate
colors. Barn tin (also known as “five-vee” tin) or coated steel may be used to
replace a standing-seam tin roof in new construction .
      Figures 3.1.2, 3.1.3 , 3.1.4, and 3.1.5 depicts accurate and inaccurate
examples of new terne or double lock roofs.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/
IMAGES/0-0-0-7089.gif]         [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/IMAGES/0-0-0-7091.gif]
 
   Figure 3.1.2 Accurate Double Lock Profile         Figure 3.1.3 Accurate Snap
Lock Profile
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/
IMAGES/0-0-0-7093.gif]               [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/IMAGES/0-0-0-7095.gif]
   Figure 3.1.4 Inaccurate Metal Roof Example          Figure 3.1.5 Inaccurate
Metal Roof Example
 
   4)   Unpainted or unstained cedar shake shingles are an appropriate roofing
material if there is documentation that it was the original material or of the
era of the home.
   5)   Asphalt or fiberglass asphalt shingles are acceptable for new
construction or replacement of asphalt shingles already present. New
construction or total replacement shingles must be a variation of black or grey
to keep in character of what’s found in the district. Please see examples of
appropriate colors in the color palette. Shingle repair under 25% of total roof
square footage can be replaced in kind.
   6)   Retain historic roof-top features such as ornamental eaves, cornices,
rake-boards, dormers, gables, chimneys, finials, cresting, steeples, belfries,
cupolas, and railings. These elements all add much to the overall architectural
character of a structure. All such original and significant later features
shall be preserved and restored, rather than removed or covered.
   7)   Contemporary or non-historic roof features shall be installed on areas
of the roof not seen from the public view or on other secondary roofs. Included
are skylights, roof-mounted vents, dormers, chimneys, and antennas . In certain
instances, new dormers may be permitted on side or rear elevations if their
design is compatible with the building style and era and the roofline.
   8)   Install new gutters without damaging or obscuring architectural
features. Gutters of all materials except copper shall have a painted finish.
Half-round gutters are appropriate for most contributing properties. Gutters
are usually reviewed as a “minor works” item. If installed on a contributing
building, the SHPC must review application at SHPC meeting.
   9)   Ridge vent for metal roofs must be hidden and vented through Z trim
under ridge cap and should not diminish the original design of the roof or
destroy any character-defining architectural details.
   10)   Accessory structures may be shingle or metal but must meet the color
standards of this section.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2021-O3, passed 5-24-2021; Am. Ord.
2024-O9, passed 4-23- 2024)
SECTION 4 EXTERIOR WALL COVERING, TRIM, AND ORNAMENTATION.
   4.1   Exterior Wall Covering, Trim, and Ornamentation - Standards
   1)   Preserve and maintain existing original exterior wall covering, trim,
ornamentation, and other original decorative elements.
   2)   Preserve and repair original elements wherever possible. Use
preservation techniques which encourage repair, such as epoxies, splicing, and
patching where applicable, rather than wholesale replacement.
   3)   Replace historic elements only where the original is too deteriorated
to repair. If replacement is necessary and justifiable, use new replacement
elements that match the original as closely as possible in all properties -
shape, profile, texture, and detailing.
   4)   Prepare surfaces for painting using the gentlest means possible. Low-
pressure power washing should be used only after a test panel of washing has
been performed by the contractor and reviewed by the owner for excessive
damage. Sand blasting and high- pressure water blasting are not appropriate
treatments.
   5)   The use of synthetic or pressed wood, vinyl, cement composite, or
aluminum siding is not appropriate on buildings which contribute to the
character of the historic district (refer to the Synthetic Siding Policy). The
SHPC may allow replacement of existing synthetic siding with new synthetic
siding if the proposed replacement will be more in keeping with the original
appearance of the structure. NOTE: Artificial siding with a heavy wood grain
will not be permitted.
   6)   Remove synthetic siding from existing contributing buildings wherever
possible. Remove in the gentlest possible manner to avoid damage to the wood
below.
   4.2   Synthetic Siding Policy
   The use of synthetic siding materials is not permitted within the historic
district. Modern synthetic or substitute materials such as vinyl, aluminum,
pressed wood, or cement products shall not be used to cover or replace wood
siding on structures that contribute to the character of the historic district,
or on new structures. The appearance, surface textures, details, and other key
visual characteristics of synthetic sidings are not appropriate in the
district.
   In the case of structures that are presently covered with synthetic siding,
the Swansboro Historic Preservation Commission may allow for a change to
another synthetic siding if the proposed new siding is more in keeping with the
original appearance of the structure or the character of the district. In an
effort to prevent the removal or damage of architectural details, the SHPC may
specify which areas of the structure shall be covered with synthetic siding
products as a condition of approval.
   Synthetic siding products have a number of potential drawbacks, which far
outweigh their benefits, including the following:
   -The application of artificial siding over wood may cause moisture retention
and eventual deterioration;
   -The insulation value of artificial siding and materials applied behind the
siding is often overrated and of minimal value;
   -Artificial siding may cause house fires to burn longer and hotter, and may
make fire extinguishing more difficult;
   -Techniques used in the installation of artificial siding are likely to
cause damage to the original siding and trim underneath, including leakage of
water through improperly detailed or uncaulked joints;
   -Artificial siding prevents the detection of deterioration of original wood
elements that are hidden from view.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2021-O3, passed 5-24-2021)
SECTION 5: WINDOWS AND DOORS.
   5.1   Windows and Doors - Standards
   1)   Retain and preserve historic windows and doors, including all
significant related elements such as frames, sashes, shutters, hardware, old
glass, sills, and moldings.
   2)   Repair existing historic windows and doors, rather than replacing
entire window or door units. Use techniques such as wood epoxies and wood
patches to repair and strengthen deteriorated wood elements. Replace only those
elements that cannot be repaired. If replacement is needed and authorized by
following §
152.479, appropriate materials can be sourced from architectural salvage
companies. Existing original frames should be retained and reused with the
addition of new siding tracks to hold the replacement sashes.
   3)   Use replacement windows and doors that match the existing historic
elements as closely as possible. If replacement windows or doors are required,
consider first replacing only the deteriorated element, such as a single sash
or door, rather than the entire frame or unit. Any new replacements shall match
the original in all dimensions and detailing as closely as possible.
   4)   Use storm windows to improve energy efficiency where needed. New storm
units should have a baked-on paint finish compatible with the color of the
house. Unpainted aluminum is not appropriate. Storm windows for double-hung
sashes shall have horizontal dividers that are in alignment with the horizontal
meeting rails or the original upper and lower sashes. Interior storm windows
are also available.
   5)   Replacement of historic windows and doors for the sole purpose of
improved thermal performance is not appropriate. Storm windows and doors should
be used.
   6)   Tinted glass is not appropriate in the historic district in any area
visible from the public view. Energy-saving or “low-E” glass may be used only
if it is not tinted.
   7)   Replacement windows shall be wooden, or wood clad on historic non-
contributing structures (75 years and older) and contributing strictures.
   8)   Use storm doors to improve energy efficiency where needed. New storm
doors should be compatible with the original exterior doors and with the style
and period of the structure. Wood storm doors of the full-view or large single-
pane type are most appropriate because they do not obscure the original door.
Louvered wood doors are also appropriate. Metal storm doors should be the full-
view type and have a baked-on enamel paint finish in a color that is compatible
with the colors of the structure. Standard or non-historic storm doors are
appropriate only on the rear or other area not visible from public view. Screen
doors shall be appropriate for the period and style of the structure.
   9)   Preserve and repair original or historic shutters, or replace in-kind.
It is appropriate to add louvered shutters to a historic structure if there is
evidence that it once had shutters. All new shutters shall be of wood, and
installed so that they will fit the window frame opening when closed and shall
be of the correct proportions for each window. New shutters shall be provided
with operable hardware, consisting of hinges, pintles, and holdbacks located in
the appropriate position. Shutters made of synthetic or substitute materials,
such as vinyl, are not appropriate.
   10)   Original or historic windows or doors and their related frames and
trim shall not be altered or removed on the main facades visible from the
public view unless this action is part of a documented restoration to an
earlier appearance.
   11)   New windows and doors should not be added to the primary facades or
front elevation, and are usually not appropriate on any other area seen from
the public view. New window and door openings shall not alter the historic
character of the building nor cause damage to historic materials or other
significant architectural features. They must be detailed and sized to be
compatible with the existing structure .
   12)   If new doors are necessary, source from architectural salvage company
or have one built in- kind.
   13)   For projects involving painting doors, please reference the approved
color palette.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2021-O3, passed 5-24-2021; Am. Ord.
2024-O9, passed 4-23- 2024)
SECTION 6 PORCHES AND ENTRANCES.
   6.1   Porches and Entrances - Standards
   1)   Retain and preserve historic porches, entrances, and doorways including
related features such as railings, posts or columns, ceilings, steps, lattice,
flooring, piers, ornamental trim, and other character-defining elements.
   2)   Repair, rather than replace, historic porch and entrance elements
wherever feasible. Use repair techniques which preserve historic materials,
including patching, epoxy repair, reinforcing, or splicing-in of new wood in
place of deteriorated sections. Replacement elements should match the original
in size, shape, pattern, material, color, and texture. Modern stock millwork is
usually not appropriate.
   3)   Use appropriate materials in the repair and restoration of historic
porches. Woods that are naturally rot-resistant or treated will provide the
greatest durability for exposed elements such as railings, steps, flooring, and
floor framing. The use of pressure-treated wood is appropriate when painted
within six months.
   4)   The enclosure or other alteration of original or historic front porches
is not appropriate in the historic district. Avoid enclosing porches at sides
or other secondary areas that are visible from the public view. The enclosure
of porches at the rear, or other areas not seen from the public view, is
appropriate if the enclosure is designed and constructed in a manner that
preserves the historic character and features of the porch.
   5)   Use architectural details and ornamentation that are compatible with
the style, period, and detailing of the porch and structure. The creation of a
false historical appearance, such as adding Victorian ornamentation to a plain
early 20th century porch, is not appropriate.
   6)   Reconstruct missing porches or porch details based on accurate
documentation of such features. Such documentation may include: evidence found
on the subject building, historic photographs, or compatible details found on
another porch in the district of the same period and general style. The owner
shall provide the SHPC with such documentation in the application for a
Certificate of Appropriateness.
   7)   It is not appropriate to add new porches, entrances, or balconies to
primary elevations or other areas of a building that are readily seen from the
public view if none existed historically.
   8)   New handicapped access ramps and other modifications to improve access
shall be designed so that the modifications are reversible and do not damage or
obscure the building’s architectural features or diminish its historic
character.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2021-O3, passed 5-24-2021)
SECTION 7 BRICKWORK AND MASONRY.
   7.1   Brickwork and Masonry - Standards
   1)   Retain and preserve historic brick and masonry elements, including
walls, chimneys, foundations, and retaining walls. Preserve masonry elements
that are character- defining features of the building or property.
   2)   Repair and restore historic masonry elements, rather than replace.
Remove vegetation and vines from masonry to prevent structural or moisture
damage.
   3)   Clean historic masonry only with low-pressure water washing and mild
detergents formulated for the specific application. Use chemical cleaners
formulated for historic masonry only if water and detergent cleaners are not
effective.
   4)   Sand blasting, high-pressure water blasting, and other abrasive
cleaning methods which may damage historic masonry are not appropriate in the
historic district.
   5)   Water repellant sealers are generally not appropriate because they may
trap moisture, causing deterioration or discoloration.
   6)   For repointing, use only mortars that are compatible with the historic
mortars in color, strength, and joint finish or surface tooling. For older,
softer brick, use a mortar mix consisting of six parts sand, three parts
mason’s lime, and one (1) part white Portland cement. Maintain the historic
joint width and bond patterns when making repairs.
   7)   Use only hand tools to remove deteriorated mortar joints, under the
direction of a skilled mason. Do not use power tools or saws to remove mortar
joints.
   8)   When replacing damaged brick or stone, use replacements that match the
original units as closely as possible.
   9)   Avoid painting masonry surfaces that were not painted historically.
When painting masonry that has been previously painted, use acrylic latex
paints for best durability.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2021-O3, passed 5-24-2021)
SECTION 8 FOUNDATIONS.
   8.1   Foundations - Standards
   1)   Retain and preserve original and historic foundations and related
elements wherever possible, including pier size, vents, grilles, lattice,
materials, and other significant details.
   2)   Retain and preserve existing historic materials wherever possible,
rather than replace. For repairs or rebuilding, select new brick, mortar,
ballast stones, and other materials to match the historic materials as closely
as possible in all respects.
   3)   New vents or access doors should be centered between piers. Use
inconspicuous vents, such as black iron or dark plastic, rather than unpainted
aluminum. Locate access doors and other new openings in areas not visible from
public view.
   4)   For infilling between existing brick piers, construct a curtain wall
that is recessed approximately 1" to 2" back from the outer face of the piers
so the original piers stand out; use this treatment for both old and new
foundations. Flush foundations and infill are not appropriate. Concrete block
may be used only if covered with a veneer of brick or sand-finished stucco.
Leave foundations under porches open wherever possible to promote air
circulation to prevent rot and deterioration; use wood lattice or grilles to
enclose.
   5)   Wood grilles or lattice are appropriate infill if compatible with the
period or style of the structure. Stock or lightweight wood lattice is not
appropriate in areas in the public view.
   6)   Existing unpainted historic foundations should not be painted.
Previously painted foundations should be repainted an appropriate color, such
as white or whitewash, dark green, or brick red. Avoid removing paint from a
previously painted foundation. (See Brickwork and Masonry standards).
   7)   Locate new utilities and mechanical equipment such as package unit
furnaces, heat pumps, and air conditioning coils at the rear or other area not
seen from public view. Utilities should never be located at the front of a
structure or site. Provide screening with plantings, fences, or paint
treatments.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2021-O3, passed 5-24-2021)
SECTION 9 CONTRIBUTING COMMERCIAL BUILDINGS.
   9.1   Contributing Commercial Buildings - Standards
   1)   Retain and preserve historic commercial storefronts and building
facades, including display windows, entrance configurations, doors, transoms,
bulkheads, windows, cornices, parapets, and brickwork.
   2)   Retain and preserve historic storefront and facade features through
repair rather than wholesale replacement of old elements with new materials.
   3)   Replace historic facade features in-kind using matching materials when
original elements are too deteriorated to repair. Replacement materials should
match the original in design, dimension, texture, and color. Substitute
materials are appropriate only when the original materials are not available or
repairable. Samples of substitute materials shall be submitted and may be
approved only on a case-by-case basis.
   4)   To reconstruct missing or altered storefront features, design new
facade details to be compatible with the subject building and the surrounding
historic buildings of the same period and style. Use historic forms, materials,
colors, and details adapted from other historic commercial buildings in the
district, including large display windows and transoms.
   5)   Designs for missing storefronts or other facade details should not use
historical themes or detailing that are not appropriate for the historical
period of the subject building.
   6)   Rehabilitate rear facades of commercial buildings to provide for
attractive and convenient access from rear parking areas or the waterfront.
Repair and preserve historic detailing on rear facades wherever possible. Make
every effort to consolidate and eliminate unnecessary utility lines, pipes,
meters, mechanical units, etc., to improve the appearance of rear facades.
   7)   Signage for all storefronts should be compatible in scale, size, color,
and design with the subject building and surrounding historic commercial
buildings. Signs should be located in the sign panel area above the transom or
painted on the glass display windows. It is not appropriate to place signs in
areas that will obscure significant architectural features. (Refer to Sign
guidelines, §
18.1 of this appendix).
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2021-O3, passed 5-24-2021)
SECTION 10 PAINT AND EXTERIOR COLORS.
   10.1   Paint and Exterior Colors
   1)   Use paint colors that are appropriate for the style and period of the
subject property and that accentuate the building’s architectural features.
   2)   Select colors that harmonize with the palette of colors found on other
houses of the same period in the district or on the surrounding block.
   3)   Masonry surfaces that have been previously unpainted, such as brick,
stucco, or stone, should not be painted if those surfaces are in good condition
and if the painting is proposed for the purpose of color change only. The
painting of certain masonry surfaces may be appropriate if the surfaces have
been patched or marred by damage over time, and if the visual integrity of the
surface has been compromised. Paint colors should reflect the base material
where possible (for example, damaged or patched brickwork should be painted a
brick red color). This is also applicable to non-contributing buildings.
   4)   New or replacement gutters and downspouts should have a baked-on enamel
finish in a color that is appropriate for the structure, or should be painted
after installation.
   5)   Old paint should not be removed by sand blasting or other abrasive or
destructive methods.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
SECTION 11 NEW CONSTRUCTION.
   It is the intent of these regulations to assure that new construction ,
including additions to existing improvements, is congruous with the special
character of the district. In considering new construction , the Commission
and/or the Planner shall direct design that it is harmonious with the character
of the district. If a small outbuilding is 150 square feet or less or an
addition of a home is a 250 square feet or less a massing study is not
required.
   Consultation with the Swansboro Historic Preservation Commission in the
early stages of a new construction project to become familiar with its
procedures and aspects of design is recommended.
   Massing studies enable graphic analysis of the shape, form, size and
building envelope of proposed new construction . The massing study provides the
applicant with a way to document the proposed building height and scale, and
other elements of the proposed construction as they relate to nearby existing
buildings, especially in the block.
   MASSING STUDY
   1)   Engage a state-licensed architect or engineer to prepare a massing
study. This massing study shall include an existing conditions plan (including,
but not limited to, showing topography, any significant trees, and utilities,)
and a proposed condition site plan. Plans shall be prepared with a scale of 1
inch = 20 feet or of a size easily reviewed by staff and the Swansboro Historic
Commission.
   SITE PLACEMENT
   2)   Maintain a similar front, side, and rear yard setback to other
contributing and non- contributing buildings on the block and/or side of the
street.
   3)   Orient the building’s front entrance similar to other contributing and
non-contributing structures on the block and/or side of the street. Use
architectural elements such as porches to define new entrances.
   4)   Maintain the pattern of building separation and lot coverage that is
found on the block and/or side of the street.
   5)   Place outbuildings and accessory structures in rear yards. Avoid
locations that obscure the principal building’s prominent architectural
features or significant site features.
   6)   Make the proposed landscaping, groundcover, and any pavement treatment
for the site compatible with surrounding properties on the block and in the
historic district.
   7)   Minimize ground disturbance during new construction to avoid
unnecessary damage to unknown archaeological resources.
   BUILDING HEIGHT/SCALE
   8)   Maintain a building height that is consistent with the height of
contributing buildings found on the block or side of the street. Residential
buildings traditionally range from one to two and one-half stories in height,
while commercial buildings range in height from one to four stories.
   9)   Make the scale (the relationship of a building’s mass and details to a
human being) of the proposed building compatible with the scale of other
contributing structures in the historic district. This relationship to building
mass should include nearby buildings in the block and adjoining open space.
   10)   Design the proportion (the ratio of height to width) of the proposed
new building and its architectural elements to be consistent with the
proportion of contributing buildings and their associated architectural
elements in the historic district.
   11)   Use windows and doors in new construction that are compatible in
proportion, shape, location, pattern, and size with windows and doors of
contributing buildings in the historic district.
   MATERIALS
   12)   Keep the siding and trim material of the proposed building consistent
with materials traditionally used on the immediate block and in the historic
district. This includes the physical elements of the building, such as stone or
wood walls, brick, fencing, landscaping mass, building facades and other
elements, or combinations thereof.
   13)   The use of synthetic products such as vinyl siding and other modern
day products marketed to imitate traditional building materials are permitted
but not encouraged.
   14)   Use materials in traditional ways. New materials should appear as if
they were applied in a traditional manner so as to convey the same visual
appearance as historically used and applied building materials.
   DETAILS
   15)   Use architectural details on the building that complement the
architectural details of contributing structures on the block and/or side of
the street.
   16)   Avoid exact replications of historic buildings and their architectural
elements. Such efforts may provide a false sense of history by confusing the
age of a “new” building.
   17)   Provide a date brick or other exterior date identification marker on
all new construction to assist future generations in the dating of buildings.
   TEXTURE
   18)   Create in new construction a similar degree of texture that is found
in contributing buildings in the historic district. However, concentrate on the
ability to blend rather than duplication. Texture is the relief on a building
surface that is achieved through the use and interaction of a variety of
building materials and shapes. Materials such as weatherboard siding,
decorative fish-scale shingles, and beaded board porch ceilings are examples of
wooden architectural elements that have different physical and visual qualities
and contribute to the “texture” of a building surface.
   19)   Use traditional building materials in traditional locations to achieve
texture.
   COLOR
   20)   Choose exterior colors for new construction that will blend and work
with the surrounding buildings and area.
   FORM AND RHYTHM
   21)   Design new construction that reflects the basic shapes and forms found
on the block and in the historic district.
   22)   Maintain a consistency in roof shape between new construction and the
contributing structures found on the block and/or side of the street. Roof
forms commonly found in the historic district include gable varieties with an
average pitch of 7/12 or greater, hipped roofs in the residential areas, and
flat roofed buildings in the late 19th and early 20th century commercial
downtown with storefront facades.
   23)   Maintain similar percentages and patterns of window and door openings.
Openings which vary considerably from the established patterns found on the
block in which the new construction is placed will tend to have a disruptive
effect on the desired harmony of the streetscape.
   24)   Create form and rhythm in new construction through the use of
architectural elements and details. Study neighboring historic structures on
the block to see if a consistent treatment of elements exists and emulate this
pattern in the new construction. However, limit the amount in which one new
building emulates a contributing building unless the building is a reproduction
of an existing contributing building from the Town’s Historic District. In
which case, a key stone should be imbedded in the foundation to identify when
the new building was built.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2021-O3, passed 5-24-2021; Am. Ord.
2023-O2, passed 1-23-2023; Am. Ord. 2024-O4, passed 3-12-2024)
SECTION 12 ADDITIONS TO CONTRIBUTING BUILDINGS.
   12.1   Additions to Contributing Buildings - Standards
   1)   Locate additions at the side or rear so that they have a minimal impact
on the facade and other primary elevations of the affected building or adjacent
properties.
   2)   The overall proportions of an addition should be compatible with the
existing building in height, scale, size, and massing so as not to overpower
the original building visually. An addition should not be taller than the
original structure unless required by code or a non-aesthetic functional
requirement.
   3)   The design elements of additions should be compatible with the existing
building in terms of materials, style, color, roof forms, proportion and
spacing of doors and windows, details, surface texture, and location.
Contemporary adaptations of the original which clearly look like an addition
and reflect the period of construction are encouraged. It is also appropriate
to closely replicate the details and design elements of the existing structure.
   4)   Additions should be constructed so that they can be removed from the
original building in the future without irreparable damage to significant
features.
   5)   Materials used for the roof, siding, trim, windows, and foundations
should be similar to or compatible with the materials used in the construction
of the existing building. Vinyl and other synthetic siding materials are not
appropriate on additions to historic buildings unless the affected building is
already covered with synthetic siding. Wood windows are most appropriate for
additions within the historic district; however, synthetic window materials are
acceptable but not encouraged for additions provided the proposed windows meet
the requirements set forth in the Windows and Doors standards.
   6)   Rooflines of additions should be similar in form, pitch, and eave
height to the roofline of the original building.
   7)   Foundations should be similar to or compatible with the existing
foundations in material, color, detailing, and height.
   8)   The siting or location of an addition should not have a negative impact
on the character, significance, or other important features of a property or
the district, such as plantings, outbuildings, open space, or vistas to the
water or other buildings.
   9)   Preserve older additions or other alterations to existing buildings
that have acquired significance over time when planning and building a new
addition. Existing additions and alterations that are at least 50 years old
will be evaluated for significance as part of the review process.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2021-O3, passed 5-24-2021)
SECTION 13 DECKS IN THE HISTORIC DISTRICT.
   13.1   Decks on Contributing Buildings - Standards
   1)   Locate decks at the rear or other area where they are not visible from
public view.
   2)   Design decks to avoid physical or visual damage to significant historic
architectural features.
   3)   Decks should be compatible with the subject structure in materials,
scale, style, and details including railings and foundation screening.
   4)   The sides and railings of decks should be inset or recessed from the
rear corners of the structure to reduce visual impact when viewed from the
front or side of the structure.
   5)   Decks should be attached to contributing buildings so that they may be
removed without significant damage.
   6)   Provide proper flashing and other details to reduce or eliminate
moisture damage to the historic structure.
   7)   Built-in deck features such as benches, large trellises, pergolas, or
other elements are not appropriate when visible from street facing building.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2021-O3, passed 5-24-2021)
SECTION 14 FENCES AND WALLS.
   14.1   Fences and Walls - Standards
   1)   Preserve and maintain historic fences and walls.
   2)   Preserve and maintain all historic features and details of fences and
walls, including gates, decorative pickets, posts, pillars, steps, and other
elements that contribute to the character of historic fences and walls.
   3)   Retain and preserve historic fence and wall material wherever possible.
If replacement is necessary, use new material that matches the historic
material in composition, size, shape, color, pattern, and texture.
   4)   Design new fences that are compatible with the associated building,
site, and streetscape in height, proportion, scale, color, texture, material,
and design. Synthetic fence materials, such as vinyl, are not appropriate in
the historic district.
   5)   Fences shall not exceed a height of four feet in front yards and other
areas of primary visual concern. Fences at rear yards and other areas not
readily seen from the public view may be up to six feet high. The transition
between low front fences and higher rear fences should be made as far to the
rear of the enclosed structure or yard as possible, and no more than half the
depth of the yard forward of the principal structure. Any fence that meets a
structure should join the building at an architectural feature on the
structure, such as a cornerboard, break, or other appropriate junction point.
   6)   Historic retaining walls should be preserved. New low walls are
appropriate only where a sharp change in grade exists, and shall not exceed a
height of two feet. Such walls should be constructed of brick or concrete block
covered with a true sand-finish stucco.
   7)   The use of false historical details or other non-original architectural
embellishments on existing fences is not appropriate.
   8)   Contemporary or utilitarian fence materials are not appropriate for
fences in the public view. Inappropriate materials include: plastic, vinyl,
chain link, wire, and all other modern materials. The use of modern fencing is
permitted for rear yards only, in areas not seen from the public view, using
vinyl-coated chain link (dark green or black), standard chain link, or heavy
wire (“hog wire”). Use plantings such as ivy, climbing roses, jasmine, or other
vines to hide wire fences.
   9)   Use a combination of fences and plantings to screen parking lots. To
provide adequate visibility for drivers entering and leaving, the fence should
not exceed a height of three (3) feet at the street/sidewalk edge. (See the
Off-Street Parking guidelines for more details, §
152.296(H), Swansboro Unified Development Ordinance.)
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2021-O3, passed 5-24-2021)
SECTION 15 ENERGY CONSERVATION AND UTILITIES.
   15.1   Energy Conservation and Utilities - Standards
   1)   Identify, retain, and preserve original energy efficient features of an
historic/existing building, such as operable windows, doors, gable and attic
vents, porches, shutters, and awnings.
   2)   Improve energy efficiency of original architectural features through
weatherstripping, maintenance of window glazing, installation of storm doors
and windows, shutters, and awnings on porches and windows.
   3)   Consult with Windows and Doors standards for information on installing
storm doors and windows.
   4)   Install awnings on windows, doors, and porches if historically
appropriate. Avoid damaging or obscuring architectural features in the
installation.
   5)   Install shutters on windows if historically appropriate based on
physical evidence or documentary photograph. Shutters should be of wood and
correspond proportionally in size to the window opening. Shutters should be
mounted with appropriate hardware (i.e., pintles, hinges, and holdbacks) even
if they are not operable.
   6)   Locate utilities in side or rear yards and screen from public view with
plantings, fencing, or other means.
   7)   Locate vents, meter boxes, and other utility connections in areas not
visible from public view. Avoid damaging architectural features in the
installations. Choose non- character-defining wall sections for such
installation.
   8)   Locate roof ventilators, antennas , and satellite dishes in areas not
visible from public view. Satellite dishes exceeding 24" in diameter shall not
be installed in the historic district.
   9)   Paint meter boxes, vents, and other utility fixtures in colors that
will allow them to blend in with the historic/existing buildings.
   10)   Avoid drilling holes in historic wall surfaces to accommodate blown-in
insulation. If wall insulation is desired, carefully remove pieces of exterior
sheathing and run battens of insulation down the wall. Insulating the floor and
ceiling areas is preferable since primary heat loss occurs in these areas.
   11)   Avoid placing window air conditioning units on the front facade of the
building.
   12)   When installing utility fixtures - such as street lights, signal
boxes, utility poles, or railroad crossings - in the public right-of-way, take
into account the impact of the fixtures on the character of the streetscape and
the historic district as a whole. Utility fixtures will be evaluated in terms
of location, design, color, scale, compatibility with surrounding streetscape
features, and the overall visual impact on the historic district.
   13)   Avoid radically pruning street trees located under utility wires. Such
pruning practices permanently damage the form and long-term health of the tree.
Refer to Landscaping guidelines for proper tree planting practices.
   14)   Consolidate overhead wires whenever possible to minimize visual
clutter.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2021-O3, passed 5-24-2021)
SECTION 16 EXTERIOR LIGHTING.
   16.1   Exterior Lighting - Standards
   1)   Select lighting that is compatible with the building and site in terms
of design, materials, color, size, scale, level of illumination, and location.
   2)   In general, choose fixtures that are simple and unobtrusive and do not
compete with the building or site.
   3)   Choose lighting sources that generate a soft white light instead of a
more intensive yellow or orange light. Metal halide bulbs will achieve the
desired effect instead of sodium vapor or fluorescent light sources .
   4)   Avoid placing fixtures in areas that will obscure or damage character-
defining architectural elements or site features.
   5)   Use ground-mounted spots or ornamental light fixtures to illuminate
signs instead of internal lighting.
   6)   Screen ground-mounted spots or accent lights from view.
   7)   Use light in subtle, not flashy, ways to create a warm and welcoming
ambience.
   8)   Use a consistent family of street lights in the commercial and
waterfront district and in residential areas.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2021-O3, passed 5-24-2021)
SECTION 17 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   17.1   Off-Street Parking - Standards
   1)   Locate new parking lots and driveways in the historic district as
unobtrusively as possible.
   2)   Site new parking areas in interior or rear lot locations whenever
possible.
   3)   Avoid destroying buildings, mature vegetation, and other landscape
elements that contribute to the historic character of a site.
   4)   Create perimeter screening around new parking lots. Use low masonry
walls, fencing, or dense plantings in a minimum ten foot wide buffer strip to
soften the presence of the parking area in the landscape.
   5)   Integrate pedestrian scale lighting into parking areas to avoid
excessive glare and illumination to adjoining properties. See Exterior Lighting
standards, §
152.016, for further details on lighting standards.
   6)   Incorporate existing mature trees into new parking areas. Avoid the
placement of impervious surface materials such as asphalt and concrete in areas
below the canopy crown of the tree. Use turf stone, gravel, marl, crushed
shells, or other pervious materials in these areas.
   7)   Use paving materials that were traditionally used to surface parking
areas and driveways in the historic district. Gravel, marl, crushed shells,
asphalt, and concrete are typical parking lot treatments, while grass, gravel
or concrete runners with a grassy median, brick, oyster shells, and marl are
typical driveway treatments. Use bricks, stone, or metal to contain loose
paving materials. Landscape timbers, railroad ties, and concrete or plastic
edging are inappropriate.
   8)   Construct new driveways to conform with the size, configuration,
material, and location of existing driveways.
   9)   Avoid placing driveways and parking pads in front yard areas and other
prominent areas visible from the public view.
   10)   Avoid abutting parking areas and driveways directly to a building.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2021-O3, passed 5-24-2021)
SECTION 18 SIGNAGE.
   18.1   Signage - Standards
   1)   Use a traditional palette of materials for new signs such as wood,
metal, or stone. Synthetic materials are only appropriate when they resemble
one of the materials listed above. Signage on commercial canvas awnings and in
storefront display windows is also appropriate. Internal glass-mounted signs
are not subject to SHPC review. However, the SHPC shall review interior neon
signs that are located within five feet of a window or glass door on an
exterior wall and are so placed as to be seen from the outside. New exterior
neon signs installed following the date of adoption of this amendment are
prohibited.
   2)   Place signs so they do not visually overwhelm the building or
streetscape or damage or obscure character-defining architectural details.
   3)   Locate wall signs on commercial buildings with storefronts in the
signboard frieze located above the display windows. In this location, the sign
serves as a boundary between the lower and upper facade. See Section 9,
Contributing Commercial Buildings, for information on storefront design.
   4)   Use of neon or fluorescent colors on signs is prohibited. Sign colors
must be consistent with the approved color palette.
   5)   Use simple geometric shapes for new signs instead of more complex
shapes that compete with the building, site, or streetscape.
   6)   Use simple, clear graphics and lettering styles in sign design.
   7)   Use lettering that contrasts sharply with the background of the sign
for easy reading. Lettering that is centered in the sign and contained within a
border element is recommended.
   8)   Use of flashing signs (including illumination of vending machines) is
prohibited.
   9)   Installation of billboards in the historic district is strictly
prohibited. Refer to the Swansboro Unified Development Ordinance, §
152.016, for the definition of “sign, billboard.”
   10)   Use free-standing signs that are low mounted and do not obscure
pedestrian views. No more than one free-standing sign shall be allowed per
street frontage. Free- standing sign pole supports should be simple and
unobtrusive in design.
   11)   Use contributing historic house plaques that conform to the
established design used in the historic district. Consult with the SHPC
regarding standards for the placement of these plaques.
   12)   Provide proper flashing for wall-mounted signs to prevent
deterioration. Secure signs on masonry buildings in the mortar joint to prevent
damage to the masonry surface.
   13)   Consolidate public signage on uniform poles to reduce visual clutter.
   14)   The placement of banners, pennants, and flags in the Historic District
is prohibited unless related to a town-approved festival or non-profit event.
   15)   Recognize that maximum signage allowances granted by the Swansboro
Unified Development Ordinance, §
152.016, may be inappropriate in the context of the building or site under
review.
   16)   Use of sandwich board signs in the historic district is permitted if:
      --   Size is no more than 2' x 3'.
      --   Location cannot impede pedestrian traffic along a public walkway.
      --   Blocks no exit or exitway.
      --   Removed at end of business day.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2021-O3, passed 5-24-2021; Am. Ord.
2022-O4, passed 5-23-2022)
SECTION 19 ARCHAEOLOGY.
   19.1   Archaeology - Standards
   1)   Retain and preserve archaeological resources that are important to the
history of the site or district.
   2)   Minimize ground-disturbing activities in the historic district to avoid
possible damage or destruction to known or unknown archaeological resources.
   3)   Recognize that archaeological resources exist both below ground and
below water.
   4)   Preserve archaeological resources intact in their original state and
location whenever possible.
   5)   When disturbance of archaeological resources is unavoidable, use
qualified archaeologists to employ contemporary methods of investigation and
evaluation.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2021-O3, passed 5-24-2021)
SECTION 20 NEGLECT - “PASSIVE CHANGE”.
   Town Code requires that all exterior changes to historic district properties
be approved by the SHPC. By extension, when neglect (a “passive” change)
threatens a property, the SHPC can seek remedial action.
   Usually the neighborhood initiates activity through a written request that
the SHPC investigate conditions. If the SHPC determines demolition by neglect
is taking place, it files a petition listing specific defects with the town
Inspections Department. Inspections, as the town’s enforcement body in zoning
matters, may then issue a written complaint to the property owner outlining the
defects. The department also arranges a formal hearing on the case, to
establish evidence regarding the charge, and ascertain whether the owner wishes
to claim economic hardship (the latter requires submitting detailed financial
information).
   If Inspections rules demolition by neglect is underway, it can issue an
order requiring the owner undertake repairs within a specified time, or else
face mounting fines. As a last resort, the town may take legal action.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
SECTION 21 RELOCATION OF BUILDINGS.
   Requests to move buildings, particularly contributing structures, are
carefully evaluated by the Swansboro Historic Preservation Commission. Such
requests should be considered only if demolition of the resource is eminent.
Moving an historic building destroys the original setting of the structure and
inevitably distorts the story of the town’s historic development. A property
included in the National Register of Historic Places may be delisted if it is
moved. Moving a building also often results in the loss of historic building
material. Structures frequently must be partially disassembled to economically
accomplish the move or to avoid obstructions such as utility wires, trees, and
other buildings along the moving route.
   If relocation is warranted, every effort should be made to move the building
intact as a single unit. Careful planning should be undertaken to relocate the
structure to a lot that has similar characteristics to the original site.
Vacant lots in the historic district are the preferred location for newly moved
historic resources. The SHPC will use its new construction standards when
reviewing requests to move structures to lots within the historic district.
   Applications for a Certificate of Appropriateness for building relocation
should include:
   1)   a detailed description of the preparation work that will be necessary
to move the structure;
   2)   detailed photographs of the structure and building site, including
significant vegetation;
   3)   a site plan of the original site indicating the footprint of the
structure and location of significant vegetation;
   4)   the proposed route of the move;
   5)   a map indicating trees along the route that will be affected by the
move and how they will be impacted;
   6)   agreements with the utility companies; and
   7)   arrangements of notification with the Swansboro Police Department.
   Additionally, the mover should file two acceptable letters of recommendation
and post a bond, letter of credit, or other reasonable performance guarantee in
an amount required by the Town of Swansboro to cover the costs of any damages
to public property resulting from the move.
   21.1   Relocation of Buildings - Guidelines
   1)   Choose relocation only as a last resort to demolition.
   2)   Document the original site thoroughly with drawings and black and white
photographs prior to relocation.
   3)   Hire reputable movers who have experience with historic properties.
   4)   Move the building as a single unit in lieu of partial or complete
disassembly, if possible.
   5)   Plan the relocation route carefully. Choose a route that requires
minimal tree and utility disturbance.
   6)   Secure all necessary permits and approvals prior to beginning the move.
   7)   Secure the building to be moved to minimize damage during the move and
to prevent vandalism.
   8)   Choose a site for the relocated structure that is similar to the
original site, if possible. The site should correspond proportionally to the
size of the structure. A site in the historic district is preferred.
   9)   Position the building on the new site so it relates to adjacent
buildings and the overall streetscape. Refer to New Construction guidelines for
further information on placement.
   10)   Maintain any existing mature vegetation on the new site, if possible.
This will help create an established building site context for the new
structure.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2021-O3, passed 5-24-2021)
SECTION 22 DEMOLITION OF BUILDINGS.
   Demolition of a contributing building in the Swansboro historic district is
strongly discouraged. This irreversible action results in the permanent loss of
the resource and may have an adverse effect on surrounding contributing
properties and the character of the historic district as a whole. Property
owners contemplating demolition of a building are encouraged to explore
alternatives which allow the property to remain intact and meet current needs.
Early consultation with the SHPC is strongly recommended in order to adequately
explore options.
   In reviewing requests for demolition, both the property owner and the SHPC
should carefully consider the following questions:
   1)   Does the contributing building retain integrity and contribute to the
special character of the Swansboro Historic District because of its age,
architecture, or association with events or individuals who are important to
the history of the town?
   2)   Does the contributing building possess structural integrity so
rehabilitation is feasible?
   3)   Can the contributing building be creatively adapted to meet the owner’s
needs? If so, can this be accomplished at a price that is less than or
comparable to new construction costs? Remember to factor in demolition costs
and landfill tipping fees when developing cost estimates.
   4)   Are there alternative sites on which no contributing buildings are
extant that might be available to accomplish the project? If so, are there
possible buyers for the contributing building in question?
   5)   What will be the impact of the contributing building’s demolition on
surrounding properties and the historic district as a whole?
   6)   If all other possible options are exhausted, can the contributing
building be moved to another location in the historic district?
   7)   If the building is non-contributing, 1-6 does not apply.
   22.1   Demolition of Buildings - Standards
   1)   Work with the Swansboro Historic Preservation Commission to identify
alternatives to demolition.
   2)   Make a permanent record of the contributing building before demolition.
Documentation should include black and white photographs of the property -
views of principal elevations, notable architectural details, and significant
site features such as outbuildings, fencing, and mature vegetation. Measured
drawings of the building may be required by the SHPC if the structure is of
particular significance. These determinations shall be made on a case-by-case
basis by the SHPC.
   3)   Salvage architectural features and building materials for reuse or
study. Contact antique dealers and used building supply establishments to
arrange for removal. Consider donations of items to interested non-profit
organizations or museums or the NC-SHOO.
   4)   Minimize ground-disturbing activities during demolition to avoid damage
to potential unknown archaeological resources.
   5)   Retain mature vegetation on site, if possible or relocate. Prior to any
tree more than 20 feet in height or 20 feet spread or mature being cut down,
SHPC shall give approval under Major Work.
   6)   Clean the site thoroughly of all building debris and leave the lot
properly graded and seeded.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2021-O3, passed 5-24-2021)
SECTION 23 ACCESSIBILITY AND LIFE SAFETY.
   Meeting contemporary accessibility and life safety standards at historic
properties is one of the greatest design challenges facing owners of these
properties. Extreme care must be taken to provide the desired level of safety
and accessibility without compromising or destroying features that contribute
to the building’s significance.
   Substantial rehabilitations and adaptive reuse of historic properties result
in requirements to bring the structures into compliance with applicable
building codes governing life safety and accessibility. In 1994, the North
Carolina State Building Code Council adopted provisions pertaining to existing
buildings aimed at providing greater flexibility in the administration of code
requirements on older buildings. Under Volume IX of the North Carolina State
Building Code, commercial structures will essentially be evaluated based on the
building code that was in place at the time of the building’s construction.
These provisions, in most cases, should help to make historic buildings more
adaptable to new uses and eliminate the necessity of compromising architectural
features and significant building spaces in the name of code compliance. It
should be noted that Volume IX is optional. The SHPC recommends consulting with
the town’s Administrator to determine if these code provisions best meet the
project needs.
   The federal American with Disabilities Act (ADA), signed into law in 1990,
also impacts historic properties. This important piece of civil rights
legislation is separate from the building code, yet includes provisions to
eliminate physical barriers to “places of public accommodation for the
disabled.” Religious organizations, private clubs, and private residences are
not included in the legislation. Compliance deadlines are in place for state
and local government-owned buildings and for newly constructed public and
commercial buildings. Alterations to existing buildings must also be undertaken
in a manner that ensures accessibility. Physical barriers in existing places of
public accommodation must be removed when it is “readily achievable” to do so.
   Compliance evaluations will be undertaken by the U.S. Justice Department
when complaints arise.
   The Swansboro Historic Preservation Commission bases its review of proposed
accessibility and life safety alterations on the impact these changes will have
on the architectural and historic character of the resource. Design solutions
that achieve the least impact on the historic resource are encouraged. Efforts
should be made to site wheelchair ramps, chair lifts, fire stairs, fire doors,
and other alterations in the least visually obtrusive location. Such
alterations should also be viewed as reversible and be constructed in such a
manner that they could easily be removed from the resource without causing
permanent or irreversible damage.
   23.1   Accessibility and Life Safety - Standards
   1)   Choose uses for contributing buildings that allow for feasible
compliance with applicable building code and accessibility requirements to
ensure the protection of the building’s historic and architectural character.
   2)   Review proposed new uses for existing contributing buildings to
determine the impact accessibility and life safety code requirements on the
historic resource. Explore a variety of design alternatives to achieve
compliance and choose the one that requires the least amount of alteration to
the historic resource and site.
   3)   Locate fire exits, stairs, landings, ramps, and chair lifts in side and
rear yard areas, if possible.
   4)   Design new exits, stairs, landings, and ramps so that they are
compatible with the character of the building or site. For example, wheelchair
ramps may replicate a railing detail on a building or be of a simple design
that allows it to blend discreetly with its surroundings. Such elements should
be painted to tie in with the surrounding structure.
   5)   Construct wheelchair ramps and chair lifts that are portable or
temporary and do not permanently damage, obscure, or require the removal of
character-defining architectural features. Such alterations should be
reversible in nature to maintain the integrity of the historic resource.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2021-O3, passed 5-24-2021)
SECTION 24 DOCKS, PIERS, AND BOARDWALKS.
   24.1   Docks, Piers, and Boardwalks - Guidelines
   1)   Locate and construct docks, piers, and boardwalks to be compatible with
the historic district in terms of design, materials, size, scale, and details.
Must meet best engineering practices and blend with the overall waterfront
plan.
   2)   Use a design that is simple, functional, and utilitarian. Traditional
docks were built of post-and-lintel construction, using wood pilings, cross-
members, and decking. Avoid the use of railings or other non-historic features
that extend above the deck floor line, unless required by law for safety
reasons.
   3)   Use unpainted treated wood for docks, piers, and boardwalks.
   4)   Built-in features such as benches or roofed structures such as
pavilions, gazebos, or screened rooms, or other types of roofed structures such
as boat sheds are not appropriate.
   5)   The design for any related bulkhead or other construction shall be
submitted to the SHPC for review with the application for a Certificate of
Appropriateness for a dock, pier, or boardwalk.
(Ord. 2005-O3, passed 3-15-2005)
SECTION 25 HISTORIC DISTRICT LANDSCAPE.
   25.1   Historic District Landscape for selection of trees and shrubs.
   1)   Use the following approved list for planting new trees and shrubs in
the Historic District.
   2)   If a tree or shrub is not on the approved list, please fill out a staff
approval application to be reviewed.
   3)   Palm trees are not on the approved list because they are not native,
nor a tree used historically in the Historic District, Dwarf palmettos,
however, are on the approved list because they are a native plant.
   4)   No planting materials shall be placed in the street right-of-way or in
utility easements in the district.
   5)   Call 811 to mark a property before digging on it.
TREES
Common Name Scientific Name Height/Width Light Soil Photo
TREES
Common Name  Scientific Name  Height/ Light Soil  Photo
                              Width
                              H: 40   Full
                              ft. -   sun         [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Red Maple    Acer rubrum      120 ft. to    Moist c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/
                              W: 30   part        IMAGES/0-0-0-7099.gif]
                              ft. -   shade
                              50 ft.
                              H: 10   Full
                              ft. -   sun         [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Serviceberry Amelanchier      20 ft.  to    Moist c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/
             canadensis       W: 15   part        IMAGES/0-0-0-7101.gif]
                              ft. -   shade
                              20 ft.
                              H: 15
                              ft. -               [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Red Buckeye  Aesculus pavia   20 ft.  Part  Moist c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/
                              W: 15   shade       IMAGES/0-0-0-7103.gif]
                              ft. -
                              20 ft.
                              H: 10   Full
                              ft.- 30 sun         [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Devilwood    Cartrema         ft.     to    Moist c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/
             americana        W: 6    part        IMAGES/0-0-0-7105.gif]
                              ft.- 15 shade
                              ft.
                              H: 20   Full
                              ft. -   sun         [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Redbud       Cercis           30 ft.  to    Moist c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/
             canadensis       W: 25   part        IMAGES/0-0-0-7107.gif]
                              ft. -   shade
                              35 ft.
                              H: 12
                              ft. -               [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Fringetree   Chionanthus      30 ft.  Part  Moist c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/
             virginicus       W: 12   shade       IMAGES/0-0-0-7109.gif]
                              ft. -
                              20 ft.
                              H: 15   Full
                              ft. -   sun         [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Flowering    Cornus florida   25 ft.  to    Moist c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/
Dogwood                       W: 20   part        IMAGES/0-0-0-7111.gif]
                              ft. -   shade
                              25 ft.
                              H: 25   Full
                              ft. -   sun   Dry   [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Hawthorn     Crataegus        30 ft.  to    to    c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/
             phaenopyrum      W: 20   part  moist IMAGES/0-0-0-7113.gif]
                              ft. -   shade
                              25 ft.
                              H: 20   Full
                              ft. -   sun   Moist [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Dahoon Holly Ilex cassine     30 ft.  to    to    c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/
                              W: 10   part  wet   IMAGES/0-0-0-7115.gif]
                              ft. -   shade
                              15 ft.
                              H: 10   Full        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
                              ft. -   sun   Dry   c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/
Yaupon Holly Ilex vomitoria   20 ft.  to    to    IMAGES/0-0-0-7117.gif][https://
                              W: 8    part  wet   export.amlegal.com/media/
                              ft. -   shade       c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/
                              12 ft.              IMAGES/0-0-0-7119.gif]
                              H: 30   Full
                              ft. -   sun   Dry   [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Eastern Red  Juniperus        40 ft.  to    to    c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/
Cedar        virginiana       W: 10   part  wet   IMAGES/0-0-0-7121.gif]
                              ft. -   shade
                              20 ft.
                              H: 15   Full
                              ft. -   sun         [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Southern     Magnolia         80 ft.  to    Moist c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/
Magnolia     grandiflora      W: 6    part        IMAGES/0-0-0-7123.gif]
                              ft. -   shade
                              50 ft.
                              H: 15   Full
                              ft. -   sun         [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Sweetbay     Magnolia         100 ft. to    Moist c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/
Magnolia     virginiana       W: 10   part        IMAGES/0-0-0-7125.gif]
                              ft. -   shade
                              20 ft.
                              H: 25               [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
                              ft. 60  Full        c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/
                              ft.     sun         IMAGES/0-0-0-7127.gif][https://
Red Mulberry Morus rubra      W: 30   to    Moist export.amlegal.com/media/
                              ft. -   part        c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/
                              40 ft.  shade       IMAGES/0-0-0-7129.gif]
                                                   
                              H: 20   Full
Carolina                      ft. -   sun         [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Cherry       Prunus           40 ft.  to    Moist c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/
Laurel       caroliniana      W: 15   part        IMAGES/0-0-0-7131.gif]
                              ft. -   shade
                              20 ft.
                              H: 8    Full
                              ft. -   sun         [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Sparkleberry Vaccinium        15 ft.  to    Moist c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/
             arboreum         W: 4    part        IMAGES/0-0-0-7133.gif]
                              ft. -   shade
                              10 ft.
                              H: 12   Full
                              ft. -   sun         [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Blackhaw     Viburnum         20 ft.  to    Moist c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/
             prunifolium      W: 6    part        IMAGES/0-0-0-7135.gif]
                              ft. -   shade
                              15 ft.
                              H: 40   Full
                              ft. -   sun         [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Live Oak*    Quercus          80 ft.  to    Moist c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/
             virginiana       W: 50   part        IMAGES/0-0-0-7137.gif]
                              ft. -   shade
                              100 ft.
   SHRUBS
                              H: 6    Full
                              ft. -   sun   Dry   [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Red          Aronia           10 ft.  to    to    c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/
Chokeberry   arbutifolia      W: 3    part  wet   IMAGES/0-0-0-7139.gif]
                              ft. - 5 shade
                              ft.
                              H: 3    Full
                              ft. - 8 sun   Dry   [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Beautyberry  Callicarpa       ft.     to    to    c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/
             americana        W: 3    part  wet   IMAGES/0-0-0-7141.gif]
                              ft. - 6 shade
                              ft.
                              H: 2    Full
                              ft. - 3 sun   Dry   [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
New Jersey   Ceanothus        ft.     to    to    c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/
Tea          americanus       W: 3    part  wet   IMAGES/0-0-0-7143.gif]
                              ft. - 5 shade
                              ft.
                              H: 6    Full
                              ft. -   sun         [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Silky        Cornus amomum    12 ft.  to    Moist c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/
Dogwood                       W: 6    part        IMAGES/0-0-0-7145.gif]
                              ft. -   shade
                              12 ft.
                              H: 4    Full
                              ft. - 6 sun         [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Strawberry   Euonymus         ft.     to    Moist c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/
Bush         americanus       W: 4    part        IMAGES/0-0-0-7147.gif]
                              ft. - 6 shade
                              ft.
                              H: 6    Full
                              ft. -   sun         [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Witchalder   Fothergilla      12 ft.  to    Moist c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/
             major            W: 6    part        IMAGES/0-0-0-7149.gif]
                              ft. -   shade
                              10 ft.
                              H: 3    Full
                              ft. - 5 sun         [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Smooth       Hydrangea        ft.     to    Moist c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/
Hydrangea    arborescens      W: 3    part        IMAGES/0-0-0-7151.gif]
                              ft. - 5 shade
                              ft.
                              H: 3    Full
                              ft. - 5 sun   Moist [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Winterberry  Ilex             ft.     to    to    c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/
Holly        verticillata     W: 3    part  wet   IMAGES/0-0-0-7153.gif]
                              ft. -   shade
                              12 ft.
                              H: 3    Full
                              ft. - 5 sun         [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Dwarf Yapon  Ilex vomitoria,  ft.     to    Moist c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/
Holly        e.g., “Nana” W: 3    part        IMAGES/0-0-0-7155.gif]
                              ft. - 6 shade
                              ft.
                              H: 5 ft Full
                              - 10    sun   Dry   [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Northen      Morell           ft.     to    to    c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/
Bayberry     pensylvanica     W: 5    part  wet   IMAGES/0-0-0-7157.gif]
                              ft. -   shade
                              10 ft.
                              H: 6    Full
                              ft. -   sun   Dry   [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Wax Myrtle   Morella cerifera 12 ft.  to    to    c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/
                              W: 10   part  wet   IMAGES/0-0-0-7159.gif]
                              ft. -   shade
                              20 ft.
                              H: 5    Full
                              ft. - 8 sun         [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Ninebark     Physocarpus      ft.     to    Moist c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/
             opulifolius      W: 6    part        IMAGES/0-0-0-7161.gif]
                              ft. -   shade
                              10 ft.
                              H: 3    Full
                              ft. - 6 sun         [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Coastal      Rhodeodendr on   ft.     to    Moist c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/
Azalea       atlanticum       W: 3    part        IMAGES/0-0-0-7163.gif]
                              ft. - 6 shade
                              ft.
                              H: 2    Full
                              ft. - 7 sun   Moist [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Dwarf        Sabal minor      ft.     to    to    c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/
Palmetto                      W: 4    part  wet   IMAGES/0-0-0-7165.gif]
                              ft. - 6 shade
                              ft.
                              H: 8    Full
                              ft. -   sun         [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Sparkleberry Vaccinium        15 ft.  to    Moist c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/
             arboretum        W: 4    part        IMAGES/0-0-0-7167.gif]
                              ft. -   shade
                              10 ft.
                              H: 3    Full        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
                              ft. -   sun         c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/
Highbush     Vaccinium        12 ft.  to    Moist IMAGES/0-0-0-7169.gif][https://
Blueberry    corymbosum       W: 3    part        export.amlegal.com/media/
                              ft. 10  shade       c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/
                              ft.                 IMAGES/0-0-0-7171.gif]
                              H: 8    Full
                              ft. -   sun         [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Rabitteye    Vaccinium        15 ft.  to    Moist c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/
Blueberry    virgatum         W: 6    part        IMAGES/0-0-0-7173.gif]
                              ft. - 8 shade
                              ft.
                              H: 3    Full
                              ft. - 8 sun         [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Adam’s     Yucca            ft.     to    Moist c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/
Needle       filamentosa      W: 3    part        IMAGES/0-0-0-7175.gif]
                              ft. - 5 shade
                              ft.
                              H: 3    Full
                              ft. -   sun         [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Zenobia      Zenobia          10 ft.  to    Moist c9277a831a4ecf4cf81831cfc85a73471a5b2790/
             pulverulanta     W: 3    part        IMAGES/0-0-0-7177.gif]
                              ft. - 7 shade
                              ft.
Source: Sea Grant North Carolina
From the Coastal Landscapes Initiative publication “Plant This Instead”.
*Live Oaks are already part of Swansboro’s historic landscape.
 
(Ord. 2024-O2, passed 2-13-2024)
Appendix IV
INFORMATION REQUIRED WITH APPLICATIONS, SITE PLANS, SUBDIVISION PLATS
Required information on minor and major subdivision plats, plot plans and
zoning permits/site plans:
Submission of all plats and/or plans shall contain the following information
before submission to the Town Planner for review. An “X” indicates required
information. Depending on the scale or complexity of the development, any or
all the sheets may be combined. Additional information may be required for
approval of the site plan . The Town Planner or the approval authority may
waive items required if it is judged that they are not necessary to complete
the review.
            Subdivision Plats                                Zoning Permit/
Information Minor Plat Major                       Plot Plan Site Plan
                       Preliminary Plat Final Plat
                                                                              Subdivision Plats            Zoning
                                                                                    Major             Plot Permit/
Information                                                                   Minor Preliminary Final Plan Site
                                                                              Plat  Plat        Plat       Plan

General notes to be included on the plan:
    No changes to any aspect of this site plan, including but not limited to,
landscaping, grading, building elevations, lighting or utilities will be made                              X
without the approval of the Town’s approval
   The site shall be stabilized and seeded prior to the issuance of a                                   X
certification of occupancy or guaranteed by approved methods if applicable
   All required improvement shall comply with the standards of the code of                              X
ordinances
   Indicate the owner, current zoning, and present use of all contiguous   X     X           X          X
properties and show all surrounding adjoining property lines
   Name, address, registration number, and telephone # of preparer of map  X     X           X          X
(licensed surveyor, engineer, land planner, landscape architect or architect)
   Developer’s name, address and daytime phone number (if different from X     X           X          X
owner’s)
   Owners Certification of development plan                                                             X
   Corporate limits, county lines,and other jurisdiction lines, if any, on X     X           X     X    X
the tract
   Registration and seal of land surveyor                                  X                 X          X
   All outdoor storage areas shall be clearly identified                                                X
 
            Subdivision Plats                                Zoning Permit/
Information Minor Plat Major                       Plot Plan Site Plan
                       Preliminary Plat Final Plat
                                                                              Subdivision Plats            Zoning
                                                                                    Major             Plot Permit/
Information                                                                   Minor Preliminary Final Plan Site
                                                                              Plat  Plat        Plat       Plan

Map or plan size:
   Maps submitted shall not exceed a maximum size of 24" by 36" and be less                  X          X
than a minimum of 18" x24"
   Standard 18" by 24" sheet for plats/plans to be recorded, minimum 1- 1/2"
border on the left side and a minimum 1/2” border on all other sides; or as X                 X
required by the applicable County Register of Deeds Office
   Acceptable range of scale from 1" =60' to 1"=100'                             X                      X
   Maps or plans may be drawn on more than one sheet with appropriate matchX     X           X          X
lines
   Original drawn on material as required by the applicable County RegisterX                 X
of Deeds Office
   Drawn in Ink                                                            X     X           X     X    X
   Property lines distinctly and accurately represented                    X     X           X     X    X
   Elevation and benchmarks shall be referenced to national Geodetic Vertical    X           X          X
Datum (NGVD) . Assumptions must be clearly noted
   Prepared by a professional engineer or other sealed professional land   X     X           X          X
surveyor
   Submit one 11"x17" copy                                                 X     X           X          X
   Date of original preparation and/or revision(s) - clearly identifying   X     X           X          X
revisions
 
            Subdivision Plats                                Zoning Permit/
Information Minor Plat Major                       Plot Plan Site Plan
                       Preliminary Plat Final Plat
                                                                             Subdivision Plats            Zoning
                                                                                   Major             Plot Permit/
Information                                                                  Minor Preliminary Final Plan Site
                                                                             Plat  Plat        Plat       Plan

   Number of sheets (i.e., sheet 1of 1)                                   X     X           X          X
   Scale denoted both graphically and numerically utilizing engineering   X     X           X          X
scale only, Architectural scale will not be accepted
   Provide a color rendering of the building elevation detailing building                              X
materials and colors, if applicable
   Title, date, north arrow and graphic scale                             X     X           X     X    X
   Scale of drawing in feet per inch. Drawing shall be at a scale of 1"   X     X           X
equals not more than 200'
   Scale of drawing in feet per inch. Drawing shall be at a scale of 1"                                X
equals not more than 100'
   Scale of drawing in feet per inch. Drawing shall be at a scale of not
less than 1" equal to 40'. If all lots are greater than 3 acres, only the                            X
building site needs to be shown
   Bar graph                                                              X     X           X          X
   Plat book or deed book reference                                       X     X           X     X    X
   Location and heights of all fences, walls, and hedges shall be shown                                X
Title Block containing:
   Name of Development                                                    X     X           X     X    X
   Name of map or plan (minor plat, preliminary plat, etc.)               X     X           X     X    X
 
            Subdivision Plats                                Zoning Permit/
Information Minor Plat Major                       Plot Plan Site Plan
                       Preliminary Plat Final Plat
                                                                             Subdivision Plats            Zoning
                                                                                   Major             Plot Permit/
Information                                                                  Minor Preliminary Final Plan Site
                                                                             Plat  Plat        Plat       Plan

   Property owner’s name with address and daytime phone number          X     X           X     X    X
   Location (including address,township, county and state)                X     X           X     X    X
   Date(s) map(s) prepared or revised                                     X     X           X     X    X
   Tax parcel identification number                                       X     X           X     X    X
   North arrow and orientation (north arrow shall not be oriented towards X     X           X     X    X
bottom of map)
Boundaries of the tract to be subdivided or developed:
   Distinctly and accurately represented and showing all distances        X     X           X          X
   Location and descriptions of all monuments, markers and control cornersX     X           X          X
   All proposed buffers, setbacks and street yard areas dimensioned and   X     X           X          X
labeled
   The name and location of any property or building on the National      X     X           X          X
Register of Historic Places or locally designated historic property
   Railroad lines and rights-of-way                                       X     X           X     X    X
   Existing and proposed water courses, ponds, lakes or streams; their names
direction of flow, centerline elevation, cross-sections and any other        X     X           X          X
pertinent datum
 
 
            Subdivision Plats                                Zoning Permit/
Information Minor Plat Major                       Plot Plan Site Plan
                       Preliminary Plat Final Plat
                                                                              Subdivision Plats            Zoning
                                                                                    Major             Plot Permit/
Information                                                                   Minor Preliminary Final Plan Site
                                                                              Plat  Plat        Plat       Plan

   The location of existing and platted property lines, streets, building,
water course, railroads, transmission lines, sewer, bridges, culverts, and    X     X                      X
drainpipes, water mains, town and county lines (if adjoining) and any public
utility easements
   Boundaries of tract shown with bearing and distances                          X                      X
   Streams, floodplains, and elevation contours (two feet) when required by
Planning Board, soil classification, seasonal high water table, and                 X                      X
vegetation at the site
   Proposed solid waste and recycling storage facilities                         X                      X
   Water courses, railroads, bridges, culverts, storm drains, wooded areas,
marshes, swamps, rock outcrops, ponds or lakes, stream or stream beds,        X     X           X          X
ditches or other natural or improved features which affect the site.
   Indicate streams/ditches subject to White Oak or ICW buffer rules       X     X           X          X
   Marshes, swamp and other wetlands                                       X     X                      X
   Areas to be dedicated or reserved for the public or a local jurisdiction      X           X          X
   Areas designated as common area or open space under control of an ownersX   X           X          X
association, including acreage
   Proposed building locations for zero lot line developments              X     X                 X    X
   Location of manufactured home park dwelling spaces and whether they are                              X
designated for single or double wide dwellings
 
            Subdivision Plats                                Zoning Permit/
Information Minor Plat Major                       Plot Plan Site Plan
                       Preliminary Plat Final Plat
                                                                              Subdivision Plats            Zoning
                                                                                    Major             Plot Permit/
Information                                                                   Minor Preliminary Final Plan Site
                                                                              Plat  Plat        Plat       Plan

   Typical diagram of manufactured home park dwelling space                                             X
   Location of designated recreation areas and facilities                        X           X          X
   Location of the 100-year floodway from Flood Hazard Boundary Maps and   X     X           X     X    X
cross-section elevations
   Floodway zone and flood fringe zone show, indicating base flood elevation
(minimum finished floor elevation) for all lots adjoining the zones. If site  X     X           X          X
is located within Zone AE, show location of FEMA floodway and flood hazard
area
   Topography (existing and proposed) at contour interval of one foot, based
on mean sea level datum, with an accuracy of plus or minus 0.5 of a foot and        X                      X
references to the National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) , when required
   Proposed lot lines and dimensions should be to the nearest one tenth fooX     X           X          X
and angles to the nearest minute
   Square footage of all proposed lots under an acre in size and acreage foX     X           X          X
all lots over an acre in size
   Location vicinity map, showing the development in relation to major and
minor roads or streets, natural features, existing town limit lines and other X     X                      X
obvious references
   Subdivision name, block and lot number, tax map number and parcel numberX     X           X          X
and street address, if applicable
 
            Subdivision Plats                                Zoning Permit/
Information Minor Plat Major                       Plot Plan Site Plan
                       Preliminary Plat Final Plat
                                                                                Subdivision Plats            Zoning
                                                                                      Major             Plot Permit/
Information                                                                     Minor Preliminary Final Plan Site
                                                                                Plat  Plat        Plat       Plan

   Copy of restrictive or protective covenants applicable to the subdivision if    X           X
any shall be submitted to the Planning Board
   Existing land use within the property and on adjacent properties          X     X                      X
   Zoning district(s) within the property and adjacent properties            X     X           X     X    X
   Names of adjoining property owners (or subdivisions or developments of    X     X           X          X
record with plat book reference)
   Political subdivision(s) including town limit lines, township boundaries, X     X           X          X
county lines and extra territorial jurisdiction boundaries
   Source of property boundaries signed or sealed by registered land surveyor,     X           X          X
architect, landscape architect or engineer
   Showing locations of intersecting boundary lines or adjoining properties  X     X           X          X
   Location, dimension and type of all easements , including but not limited to
electric, water, sanitary sewer, storm sewer, drainage, private street, gas or  X     X           X     X    X
other service delivery easements including their location, width and purpose
   Copies of any recorded inter-connectivity easements or agreements if      X     X                 X    X
applicable
   If the site is outside the town limits, indicate if a petition for
annexation is required to be submitted to the town. Annexation is required by   X     X                 X    X
the Town Commissioners prior to the issuance of a building permit or
recordation of a final plat
 
            Subdivision Plats                                Zoning Permit/
Information Minor Plat Major                       Plot Plan Site Plan
                       Preliminary Plat Final Plat
                                                          Subdivision Plats            Zoning
                                                                Major             Plot Permit/
Information                                               Minor Preliminary Final Plan Site
                                                          Plat  Plat        Plat       Plan

Site calculations including:
   Acreage in total tract                              X     X           X     X    X
   Acreage in public open space                              X           X          X
   Total number of lots proposed                       X     X           X          X
   Linear feet in roads                                      X           X          X
   Proposed linear footage of water lines                    X           X          X
   Proposed linear footage of sewer lines                    X           X          X
   Area in newly dedicated right-of-way                      X           X          X
   Lots sequenced are numbered consecutively           X     X           X          X
   Street address as assigned by the town for each new X                 X          X
lot
   Acreage in subdivision/project                      X     X           X          X
   Acreage in park and other land usage                X     X           X          X
   Average lot size, if any                            X     X           X          X
   Total number of lots , if any                       X     X           X          X
   Linear feet in streets                              X     X           X          X
   Number of units and unit density by neighborhoods         X           X          X
 
            Subdivision Plats                                Zoning Permit/
Information Minor Plat Major                       Plot Plan Site Plan
                       Preliminary Plat Final Plat
                                                                              Subdivision Plats            Zoning
                                                                                    Major             Plot Permit/
Information                                                                   Minor Preliminary Final Plan Site
                                                                              Plat  Plat        Plat       Plan

   Total area in site                                                      X     X           X     X    X
   Existing property lines, public and private streets, right-of-way and/or
easement widths, pavement widths, easements , utility lines, hydrants,                                     X
driveways, recreation areas or open spaces on adjoining property
   Location of existing and proposed fire hydrant(s). Where a hydrant is not
shown within the development site, the nearest hydrant providing service      X     X           X          X
shall be denoted with dimension to the property lines
   Location of electrical service connection(s), meter(s), transformer base
and pole(s). Adjacent overhead electric lines shall be denoted as to type     X     X                      X
transmission; distribution; service drop
   Sketch vicinity map showing location of site relative to surrounding areX     X           X          X
(typically drawn in upper right hand corner), at a scale of 1" = 2,000'
   Location, arrangement dimension of all automobile parking spaces, width of
aisles, width or bays, angle of parking and number of spaces. Typical                                      X
pavement section and/or surface type
   Location, arrangement, and dimension of all truck unloading docks, ramps                             X
and spaces
   Indicate the location and method of garbage containment. (Indicate the
proposed location and type of screening of solid waste dumpster, if                                        X
applicable)
   Location and dimension of all fences, walls, docks ramps, pools, patios,                             X
mechanical equipment and impervious areas
 
            Subdivision Plats                                Zoning Permit/
Information Minor Plat Major                       Plot Plan Site Plan
                       Preliminary Plat Final Plat
                                                                                Subdivision Plats            Zoning
                                                                                      Major             Plot Permit/
Information                                                                     Minor Preliminary Final Plan Site
                                                                                Plat  Plat        Plat       Plan

   Existing property lines on tract to be subdivided. If existing property
lines are to be changed, label as “old property lines” and shown as dashed  X     X           X
lines
   Dimensions, location and use of all existing and proposed buildings;
distances between buildings measured at the closest point; distance from
buildings to the closest property lines; building setback lines (or note). A    X     X           X     X    X
dashed line should be shown on the plat outlining all known structures, ponds
or lakes removed or filled. Exterior dimensions should include heights, number
of stories, public drives, public rights-of-way and easements
   Proposed parks, school sites, or public open spaces, if any                     X                      X
County Health Department information for developments without access to public  X     X           X
sewer:
   (1)   Each plat or plan shall contain a statement concerning suitabilitX for X                 X    X
septic system use
   (2)   Each lot that has been approved for an on-site subsurface sewage
treatment and disposal system shall be shown. Denied lots or lots not evaluated X                 X
shall be cross-hatched and labeled, “NO IMPROVEMENT PERMIT HAS BEEN ISSUED FOR
THIS LOT”
Utility Layout Plan: Connections showing existing systems, line sizes, material
of lines, location of fire hydrants, blowoffs, valves, manholes, catch basins,
force mains, etc. for the following types of utility lines:
   Sanitary sewer                                                                  X           X     X    X
   Water distribution                                                              X           X     X    X
 
            Subdivision Plats                                Zoning Permit/
Information Minor Plat Major                       Plot Plan Site Plan
                       Preliminary Plat Final Plat
                                                                                Subdivision Plats            Zoning
                                                                                      Major             Plot Permit/
Information                                                                     Minor Preliminary Final Plan Site
                                                                                Plat  Plat        Plat       Plan

   Drainage                                                                  X     X           X     X    X
   Natural gas, electric, cable TV and the like                              X     X           X     X    X
   Electrical and telephone lines                                            X     X           X     X    X
   Indicate if any water/or sanitary sewer tap fees are due and the amount peX     X                 X    X
application
   Show location and type of backflow protection provided                    X     X                 X    X
   Location of water tap(s) denoting size(s) of line(s) and meter location(s)X     X           X     X    X
existing and proposed
Street data illustrating: Existing and proposed rights-of-way lines within and  X     X           X     X    X
   adjacent to property (shown with a cross-hatch pattern)
   Existing and proposed rights-of-way within and adjacent to property showinX:    X           X          X
Total right-of-way width dimension
   Right-of-way width dimension from centerline of existing public streets anX     X           X     X    X
consistent with NCDOT Standards
   Existing streets, their names and numbers (if state marked routes)shown and
designated as either “public” or “private”, indicating right-of-way and/Xr    X           X          X
easement widths, pavement widths, including sight distance triangles
   Tied to nearest road intersection (within 300') or USGS (within 2,000')   X     X           X          X
 
            Subdivision Plats                                Zoning Permit/
Information Minor Plat Major                       Plot Plan Site Plan
                       Preliminary Plat Final Plat
                                                                              Subdivision Plats            Zoning
                                                                                    Major             Plot Permit/
Information                                                                   Minor Preliminary Final Plan Site
                                                                              Plat  Plat        Plat       Plan

   Show dimensions and location of all parking areas, total provided and
minimum required number of parking spaces, driveways, service areas, off-                             X    X
street loading facilities and pedestrian walkways
   Total number of handicapped parking spaces (required and provided)                                   X
   Within parking areas, clearly indicate each parking space, angle of                             X    X
parking and typical size
Existing and proposed streets showing:
   Pavement or curb lines                                                        X                      X
   Pavement width dimension (face-to-face)                                       X                      X
   Cul-de-sac pavement radius                                                    X                      X
   Existing street names and names of new streets as approved by the town  X     X           X     X    X
   Sufficient data to determine readily and reproduce on the ground location,
bearing and length or every street, lot line , boundary line, block line and  X
building line whether curved or straight. This includes radius, central angle
and tangents
   Road profiles                                                                             X
   Documentation of approval of a driveway permit from NCDOT                                 X          X
   Stormwater drainage plan, including site surface drainage, pipe size(s)
with direction of flow, yard drain(s), catch basin(s), curb inlet(s),               X                      X
detention pond(s), ditches, and topographic features and all associated
nitrogen reduction calculations when required
 
            Subdivision Plats                                Zoning Permit/
Information Minor Plat Major                       Plot Plan Site Plan
                       Preliminary Plat Final Plat
                                                                            Subdivision Plats            Zoning
                                                                                  Major             Plot Permit/
Information                                                                 Minor Preliminary Final Plan Site
                                                                            Plat  Plat        Plat       Plan

   Show proposed disturbed area for construction purposes                                             X
Stormwater Management Plan                                                  X     X                      X
   Total impervious surface area, including streets, roofs, patios, parking
areas, sidewalks and location(s) and dimension(s) of all existing and       X     X                 X    X
proposed sidewalks, vehicular entrances, exits, and drives including
interconnectivity access drives with adjoining sites driveways
   Location(s) and size(s) of all public utility lines (water, sanitary
sewer, storm water, and gas) within all adjacent rights- of-way and         X     X           X     X    X
easement
   Documentation of submission of an Erosion Control Plan, if disturbing X     X                 X    X
greater than one acre
   Documentation of approval of an Erosion Control Plan, if disturbing   X     X                 X    X
greater than one acre
   Evidence of notification to U.S. Army Corps of Engineers of earth     X     X                      X
disturbing activities in wetlands, if applicable
Athletic Field Plan shall include:
   The proposed points of ingress and egress and the proposed pattern of                              X
internal circulation
   The proposed parking areas                                                                         X
   The lighting plan                                                                                  X
 
            Subdivision Plats                                Zoning Permit/
Information Minor Plat Major                       Plot Plan Site Plan
                       Preliminary Plat Final Plat
                                                                              Subdivision Plats            Zoning
                                                                                    Major             Plot Permit/
Information                                                                   Minor Preliminary Final Plan Site
                                                                              Plat  Plat        Plat       Plan

   The proposed provision for storm and sanitary sewer, and the proposed                                X
treatment of ground cover, slopes, banks and ditches
Cluster Development Plan shall include:
   The proposed timing and schedule of development phases, if any                                       X
   Proposed points of ingress and egress and proposed pattern of internal                               X
automobile and pedestrian circulation
   Proposed provision for storm drainage and sanitary sewer, approved by a NC                           X
certified registered engineer
   Size and location of any signs                                                                       X
   Proposed solid waste storage facilities                                                              X
   Proposed water system and fire fighting facilities such as hydrants or                               X
sprinkler connections
   Types of surfacing, slope, grade and cross section of drives, sidewalks,
malls etc. (Private streets shall be designed to assure proposed access and                                X
turnaround for service and emergency vehicles)
   Provisions for control of water run-off and erosion per the requirements                             X
of Chapter 53
   Lighting plan                                                                                        X
   All plans and construction details must meet the current specifications of                           X
the town
 
            Subdivision Plats                                Zoning Permit/
Information Minor Plat Major                       Plot Plan Site Plan
                       Preliminary Plat Final Plat
                                                                              Subdivision Plats            Zoning
                                                                                    Major             Plot Permit/
Information                                                                   Minor Preliminary Final Plan Site
                                                                              Plat  Plat        Plat       Plan

   Location and acreage of recreational area                                                            X
   Location and amount of recreation, common and open areas and facilities                              X
   Total number of units/bedrooms, if applicable                                                        X
   Gross floor area
   Building lot coverage (existing and proposed)                                                        X
Landscaping Plan shall include:
   Location of any required planting yard and/or parking lot plantings           X                      X
   Location and screening of dumpsters/compactors                                                       X
   Location, species, size, number, spacing, height of trees and shrubs in
required planting areas. (If existing vegetation is to be preserved, indicate                              X
approximate height and species mix)
   Size of planting yard, walls, berms and fences                                X                      X
   Provisions for watering, soil stabilization, plant protection and                                    X
maintenance access
   Location and description of barriers to protect any vegetation from damage                           X
both during and after construction
   General location type, quality of existing plant material                                            X
   Existing plant material and areas to be left in natural condition                                    X
 
            Subdivision Plats                                Zoning Permit/
Information Minor Plat Major                       Plot Plan Site Plan
                       Preliminary Plat Final Plat
                                                                             Subdivision Plats            Zoning
                                                                                   Major             Plot Permit/
Information                                                                  Minor Preliminary Final Plan Site
                                                                             Plat  Plat        Plat       Plan

   Methods and details for protecting existing plan material during                                    X
construction and approved erosion control plan if required
   Location, size and labels for all proposed property                                                 X
   Plant list with common name, quality and spacing and size of all proposed                           X
landscape material at the timing of planting
   Location and description of other landscape improvement not limited to
earth berms, fences, screens, sculptures, fountains, street furniture,                                    X
lights and courtyards or paved areas
   Planting and installation details as necessary to ensure conformance with                           X
all required standards
   Location and type of irrigation system, if applicable                                               X
   Location of any proposed buildings                                                                  X
   Layout of parking and traffic patterns                                                              X
   Location and overhead and underground utilities                                                     X
   Location of signage                                                                                 X
   Connections of existing streets                                                                     X
   Zoning designation of adjacent properties                                                           X
   Landscape plan shall be drawn to scale and include North arrow and                                  X
necessary interpretive legends.
 
            Subdivision Plats                                Zoning Permit/
Information Minor Plat Major                       Plot Plan Site Plan
                       Preliminary Plat Final Plat
                                                                             Subdivision Plats            Zoning
Information                                                                  Minor Major             Plot Permit/
                                                                             Plat  Preliminary Final Plan Site Plan
                                                                                   Plat        Plat
   Soil volume ratio for tree planting adjacent to sidewalks and pavement                              X
access
   Existing and proposed signs (location, height and area)                      X                      X
   Location, dimensions and details of proposed clubhouses, pools, tennis       X                      X
courts, tot lots or other common area recreation facilities
                                                                                                          If
                                                                                                          required
   Front, side and rear elevations of proposed building(s)                                             by the
                                                                                                          approval
                                                                                                          authority
   Certificate of approval of the design and installation of streets,                       X
utilities and other required improvements
   Certificate of survey and accuracy                                     X                 X
   NCDOT Division of Highways Engineer certificate, if applicable                           X
   Private streets disclosure statement, if applicable                                      X
   Certification of the applicable                                        X                 X
   Health Department, if applicable
   Utilities certificate                                                                    X
   Public water supply watershed protection statement, if applicable      X     X           X
   Certificate of purpose for plat                                        X                 X
 
            Subdivision Plats                                Zoning Permit/
Information Minor Plat Major                       Plot Plan Site Plan
                       Preliminary Plat Final Plat
                                                                           Subdivision Plats            Zoning
                                                                                 Major             Plot Permit/
Information                                                                Minor Preliminary Final Plan Site
                                                                           Plat  Plat        Plat       Plan

   Certificate regarding erosion and sedimentation control plan         X                 X          X
   Certificate of warranty                                                                X
   NCDOT Public Street Maintenance Disclosure Statement, if applicable                    X
   Certificate of approval of water supply and sewerage disposal system                   X
   Certificate of approval of streets and utilities                                       X
   Certificate of approval for recording                                                  X
   Certificate of registration by register of deeds                                       X
   Certificate of approval and acceptance of dedications                                  X
Documents and written information in addition to maps and plans.
In addition to the written application and the plans, whenever the nature of the proposed development makes
information or documents such as the following relevant, the documents or information shall be provided. The
following is a representative list of the types of information or documents that may be requested at the time
of plat or plan submission:
   Documentation confirming that the applicant has a legally sufficient
interest in the property proposed for development to use it in the manner  X     X                      X
requested, or is the duly appointed agent of such a person
   Certifications from the appropriate agencies that proposed utility
systems are or will be adequate to handle the proposed development and                       X          X
that all necessary easements have been provided.
   Detailed descriptions of recreational facilities to be provided            X                      X
 
            Subdivision Plats                                Zoning Permit/
Information Minor Plat Major                       Plot Plan Site Plan
                       Preliminary Plat Final Plat
                                                                                 Subdivision Plats            Zoning
                                                                                       Major             Plot Permit/
Information                                                                      Minor Preliminary Final Plan Site
                                                                                 Plat  Plat        Plat       Plan

   Legal documentation establishing homeowners’ associations or other legal                   X          X
entities responsible for control over required common areas and facilities
   Bonds, letters of credit or other surety devices.                                            X          X
   Deed restrictions, if any                                                  X                 X          X
   A nitrogen control plan, if applicable                                           X                      X
   Floodplain management plan                                                       X                      X
   Time schedules for the completion of phases in staged development                X                      X
   The environmental impact of a development, including its effect on
historically significant or ecologically fragile or important areas and its            X                      X
impact on pedestrian or traffic safety or congestion
   If any street is proposed to intersect with a state maintained street, a copy
of the application for driveway approval as required by the Department of              X                      X
Transportation, Division of Highways Manual on Driveway Regulations
   Master sign plan, if required                                                    X                      X
 
 
                                                                            Subdivision Plats            Zoning
                                                                                  Major             Plot Permit/
Information                                                                 Minor Preliminary Final Plan Site
                                                                            Plat  Plat        Plat       Plan

As-Built Checklist
Upon completion of construction of stormwater structures and prior to
acceptance of new infrastructure or issuance of a certificate of occupancy
by the Town of Swansboro, a signed/sealed as-built set of drawings shall,
be submitted. The as-built drawings shall include the engineer's sealed
statement that the storm water structure(s) is built as designed and
approved by the NCDEQ and must also be sealed by a licensed surveyor.
The following check list is provided as a guide to indicate the items that
are expected to be included with the as built drawings. This checklist
should be included with the as-built submittal and each blank should be
initialed by the applicant as being included on the as built or marked n/                     X          X
a if not applicable to the project.
All Final As-Built Submittal Packages shall contain:
      2 sets of signed and sealed plan sheets - 24" x 36"
      Sealed cover letter from the professional engineer certifying at
stormwater structure are built as designed and approved by NCDEQ.
As-Built Information
Submitted by                         
Phone#                                
Transmittal Date                   
(Ord. passed 3-15-2005) (Am. Ord. 2016-O10, passed 9-13-2016; Am. Ord. 2019-06,
passed 7-23-19)
 
Appendix V
TABLE OF AMENDMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Section(s) Affected
Ord. No. Date Passed Section(s) Affected
- -      6-8-2005    152.170(L)
                   152.179
2005-O8  7-19-2005   152.016
                   152.179
                   152.525-
                     152.544
- -      9-20-2005   152.016
                   152.170(R)
                   152.179
                   152.180(Y)
                   152.180(AA)(3)
2006-11  4-18-2006   152.004
                   152.030(A)
                   152.030(D)(1)
                   152.030(D)(2)
                   152.030(D)(4)
                   152.032(A)(5)(d)
                   152.032(E)
                   152.033(A)(6)(h)
                   152.033(B)(1)-(5)
                   152.105(A)(2)
                   152.105(C)
                   152.179
                   152.196(E)
                   152.210(B)(4)
                   152.330;
                     152.337(G)(4)(d)4
                   152.478(B)(2)(b)
                   152.478(C)(1)
- -      6-20-2006   152.179
- -      1-16-2007   152.033(A)(3)
- -      3-20-2007   152.030(A)
                   152.477(A)(2)
2007-O4  4-17-2007   152.478(C)(6)
                    
                     152.482(B)(1)
- -      9-18-2007   152.179
                   152.180(Z)(3)(t)
2008-O4  2-19-2008   152.179
                   152.475
                   152.477(D)(5)
- -      3-18-2008   152.016
- -      6-17-2008   152.245
- -      7-15-2008   152.195
                   152.196(E)
                   152.196(F)(1)-(3)
- -      9-16-2008   152.196(E)
                   152.196(F)(1)
                   152.196(F)(2)
2008-28  10-21-2008  152.336(D)
                   152.337(D)(1)
                   152.337(F)(1)(a)
                   152.337(G)(1)
                   152.337(G)(3)
                   152.337(H)
                   152.350(B)
                   152.353(G)(6)
                   152.353(I)
                   152.353(O)
                   152.355(A)
                   152.355(D)(2)
                   152.355(H)
                   152.357(A)
                   152.357(C)
                   152.367(B)
                   152.367(C)(1)
                   152.367(D)
                   152.367(E)(2)
                   152.367(G)
                   152.367(H)
                   152.367(L)-(N)
                   152.380
                   152.381
                   152.383
                   152.385(A)
                   152.385(G)
2008-33  11-18-2008  152.337(C)
                   152.337(D)(2)(g)
                   152.337(D)(3)
                   152.367(Q)
                   152.383
                   152.385(C)
                   152.477(D)(2)
                   152.477(D)(4)(b)-(c)
                   152.478(B)(1), (2)
                   152.478(C)(2)(d)
                   152.482(B)(2)
2009-O6  4-21-2009   152.179
                   152.211(U)
                   152.292(A)
- -      6-16-2009   152.030(C)
                   152.045(E)
                   152.066(B)-(E)
2009-18  11-17-2009  152.268
                   152.269(H)(2)
- -      1-19-2010   152.179
2010-O6  2-16-2010   152.016
                   152.030(A)
                   152.033(A)(2)
                   152.179
                   152.180(BB)
                   152.477(A)(2), (3)
2010-O14 5-18-2010   152.016
                   152.179
                   152.180(F)
                   152.180(Z)
                   152.180(BB)
                   152.180(CC)
                   152.292(A)
- -      6-15-2010   152.016
                   152.179
                   152.180(F)
                   152.180(Z)
                   152.180(BB)
                   152.180(CC)
                   152.292(A)
2010-O20 7-20-2010   152.016
                   152.030(C)
                   152.030(D)(1)-(4)
                   152.032(A)(3), (4)
                   152.032(C)-(E)
                   152.033(A)(6)(h)
                   152.089(B)
                   152.090(B)
                   152.091(A)
                   152.091(C)
                   152.091(D)
                   152.091(F)
                   152.091(G)
                   152.105(A)(2)
                   152.115(A)
                   152.210(A), (B)
                   152.270(L)
- -      8-17-2010   152.016
                   152.170(U)
                   152.196(D)
- -      11-16-2010  152.179
                   152.180(EE)
                   152.196(D)
                   152.210(C)
                   152.210(D)
                   152.210(F)-(I)
- -      1-18-2011   152.016
                   152.179
                   152.180(FF)-(HH)
2011-O7  2-15-2011   152.196(G)
                   152.291(A)
- -      6-21-2011   152.016
                   152.179
- -      7-19-2011   152.016
                   152.178
                   152.179
                   152.180(Q)
                   152.180(II)
                   152.180(JJ)
                   152.195
                   152.196(H)
2011-O26 8-16-2011   152.170(T)
                   152.179
                   152.180(KK)
                   152.195
                   152.383
                   152.384(A)
                   152.384(C)
                   152.384(D)(2)
                   152.384(E)(2)
                   152.384(F)(1)(a)
                   152.384(F)(1)(c)
                   152.384(F)(2)(a)
                   152.384(F)(2)(b)
                   152.384(F)(2)(c)
                   152.384(F)(3)(a)
                   152.384(F)(3)(c)3
                   152.384(F)(5)
                   152.384(F)(7)
                   152.385(J)
                   152.385(K)
2011-O30 10-18-2011  152.291(B)(2)
- -      2-21-2012   152.180(O)(1)(a)
2012-O4  3-20-2012   152.407(A)
2012-O4  4-17-2012   152.429(B)(7)(e)
2012-O9  8-21-2012   152.030(A)
                   152.195
                   152.477(A)(1)
- -      11-20-2012  152.180(BB)
- -      12-18-2012  152.016
                   152.196(D)
- -      2-19-2013   152.179
                   152.273(F)(2)
                   152.275(C)(2)
2013-O7  3-19-2013   152.016
                   152.179
                   152.291(D)
                   152.292(A)
2013-O9  4-16-2013   152.275(B)
                   152.362(D)
2013-O13 5-21-2013   152.016
                   152.179
                   152.269(H)(1)(f)
                   152.269(H)(1)(h)
                   152.270(H)(2)
                   152.270(H)(7)
                   152.270(I)(2)(b)
                   152.270(K)(10)
                   152.270(K)(11)
                   152.291(E)-(H)
                   152.292(A)
                   152.353(G)(6)
                   152.356(A)
                   152.356(E)-(F)
                   152.501(B)
                   152.503(G)
                   152.505
                   152.508
                   152.510
                   152.561(F)
- -      6-12-2013   152.179
2013-O15 7-16-2013   152.016
                   152.525-
                     152.544
                   Ch. 152, Appendix I
                   Ch. 152, Appendix II
- -      1-21-2014   152.030(D)(1)
                   152.030(D)(5)(b)
                   152.045(F)
                   152.046(D)
                   152.050(C)
                   152.051
                   152.066(A)-(C)
                   152.210(B)(5)
2014-O14 4-15-2014   152.004
                   152.016
                   152.032(A)(5)(a)
                   152.032(B), (C)
                   152.070(A)
                   152.105(A)(3)
                   152.105(B)
                   152.105(D)
                   152.106
                   152.107(A)
                   152.108(A)
                   152.109(A)
                   152.113(A), (B)
                   152.115(A)
                   152.117
                   152.134(A), (B)
                   152.134(D)
                   152.135(A)
                   152.179
                   152.292(A)
2014-O13 6-17-2014   152.429(A)(2)
- -      7-15-2014   152.016,
                     152.195
2014-O18 10-21-2014  152.556(A)(1)-(2)
2015-O3  9-15-2015   152.525(C)(2)
                   152.528(E)(1)-(4)
                   Table 152.528-1
                   152.528(F)(3)(a)
                   152.529(A)(1)
- -      1-26-2016   152.179
- -      3-22-2016   152.016
                   152.174(A)
                   152.177
                   152.179(F)
                   152.179
                   152.180(C)
                   152.245-
                     152.253
2016-O14 4-12-2016   152.310
                   152.312
                   152.314
- -      5-24-2016   152.016
- -      7-22-2016   152.016
- -      7-26-2016   152.016
                   152.179
                   152.180(X)
                   152.180(DD)
                   152.211(B), (C)
                   152.211(S)
2016-O10 9-13-2016   Ch. 152, Appendix IV
2016-O11 9-13-2016   152.016
                   152.085
                   152.086
                   152.088
                   152.090(C), (D)
                   152.133(B)(3)
                   152.150-
                     152.156
                   152.179
                   152.180(A)(2)(c)
                   152.477(H)
                   152.478(B)
                   152.479
2016-O14 10-25-2016  152.179
                   152.500(C)
                   152.503(F)
- -      11-22-2016  152.170(D)-(I)
                   152.179
                   152.180(R)
                   152.211(J)
                   152.211(T)
                   152.211(Y)
                   152.211(BB)
                   152.211(EE)
                   152.211(FF)
                   152.211(HH)
- -      12-14-2016  152.180(A)(2)(d)
2017-O1  1-10-2017   152.016
                   152.179
                   152.269
                   152.270(G), (H)
                   152.270(I)(1)
                   152.270(M)
                   152.277
2017-O3  1-24-2017   152.292
- -      2-28-2017   152.016
                   152.179,
                     152.180(G)
                   152.196(F)(4)
                   152.211(A)
- -      4-25-2017   152.016
                   152.196(I),
                     152.211(R)
- -      6-27-2017   152.211(I)
                   152.273(M)
2018-01  1-9-2018    152.016,
                     152.180
2018-O8  5-22-2018   152.311,
                     152.313
2019-O3  2-26-2019   152.180
                     152.016,
                     152.170,
2019-O4  4-23-2019   152.179,
                     152.180,
                     152.195
2019-06  7-23-2019   152.355
2020-O2  4-27-2020   152.337
                     152.016,
                     152.400–
                     152.413,
                     152.425–
2020-O3  6-8-2020    152.429,
                     152.440–
                     152.448,
                     152.460–
                     152.462
                     152.016,
                     152.179,
2020-O6  8-10-2020   152.180,
                     152.196,
                     152.211
2020-O8  6-22-2020   152.295,
                     152.357
2021-O1  5-10-2021   152.225–
                     152.227
                     152.004,
                     152.016,
                     152.030-
                     152.033,
                     152.045,
                     152.046,
                     152.050,
                     152.065-
                     152.075,
                     152.105,
                     152.112,
                     152.132,
                     152.150–
                     152.156,
                     152.170,
2021-O3  5-24-2021   152.171,
                     152.179,
                     152.180,
                     152.210,
                     152.211,
                     152.268,
                     152.270,
                     152.336,
                     152.337,
                     152.367,
                     152.477,
                     152.478,
                     152.480,
                     152.483,
                     152.484,
                     App. III
2021-O4  6-28-2021   152.105,
                     152.538
                     152.016,
2021-O7  7-26-2021   152.179,
                     152.180
2021-O8  8-23-2021   152.016
2022-O1  1-10-2022   152.270
                     152.016,
                     152.269,
2022-O4  5-23-2022   152.270,
                     152.273,
                     152.277,
                     App. III
2022-O5  5-23-2022   152.268,
                     152.269
                     152.016,
                     152.270,
2022-O6  4-11-2022   152.273,
                     152.274,
                     152.277
2022-O11 8-8-2022    152.560
2023-O1  1-23-23     152.485–
                     152.488
2023-O2  1-23-23     App. III
                     152.179,
                     152.180,
2023-O6  5-22-23     152.211,
                     152.212,
                     152.312
2023-O9  7-24-23     152.179
                    
 
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to North Carolina General Statutes
References to Old Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTES
G.S. Cite Code Section
G.S. Cite                Code Section
1A-1, Rule 4(j)          152.072
1A-1, Rule 4(j1)         152.072
1-539.16                 Charter §
                         10.1
Ch. 7A                   152.428
Ch. 14, Art. 27          130.15
Ch. 14, Art. 35          130.17
                         10.99,
14-4                     92.06,
                         92.32
14-4(b)                  70.99
14-360 et seq.           90.01
14-409.40(f)             94.02
14-415.10                130.46
14-415.23                94.02,
                         130.46
                         Charter §
15A-402                  8.1,
                         33.16
17C-1 et seq.            33.05
18B-101                  130.18
18B-200                  110.01
18B-1001                 113.01
Ch. 20                   76.07
20-4.01(12a)             76.03
Ch. 20, Art. 16          93.047
20-141                   71.01
20-156                   70.04
20-219.4                 76.03
20-359.1                 93.051
27.2                     151.08
Ch. 29                   152.016,
                         152.336
47-30                    152.337
Ch. 47C                  152.251
Ch. 58                   152.016
58-82-1 et seq.          34.03
62-3(18)                 111.02
Ch. 93                   Charter §
                         7.2
105-109(d)               110.15
105-113.68 – 105-113.77110.01–
                         110.15
105-277.3                152.016
105-349                  Charter §
                         6.4
105-350                  Charter §
                         6.4
106-581.1                152.016
110-86                   152.016
Ch. 122, Art. 2          152.016
122-58.2(1)b             152.016
122C-3(11)b              152.016
Ch. 130A, Art. 9         152.016,
                         152.405
130A-184 – 130A-200    90.21
130A-185                 90.22
130A-290(a)(6)           152.405
130A-290(a)(35)          152.405
130A-290(a)(36)          152.405
130A-294                 152.016
131E-102                 152.016
132-32(f)                152.268
136-44.14                152.353,
                         152.356
136-66.10                152.003
136-66.11                152.003
136-102.6                152.016,
                         152.353
136-143                  92.53
Ch. 143, Art. 8          35.13
Ch. 143, Art. 21, Part 6 152.400
Ch. 143, Art. 33C        152.477
143-129(a)               35.11
143-129(f)               35.11
143-129(g)               35.11
143-138(e)               91.20
143-139.1(b)             152.016
143-143.15               152.441
143-145(7)               152.016
143-215.6A – 143-215.6C52.059
143-215.58               152.413,
                         152.428
143-318.9                Charter §
                         3.6
143-318.9 et seq.        30.31
Ch. 153A, Art. 6         152.400
153A-344.1               152.016
159-7 et seq.            Charter §
                         7.1
                         Charter §
159-25                   6.5,
                         35.02
160-148                  Charter §
                         6.1
160-175                  10.99
Ch. 160A, Art. 4A        Charter §
                         2.2
Ch. 160A, Art. 8         152.400
                         53.05,
Ch. 160A, Art. 10        53.07,
                         53.11,
                         151.15
Ch. 160A, Art. 12        35.16
160A-1(5)                152.016
160A-11                  Charter §
                         1.2
160A-12                  Charter §
                         1.2
160A-22                  11.02
                         Charter §
160A-59                  3.3,
                         30.03
160A-61                  30.02
                         Charter §
160A-63                  3.3,
                         30.03
                         Charter §
160A-64                  3.4,
                         30.05,
                         30.08
160A-67                  30.05
160A-68                  Charter §
                         3.5
160A-69                  30.05
160A-70                  30.06
                         Charter §
160A-71                  3.6,
                         30.26
160A-72                  31.21
                         Charter §
160A-74                  3.7,
                         30.25
160A-75                  10.99,
                         30.25
160A-78                  30.68
                         10.01,
160A-79                  30.67,
                         152.171
160A-102                 31.20
160A-146                 30.01
160A-147 – 160A-152    Charter §
                         1.3
160A-148                 31.20
160A-171                 31.21
                         Charter §
160A-173                 5.2,
                         31.23
                         52.117,
160A-175                 92.06,
                         92.16,
                         152.487
160A-182                 90.01
                         90.01–
                         90.05,
160A-186                 90.20–
                         90.28,
                         90.99
160A-189                 130.45
160A-190                 130.45
160A-193                 92.25,
                         92.31
160A-207                 110.15
160A-216 et seq.         Charter §
                         9.1
160A-266(c)              35.16
160A-281 et seq.         33.01
                         Charter §
160A-286                 8.1,
                         33.16
160A-296                 93.025
                         70.01–
                         70.04,
160A-300                 70.20–
                         70.28,
                         70.99
160A-300.6               76.01
160A-303                 92.48
160A-303.1               93.009
                         111.01–
160A-304                 111.17,
                         111.99
160A-304(a)              111.04
160A-338(a)              152.251
160A-360                 152.016
160A-374                 152.332
160A-381                 152.003
160A-382(b)              152.210
160A.389                 152.487
160A-417                 152.330
160A-435                 91.07
160A-436                 91.07
160A-439(e)              151.11
160A-439(f)              151.12
160A-439(j)              151.17
160A-3721                152.363
Ch. 160D, Art. 7, 9, 11  152.400
160D-106                 152.154
160D-107                 152.073
160D-108                 152.016,
                         152.073
160D-108(b)              152.073
160D-109(d)              152.069
160D-201 – 160D-204    152.004
                         11.02,
160D-202                 11.05,
                         152.072
160D-301                 152.016,
                         152.033
160D-303                 152.477
160D-307                 11.05
160D-403(c)              152.153
160D-405                 152.132,
                         152.151
160D-405(c)              152.151,
                         152.480
160D-501                 152.180
160D-601                 11.05,
                         152.073
160D-602(b)              152.032,
                         152.033
160D-604                 152.033
160D-705                 152.075
160D-802                 152.016
160D-903                 152.016
160D-907                 152.016,
                         152.180
160D-912(d-f)            152.270
160D-912(g-k)            152.270
160D-913                 152.004
160D-934 – 160D-938    152.180
160D-942                 152.477
160D-1001 – 160D-1012  152.156,
                         152.180
160D-1104                150.30
160D-1110                152.337
160D-1111                152.153
                         152.030,
160D-1402                152.071,
                         152.480
160D-1404                152.480
160D-1405(d)             152.071
163-171                  Charter §
                         6.2
                         Charter §
163-279 et seq.          4.1,
                         30.01
166A-19.31               Ch. 36
                         
 
REFERENCES TO OLD CODE
Old Code Section 2002 Code Section
Old Code Section 2002 Code Section
Attachment I     51.21
App. I, § 101   Ch. 74, Schedule II
App. I, § 103   Ch. 74, Schedule II
App. I, § 104   Ch. 74, Schedule III
App. I, § 105   Ch. 74, Schedule VI
App. I, § 106   Ch. 74, Schedule VI
App. I, § 108   Ch. 74, Schedule VI
App. I, § 110   Ch. 74, Schedule VI
App. I, § 113   Ch. 74, Schedule VI
App. I, § 116   Ch. 74, Schedule VI
App. I, § 120   Ch. 74, Schedule IV
App. I, § 121   Ch. 74, Schedule IV
App. I, § 123   Ch. 74, Schedule V
App. I, § 125   Ch. 74, Schedule I
App. I, § 128   Ch. 75, Schedule I
1-1-1            10.01
1-1-2            10.02
1-1-3            10.03
1-1-4            10.04
1-1-5            10.05
1-1-6            10.99
1-1-7            10.06
1-1-8            10.07
1-1-9            130.01
2-1-1            30.01
2-1-2            30.02
2-1-3            30.03
2-1-4            30.04
2-1-5            30.05
2-1-6            30.06
2-1-7            30.52
2-1-8            30.07
2-1-9            30.08
2-1-10           30.09
2-1-21           30.25
2-1-22           30.26
2-1-23           30.34
2-1-23(b)        30.27
2-1-24           30.28
2-1-25           30.29
2-1-26           30.30
2-1-27           30.31
2-1-28           30.32
2-1-29           30.33
2-1-30           30.34
2-1-41           30.65
2-1-42           30.66
2-1-43           30.67
2-1-44           30.68
2-1-45           30.69
2-1-46           30.70
2-1-51           30.50
2-1-52           30.51
2-1-53           30.52
2-1-54           30.53
2-2-1            31.02
2-2-2            31.20
2-2-3            31.21
2-2-5            31.23
2-2-21           31.03
2-2-22           31.04
2-2-23           31.05
2-2-24           31.06
2-3-1            31.01
2-4-1, A.        35.10
2-4-1, B.        35.11
2-4-1, C.        35.12
2-4-1, D.        35.13
2-4-1, E.        35.11,
                 35.14
2-4-2            35.15
2-4-3            35.16
2-4-11           110.01
2-4-12           110.02
2-4-13           110.03
2-4-14           110.04
2-4-15           110.05
2-4-16           110.06
2-4-17           110.07
2-4-18           110.08
2-4-19           110.09
2-4-20           110.10
2-4-21           110.11
2-4-22           110.12
2-4-23           110.13
2-4-24           110.14
2-4-25           110.15
2-4-41           35.02
2-4-51           35.01
2-4-52           35.01
3-1-1            33.01
3-1-2            33.02
3-1-3            33.18
3-1-4            33.15
3-1-5            33.03
3-1-6            33.15
3-1-7            33.16
3-1-8            33.06
3-1-9            33.04
3-1-10           33.05
3-1-11           33.17
3-2-1            34.01
3-2-2            91.01
3-2-3            34.02
3-2-9            34.03
3-2-10           91.22
3-2-11           91.22
3-2-12           91.02,
                 91.20
3-2-13           91.03
3-2-14           91.35
3-2-15           91.37
3-2-16           91.36
3-2-17           91.38
3-2-18           91.39
3-2-19           91.40
3-2-20           91.41
3-2-21           91.42
3-2-22           91.43
3-2-23           91.44
3-2-24           91.04
3-2-25           91.05
                 91.46,
3-2-26           91.47,
                 91.99
3-2-27           91.48
3-2-30           91.45
3-2-31           91.06
3-2-32           91.07
3-3-1            36.01
3-3-2            36.02
3-3-3            36.02
3-3-4            36.02
3-3-5            36.02
4-1-1            93.001
4-1-11           93.025
4-1-12           93.026
4-1-13           93.027
4-1-14           93.028
4-1-15           93.029
4-1-16           93.028
4-1-17           93.030
4-1-18(a)        93.046
4-1-18(b)        93.047
4-1-18(c)        93.048
4-1-18(d)        93.050
4-1-18(e)        93.051
4-1-18(f)        93.052
4-1-18(g)        93.053
4-1-18(h)        93.049
4-1-18(i)        93.048
4-1-19           93.031
4-1-20           93.032
4-1-21           93.033
4-1-22           93.034
4-1-23           93.034
4-1-24           93.034
4-1-31           93.011
4-1-32           93.012
4-2-1            50.01
4-2-2            50.02
4-2-3            50.15
4-2-4            50.16
4-2-5            50.17
4-2-6            50.18
4-2-7            50.19
4-2-8            50.20
4-2-9            50.21
4-2-10           50.22
4-2-11           50.23
4-2-12           50.24
4-2-13           50.25
4-2-14           50.26
4-2-15           50.27
4-2-16           50.28
4-2-17           50.28
4-2-18           50.29
4-2-19           50.30
4-2-20           50.31
4-2-21           50.32
4-2-22(a)        50.45
4-2-22(b)–(d)  50.46
4-3-1            93.013
4-3-2            93.013
4-3-3            93.013
4-3-4            93.013
4-3-5            93.013
5-1-1            51.01
5-1-2            51.02
5-1-3            51.03
5-1-4            51.04
5-1-5            51.05
5-1-6            51.06
5-1-7            51.07
5-1-8            51.08
5-1-9            51.09
5-1-10           51.10
5-1-11           51.11
5-1-12           51.12
5-1-13           51.13
5-1-14           51.14
5-1-15           51.15
5-1-16           51.19
5-1-17           51.18
5-1-18           51.16
5-1-19           51.17
5-1-20           51.35
5-1-20(a)        51.36
5-1-20(b)        51.37
5-1-20(c)        51.38
5-1-20(d)        51.39
5-1-20(f)        51.23
5-1-21           51.20
5-1-22           51.22
5-2-1            52.001
5-2-2            52.002
5-2-3            52.015
5-2-4            52.016
5-2-5            52.017
5-2-6            52.018
5-2-7            52.019
5-2-8            52.020
5-2-9            52.021, 153.021
5-2-10           52.022
5-2-11           52.023
5-2-12           52.024
5-2-13           52.024
5-2-14           52.040
5-2-15           52.041
5-2-16           52.042
5-2-17           52.043
5-2-18           52.044
5-2-19           52.045
5-2-20           52.046
5-2-21           52.047
5-2-22           52.048
5-2-23           52.049
5-2-24           52.050
5-2-25           52.051
5-2-26           52.051
5-2-27           52.052
5-2-28           52.115
5-2-29           52.116
5-2-30(a)        52.075
5-2-30(b)        52.075
5-2-30(c)        52.076
5-2-30(d)        52.077
5-2-30(e)        52.078
5-2-30(f)        52.079
5-2-30(g)        52.080
5-2-31           52.053
5-2-32           52.054
5-2-33           52.055
5-2-34           52.056
5-2-35           52.057
5-2-36           52.095
5-2-37           52.096
5-2-38           52.097
5-2-39           52.098
5-2-40           52.099
5-2-41           52.099
5-2-42           52.058
5-2-43           52.059
5-2-44           52.999
5-2-45           52.117
5-2-46           52.118
5-2-47           52.119
5-3-1            53.01
5-3-1(a)–(f)   53.02
5-3-1(i)–(l)   53.02
5-3-2(g)         53.03
5-3-2(h)         53.04
5-3-3            53.05
5-3-4            53.06
5-3-5            53.07
5-3-6            53.08
5-3-7            53.09
5-3-8            53.11
5-3-9            53.10
5-3-10           53.12
6-2-1            93.002
6-2-2            93.003
6-2-3            93.004
6-2-4            93.005
6-2-5            93.006
6-2-21           93.009
6-2-22           93.009
6-2-23           93.010
6-2-24           93.010
6-2-31           93.085
6-2-32           93.086
6-2-33           93.087
6-2-34           93.088
6-2-35           93.089
6-2-36           93.090
6-2-37           93.091
6-2-41           93.105
6-2-42           93.106
6-2-43           93.107
6-2-44           93.108
6-2-45           93.109
6-2-46           93.110
6-2-47           93.111
6-2-48           93.112
6-3-38           93.092
7-1-1            70.01
7-1-11           70.02
7-1-12           70.03
7-1-13           70.04,
                 93.068
7-1-21           70.20
7-1-22           70.21
7-1-23           70.22
7-1-24           70.23
7-1-25           70.24
7-1-26           70.25
7-1-27           70.26
7-1-28           70.27
7-1-29           70.28
7-1-41           71.01
7-1-42           71.02
7-1-51           71.10
7-1-52           71.11
7-1-53           71.12
7-1-61           71.20
7-1-62           71.21
7-1-71           71.30
7-1-72           71.31
7-1-73           71.32
7-1-74           71.33
7-1-75           71.34
7-1-81           71.40
7-1-101          73.01
7-1-102          73.02
7-1-103          73.03
7-1-104          73.04
7-1-105          73.05
7-1-106          73.06
7-1-107          73.07
7-1-108          73.08
7-1-121          72.01
7-1-122          72.02
7-1-123          72.03
7-1-131          72.10
7-1-132          72.11
7-1-133          72.12
7-1-134          72.13
7-1-135          72.14
7-1-136          72.15
7-1-137          72.16
7-1-141          72.30
7-1-142          72.31
7-1-143          72.32
7-1-151          72.40
7-1-152          72.41
7-1-153          72.42
7-1-154          72.43
7-2-1            93.065
7-2-2            93.072
7-2-11           93.066
7-2-12           93.067
7-2-14           93.069
7-2-15           93.070
7-2-16           93.071
8-1-1            130.15
8-1-2            130.17
8-1-3            130.45
8-1-4            130.18
8-1-5            130.17
8-1-6            130.30
8-1-7            130.30
8-1-8            130.16
8-1-9            130.46
8-2-1            90.01
8-2-2            90.02
8-2-3            90.03
8-2-3(e)         90.99
8-2-4            90.04
8-2-5            90.05
8-2-11           90.20
8-2-12           90.21
8-2-13           90.22
8-2-14           90.23
8-2-15           90.24
8-2-16           90.25
8-2-17           90.26
8-2-18           90.98
8-2-19           90.28
8-3-1            92.45
8-3-2            92.46
8-3-4            92.47
8-3-5            92.48,
                 92.49
8-3-7            92.50
8-3-8            92.51
8-3-9            92.52
8-3-10           92.53
8-4-1            92.25
8-4-2            92.26
8-4-3            92.27
8-4-4            92.28
8-4-5            92.29
8-4-6            92.30
8-4-7            92.31
8-4-8            92.32
8-5-1            92.10
8-5-2            92.10
8-5-3            92.10
8-5-4            92.11
8-5-5            92.11
8-5-6            92.12
8-5-7            92.13
8-5-8            92.14
8-5-9            92.15
8-5-10           92.15
8-6-1            92.01
8-6-2            130.47
8-6-3            130.47
8-6-4            130.31
8-6-5            130.31
8-6-6            130.32
8-6-7            130.03
8-6-8            130.03
8-6-10           93.008
8-6-11           130.04
8-6-12           130.02
9-1-1            150.01
9-1-2            150.02
9-1-3            150.03
9-1-4            150.04
9-1-5            150.05
9-1-6            150.06
9-1-7            150.07
9-1-8            150.08
9-1-9            150.09
9-1-10           150.10
9-1-11           150.11
9-1-12           150.12
9-1-13           150.13
9-1-14           150.14
9-1-15           150.15
9-1-16           150.16
9-1-17           150.17
9-1-21           150.31
9-1-22           150.45
9-1-23           150.46
9-1-24           150.32
9-1-31           150.30
9-1-40           150.99
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
–      - -         Ch. 74, Schedule I
–      - -         Ch. 74, Schedule II
–      - -         Ch. 74, Schedule III
–      - -         Ch. 74, Schedule IV
–      - -         Ch. 74, Schedule VI
–      - -         91.23
–      2-14-57     90.04
–      4-6-60      Ch. 74, Schedule III
–      6-3-66      71.40
–      1-4-68      Ch. 74, Schedule VI
–      8-1-68      130.32
–      7-1-71      90.20 –
                     90.24
–      7-2-71      130.03
–      9-2-71      Ch. 75, Schedule I
–      6-1-78      93.008
–      6-28-78     93.065,
                     93.066
–      2-1-79      93.008
–      9-82        93.008
–      9-8-83      11.01
                     72.03;
                     72.10;
                     72.13;
–      5-3-84      72.16;
                     72.30;
                     72.31;
                     Ch. 75, Schedule I
–      6-6-85      35.10
–      8-27-87     31.20
–      10-6-87     31.04
–      2-11-88     34.03
                     52.001,
                     52.002,
                     52.015-
                     52.024,
                     52.040-
                     52.059,
–      3-8-88      52.075-
                     52.080,
                     52.095-
                     52.099,
                     52.115-
                     52.119,
                     52.999
                     33.01–
–      8-11-88     33.06,
                     33.15-
                     33.18
                     51.21,
–      8-11-88     53.01-
                     53.12
–      8-11-88     91.07
–      10-11-88    Ch. 74, Schedule V
                     71.02;
                     Ch. 74, Schedule I;
–      11-10-88    Ch. 74, Schedule II;
                     Ch. 74, Schedule VI;
                     Ch. 74, Schedule IV;
                     Ch. 75, Schedule I
                     35.10–
–      11-10-88    35.14,
                     35.16
                     50.15,
                     50.18–
                     50.20,
–      11-10-88    50.24-
                     50.28,
                     50.30,
                     51.06
                     93.001,
                     93.011-
                     93.013,
                     93.025,
–      11-10-88    93.026,
                     93.028,
                     93.031-
                     93.034,
                     93.072
                     90.01,
                     90.04,
                     90.05,
                     90.20-
                     90.23,
                     90.25,
                     90.28,
                     92.11,
–      3-9-89      92.12,
                     92.15,
                     92.25-
                     92.30,
                     92.45,
                     92.47-
                     92.49,
                     92.52,
                     92.53,
                     93.008
                     130.15,
–      3-9-89      130.31,
                     130.47
                     30.02,
                     30.03,
                     30.05,
                     30.06,
                     30.09,
                     30.27-
                     30.30,
                     30.32-
–      4-13-89     30.34,
                     30.50-
                     30.53,
                     31.02,
                     31.20,
                     31.21,
                     31.23,
                     35.01,
                     35.15
–      4-13-89     110.13 
–      6-8-89      93.107
–      12-13-90    50.18
–      5-9-91      30.25,
                     51.09
–      1-10-91     93.048
–      1-21-92     51.08,
                     51.21
–      8-18-92     130.99
–      12-15-92    31.20
–      3-16-93     52.018
–      3-16-93     90.03,
                     90.99
                     Ch. 74, Schedule I;
–      7-20-93     Ch. 74, Schedule III;
                     Ch. 74, Schedule VI
–      9-21-93     130.16,
                     130.99
–      10-4-93     130.02
–      11-16-93    Ch. 74, Schedule I
–      9-19-95     51.03,
                     52.015
–      9-19-95     130.46
–      9-19-95     Ch. 74, Schedule I
                     150.01–
–      10-17-95    150.14,
                     150.16,
                     150.17
–      4-15-96     91.07
–      8-20-96     Ch. 74, Schedule VI
–      9-17-96     150.99
–      12-17-96    92.01
–      3-18-97     35.02
–      7-15-97     Ch. 75, Schedule I
–      12-6-97     93.108
–      12-16-97    93.106,
                     93.107
–      8-18-98     51.20,
                     51.21
–      10-20-98    35.10–
                     35.16
–      11-7-98     11.02
–      11-10-98    50.02
–      11-17-98    11.01
–      11-17-98    93.030
–      5-18-99     Ch. 75, Schedule I
–      5-18-99     93.030
–      6-3-99      51.20,
                     51.21
–      6-15-99     Ch. 75, Schedule I
–      10-19-99    71.41
–      12-21-99    93.030
                     Ch. 74, Schedule I;
–      3-21-00     Ch. 74, Schedule II;
                     Ch. 74, Schedule VI
–      8-15-00     Ch. 74, Schedule VI
–      9-19-00     Ch. 74, Schedule VI
–      12-19-00    51.14,
                     51.21
–      1-23-01     52.002,
                     52.060
–      3-20-01     Ch. 74, Schedule VI
–      4-16-02     51.21
–      9-17-02     51.20
–      11-19-02    51.21
–      1-21-03     37.01
–      3-18-03     112.01–
                     112.09
–      6-17-03     112.01
–      6-26-03     51.21
–      3-16-04     30.29
–      3-16-04     51.21
–      7-20-04     37.01
–      9-21-04     11.02
–      10-19-04    153.139
–      10-19-04    153.040
–      11-16-04    153.170
2005-02  2-15-05     93.030
                     150.01–
                     150.17,
                     150.30-
2005-03  3-15-05     150.32,
                     150.45,
                     150.46,
                     150.99
                     152.001–
                     152.017,
                     152.030–
                     152.033,
                     152.045–
                     152.051,
                     152.065–
                     152.068,
                     152.070,
                     152.085–
                     152.091,
                     152.105–
                     152.117,
                     152.130–
                     152.135,
                     152.150,
                     152.151,
                     152.153–
                     152.156,
                     152.170–
                     152.180,
                     152.195,
                     152.196,
                     152.210,
                     152.211,
                     152.225–
                     152.231,
                     152.245–
                     152.253,
                     152.265–
                     152.270,
                     152.272–
–      3-15-05     152.277,
                     152.290–
                     152.296,
                     152.310–
                     152.314,
                     152.325–
                     152.338,
                     152.350–
                     152.367,
                     152.380–
                     152.385,
                     152.400–
                     152.413,
                     152.425–
                     152.429,
                     152.440–
                     152.445,
                     152.447,
                     152.460–
                     152.462,
                     152.475–
                     152.484,
                     152.487,
                     152.488,
                     152.500–
                     152.512,
                     152.525–
                     152.544,
                     152.555–
                     152.561,
                     Ch. 152 App. I,
                     Ch. 152 App. II,
                     Ch. 152 App. III,
                     Ch. 152 App. IV
                     150.01–
                     150.17,
                     150.30-
2005-04  4-13-05     150.32,
                     150.45,
                     150.46,
                     150.99
2005-05  4-19-05     93.030
2005-07  6-21-05     Ch. 75, Schedule I
2005-11  7-19-05     93.030
                     31.20,
                     33.17,
2006-04  2-21-06     33.18,
                     34.01,
                     34.02
2006-05  1-17-06     Ch. 74, Schedule VI
2006-06  1-17-06     51.21
2006-06  2-21-06     51.21
–      3-15-06     53.01
2006-24  10-17-06    93.106
2006-25  12-19-06    130.03
2007-8   11-20-07    Ch. 75, Schedule III
2008-07  3-18-08     90.23
2008-08  4-15-08     35.16
2008-015 - - 08      90.27,
                     90.98
                     94.01–
2008-019 9-16-08     94.04,
                     94.99
2008-035 11-18-08    92.29
                     Charter §§
2009-11  5-19-09     3.3,
                     4.1
2009-19  10-21-09    93.030
2010-08  2-16-10     95.03
2010-010 4-20-10     112.02
2010-016 6-15-10     93.028
2010-023 7-20-10     93.035
                     76.01–
2010-031 9-21-10     76.07,
                     76.99
                     151.01–
2011-05  1-18-11     151.18,
                     151.99
2011-06  1-18-11     54.01,
                     54.02
2011-08  2-15-11     72.13,
                     72.17
                     Charter §§
                     3.1,
2011-09  - -11       3.3,
                     3.7,
                     4.1
                     111.01–
2011-018 6-21-11     111.17,
                     111.99
2011-019 6-21-11     Ch. 75, Schedule I
2011-020 6-21-11     93.030
2011-021 7-19-11     130.02
2011-027 8-16-11     94.02
2011-031 11-15-11    94.02
2011-032 12-7-11     94.02
2012-01  1-17-12     Ch. 74, Schedule VI
                     95.01–
2012-06  5-15-12     95.05,
                     95.99
2012-013 9-18-12     112.06,
                     112.07
2012-017 12-18-12    91.23
2013-O14 6-18-13     92.30
2013-O16 8-20-13     Ch. 75, Schedule I
2013-O18 11-19-13    130.46
2013-O19 11-19-13    94.02
                     90.02,
2014-O3  2-18-14     90.05,
                     90.06,
                     90.99
2014-O4  2-18-14     Ch. 75, Schedule I
2014-O8  4-15-14     Ch. 75, Schedule I
2014-O11 5-20-14     50.26
2014-O12 6-11-14     30.05
2014-O19 10-21-14    Ch. 74, Schedule I
2014-O20 10-29-14    96.01
                     50.02,
                     50.18,
2015-O2  8-18-15     50.20,
                     50.22,
                     50.25–
                     50.27
2015-O4  10-20-15    Ch. 74, Schedule VI
2015-O5  10-20-15    93.107
2015-O6  10-20-15    96.01
2015-O7  10-20-15    30.25
2016-05  5-10-16     90.03
2017-09  8-8-17      113.01
                     90.02,
2017-012 11-14-17    90.23,
                     94.02,
                     96.01
2018-O13 7-24-18     94.02
2018-O10 8-14-18     92.16
2018-O11 8-14-18     50.26
                     110.01–
2018-12  8-14-18     110.08,
                     110.13–
                     110.15
2018-015 12-11-18    91.20 -
                     91.23
2019-O1  1-22-19     Ch. 74, Schedule V
2019-O2  2-12-19     92.01 -
                     92.06
2020-O5  5-11-20     50.26
2020-O9  6-22-20     92.27–
                     92.31
                     11.02–
                     11.09,
                     150.30,
2021-O3  5-24-21     150.32,
                     150.33,
                     150.47,
                     Ch. 152, App. III
2021-O7  7-26-21     112.01–
                     112.05
2022-O2  1-10-22     Ch. 74, Schedule V
2022-O3  3-28-22     Ch. 74, Schedule IV,
                     VI
                     152.016,
                     152.269,
2022-O4  5-23-22     152.270,
                     152.273,
                     152.277,
                     Ch. 152, App. III
2022-O5  5-23-22     152.268,
                     152.269
                     152.016,
                     152.270,
2022-O6  4-11-22     152.273,
                     152.274,
                     152.277
2022-O10 7-11-22     Ch. 74, Schedule VI
2022-O11 8-8-22      152.560
2022-O12 8-22-22     Ch. 74, Schedule I,
                     VI
2022-O16 12-12-22    Ch. 74, Schedule V
2023-O1  1-23-23     152.485–
                     152.488
2023-O2  1-23-23     Ch. 152 App. III
                     152.179,
                     152.180,
2023-O6  5-22-23     152.211,
                     152.212,
                     152.312
2023-O8  7-10-23     Ch. 74, Schedule V,
                     Ch. 75, Schedule III
2023-O9  7-24-23     152.179
2023-O10 7-24-23     34.01–
                     34.03
2023-O11 7-24-23     50.26
2023-O12 9-1-23      152.016
2023-O13 12-15-23    30.25
2024-O2  2-13-24     152.479,
                     Ch. 152 App. III
2024-O3  2-13-24     152.479
2024-O4  3-12-24     Ch. 152 App. III
2024-O7  4-23-24     152.179,
                     152.212
2024-O8  4-23-24     152.009
2024-O9  4-23-24     Ch. 152 App. III
2024-O10 5-28-24     152.180,
                     152.195
2024-O11 8-13-24     152.073
2024-O12 8-13-24     152.196
2024-O13 8-13-24     152.445
2024-O15 8-13-24     150.45
2024-O16 8-27-24     152.179,
                     152.212
                    
 
 
