TAYLORSVILLE, NORTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2023 S-25 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through - -; and
State legislation current through North Carolina Advance Legislative Service,
2022 Pamphlet #3
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE NO. 32.01
ENACTING AS AN ORDINANCE, A CODE OF ORDINANCE FOR THE TOWN OF TAYLORSVILLE
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING, AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING
GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE TOWN DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SAID CODE.
WHEREAS, the present general ordinances of the Town of Taylorsville are
incomplete and inadequate and the manner of arrangement, classification and
indexing thereof is insufficient to meet the immediate needs of the Town; and
WHEREAS, the Acts of the State Legislature of the State of North Carolina
empower and authorize the Town Legislative Body of this Town to revise, amend,
restate, codify and to compile any existing ordinance or ordinances and all new
ordinances not heretofore adopted or published and to incorporate said
ordinances into one ordinance book form; and
WHEREAS, the Legislative Body of the Town of Taylorsville has authorized a
general compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the town of
a general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinances in book form.
NOW, THEREFORE; BE IT ORDAINED by the Legislative Body of the Town of
Taylorsville that:
Section 1.   The general ordinances of the Town of Taylorsville as herein
revised, amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are adopted as
and shall constitute the"Code of Ordinances of the Town of Taylorsville."
Section 2.   Said Code as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of the following
titles, to-wit:
            Title I               General Provisions
            Title III               Administration
            Title V               Public Works
            Title VII               Traffic Code
            Title IX               General Regulations
            Title XI               Business Regulations
            Title XIII            General Offenses
            Title XV               Land Usage
            Tables of Special Ordinances
            Parallel References
            Index
Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in said
Code shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of said Code
except as they are included and reordained in whole or in part in said Code;
provided such repeal shall not affect any offense committed or penalty
incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of said Code, nor
shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances levying taxes,
appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory, establishing franchises
or granting special rights to certain persons, authorizing public improvements,
authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing of money, authorizing the
purchase or sale of real or personal property, granting or accepting easements,
plat or dedication of land to public use, naming or vacating or setting the
boundaries of streets, alleys or other public places, nor to any other
ordinance of a temporary or special nature or pertaining to subjects not
contained therein.
Section 4.   Said Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the Town Legislative Body and the Clerk of the Town of
Taylorsville is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of said Code in
the Office of the Town Clerk.
Section 5.   Said Code shall be in full force and effect four (4) weeks from
the date of its publication and filing thereof in the Office of the Clerk, and
said Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein
contained sand of the date of passage, and that the same if properly signed,
attested, recorded and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Town Legislative Body of the Town of Taylorsville
this the 29th day of November, 1995.
                                          Glenn P. Deal /s/
                                          Mayor
ATTEST:
Sandra Icenhour, CMC /s/
Town Clerk
ORDINANCE NO. 32-02
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF
ORDINANCES OF THE TOWN OF TAYLORSVILLE.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the First Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of
Taylorsville, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature
enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
municipality; and
   WHEREAS, said American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the
revision or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are
based on or make references to sections of the North Carolina Code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the State of North Carolina;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Town Board of the Town of
Taylorsville, State of North Carolina:
   SECTION 1. That the First Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town
of Taylorsville, North Carolina as submitted by American Legal Publishing
Corporation of Cincinnati, as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby
adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage.
Passed this 11th day of June, 1996.
                                          Glenn P. Deal /s/
                                          Mayor
ATTEST:
Sandra Icenhour, CMC /s/
Town Clerk
CHARTER
   Legislation
      I.   PRIVATE LAWS, 1879, CHAPTER 24
      II.   PRIVATE LAWS, 1887, CHAPTER 86
         as amended by:
            Private Laws, 1889, Chapter 242
            Private Laws, 1919, Chapter 93
            Private Laws, 1935, Chapter 8
            Private Laws, 1939, Chapter 134
            Private Laws, 1947, Chapter 974
      III.   ORDINANCE OF FEBRUARY 3, 1987
      IV.   ORDINANCE OF MARCH 7, 2006
      V.   ORDINANCE OF MAY 2, 2006
      VI.   RESOLUTION OF APRIL 5, 2021
      VII.   RESOLUTION OF JUNE 1, 2021
I: PRIVATE LAWS, 1879, CHAPTER 24
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE TOWN OF TAYLORSVILLE, IN THE COUNTY OF ALEXANDER
The General Assembly of North Carolina do enact:
   Section 1. Body politic; powers. That the town of Taylorsville, in the
county of Alexander, be and is hereby incorporated by the name and style of
Taylorsville, and shall be entitled to enjoy and be subject to all the
privileges and powers contained in the various sections of the one hundred and
eleventh chapter of Battle's Revisal, entitled “towns.”
   Section 2. Corporate limits. That the corporate limits of said town shall be
one half mile square, having for the centre the courthouse in said town.
   Section 3. Officers; how chosen. That the corporate powers and authority
granted to said town shall be vested and exercised by a mayor and three
commissioners, to be chosen and elected in the manner prescribed in said
chapter one hundred and eleven, by the qualified voters of said town, who have
been residents thereof for ninety days preceding the day of election, and they
and their successors shall be and are hereby invested with all the rights,
privileges, powers, and immunities conferred upon and secured to commissioners
of incorporated towns by the one hundred and eleventh chapter of Battle's
Revisal.
   Section 4. Repeal. That all laws and clauses of laws heretofore enacted for
the regulation or the government of the said town of Taylorsville be and are
hereby repealed.
   Section 5. Effect. That this act shall be in force from and after its
ratification.
(Private Laws 1879, Chapter 24, enacted 2-8-1879)
II: PRIVATE LAWS, 1887, CHAPTER 86
       as amended by:
         Private Laws, 1889, Chapter 242
         Private Laws, 1919, Chapter 93
         Private Laws, 1935, Chapter 8
         Private Laws, 1939, Chapter 134
         Private Laws, 1947, Chapter 974
AN ACT TO AMEND THE CHARTER OF THE TOWN OF TAYLORSVILLE
The General Assembly of North Carolina do enact:
   Section 1. Incorporated; corporate limits, name, powers. That the
inhabitants of the town of Taylorsville living within the territory bounded as
follows, viz.: Beginning on a stone corner in Dr. McMatherson's field, thence
north sixty-five degrees west (crossing Oxford ford road) one hundred and
thirty-one poles to a stake, witnessed by a post oak on the south, post oak on
the east, Spanish oak on the west, and a pine stump on the north; thence north
twenty degrees west, crossing the factory road as marked by blazed trees,
crossing the Lenoir road at blacksmith's shop, one hundred and thirty-one poles
to a stake in Moses Watt's field: thence north twenty-five degrees one hundred
and thirty-one poles to a stake on the east side of a branch in R.A. Wilson's
field; thence north seventy degrees east, crossing the Wilkesboro road, to a
stake by a fallen chestnut on the south side of a hill; thence south sixty-five
degrees east one hundred and thirty-one poles, crossing the Cedar Run road, to
a stake near R.Z. Linney's house; thence south twenty degrees east one hundred
and thirty-one poles, crossing the Hamptonville road, to a stake on the bank of
the Statesville road, near the cemetery, thence east with the Statesville
public road to a point opposite the northeast corner of the cemetery fence;
thence crossing said road running southwest with the cemetery fence a straight
line to the old Statesville road; thence west with said road back to the town
boundary as designated in this section; thence south twenty-five degrees west
one hundred and thirty-one poles to a small black gum; thence south seventy
degrees west one hundred and thirty-one poles, crossing the Island ford road
south of the branch to the beginning, shall be and continue as they have
heretofore been, a body politic and corporate; and thenceforth the corporation
shall bear the name and style of the town of Taylorsville, and under such name
and style is hereby invested with all property and rights of property which now
belong to the corporation, under any other name or names heretofore used, and
by this name may acquire and hold for the purposed of its government, welfare,
and improvement all such estates as may be devised, bequeathed or conveyed to
it, and the same may from time to time sell, dispose of and invest, as shall be
deemed advisable by the proper authorities of the corporation. (Amended by
Private Laws 1889, Chapter 242, enacted 3-11-1889)
   Section 2. Officers. The administration and government of said town shall be
vested in one principal officer, to be styled the mayor, a board of three
commissioners, and such other officers as are hereinafter provided for.
   Section 3. Terms of office. The mayor and commissioners shall hold their
office for year and until their successors are qualified.
   Section 4. Registrar. The board of commissioners for Alexander county shall
appoint at or before their meeting in March, one thousand eight hundred and
eighty-seven, and every year thereafter, a registrar of voters for the town of
Taylorsville, and shall cause publication thereof to be made at the court-house
door and notice to be served on such persons by the sheriff.
   Section 5. Duties of registrar; oath of elector; penalty for false swearing;
proviso; new registration. Said registrar shall be furnished by said county
commissioners with registration books, and it shall be the duty of said
registrars appointed for the year one thousand eight hundred and eighty-seven
and thereafter, to open their books at some convenient place in the town of
Taylorsville on or before the last Monday in March in such years and to
register therein the names of all persons applying for registration and
entitled to register and vote in the town of Taylorsville, keeping the names of
the white voters separate and apart from those of colored voters and
designating on the registration book opposite the name of each person
registering the place of his residence in the town, and if any applicant for
registration shall not disclose the place of his residence in the town, his
wilful failure to do so shall be prima facie evidence that he is not entitled
to register in the town. Any person offering to register may be required to
take and subscribe an oath that he is a citizen of North Carolina and has
resided in the county of Alexander for ninety days and in the town of
Taylorsville for thirty days next preceding that date, or is otherwise entitled
to register, and if any person shall wilfully swear falsely in such affidavit
he shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and on conviction shall be sentenced
to pay a fine of fifty dollars and to be imprisoned sixty days in the county
jail: Provided, that after the first registration shall have been made by
virtue hereof a new registration may not be made annually, but such
registration book shall be revised so as to show an accurate list of electors
previously registered and still residing in said town without requiring such
electors to be registered anew. And such registrar shall on or before the last
Monday in March annually open said books for the registration of any electors
entitled to registration whose names have never before been registered in the
town of Taylorsville or do not appear in the revised list: Provided, however,
that the town commissioners may at any time order a new registration in the
manner herein prescribed.
   Section 6. Registration books, when closed, where deposited, etc.; penalty.
The registration books shall be closed one day before the day of election, and
after the same are closed no person shall be allowed to register, but the
registrar shall on application before said books are closed register all
persons not then qualified to vote in the town who will become so qualified on
or before the day of election. Immediately after said books are closed they
shall be deposited in the office of the clerk and treasurer of the town, and
citizens desiring so to do may inspect them. The town clerk and treasurer shall
write in each of said registration books the exact time they were deposited
with him, and the same shall not be taken from his office until the day of
election. Any registrar failing to deposit his registration book with the town
clerk at the time prescribed shall receive no compensation for making said
registration.
   Section 7. Judges of election; polls, where opened; election, how held.
   (1)   Creation of town board of elections; members named; terms subsequent
appointment of members. There is hereby created for the Town of Taylorsville in
Alexander County, North Carolina, a town board of elections which shall consist
of the following members: R.E. Current, chairman, and James Smith and Pleas
Smith, members. The board hereby appointed shall serve for a term of two years
from and after the first Monday in April, 1947, and until their successors are
appointed and qualified. The Commissioners of the Town of Taylorsville shall on
or before the first Monday in April, 1949, and biennially thereafter, name the
chairman and members of said board who shall serve for a term of two years, and
until their successors are appointed and qualified.
   (2)   Powers of town board of elections. The town board of elections,
created by Section 1 of this Act [that is, Sessions Laws 1947, Chapter 974], is
hereby clothed with all the powers and authority heretofore exercised by the
governing board of the Town of Taylorsville, with respect to municipal
elections under Article 3 of Chapter 160 of the General Statutes of North
Carolina.
   (3)   Chapter 134, Public-Local Laws, 1939, amended. That the next municipal
election in the Town of Taylorsville, Alexander County, shall be held on
Tuesday after the first Monday in June, 1947, and biennially thereafter, and
that all officers elected at said election shall qualify and take office on the
first day of July following the election in May, and biennially thereafter,
except when the first day is Sunday, and then on the following day.
   (4)   Provision for new registration of voters; oath prerequisite to
registration; elector required to furnish place of residence to registrar. That
the town board of elections shall require a new registration of the voters in
the Town of Taylorsville prior to the holding of the next general election for
said town, as set forth in this Act. No person shall be registered until after
taking the oath provided in Article 7 of Chapter 163, Section 29 of the General
Statutes of North Carolina. Every elector shall furnish to the registrar his
place of residence at the time of registration and during the last four months
preceding the time of such elector's registration.
   (5)   Eligibility for service as election official. No official or employee
of the Town of Taylorsville nor any relative of such official or employee shall
be eligible to serve as an election official in any election to be held under
the provisions of this Act.
   (6)   Compensation of members of town board of elections. The town board of
elections shall receive the same compensation for holding elections in the Town
of Taylorsville as that received by such officials in conducting county
elections under the general election laws of this State. All necessary expense
for holding such elections shall be paid out of the general fund of the Town of
Taylorsville.
   (7)   Conflicting laws repealed. All laws and clauses in conflict with this
Act are hereby repealed.
   (8)   Effective date. This act shall be in full force and effect from and
after its ratification.
(Amended by Private Laws 1935, Chapter 8, enacted 2-4-1935; by Private Laws
1939, Chapter 134, enacted 3-3-1939; by Session Laws 1947, Chapter 974, enacted
4-5-1947)
   Section 8. Electors; sheriff to supervise election. All electors who have
resided in the town of Taylorsville thirty days and the county of Alexander for
ninety days next preceding the election shall be entitled to register
hereunder. All elections held by virtue of this act shall be held under the
supervision of the sheriff of Alexander county, who shall attend the polls and
by his deputies preserve order.
   Section 9. Election, how conducted; challenges; ballots. The polls shall be
opened on the day of election from seven o'clock in the morning until sunset of
the same day. No person whose name has not been duly registered shall be
allowed to vote; and any one offering to vote may be challenged at the polls,
and if the judges of election shall sustain the challenge such person's ballot
shall not be received. Ballots shall be on white paper and without device. The
commissioners of said town shall be voted for on one ballot.
   Section 10. Ballots, etc., to be preserved. After the ballots are counted
they shall be carefully preserved, and shall be, together with the poll list,
which shall be signed by the judges of election, and the registration books,
delivered to the town clerk for preservation.
   Section 11. Tie vote for commissioner; certificates of election; vacancies.
If, among the persons voted for for commissioners in said town, there shall be
any two or more having an equal number of votes, the judges of election for
said town shall decide the election between such persons. As soon as the result
of the election in the town is determined two certificates thereof shall be
made under the hands of the judges and registrars, setting forth in writing and
in words the number of votes of each candidate received, one of which
certificates shall be delivered to the sheriff of Alexander county, who shall
at once make proclamation thereof at the court-house door, and the other shall
be delivered to the mayor of the town of Taylorsville, and upon application
they shall also furnish to each person elected commissioner a certificate of
his election. The town commissioners shall fill all vacancies occurring in
their board by death, resignation or otherwise.
   Section 12. Term of office of mayor; salary; vacancy; tie vote. The mayor
shall be elected by the qualified voters of the town of Taylorsville, for the
term of one year, and until his successor shall be elected and qualified. The
town commissioners may allow said mayor an annual salary not exceeding one
hundred dollars, to be paid out of the town treasury. In case a vacancy shall
occur in the office of mayor, the town commissioners shall appoint a qualified
person to fill the vacancy for the unexpired term. In case two or more persons
receive an equal number of votes for the office of mayor, the sheriff of
Alexander county shall determine the matter by his vote.
   Section 13. Oath of mayor and commissioners. That on or before the fifth day
after the election, the mayor and commissioners so elected shall meet at the
town hall or some other place by them appointed, and shall then and there take
an oath to support the constitution and laws of the United Sates and the
constitution and laws of North Carolina, and to discharge the duties imposed
upon them by virtue of their office as mayor and town commissioners with
fidelity and integrity to the best of their ability, which oath shall be
administered by a judge, justice of the peace, or former mayor.
   Section 14. Jurisdiction of mayor; persons convicted available to work on
streets. The mayor of said town of Taylorsville, while acting as such, is
hereby constituted an official court, with all jurisdiction and powers in
criminal offenses occurring within the limits of said town which now or may
hereafter be given by law to justices of the peace, and shall also have
jurisdiction to hear and determine all misdemeanors consisting of a violation
of the ordinances of the town. The proceedings in said court shall be the same
as are now or hereafter shall be prescribed for courts of justices of the
peace, and in all cases there shall be a right of appeal. And in all cases
where a defendant may be adjudged to be imprisoned by the mayor, it shall be
competent for him to adjudge also that the said defendant work during the
period of his confinement on the public streets, or other public work of said
town.
   Section 15. Precepts of mayor. That the mayor may issue his precepts to the
chief of police or town constable and to such other officers to whom a justice
of the peace may direct his precepts.
   Section 16. Mayor to keep minutes; judgments of mayor. That the mayor shall
keep a faithful minute of precepts issued by him and all of his judicial
proceedings. The judgments rendered by him shall have all the force, virtue and
validity of judgments rendered by a justice of the peace, and may be executed
and enforced against the parties in the same manner and by the same means as if
the same had been rendered by a justice of the peace.
   Section 17. Duties of mayor; mayor pro tem. That the mayor, when present,
shall preside at all meetings of the town commissioners, and when there is an
equal division upon any question or in the election of officers by the board,
he shall determine the matter by his vote; he shall vote in no other case, and
if he shall be absent from the board may appoint one of their number pro
tempore to exercise his duties.
   Section 18. Board of commissioners; meetings. That the commissioners shall
form one board, and a majority of them shall be competent to perform all the
duties prescribed, unless otherwise provided. At their first meeting they shall
fix stated days or times of meeting, which shall be as often at least as once
in every two months; special meetings of the commissioners may also be held on
the call of the mayor or a majority of the commissioners, and of every such
meeting, when called by the mayor, all the commissioners shall be notified, and
when called by a majority of the commissioners, such as shall not join in the
call shall be notified.
   Section 19. Ordinances, etc. That the board of commissioners when convened
shall have power to make and provide for the execution thereof such ordinances,
by-laws, rules and regulations for the better government of the town as they
may deem necessary, not inconsistent with this act or with the laws of the
land.
   Section 20. Authorized to borrow money, etc., with consent of voters, etc.;
election; new registration; powers of board. That among the powers hereby
conferred on the board of commissioners, they may borrow money or create a
public debt by issuing bonds or otherwise, only after they have passed an
ordinance by a two thirds' vote of the entire board at a regular meeting
submitting the question of creating a debt to a vote of the people, and a
majority of the qualified registered voters have voted in favor thereof; thirty
days' notice shall be given of such an election in some newspaper published in
Taylorsville, at which election those who favor creating the debt shall vote
“approved,” and those who oppose it shall vote “not approved.” The board may
order a new registration of voters at any and all such elections if they deem
it proper so to do. They may provide water for macadamizing, repairing, and
cleansing the streets, regulate the markets, and take all proper
means to prevent and extinguish fires, make regulations to cause the due
observance of Sunday, to appoint and regulate a police force, to execute such
precepts as the mayor and other persons may lawfully issue to them, to preserve
the peace and order of the town, and to execute the ordinances thereof, to
suppress and remove nuisances, preserve the health of the town from contagious
or infectious diseases, and may appoint and provide for the pay and prescribe
the duties of all such officers as may be deemed necessary.
   Section 21. Clerk and treasurer; tax collector; oaths; bonds. That at the
first meeting of the board of commissioners or as soon thereafter as
practicable, they shall elect a town clerk, who shall act as treasurer, and a
tax collector, who shall respectively hold their offices during the term of the
board electing them and until their successors are elected and qualified,
subject, however, to be removed at any time and others appointed in their stead
for misbehavior or neglect in office. Before acting each of said officers shall
take an oath before the mayor to faithfully discharge the duties required of
him by the board of commissioners, and each shall execute a bond in such an
amount as the board may require with security to be approved by the board; the
bonds required by the clerk and tax collector shall be renewed every year.
   Section 22. Salary of clerk; duties. That the clerk shall have such
reasonable salary as the commissioners may designate, and it shall be his duty
to keep regular and fair minutes of the proceedings of the board and to
preserve all books, papers and other articles committed to his care during this
continuance in office and deliver them to his successor. And he shall receive
and faithfully keep all moneys which shall be paid to him for the use and in
behalf of said town and disburse the same according to an order given in
obedience to the direction of said board appearing on their minutes. He shall
keep a fair and correct account of all moneys so recorded and disbursed by him
in a book kept for that purpose, showing from what source money is received and
for what purpose paid out, and shall submit said accounts to said board
whenever required. He shall pay to his successor all moneys in his hands
belonging to said town, and to faithfully perform all duties imposed on him as
clerk by the laws and ordinances of said board.
   Section 23. Powers and liabilities of tax collector; settlement with tax
collector and clerk; removal of tax collector; failure to pay taxes a
misdemeanor; work on streets. The tax collector whose appointment is herein
provided for shall be vested with the same power and authority in the
collection of taxes that sheriffs have, and be subject to the same fines and
penalties for failure or neglect of duty. He shall be charged with sums
appearing by the tax list as due for town taxes. He shall be credited in
settlements as sheriffs are credited with amount in suit by appeal, all poll
tax as in personal property, certified by the clerk of the commissioners of the
county, by order of the board of county commissioners, to be insolvent and
uncollectible. He shall at no time retain in his hands over one hundred dollars
for a longer time than seven days, under a penalty of ten per centum per month
to the town upon all sums so unlawfully retained. The board of commissioners at
the meeting before the last regular meeting in each year shall appoint one or
more of their number to be present and assist at the accounting and settlement
between the tax collector and town clerk and audit and settle the accounts of
the town clerk; the accounts so audited shall be reported to the board of
commissioners, and when approved by them shall be recorded in the minute book
of said board, and shall be prima facie evidence of their correctness, and
impeachable only for fraud or specified error. It shall be the duty of said
board to remove any tax collector who shall fail to settle and fully pay up the
taxes by law due from him, and he shall not be eligible to re-election to said
office: Provided, however, that any male
person so certified to be insolvent or delinquent as aforesaid, not previously
exempted by order of the board of commissioners, who shall fail to pay said
taxes to the collector for six months after such return of insolvents or
delinquents as aforesaid, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction
before the mayor shall be fined double the value of the taxes so due, not to
exceed in any case fifty dollars; and the mayor, if said person be committed to
prison for failure to pay the fine, may employ such offender in working the
public streets and other public works of said town, as set forth in section
fourteen of this act, and said mayor may allow such offender a credit of so
much per day on said fine and costs as to him may seem just and reasonable.
   Section 24. Police; Chief of police; powers and duties; oath. That the board
of commissioners shall have the power to appoint a police force to consist of a
chief of police and such number of policemen as the good government of the town
may require, who shall hold their office during the term of the board
appointing them and until their successors are appointed. The chief of police
shall give bond in such sum as the board of commissioners may prescribe for the
faithful discharge of the duties imposed by law and the ordinances of the town,
and to faithfully account for all moneys that may come into his hands from
fines, penalties and so forth. The chief of police shall have the supervision
and control of the police force, and it shall be his duty to report to the
mayor any dereliction of duty on the part of any member of the police force. It
shall be the duty of the chief of police to attend the mayor's court each day
and report any violations of law or ordinances of the town, to collect all
fines and penalties imposed and pay the same to the town treasurer, and to
execute the orders and judgments of said court, see that the laws and
ordinances of the town are enforced and to do such other things as are required
of him by the board. The chief of police and each member of the police force
shall have all the power and authority vested in sheriffs and constables for
the preservation of the peace of the town, by suppressing disturbances and
apprehending offenders; they shall execute all process directed to them by the
mayor or others, and in the execution thereof shall have the same power which
sheriffs and constables have. The chief and members of the police force shall
take an oath before the mayor for the faithful performance of the duties
required by law and ordinances.
   Section 25. Fees of chief of police; temporary additional policemen. The
chief of police shall be entitled to and shall receive the fees arising from
the execution of all precepts issued by the mayor or others, which shall be the
same as that of sheriffs and constables for like service. The board of town
commissioners shall pass ordinances for the government and direction of the
police and fix their compensation. In time of exigency the mayor may appoint
temporary additional policemen for such time as may appear necessary, not
exceeding one week, who shall take the same oath and be subject to the same
control as regular policemen.
   Section 26. Suspension of policemen by mayor; duty of commissioners;
suspension for drunkenness. The mayor at any time upon charges being preferred,
or upon finding said chief or any member of said police force guilty of
misconduct, shall have power to suspend such member from service until the
board of commissioners shall convene and take action in the matter, and upon
hearing the proofs in the case the board may discharge or restore such member,
and the pay of such member shall cease from the time of his suspension to the
time of his restoration to service. Any violation of the regulations or orders
of any superior shall be good cause for dismissal, and the mayor shall suspend
the chief or any member of the police force if found drunk while on duty.
   Section 27. Police to wear badges, go armed, etc.; powers. The board of
commissioners shall require the entire police force to wear badges and be so
armed and uniformed as to be readily recognized by the public as peace
officers, and the police shall generally have power to do whatever may be
necessary to preserve the good order and peace of the town and secure the
inhabitants from personal violence and their property from loss or injury.
   Section 28. Weighmaster; inspector; bonds; oath; removal; fees, etc.; other
officers. That the said board of commissioners may in their discretion as soon
after their election as necessary appoint a weighmaster, whose duty it shall be
to weigh all cotton sold in said town, and an inspector, whose duty shall be to
inspect all flour, provisions, forage and all other marketable produce in said
town in their judgment requiring weighing or inspection, and the weighmaster
and inspector so appointed shall give bond with approved security payable to
the town of Taylorsville in an amount to be fixed by the board, conditioned for
the faithful discharge of all duties imposed by law and the ordinances of the
town, and shall take an oath before the mayor before entering upon their
duties. And the board of commissioners shall have power to remove either of
them for misbehavior or neglect, or malpractice in office, and appoint a
successor instead. And the board of commissioners are hereby authorized and
empowered to regulate the fees to be paid for such weighing and inspection and
by whom to be paid, and to make all necessary ordinances for the government of
said officers, and to impose fines and penalties for their violation. They may
also appoint a town engineer, a town attorney and a sanitary policeman, and
prescribe the duties required of each and fix their compensation.
   Section 29. Auctioneers; bond; no other auctioneers; tax. That the said
board of commissioners shall have power at any time to elect one or more
auctioneers for the town of Taylorsville, who shall give bond with approved
security in the sum of three thousand dollars, payable to the state of North
Carolina, conditioned that he will faithfully perform the duties of auctioneer
by law, which said bond shall be filed with the mayor to be by him safely kept,
and when the town commissioners shall have appointed said auctioneer and he
shall have filed his bond, no person shall exercise the office of auctioneer in
said town except those duly appointed by the board of commissioners, and the
said board may make ordinances regulating auction sales in said town; and the
said auctioneer or auctioneers shall pay as a tax a certain per centum on all
sales, hire and profits made by virtue of his or their office, not to exceed
one per centum, to be levied by the board.
   Section 30. Listing of property for taxation; assessment. That the clerk
shall, on the third Monday in May of each and every year, make advertisement in
some newspaper notifying all persons residing in the town of Taylorsville who
own or have control of taxable property in the town on the first of June, to
return to him on or before the last day of June a list of their taxable
property in said town; said list shall state the number of lots or parts of
lots and all other property now taxable, or that may hereafter be made taxable
by the laws of the state or the ordinances of the town, and the list so
returned to the clerk shall be sworn to before him, and he is hereby authorized
to administer the following oath “I,                       , do solemnly swear
that the tax return made out and signed by me contains a full and accurate list
of the number of lots owned by me in the town of Taylorsville, a full and
accurate list of all personal property and a full and accurate list of all
stock, bonds, income, solvent credits, and other property subject to taxation
by the laws of the state and ordinances of the town of Taylorsville, according
to my best knowledge, information and belief, so help me God.” And from the
return so made the clerk shall, within thirty days after the expiration of the
term for taking said list, make out in a book kept for that purpose an
alphabetical list of the persons and owners of
property who have so made their returns, and in the same manner as tax lists
are made out by law for collection of state taxes. And the said clerk shall
copy in said book the assessment made by the board of township assessors all
property within the town limits, which assessment may be revised, corrected and
amended by the board of commissioners.
   Section 31. Delinquent tax list; penalty. That the clerk shall, within
thirty days from the return of the tax lists, make out to the best of his
knowledge and belief, by comparing his book with the returns made to the board
of township assessors, and by diligent inquiry from other sources, a list of
taxable polls and owners of taxable property in said town who shall have failed
to return a list in the manner and time aforesaid, and said person so listed
shall forfeit and pay a sum to be fixed by the board, not exceeding twice the
amount of his tax, which penalty may be recovered as other fines and penalties
imposed by the board of commissioners before the mayor or any justice of the
peace. And all persons who are liable for a poll tax and shall wilfully fail to
give themselves in, and all persons who own property and wilfully fail to list
it within the time allowed as aforesaid before the list taker, or fail to
render a satisfactory excuse to the board of commissioners on or before the
first day in August of each and every year respectively, shall pay a double tax
as in case of failure to return for state and county taxes.
   Section 32. Taxation. That in order to raise a fund for the expenses
incident to the proper government of the town, the commissioners may annually
levy and collect the following taxes, viz.:
   (1)   Ad valorem tax. On real estate and personal property, situated in the
town, a tax not exceeding one dollar on every hundred dollars' value.
   (2)   Poll tax. On all taxable polls a tax not exceeding three dollars, who
may be residents in the town on the first day of June of each year, or may have
been so resident within sixty days next preceding that day. And all able-bodied
male citizens over 18 years and under 21[45] years of age (not exempt by the
board) shall work the streets three days in each year, or in lieu thereof shall
pay to the town tax- collector fifty cents for each of said three days.
(Amended by Private Laws 1889, Chapter 242, enacted 3-11-1889).
   (3)   Omnibuses. On every four-horse omnibus, a tax not exceeding fifteen
dollars.
   (4)   Drays, etc. On every dray or express wagon drawn by one or two horses,
a tax not exceeding fifteen dollars; if drawn by more than two horses, a tax
not exceeding fifteen dollars.
   (5)   Carriages, etc. On all carriages, buggies, sulkies, or other vehicles
used in the town for the carriage of persons for money or hire, a tax not
exceeding fifteen dollars.
   (6)   Livery-stable keepers, etc. On all keepers of livery stables, a tax of
not less than ten dollars; and any person living inside the corporate limits
who keeps horses and vehicles for the purpose of conveying persons to points
outside the corporate limits, for money or hire, shall be subject to the tax
mentioned in this section. (Amended by Private Laws 1889, Chapter 242, enacted
3-11-1889)
   (7)   Itinerant dentists, etc. On every and all itinerant dentists, doctors,
photographers, artists, patent medicine men and all itinerant venders of any
kind of articles or merchandise, a tax of not less
than five dollars, to be paid in advance: Provided, this act shall not apply to
dealers in articles of their own manufacture or products of the farm. (Amended
by Private Laws 1889, Chapter 242, enacted 3-11-1889)
   Section 33. Levy of taxes; collection, etc.; compensation of tax collector.
That as soon as the clerk shall have furnished the assessment roll as provided,
and the same shall have been revised by the board, the board of commissioners
shall proceed to levy the taxes on such subjects of taxation as they may
choose, and shall place the tax list in the hands of the collector for
collection, who shall proceed forthwith in the collection and shall complete
the same on or before the first day of January next ensuing and shall pay the
moneys as they are collected to the clerk, and the collector for his
compensation shall receive not exceeding five per centum on the amount
collected, in the discretion of the town commissioners.
   Section 34. Collection by distress, etc. That if any person liable to taxes
on subject directed to be listed shall fail to pay them within the time
prescribed for collection, the collector shall proceed forthwith to collect the
same by distress and sale, after public advertisement for the space of ten days
in some newspaper published in the town, if the property to be sold by
personalty, and of thirty days if the property be realty.
   Section 35. Sale of land for taxes; purchase by town. That when the tax due
on any lot or other land (which is hereby declared to be a lien on the same)
shall remain unpaid on the first day of January, and there is no other visible
estate but such lot or land of the person in whose name it is listed liable to
distress and sale known to the collector, he shall report the fact to the
commissioners, together with a particular description of the real estate, and
thereupon the commissioners shall direct the same to be sold at the court-house
door by the collector, after advertising for thirty days in some newspaper
published in the town of Taylorsville, which the collector shall do. And the
collector shall divide the said lands into as many parts as may be convenient
(for which purpose he is authorized to employ a surveyor) and shall sell as
many parts thereof as may be required to pay said taxes and all expenses
attendant thereon. If the same cannot be conveniently divided the collector
shall sell the whole; and if no person will pay the whole of the taxes and
expenses for the whole, land shall be struck off to the town, and if not
redeemed as hereinafter provided shall belong to said town in fee.
   Section 36. Tax collector to make returns, etc.; surplus. That the collector
shall return an account of his proceedings to the commissioners, specify the
portions into which the land was divided, and the purchaser or purchasers
thereof, and the prices of each, which shall be entered in the book of
proceedings of the board, and if there shall be a surplus after paying said
taxes and expenses or of advertising and selling the same, it shall be paid
into the town treasury subject to the demand of the owner.
   Section 37. What property taxes to be levied on. The taxes for town purposes
shall be levied upon all moneys, credits, investments in bonds, stocks, joint
stock companies or otherwise, and also on all real and personal property
according to the value in money. A tax for town purposes may also be levied
upon franchises and incomes: Provided, no income shall be taxed when the
property from which the income is derived is taxed.
   Section 38. Conveyance of land to purchaser; prima facie evidence. That if
the real estate sold
as aforesaid shall not be redeemed within the time required by law, the
corporation shall convey the same in fee to the purchaser or his assigns; and
the recital in such conveyance, or in any other conveyance of land sold for
taxes due the town, that the taxes were due, or of any other matter required to
be true or done before the sale might be made, shall be prima facie evidence
that the same was true and done.
   Section 39. License taxes. That in addition to the subjects listed for
taxation, the commissioners may levy a tax on the following subjects, the
amount of which tax, when fixed, shall be collected by the town collector
immediately, and if the same be not paid on demand, the same may be recovered
by suit on the articles upon which the tax is imposed, or any other property of
the owners may be forthwith distrained and sold to satisfy the same, viz.:
   (1)   Peddlers, etc. Upon all itinerant merchants or peddlers selling or
offering to sell in the town, a tax not exceeding fifty dollars per year,
except such only as sell books, charts or maps.
   (2)   Bowling alleys, etc. On every bowling alley, and every billiard table,
and every pool table, and every bagatelle table, and every other table or
gaming contrivance, the object of which is gain, and for the use of which a
charge is made, a tax not exceeding one hundred dollars, reserving the right to
remove it or them at any time as a nuisance.
   (3)   Restaurants, etc. On all keepers of eating-houses or restaurants, fish
or meat, or vegetable or bread stands or fruiters, a tax not exceeding twenty-
five dollars per year.
   (4)   Circuses, etc. Upon every company of circus riders, who shall exhibit
within the town or within one mile thereof, a tax not exceeding two hundred
dollars for each day, the tax to be paid before the exhibition, and if not to
be double.
   (5)   Theatrical companies, etc. Upon every person or company exhibiting in
the town or within two miles thereof, stage or theatrical plays, sleight-of-
hand performances, rope dancing, tumbling, wire dancing or menagerie, a tax not
exceeding one hundred dollars for every day they exhibit.
   (6)   Artificial curiosities. Upon every exhibition for reward of artificial
curiosities (models of useful inventions excepted), in the town or in one mile
thereof, a tax not exceeding fifty dollars, to be paid in advance.
   (7)   Shows, concerts, etc. Upon each show or exhibition of any kind, and on
each concert for reward, and on every strolling musician, except for charitable
purposes, a tax not exceeding twenty dollars, to be paid before exhibition.
   (8)   Liquor dealers. The board of commissioners shall have full control of
the sale of spirituous, vinous or malt liquors within the corporate limits of
said town, whether there shall be a sale therein, and in what quantities, and
if by retail or wholesale, the amount of license tax, and the conditions shall
be specified in a written penal bond in the sum of not less than one thousand
dollars, with such sureties as may be satisfactory to the board, payable to the
town of Taylorsville, which may be put in suit to the use of any person or
persons injured by such sale, either in person or property, directly or
indirectly; and the town commissioners shall have power to revoke any license
issued by them or close
up any bar-room or place where liquor is sold at their option, a sufficient
cause being shown, without refunding any part of the license tax; and no
license from any other party or parties having authority to issue license shall
be lawful in said corporation without the license of the town corporation; and
said license tax shall not be less than three hundred dollars per annum:
Provided, that no license shall be issued for a shorter time than six months.
(Amended by Private Laws 1889, Chapter 242, enacted 3-11-1889)
   Section 40. Taxes to be uniform; appropriations. That taxes for town
purposes shall be levied on all real estate and personal property, trades'
licenses, and other subjects of taxation as provided in section three, article
five, of the state constitution. That all moneys arising from taxes, donation
or other sources, shall be paid to the clerk, and appropriations thereof shall
be made but by a board constituted of a majority of the commissioners.
   Section 41. Streets; condemnation of land; appeal; proviso. That the board
of commissioners shall have power to grade, macadamize and pave the streets and
sidewalks, to lay out and open new streets, widen, narrow or discontinue any
streets now open and in use, or any streets heretofore laid off and not in use,
and make such improvements thereon as in their judgment the public convenience
may require, and the good of the town demand; that when any land shall be
required for any purpose mentioned in this charter for building, rights of way,
or for the purpose of opening new streets or for widening those already open or
laid off; or when it may be deemed expedient by the commissioners to narrow any
street or streets, or discontinue any street or streets now open and in use, or
open and not in use, or which may have been laid off heretofore for street or
other objects allowed by this charter, and for want of agreement as to the
value thereof or the amount of damage which any person or persons may sustain
by reason of closing up or narrowing any street or streets, the same cannot be
purchased from the owners for streets, the same may be taken at the valuation
to be made, or the streets may be closed or narrowed by paying the damages to
be assessed by three freeholders of the town, to be chosen one by the land-
owner or owners, and one by the commissioners, which two so chosen shall choose
a third freeholder; or if the land owner or owners shall fail or refuse, upon
written notice delivered, to choose one of the freeholders as above directed,
then the commissioners shall choose the second freeholder, which two so chosen
shall select the third, and in making said valuation of the property or land to
be used as streets or alleys, or in assessing such damages as may be sustained
by the owner or owners of lands abutting the streets narrowed or closed and
appropriated by the town, the freeholders, after being duly sworn by the mayor
or a justice of the peace or clerk of [a] court of record, shall take into
consideration the loss or damages which may accrue to the owner in consequence
of land being surrendered for a right of way or street, also any benefit the
owner or owners may receive by reason of the opening or widening of said
street, or the erection of any proposed improvements, and ascertain the sum
which shall be paid to the owner of said lands, and said freeholders, in
assessing the amount of damage which may be due the owner or owners of any
lands abutting any street narrowed or closed and condemned for town purposes,
shall take into consideration [the] inconvenience the narrowing or closing such
streets may cause the land-owners abutting the same, and the cost which the
town may be forced to incur in keeping said streets in repair, and whether
public exigency demands such street to be kept open, and the freeholders shall
ascertain the sum to be paid for the land condemned for streets widened or
opened, and the damages for streets widened or opened, and the damages for
narrowing or closing any street, and report the same under their hands and seal
to the commissioners, specifying the amount due each one damaged, which report,
on being confirmed by the board of commissioners and spread upon their minutes,
shall have the effect
of a judgment against said board of commissioners, and shall pass the title to
the board of commissioners, in their corporate capacity, of the land so taken
and condemned: Provided, that if any person interested in the report of the
freeholders or the town commissioners, if dissatisfied with the valuation made
or damages assessed, may, by giving bond, appeal to the next term of the
superior court: Provided, however, that such appeal shall not hinder or delay
the commissioners in opening, widening, narrowing or closing such street or
erecting such improvements: Provided, that this amendment shall not affect or
render invalid any sale by the town authorities of any lots or streets
heretofore made. (Amended by Private Laws 1889, Chapter 242, enacted 3-11-1889)
   Section 42. Sidewalks. That the board of commissioners shall further have
power to cause the sidewalks to be curbed and paved or repaired when deemed
necessary.
   (1)   Construction of sidewalks authorized. The commissioners of the town of
Taylorsville may cause sidewalks and curbing of concrete or other approved
material to be laid on the sides of any street of said town, in the manner
hereinafter provided.
   (2)   Sidewalks continuous. Sidewalks and curbing constructed under this act
on any street shall be continuous from one intersection of the street to
another, and not less than one block shall be ordered constructed by the
commissioners at one time.
   (3)   Motion to lay sidewalks requires two-thirds vote of commissioners;
notice. When it is deemed advisable by the commissioners to have sidewalks or
curbing laid on the side of any street in Taylorsville, a motion or resolution
to that effect, stating the location, shall be made at a regular meeting of the
board of commissioners of said town and must be carried by a two-thirds vote of
said commissioners at two successive regular meetings. Notice of passage of
order, as provided for above, to be posted at town hall door within five days
of its first passage.
   (4)   Specifications controlled by commissioners. The width, material,
grades, and manner of constructing of said sidewalks and curbing shall be
within the discretion of the said commissioners, and when any sidewalk shall
have been constructed otherwise than under the supervision of said town, the
said commissioners may, if they deem it necessary, cause the same to be taken
up and reconstructed in the manner required.
   (5)   Assessment against property owners. As soon as the cost of
constructing all sidewalks and curbing under each order provided for in this
act shall be determined, the board of commissioners shall assess not more than
one-half of said cost against the owners of property abutting thereon in
proportion to the number of feet of frontage owned by each, and the said
assessment shall constitute a lien on said property and shall be collected in
the same manner as is provided by law for the collection of taxes.
   (6)   Grade lines. No sidewalk shall be constructed under the provisions of
this act until grade lines have been established by a competent engineer on the
street on which same is to be constructed. (Amended by Private Laws 1919,
Chapter 93, enacted 3-6-1919)
   Section 43. Cemeteries, etc. That the board of commissioners shall have
power to regulate the manner and terms on which bodies may be interred in the
public cemetery and have said cemetery kept
in proper repair; they shall also have power to purchase, when they deem it
proper, land adjoining the cemetery for its enlargement; they shall also have
the power to forbid any and all interments of dead bodies within the limits of
said town whenever they shall deem it expedient.
   Section 44. Fire companies; prevention of fires; fire limits; penalty. That
they may provide for the establishment, organization and equipment, government
and pay of such number of fire companies as they shall deem necessary and
proper. That in case of a fire occurring in said town the mayor, or in his
absence a majority of the commissioners who may be present, may order the
blowing up or pulling down, or destroying any house or houses deemed necessary
to stop the progress of the fire; and no person shall be held liable civilly or
criminally for acting in such case in obedience to such order; they shall also
have power to establish fire limits within said town, within which it shall not
be lawful for any person to erect or build any wooden house, make any wooden
addition to any building, or cover any building with any material other than
metal or slate. They may prohibit wooden buildings from being removed from
without into said fire limits, or from being removed from one place to another
within the same, under such penalties as the board of commissioners may
establish, and said penalty may be sued for and recovered from the owner in an
action of debt in any court having jurisdiction.
   Section 45. General powers of commissioners. That they shall have power to
make ordinances to prohibit or control the firing of firearms, fire crackers,
torpedoes and other explosive materials and to govern the sale thereof in the
town; the pace and speed at which horses may be ridden or driven through the
streets; the speed at which railroad engines and trains shall run within the
town limits; to prohibit said railroads from stopping their engines or cars on
said street, and to require said railroads to keep the street crossings in good
repair; the manner in which powder and other explosives and inflammable
substances may be kept and sold; the manner in which commercial fertilizers may
be stored; the manner in which dogs and hogs may be kept and to prevent them
from running at large in said town; to cause all alleys, lots, cellars,
privies, stables, styes and other places of like character to be examined by a
sanitary policeman to be appointed for that purpose; it shall be their duty on
complaint to cause by their order the sanitary policeman to have said places
cleansed and the nuisance abated, and the said sanitary policeman or any other
person appointed by the board and charged with that duty shall have authority
to enter the premises described to be in bad order and inspect and have the
same cleansed, and the expenses of abating such nuisance shall be recovered
from the occupant or owner of said premises by action of debt in any court
having competent jurisdiction.
   Section 46. Nuisances, etc.; proviso. They shall have power and it shall be
their duty to prohibit all trades or occupations which are a nuisance from
being carried on in said town, and the power and authority of said board of
commissioners for the abatement and removal of nuisance shall extend one mile
beyond the town limits. They shall have power and it shall be their duty to
cause all ponds, sunken lots and other places in which water stands and
stagnates to be drained and filled up, and to recover from the owner or
occupant the expense as above, which expense shall be a lien on the lot:
Provided, the owner or occupant of said lots after ten days' notice shall
neglect or refuse to remove or abate said nuisance; they shall have authority
to cause all nuisances arising from any cause within and for one mile without
the town limits to be removed or abated, and for the removing or abating any
such nuisance the person creating the same shall pay the expense as above
required.
   Section 47. Sale of provisions, etc. That the said board shall have power to
regulate the manner in which provisions and all other articles shall be sold in
the streets and markets of said town and to regulate the manner in which the
streets and markets of said town may be used and kept.
   Section 48. Sale of liquors; proviso; unlawful to sell within one mile
without license. That the board of commissioners shall have power to grant and
cancel licenses to sell wines, malt or spirituous liquors within said town to
any person whom they may think proper: Provided, the party to whom the license
is issued shall pay first such tax as may be imposed by the board, and give
bond for one thousand dollars with approved security, conditioned for the
keeping of an orderly and lawful house, and no person shall be permitted to
sell wine, malt or spirituous liquors within said town or in one mile thereof
unless licensed by the town commissioners.
   Section 49. Fines, etc. That all fines and penalties imposed by this act or
which are or may be imposed by the ordinances of said town or the laws of the
state, when tried and recovered before the mayor of said town, shall be paid to
the town clerk for the use of said town.
   Section 50. Misdemeanor for officer to be interested in town contracts. That
no mayor or commissioner or other officer of said town shall directly or
indirectly become a contractor for work to be done for the town, and any person
herein offending shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   Section 51. Public buildings; wooden buildings. That they may establish all
public buildings necessary and proper for the town, and prevent the erection or
establishment of wooden buildings in any part of the town where they may
increase the danger of fire.
   Section 52. Penalties for violation of ordinances. That for the violation of
any ordinance or by-law made by said board of commissioners they may prescribe
penalties not exceeding fifty dollars for each offence, to be recovered before
the mayor without stay or process, mesne or final, and when judgment shall be
given for any such penalty the party convicted may, unless the penalty and cost
be paid, be immediately committed to jail for the space of thirty days, or
until payment thereof shall be made.
   Section 53. Penalties, how recoverable. That all penalties imposed by law
relating to the town, or by this act, by any ordinance of the town, shall be
recoverable in the name of the town of Taylorsville, before the mayor or other
tribunal having jurisdiction thereof.
   Section 54. Fees of mayor. The mayor shall be entitled to the following fees
in cases herein enumerated whereof he may have jurisdiction as mayor: for any
warrant issued by him for the recovery of any penalty or for other cause of
action, fifty cents; for every judgment rendered thereon, one dollar, to be
taxed among the costs; for every warrant issued by him as mayor to apprehend an
offender against the criminal law of the state, under which he may be arrested
and recognized to appear before a court of record, one dollar, to be taxed on
submission or conviction among other costs; for every warrant to arrest
individuals who may have fled from other states or counties, two dollars, to be
paid on removal of offender by such as may carry him away; for the use of the
town seal for other than town purposes, one dollar; for every certificate for
other than town purposes, fifty cents.
   Section 55. Violation of ordinances a misdemeanor. That any person or
persons violating any ordinance of the town shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor, and shall be subject to the provisions of chapter sixty-two of The
Code, volume two, entitled “towns and cities.”
   Section 56. Vacancy in office of mayor. That if any vacancy occur in the
office of mayor by death, resignation or otherwise, and there is not a board of
commissioners competent to fill such vacancy as herein before provided for,
then the board of commissioners of Alexander county, on such fact being made
known to them, shall appoint a recorder for said town, whose duty it shall be
to preside at the town court known as the mayor's court, with as full and ample
authority to try and dispose of all cases within the jurisdiction of the
mayor's court as the mayor has under this charter, who shall continue to hold
his office and exercise the duties thereof until the office of mayor is filled
according to law.
   Section 57. No increase or diminution of salaries. That the salary or pay of
no officer elected or appointed under this charter shall be increased or
diminished during the time for which he is elected or appointed.
   Section 58. Vagrants; misdemeanor; work on streets. Any person who may be
able to labor, and who has no apparent means of subsistence, and neglects to
apply himself to some honest occupation for the support of himself and family,
or if any person shall be found spending his time in dissipation or gaming, or
sauntering about without employment, or endeavoring to maintain himself or his
family by any undue or unlawful means, such person shall be a vagrant, and
guilty of a misdemeanor, and punished by a fine not to exceed fifty dollars, or
by imprisonment not to exceed thirty days, and the offense shall be cognizable
before the mayor of said town, who may release the party on his giving a
recognizance with security for his industrious and peaceable deportment for one
year or less, from the date thereof, or may also impose on him a punishment not
to exceed that above mentioned. And the said mayor may cause the such person or
persons to be farmed out to work the public streets, or other public work of
said town, as set out in section fourteen of this act.
   Section 59. Tramps. That tramps, as defined and punished by chapter sixty-
three, sections thirty- eight hundred and twenty-eight, thirty-eight hundred
and twenty-nine, thirty-eight hundred and thirty, thirty-eight hundred and
thirty-one and thirty-eight hundred and thirty-two, of volume two of The Code,
are subject to the same penalties, punishments and cognizance as vagrants, as
set forth in the preceding section.
   Section 60. Conflicting laws repealed. That all laws or parts of laws in
conflict with this act are hereby repealed, and that this act shall take effect
from and after its ratification.
(Private Laws, 1887, Chapter 86, enacted 3-4-1887)
III: ORDINANCE OF FEBRUARY 3, 1987
   AN ORDINANCE TO AMEND THE CHARTER OF THE TOWN OF TAYLORSVILLE TO ADOPT THE
COUNCIL-MANAGER FORM OF GOVERNMENT
BE IT ORDAINED by the mayor and city council of the Town of Taylorsville:
   Section 1. Pursuant to G.S. 160A-101 and 160A-102, the Charter of the Town
of Taylorsville, is hereby further amended to provide that the Town of
Taylorsville shall operate under the council-manager form of government in
accordance with Part 2 of Article 7 of G.S. Chapter 160A and any charter
provisions not in conflict therewith.
   Section 2. Subject to any referendum petitioned for and conducted pursuant
to G.S. 160A-103, this ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and
after the 3rd day of February, 1987.
Provision
   I   Council to organize city government
   II   Appointment of city manager
   III   Powers and duties of manager
   IV   Acting city manager
   V   Interim city manager
   VI   Mayor and councilmen ineligible to serve or act as manager
I. Council to organize city government.
   The council may create, change, abolish, and consolidate offices, positions,
departments, boards, commissions, and agencies of the city government and
generally organize and reorganize the city government in order to promote
orderly and efficient administration of city affairs, subject to the following
limitations:
      (1)   The council may not abolish any office, position,
department, board, commission, or agency established and required by law;
      (2)   The council may not combine offices or confer certain duties on the
same officer when such action is specifically forbidden by law;
      (3)   The council may not discontinue or assign elsewhere any functions
or duties assigned by law to a particular office, position, department, or
agency.
(1971, c. 698, S. 1.)
II. Appointment of city manager.
   The council shall appoint a city manager to serve at its pleasure. The
manager shall be appointed solely on the basis of his executive and
administrative qualifications. He need not be a resident of the city or state
at the time of his appointment. The office of the city manager is hereby
declared to be an office that may be held concurrently with other appointive
(but not elective) offices pursuant to Article VI, Sec. 9, of the Constitution.
III. Powers and duties of manager.
   The manager shall be the chief administrator of the city. He shall be
responsible to the council for administering all municipal affairs placed in
his charge by them, and shall have the following powers and duties:
      (1)   He shall appoint and suspend or remove all city officers and
employees not elected by the people, and whose appointment or removal is not
otherwise provided for by law, except the city attorney, in accordance with
such general personnel rules, regulations, policies, or ordinances as the
council may adopt.
      (2)   He shall direct and supervise the administration of all
departments, offices, and agencies of the city, subject to the general
direction and control of the council, except as otherwise provided by law.
      (3)   He shall attend all meetings of the council and recommend any
measures that he deems expedient.
      (4)   He shall see that all laws of the state, the city
charter, and the ordinances, resolutions, and regulations of the council are
faithfully executed within the city.
      (5)   He shall prepare and submit the annual budget and
capital program to the council.
      (6)   He shall annually submit to the council and make available to the
public a complete report on the finances and administrative activities of the
city as of the end of the fiscal year.
      (7)   He shall make any other reports that the council may require
concerning the operations of city departments, offices, and agencies subject to
his direction and control.
      (8)   He shall perform any other duties that may be required or
authorized by the council.
IV. Acting city manager.
   By letter filed with the city clerk, the manager may designate, subject to
the approval of the council, a qualified person to exercise the powers and
perform the duties of manager during his temporary absence or disability.
During this absence or disability, the council may revoke that designation at
any time and appoint another to serve until the manager returns or his
disability ceases.
V. Interim city manager.
   When the position of city manager is vacant, the council shall designate a
qualified person to exercise the powers and perform the duties of manager until
the vacancy is filled.
VI. Mayor and councilmen ineligible to serve or act as manager.
   Neither the mayor nor any member of the council shall be eligible for
appointment as manager or acting or interim manager.
(Ordinance passed 2-3-87)
IV: ORDINANCE OF MARCH 7, 2006
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE CHARTER OF THE TOWN OF TAYLORSVILLE CHANGING THE
GOVERNING STRUCTURE
   BE IT ORDAINED by the Town Board of Commissioners of the Town of
Taylorsville:
   Section 1.   Pursuant to G.S.160A-101 and 160A-102, the Charter of the Town
of Taylorsville, as set forth in Chapter 312 of the public-local laws of the
1938 Executive Session of the General Assembly of North Carolina, as amended,
is hereby further amended to provide that the Town of Taylorsville's Town Board
of Commissioners shall hereafter consist of 4 council members and a Mayor with
full voting rights, all serving 4 year concurrent terms beginning with the 2007
Municipal Election. It is also further amended to allow absentee voting in
Municipal Elections beginning with the 2007 Municipal Election.
   Section 2.   The Town of Taylorsville shall cause a notice to be duly
published, stating that an ordinance amending the Charter to change the number
of members of The Board of Commissioners from 3 to 4 and a Mayor with full
voting rights has been adopted. Subject to any referendum petitioned for and
conducted pursuant to G.S. 160A-103, this ordinance shall be in full force and
effect from and after the 2007 Municipal Election.
V: ORDINANCE OF MAY 2, 2006
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE CHARTER OF THE TOWN OF TAYLORSVILLE PROHIBITING
STREET SOLICITATION
   BE IT ORDAINED by the Town Board of Commissioners of the Town of
Taylorsville:
   Pursuant to G.S.160A-174 and 160A-178, the Charter of the Town of
Taylorsville, as set forth in Chapter 312 of the public-local laws of the 1938
Executive Session of the General Assembly of North Carolina, as amended, is
hereby further amended to prohibit solicitation on the streets of Taylorsville.
Section 93 of Title IX General Regulation and Section 114 of Title XI Business
Regulations will be amended to state, "No person, organization or firm shall
seek or solicit funds from any occupied wheeled vehicle on any street within
the Town of Taylorsville. A $50.00 fine will in imposed for each violation."
VI: RESOLUTION OF APRIL 5, 2021
ADOPTION OF RESOLUTION AMENDING BY ORDINANCE THE TOWN CHARTER
   WHEREAS, North Carolina General Statute 160A-102, entitled Amendment by
Ordinance, sets forth the required procedures that municipalities must follow
if an amendment or change to their Charter is proposed; and
   WHEREAS, the Town of Taylorsville is governed by a five-member board elected
every four years consisting of four commissioners and the mayor; and
   WHEREAS, the governing body of the Town of Taylorsville is formally referred
to as the Town Board of Commissioners and governing board members are formally
referred to as Town Commissioners; and
   WHEREAS, the Town Board of Commissioners desire to change the formal
reference from Town Commissioners to Town Councilmen and/or Town Councilwomen
in order to allow for complete clarification of the Town of Taylorsville's
Governing Body name:
   Now, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Commissioners of the Town
of Taylorsville adopt this Resolution Amending the Town Charter by Ordinance VI
for the purpose of formally changing the name of the governing body name to
Town Council and the governing body board members from Town Commissioners to
Town Councilmen and/or Town Councilwomen.
Adopted this day, the 5th day of April 2021.
                                             
George B. Holleman, Mayor
ATTEST:
                                               
Yolanda T. Prince, Town Clerk
VII: RESOLUTION OF JUNE 1, 2021
   ADOPTION OF RESOLUTION AMENDING BY ORDINANCE TITLE 5 - PUBLIC WORKS
   WHEREAS, North Carolina General Statute 160A-102, entitled Amendment by
Ordinance, sets forth the required procedures that municipalities must follow
if an amendment or change to their Charter is proposed; and
   WHEREAS, the Tovm of Taylorsville is governed by a five-member board elected
every four years consisting of four councilmembets and the mayor, and
   WHEREAS, the governing body of the Town of Taylorsville seeks to make
utility billing and collections more effective; and
   WHEREAS, the Town Board of Councilmembers desire to change the billing and
collection dates for every month for utility payments; and
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Councilmembers of the Town
of Taylorsville will adopt this Resolution Amending the Town Charter by
Ordinance VII for the purpose of formally changing the billing date for utility
payments from the 15th of each month to the 20th of each month and changing the
billing cycle for utility payments from the 10th of each month to the 15th of
each month.
Adopted this day, the 1st day of June, 2021.
                                                       
George B. Holleman, Mayor
ATTEST:
                                                        
Yolanda T. Prince, Town Clerk
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the Town of Taylorsville shall be
designated as the “Code of Taylorsville, North Carolina” and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation, shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as modified
by amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or sections.
   COUNTY. Alexander County, North Carolina.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
   OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this municipality unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
   PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
   PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
   STATE. The State of North Carolina.
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have subchapters.
   TOWN, MUNICIPALITY, or MUNICIPAL CORPORATION. The Town of Taylorsville,
North Carolina.
   WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
   YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed; equivalent to the words
YEAR OF OUR LORD.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this municipality shall be by the
following rules, unless such construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of
the legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance:
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
"and/or," if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, such
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of such act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, such
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this municipality exercising the powers,
duties, or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any
transfer of functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express such intent, such spelling shall be corrected and such word
or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
such error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within this municipality for the transaction of all municipal
business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of such act or the giving of such notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Saturday or Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from
their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of such chapter or section. In addition to such
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10,
passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-80; Am.
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (G.S. § 160A-69)(Ord. 10, passed 1-17-80; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-85).
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a "statutory reference"
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information.
Example:
   § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      For provisions concerning the inspection of public records, see G.S. §§
139-1 et seq.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Unless otherwise specifically provided, if any person shall violate any
provision of this code of ordinances, except any provision regulating the
operation or parking of vehicles, he or she shall be guilty of a Class 3
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500. No fine shall exceed $50
unless the ordinance expressly states that the maximum fine is greater than
$50.
(G.S. § 14-4(a))
Statutory reference:
For provisions concerning enforcement of ordinances, see G.S. § 160-175
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   CIVIL EMERGENCY
      
31.   CITY POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: CIVIL EMERGENCY
Section
   
30.01   Title
   
30.02   Purpose
   
30.03   Definitions
   
30.04   Organization and positions
   
30.05   Duties and responsibilities of Coordinator
   
30.06   Emergency management plan
   
30.07   No municipal or private liability
   
30.08   State of emergency; proclamation by Mayor; curfew authorized
 
   
30.99   Penalty
§ 30.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited and referred to as “Emergency
Management Chapter for the Town of Taylorsville and the County of Alexander.”
This chapter replaces a similar ordinance approved by the same political
subdivisions on March 3, 1986.
(Ord. 14.6, passed 11-7-88; Am. Ord. passed 7-27-04)
§ 30.02 PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is the intent and purpose of this chapter to establish an office
that will insure the complete and efficient utilization of all of the town and
county resources to combat disaster resulting from enemy actions or other
disasters as defined herein.
   (B)   The County Office of Emergency Management will be the coordinating
agency for all activity in connection with emergency management. It will be the
instrument through which the Town Board of Commissioners and the County Board
of Commissioners may exercise the authority and discharge the responsibilities
vested in them during disaster emergencies.
   (C)   This chapter will not relieve any town or county department of the
moral responsibilities or authority given to it in the town or county Charter
or by local ordinances, nor will it adversely affect the work of any volunteer
agency organized for relief in disaster emergencies.
(Ord. 14.6, passed 11-7-88; Am. Ord. passed 7-27-04)
§ 30.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ATTACK. Direct or indirect assault against the town and the county, its
government, its environs, or of the nation, by the forces of a hostile nation
or the agents thereof, including assault by bombing, conventional or nuclear,
chemical or biological warfare, terrorism, or sabotage.
   COORDINATOR. The Coordinator of the Alexander County Emergency Management
Agency, as described in this chapter.
   DISASTER. Includes but is not limited to actual or threatened enemy attack,
sabotage, extraordinary fire, flood, storm, epidemic, accident, chemical spill
or other impending or actual calamity endangering or threatening to endanger
health, life, or property of constituted government.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT. The basic government functions of maintaining the
public peace, health, and safety during an emergency. This term shall include
plans and preparations for protection and relief, recovery and rehabilitation
from effects of an attack by the forces of an enemy nation or the agents
thereof, or a disaster as defined herein. It shall not, however, include any
activity that is the primary responsibility of the military forces of the
United States.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT FORCES. The employees, equipment, and facilities of all
town and county departments, boards, councils, institutions, and commissions;
and in addition, it shall include all volunteer personnel, equipment, and
facilities contributed by, or obtained from, volunteer persons, or agencies.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT VOLUNTEER. Any person duly registered, identified, and
appointed by the Coordinator of the Emergency Management Agency and assigned to
participate in emergency management activity.
   REGULATIONS. Plans, programs, and other emergency procedures deemed
essential to emergency management.
   VOLUNTEER. Contributing a service, equipment, or facilities to the Emergency
Management Agency without remuneration.
(Ord. 14.6, passed 11-7-88; Am. Ord. passed 7-27-04)
§ 30.04 ORGANIZATION AND POSITIONS.
   (A)   The organization shall consist of the following:
      (1)   An agency of emergency management within the county government
under the direction of the County Board of Commissioners. The agency head of
the Emergency Management Agency shall be known as the Coordinator, and such
assistants and other employees as are deemed necessary for the proper
functioning of the agency will be employed.
      (2)   The employees and resources of all of the town and county
departments, boards, institutions, and councils shall participate in the
emergency management activities. Duties assigned to town or county departments
shall be the same as or similar to the normal duties of the department, where
possible.
      (3)   Volunteer personnel and agencies offering service to, and accepted
by the town and county.
   (B)   The County Board of Commissioners shall employ a Coordinator of the
County Emergency Management Agency who shall be a person well versed and
trained in planning operations involving the activities of many different
agencies which will operate to protect the public health, safety, and welfare
in the event of danger from enemy action or disaster as defined in this
chapter.
   (C)   The Coordinator shall designate Deputy Coordinators to assume the
emergency duties of the Coordinator in the event of his absence or inability to
act.
(Ord. 14.6, passed 11-7-88; Am. Ord. passed 7-27-04)
§ 30.05 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF COORDINATOR.
   The Coordinator shall be responsible to the County Board of Commissioners in
regard to all phases of emergency management activity. The Coordinator shall be
responsible for the planning, coordination, and operation of the emergency
management activities in the county. The Coordinator shall maintain liaison
with the state and federal authorities and the authorities of nearby political
subdivisions so as to insure the most effective operation of the emergency
management plans. The Coordinator's duties shall include, but not be limited
to, the following:
   (A)   Coordinating the recruitment of volunteer personnel and agencies to
augment the personnel and facilities of the town and the county for emergency
management purposes.
   (B)   Development and coordination of plans for the immediate use of all
facilities, equipment, manpower and other resources of the county for the
purpose of minimizing or preventing damage to persons and property; and
protecting and restoring to usefulness governmental services and public
utilities necessary for the public health, safety, and welfare.
   (C)   Negotiating and concluding agreements with owners or persons in
control of buildings or other property for the use of such building or other
property for emergency management purposes and designating suitable buildings
as public shelters.
   (D)   Through public informational programs, educating the populace as to
actions necessary and required for the protection of their persons and property
in case of enemy attack or disaster as defined in §
30.03 of this chapter, either impending or present.
   (E)   Conducting public practice alerts to insure the efficient operation of
the emergency management forces and to familiarize residents with emergency
management regulations, procedures, and operations.
   (F)   Coordinating the activity of all other public and private agencies
engaged in any emergency management activities.
(Ord. 14.6, passed 11-7-88; Am. Ord. passed 7-27-04)
§ 30.06 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PLAN.
   (A)   Comprehensive emergency management plans shall be adopted and
maintained by resolution of the Town Board of Commissioners and County Board of
Commissioners. In the preparations of these plans as it pertains to city and
county organization, it is intended that the services, equipment and
facilities, and personnel of all existing departments and agencies shall be
utilized to the fullest extent. When approved, it shall be the duty of all
departments and agencies to perform the functions assigned by these plans and
to maintain their portions of the plans in a current state of readiness at all
times. These plans shall have the effect of law whenever a disaster, as defined
in §
30.03 of this chapter, has been proclaimed.
   (B)   The Coordinator shall prescribe in the emergency plans those positions
within the disaster organization, in addition to his own, for which lines of
succession are necessary. In each instance, the responsible person will
designate and keep on file with the Coordinator a current list of three persons
as successors to his position. The list will be in order of succession and will
as nearly as possible designate persons best capable of carrying out all
assigned duties and functions.
   (C)   Each service chief and department head assigned responsibility in the
plans shall be responsible for carrying out all duties and functions assigned
therein. Duties will include the organization and training of assigned
employees and, where needed, volunteers. Each chief shall formulate the
standing operating procedure to implement the plans for his service.
   (D)   Amendments to these plans shall be submitted to the Coordinator. If
approved, the Coordinator will then submit the amendments to the Town Board of
Commissioners and the County Board of Commissioners with his recommendation for
their approval. Such amendments shall take effect 30 days from the date of
approval.
   (E)   When a required competency or skill for a disaster function is not
available within government, the Coordinator is authorized to seek assistance
from persons outside of government. The assignment of duties, when of a
supervisory nature, shall also include the granting of authority for the
persons so assigned to carry out such duties prior to, during, and after the
occurrence of a disaster. Such services from persons outside of government may
be accepted by local government on a volunteer basis. Such citizens shall be
enrolled as emergency management volunteers.
(Ord. 14.6, passed 11-7-88; Am. Ord. passed 7-27-04)
2005 S-10
§ 30.07 NO MUNICIPAL OR PRIVATE LIABILITY.
   (A)   This chapter is an exercise by the town and the county of its
governmental functions for the protection of the public peace, health, and
safety, and neither the town and the county nor agents and representatives of
same, or any individual, receiver, firm, partnership, corporation, association,
or trustee, or any of the agents thereof in good faith carrying out, complying
with or attempting to comply with any order, rule, or regulation promulgated
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, shall be liable for any damage
sustained to persons or property as the result of the activity.
   (B)   Any person owning or controlling real estate or other premises who
voluntarily and without compensation grants the town and the county the right
to inspect, designate, and use the whole or any part or parts of such real
estate or premises for the purpose of sheltering persons during an actual,
impending, or practice disaster situation shall not be civilly liable for the
death of, or injury to, any persons on or about such real estate or premises
under such license, privilege, or other permission; or for loss of, or damage
to, the property of such person.
(Ord. 14.6, passed 11-7-88; Am. Ord. passed 7-27-04)
§ 30.08 STATE OF EMERGENCY; PROCLAMATION BY MAYOR; CURFEW AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   A state of emergency shall be deemed to exist whenever, during times
of great public crisis, disaster, rioting, catastrophe, or similar public
emergency, for any reason, municipal public safety authorities are unable to
maintain public order or afford adequate protection for lives or property.
   (B)   In the event of an existing or threatened state of emergency
endangering the lives, safety, health, and welfare of the people within the
town, or threatening damage to or destruction of property, the Mayor of the
Town is hereby authorized and empowered to issue a public proclamation
declaring to all persons the existence of such a state of emergency, and, in
order to more effectively protect the lives and property of people within the
town, to place in effect any and all of the restrictions hereinafter
authorized.
   (C)   The Mayor is hereby authorized and empowered to limit by the
proclamation the application of all or any part of such restrictions to any
area specifically designated or described within the corporate limits of the
town and to specific hours of the day or night; and to exempt from all or any
part of such restrictions, law enforcement officers, firemen, and other public
employees, doctors, nurses, employees of hospitals and other medical
facilities; on-duty military personnel whether state or federal; on-duty
employees of public utilities, public transportation companies, and newspaper,
magazine, radio broadcasting, and television broadcasting corporations operated
for profit; and such other classes of persons as may be essential to the
preservation of public order and immediately necessary to serve the safety,
health, and welfare needs of the people of the town.
   (D)   The Mayor shall proclaim the end of such state of emergency or all or
any part of the restrictions imposed as soon as circumstances warrant or when
directed to do so by the governing body.
   (E)   During the existence of a proclaimed state of emergency, the Mayor may
impose by proclamation any or all of the following restrictions:
      (1)   Prohibit or regulate the possession off one's premises of
explosives, firearms, ammunition, or dangerous weapons of any kind, and
prohibit the purchase, sale, transfer, or other disposition thereof;
      (2)   Prohibit or regulate the buying or selling of beer, wine, or
intoxicating beverages of any kind, and their possession or consumption off
one's own premises;
      (3)   Prohibit or regulate any demonstration, parade, march, vigil, or
participation therein from taking place on any of the public ways or upon any
public property;
      (4)   Prohibit or regulate the sale of gasoline, kerosene, naphtha, or
any other explosive or inflammable fluids or substances;
      (5)   Prohibit or regulate travel upon any public street, alley, or
roadway or upon any other public property, except by those in search of medical
assistance, food, or other commodity or service necessary to sustain the well-
being of themselves or their families or some member thereof; and
      (6)   Prohibit or regulate the participation in or carrying on of any
business activity, and prohibit or regulate the keeping open of places of
business, places of entertainment, and any other places of public assembly.
   (F)   Any proclamation may be extended, altered, or repealed in any
particular during the continued or threatened existence of a state of emergency
by the issuance of a subsequent proclamation.
   (G)   During the existence of a proclaimed state of emergency, it shall be
unlawful for any person to violate any provision of any restriction imposed by
any proclamation authorized by this section.
(Ord. 14.2, passed 6-4-68) Penalty, see §
30.99
§ 30.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter or plans
issued pursuant to the authority contained herein, or willfully obstructs,
hinders, or delays any member of the emergency management organization as
herein defined in the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter or any plan
issued hereunder shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to the
penalty provided in §
10.99.
(Ord. 14.6, passed 11-7-88; Am. Ord. passed 7-27-04)
CHAPTER 31: CITY POLICIES
Section
   
31.01   Political activities by employees and police officers prohibited
   
31.02   Personnel policy
§ 31.01 POLITICAL ACTIVITIES BY EMPLOYEES AND POLICE OFFICERS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No employee of the town or member of the Police Department shall take
any part in or engage in any political activity in any town election or town
political function other than that of exercising his right of suffrage.
   (B)   Any employee or member as aforesaid who shall be found guilty of
conduct in violation of this section by the Town Board shall be dismissed as an
employee of the town or as a member of the Police Department by the Town Board
of Commissioners.
(Ord. 11.1, passed 2-2-71)
§ 31.02 PERSONNEL POLICY.
   (A)   The Town Personnel Policy applies to the appointment, classification,
benefits, salary, promotion, demotion, dismissal, and conditions of employment
of the employees of the town.
   (B)   The official record of the Town Personnel Policy shall be retained in
the office of the Town Clerk.
   (C)   The Town Personnel Policy was officially adopted as policy in June
1998. It was last revised January 8, 2008.
(Am. Ord. 04-2008, passed 2-26-08)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE; SOLID WASTE
      
51.   WATER AND SEWERS
      
52.   SEWER USAGE REGULATIONS
      
53.   WATER CONSERVATION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE; SOLID WASTE
Section
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Supervision of collection; regulations
   
50.03   Collection routes, schedules and placement of containers
   
50.04   Container, storage and collection practices
   
50.05   Physically disabled service
   
50.06   Control of solid waste
   
50.07   Bulk containers/Dumpsters
   
50.08   Ownership of materials
   
50.09   Scavenging; private collection
   
50.10   Illegal dumping
   
50.11   Burning garbage
   
50.12   Dumping by nonresidents
   
50.13   Containers required to reduce litter
   
50.14   Special collection; yard waste and bulk items
   
50.15   Solid waste not to be collected by town
   
50.16   Accumulation of solid wastes prohibited
   
50.17   Chicken litter and other wastes
 
   
50.99   Penalties and remedies
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASHES. Residue resulting from the burning of wood, coal or other combustible
material.
   BUILDING MATERIAL. Lumber, brick, stone, carpet, plumbing materials,
plaster, concrete, floor coverings, roofing material, gutters or other
materials or substances accumulated as a result of construction, repairs or
additions to existing structures or accessory structures or demolition of
those.
   BULK CONTAINER (DUMPSTER). A metal container with a minimum size of 400
gallons and a maximum size of 1,600 gallons, watertight, constructed with two
opening side and top doors so that it can be emptied mechanically by specially
equipped trucks.
   BULKY ITEMS. Items such as household furnishings, white goods, mattresses,
box springs, lawn equipment (i.e., mowers, wheelbarrows) and similar household
items.
   BUSINESS BUILDING. Any structure, whether public or private, that is adapted
for transaction of business, for rendering of professional services, for
amusement, for the display or sale or storage of goods, wares, merchandise,
article or equipment, including hotels, apartment houses, rooming houses,
office buildings, public buildings, stores, theaters, markets, restaurants,
abattoirs (slaughterhouses), warehouses, sheds, barns and other structures on
premises used for or adapted to business purposes.
   BUSINESS TRASH. Any waste accumulation of paper, cardboard, packaging
materials, rags or accumulations of incidental garbage other than household
trash which is associated with the operation of stores, offices and
nonresidential units.
   COLLECTION. The act of removing solid waste from a point of generation to an
approved disposal site. COLLECTION shall be at the curb for rollout (or
backyard in special circumstances), trash, yard waste and recyclable
collection.
   DESIGNATED COLLECTION AREA(S). That geographic location to which the town is
responsible for providing solid waste collection services. Collection points
shall be at the curb for the rollout, trash, yard waste and recyclables
collection.
   ESTABLISHMENTS. Single-family units, special residential units, multifamily
units, nonresidential units and town-owned nonresidential units.
   FOUL ODOR. Offensive odors emanating from, but not limited to, garbage.
   GARBAGE. The byproduct of animal or vegetable foodstuffs resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food or other matter which is
subject to decomposition, decay, putrefaction and/or the generation of noxious
or offensive gases or odors or which during and/or after decay may serve as
breeding or feeding material for flies, insects and/or animals. All refuse to
result from the use and maintenance of the property, regardless of the nature
of the action thereon.
   HAZARDOUS WASTES. The following is an explanation of hazardous waste as
published in the North Carolina Hazardous Waste Law adopted for the Federal
Environment Protection Agency (EPA). For the purposes of this chapter, the
definition of hazardous waste has been condensed. The items defined are not
inclusive of all items specified by the EPA regulations. HAZARDOUS WASTE is
defined as potentially dangerous byproducts of our highly industrialized
society that cannot be handled, treated or disposed of without special
precautions. It includes ignitable, corrosive, reactive and toxic wastes such
as acetone, gasoline and industrial alcohol, alkaline cleaners, acids, cyanide
and chlorine, arsenic, pesticide wastes, drugs, paint, caustics, infected
material, offal, fecal matter (human and animal), explosives and any other
material of similar nature.
   HOUSEHOLD TRASH. Any waste accumulation of paper, sweepings, rags, bottles,
cans or other matter of any kind, which is usually attendant to housekeeping,
excluding recyclables and garbage.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. All waste, including solids, semi-solids, sludge and
liquids created by factories, processing plants or other manufacturing
enterprises.
   INSPECTOR. The person or persons designated by the Town Manager to perform
the duties and responsibilities assigned by this chapter to the inspector.
   LITTER. Any discarded man-made materials including, but not limited to,
solid waste materials, industrial materials, household trash, business trash,
building materials, scrap materials and hazardous waste as terms are defined in
this chapter.
   MULTIFAMILY RESIDENTIAL UNIT. Any apartment, group of apartments or
condominiums used for dwelling places of three or more families.
   NONRESIDENTIAL UNIT. Any retail, manufacturing, wholesale, institutional,
religious, nonprofit organization, governmental or another.
   PERSON. Any person, owner, agent, corporation, partnership, association,
firm, receiver, guardian, trustee, executor, administrator, fiduciary,
occupant, lessee, tenant or representative or group of individuals or entities
of any kind.
   PHYSICAL DISABILITY. A medical condition verified by a registered physician
that makes an individual either physically unable to bring a rollout container
to the curbside for collection and/or that makes undertaking that act clearly
and seriously threatening to that person's health.
   PORTABLE PACKING UNIT. A metal container not exceeding 4,500 pounds gross
weight with an 800 to 1,600 gallon capacity that contains a packing mechanism
and an internal or external power unit.
   PREMISES. Lots, sidewalks, rights-of-way, grass strips or curbs up to the
edge of the pavement of any public street.
   RECYCLABLES. Material designated as capable of being sorted, processed,
transported and sold to markets for the re-manufacture of like or different
products. Items include newspapers and accompanying inserts, glass, food and
beverage containers, plastic soft drink and liquor bottles, aluminum cans, bi-
metal cans, steel or tin cans, yard waste and other items determined to be
recyclable by the Solid Waste Department.
   RECYCLABLES BIN. A 96-gallon plastic container furnished by the town or
town-designated private collector and distributed for use in the residential
recyclables collection program.
   REFUSE. Solid waste accumulations consisting of garbage, household trash,
yard waste and business trash as herein defined.
   REFUSE RECEPTACLE. A metal or plastic container resistant to rust, corrosion
or rapid deterioration.
   REGULAR COLLECTION. All collection services offered recurrently, at least
once per week, which includes the collection of vegetable and food wastes in a
manner safe to public health.
   RESIDENTIAL SOLID WASTE. Garbage and trash, which may include glass jars,
bottles, steel cans, plastic soda and liquor bottles, newspaper and inserts,
plastic milk and water jugs and other solid waste including yard waste.
RESIDENTIAL SOLID WASTE shall not include discarded building materials, trees,
brush and other material resulting from the activities of building contractors
or lawn services, larger quantities of sod, dirt, and trash from land clearing
or other material requiring special handling.
   ROLL-OUT CART. A container having wheels and a hinged lid, issued by the
town or by a firm under contract with the town, for the disposal of refuse and
recycling as defined and prepared in accordance with this section.
   SCRAP METAL. Any item creating a littered condition including, but not
limited to, dilapidated furniture, appliances, machinery, equipment, building
material, automotive parts, tires or other similar items which are either in a
wholly or partially rusted, wrecked, junked dismantled or inoperative
condition.
   SEPARATE COLLECTION. All collection of specifically defined materials not
associated with regular collection practices.
   SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL UNIT. Any dwelling occupied by one family.
   SOLID WASTE. Accumulations consisting of any combination of business trash,
garbage, household trash, bulky items, yard waste, recyclables and scrap
materials and shall be collected through curbside trash, rollout, recyclables,
yard waste, bulky items or business trash collection activities.
   SPECIAL RESIDENTIAL UNIT. Any duplex, triplex, quadruplex or mobile home
park.
   TRASH. The byproduct of animal or vegetable food waste resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food or other matter which is
subject to decomposition, decay, putrefaction and/or the generation of noxious
or offensive gases or odors or which during and/or after decay may serve as
breeding or feeding material for flies, insects and/or animals. All refuse to
result from the use and maintenance of the property, regardless of the nature
of the activity thereon except garbage (sometimes referred to as GARBAGE).
   WASTE. All useless, unwanted or discarded materials resulting from
industrial, commercial, agricultural and residential activities (excluding
sewage).
   WHITE GOODS. Large electrical goods used domestically typically white in
color. Large WHITE GOODS, such as refrigerators, microwaves, washers, dryers or
dishwashers will be accepted.
   YARD WASTE. Grass, weeds, leaves, tree trimmings, plants, shrubbery prunings
and other similar materials which are generated in the maintenance of yards and
gardens, and which are separated from other solid waste materials and placed in
a designated recycling collection area. YARD WASTE shall not include trees,
tree limbs, brush and other material resulting from commercial tree trimmers
and/or commercial lawn care services. No waste from tree removal (tree limbs,
trunk, and the like) will be collected. Stumps will not be collected. Items
that are over six feet long and three inches in diameter will not be accepted.
(Ord. passed 12-6-22)
§ 50.02 SUPERVISION OF COLLECTION; REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Field Operations Supervisor, with the approval of the Public
Utilities Manager or Town Manager, shall supervise the collection, removal,
disposition and processing and sale of all refuse of bulky items, yard waste,
and recyclables.
   (B)   The Public Utilities Manager or Town Manager may prepare and publish
rules for the effective administration and enforcement of the provisions of
this chapter. It shall be unlawful for any person to fail, neglect or refuse to
comply with these rules and regulations.
   (C)   The Town Manager and Public Utilities Manager shall have all authority
to vary the level of refuse collection service for experimental purposes and on
a temporary basis at the direction of the Town Council. Service elements that
may be altered include, but are not limited to, the frequency of collection,
container type and allowable volume per customer per pickup.
   (D)   No owner or occupant of a residential premise shall prohibit or
prevent weekly solid waste collection services, including recyclables
collection, at the premises.
(Ord. passed 12-6-22)
§ 50.03 COLLECTION ROUTES, SCHEDULES AND PLACEMENT OF CONTAINERS.
   (A)   The Public Utilities Manager shall establish collection routes and
schedules and may alter these routes and schedules from time to time. A copy of
the current routes and schedules shall be kept on file in Town Hall and in the
office of the Public Utilities Manager.
   (B)   The Town Council may establish and revise from time to time a policy
relating to the number of times per week the town will collect solid wastes
from various classifications of premises and the maximum number of solid waste
receptacles that the town will service on any one premise.
   (C)   Normal refuse collection service will consist of one collection per
week of refuse, prepared in accordance with this chapter and placed in one or
two 96-gallon roll out carts or recycling containers.
   (D)   Ninety-six (96)-gallon roll out carts and 96-gallon recycling
containers, and no other containers, for refuse and recycling, shall be set out
for collection only upon those days designated for the premises involved in the
schedule provided for in this chapter.
   (E)   Where the curbside collection is available, containers shall be placed
by the street within five feet of the curb line or where the rollout is.
   (F)   Rollout carts and recycling containers for refuse shall be placed at
the curb between 8:00 p.m. the night before collection and 6:00 a.m. the day of
collection. They must be removed from the street by 9:00 p.m. on the day of
collection.
(Ord. passed 12-6-22)
§ 50.04 CONTAINER, STORAGE AND COLLECTION PRACTICES.
   (A)   Each residential customer will be provided with a 96-gallon roll out
cart by the town. All household garbage must be contained within the roll out.
No loose bags will be collected.
   (B)   Customers using the rollout cart may not fill the cart in a manner
that the cart lid will not close tightly over the cart body or so full that the
mechanical lifters mounted on refuse packers or sanitation workers cannot lift
the cart. If the customer cannot comply with this requirement, a second rollout
cart can be requested at a fee set forth by the town or its agent.
   (C)   Each 96-gallon rollout cart used in the residential garbage collection
program are the property of the town or its agent and the town or its agent
provides general maintenance for them at no cost to the resident. A replacement
fee will be charged for rollout carts that are damaged, defaced or removed from
the premises by the resident. The fee will be assessed according to the current
schedule of fees.
   (D)   Trash and recycle rollout carts shall be used for the disposal of
residential and approved commercial garbage only.
   (E)   Spilled materials or overflow caused by the property owner or occupant
shall be cleaned up immediately after spillage or overflow occurs by the owner
or occupant.
   (F)   Spilled solid waste materials caused by the town collection crew of
the town's authorized collection agent shall be cleaned up immediately after
spillage occurs by the crew.
   (G)   Rollout carts will be collected from the curbside provided they are
easily accessible to the collection vehicle. Town collection personnel shall
not provide service if denied reasonable access by parked vehicles, equipment
or other objects. Additionally, the town waives liability for any property
damage incurred during the collection of improperly placed rollout carts.
   (H)   Garbage placed in rollout carts shall be wrapped, bagged or enclosed
in paper or plastic material. Any liquid waste, such as grease, shall be sealed
in its own separate container before being placed in the rollout container.
   (I)   All potentially dangerous trash items and all waste material of a
hazardous nature, such as broken glass, light bulbs, needles, and sharp pieces
of metal, shall be securely wrapped to prevent injury to the collection crews.
It is illegal to place fluorescent tubes in the landfill, therefore, refuse of
this description will not be picked up.
   (J)   No person shall deposit in any solid waste container any burning
materials, or materials sufficiently hot to create combustion when the same
comes in contact with other solid waste.
   (K)   Trash of a hollow or bulky nature shall be flattened out or broken up
prior to depositing it in authorized containers.
(Ord. passed 12-6-22)
§ 50.05 PHYSICALLY DISABLED SERVICE.
   (A)   The town, or its collection agent may exempt customers from putting
the roll-out cart(s) on the street if requiring placement causes a hardship
related to the customer's age, an infirmity, a topographic site restriction, or
another similar type of hardship. Exemptions will be recorded in writing and
kept in Town Hall or the collection agency's office. All exempt customers must
comply with the requirements of §
50.04.
   (B)   In order to qualify for an exemption, every member of the household
shall be physically disabled as verified by a physician. Based on a physician's
note, the Solid Waste Division will grant physically disabled status.
   (C)   For physically disabled persons, rollout containers will be collected
from a location mutually agreed upon by the town or its collection agent and
resident. The town or its collection agent shall have final authority to
determine the most advantageous and safe location during disputed situations.
   (D)   The town reserves the right to verify the need to continue physically
disabled services to residents that have been approved to receive those
services. The town shall also reserve the right to continue or discontinue
service.
(Ord. passed 12-6-22)
§ 50.06 CONTROL OF SOLID WASTE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or occupying property to
cause or allow solid waste to be placed, deposited or to accumulate on his or
her property except in 96-gallon roll-out carts and recycling bins as
authorized by this chapter. All solid waste stored shall be stored so as to
eliminate wind-driven debris and unsightly litter on the property and any
spillage or overflow shall be cleaned up and containerized immediately. Once
properly stored, all solid waste that the town will collect shall be
immediately placed in an appropriate location for removal by the town. All
other waste not subject to town collection shall be immediately removed from
the property by the occupant and/or property owner.
   (B)   The person in possession of property shall maintain the property,
including sidewalks, grass strips, one half of an alley, curbs or right-of-way
up to the edge of the pavement of any public street in a clean and litter free
manner.
   (C)   All commercial establishments shall, particularly with respect to
their loading and unloading areas, store their refuse in bulk containers
(Dumpsters) so as to eliminate wind-driven debris and litter in and about the
establishments. Approved methods of containerization include town issued
rollout carts and bulk containers (Dumpsters). The establishment shall
immediately clean up spillage and overflow when and as it occurs.
   (D)   Parking lots shall be maintained by the person in possession in a
clean, litter-free manner, with all trash generated therein containerized and
prevented from spreading to adjoining property. It shall be the responsibility
of the person in possession of the parking lot to collect the refuse and trash
deposited on the lot and place this material in containers.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person undertaking any construction,
renovation or demolition activities to fail to provide on-site receptacles for
containerizing all debris and waste material produced by those working on site
which is capable of being windblown or scattered from the site. Examples of
appropriate receptacles shall include but not be limited to dump trucks,
trailers, bulk containers and containers made of fencing material. All waste
shall be containerized and secured so as to prevent being windblown by the end
of each day, and the site shall be kept in a reasonably clean condition. Dirt,
mud, construction materials or other debris deposited on any public or private
property as a result of the construction or demolition shall be immediately
removed by the contractor. Construction sites shall be kept clean and orderly
at all times.
   (F)   Every owner and every occupant of any premises shall maintain that
area of the street right of way between the edge of the traveled road curb line
and the adjacent property line in a reasonably safe condition and shall remove
dangerous plantings, shrubbery, limbs, tall grass and weeds and other noxious
growth from the area of the street right of way.
(Ord. passed 12-6-22) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.07 BULK CONTAINERS/DUMPSTERS.
   (A)   The property owner of any apartments, group of apartments,
condominium, mobile home park, or residential structure, constructed after
January 1, 2022 containing six or more units shall provide at least one bulk
container/Dumpster for the purpose of refuse collection. The town will not
provide curbside service to these units. The owner of the premises shall
provide at least one or more bulk containers so that the following criteria
relating to capacity are satisfied:
      (1)   Approximately 100 gallons of storage capacity shall be provided for
each dwelling unit or fraction thereof; and
      (2)   The owner or occupant shall provide the smallest number of bulk
containers capable of satisfying the requirements stated in division (A)(1) of
this section.
      (3)   The containers shall at all times be kept clean, neat, painted, in
a good state of repair and easily accessible to collection personnel. No bulk
containers shall be placed in front of a residence, in front of the building
setback line closest to the street or in a public right-of-way. Container lids
shall be kept closed at all times. All doors and lid springs will be in working
condition. Businesses or occupants leasing the containers shall be responsible
for notifying their service contractor of any damaged conditions. Cleaning up
spilled materials shall be the responsibility of the property owner or occupant
and shall occur immediately after any spillage or overflow occurs.
   (B)   Institutional and businesses are required to have bulk container/
Dumpster if they exceed more than two 96-gallon roll-out containers for refuse
per collection day.
(Ord. passed 12-6-22)
§ 50.08 OWNERSHIP OF MATERIALS.
   Garbage, recyclable materials, and yard waste which are properly placed by
an owner or occupant of a property at curbside for collection are deemed to be
abandoned by those person(s) and become the property of the town or its
authorized agent.
(Ord. passed 12-6-22)
§ 50.09 SCAVENGING; PRIVATE COLLECTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to scavenge, sort, pick
through or remove refuse, trash, yard wastes or recyclables stored or set out
for collection, or for any person other than the town or its contractors to
collect recyclables in the town where those materials have been prepared and
set out for collection by the town in accordance with this chapter.
(Ord. passed 12-6-22) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.10 ILLEGAL DUMPING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, discard, throw, drop or
deposit, or cause to be placed, discarded, thrown, dropped or deposited any
solid waste on:
   (A)   Any public street, sidewalk or alley within the town or on any
property owned or operated by the town or any other public property except in
properly designated receptacles;
   (B)   Any property not owned by a person without the written consent of the
owner, occupant or lessee thereof; or
   (C)   In any stream or body of water.
(Ord. passed 12-6-22) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.11 BURNING GARBAGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to burn or set fire to garbage for the
purpose of disposal. Garbage shall be disposed of only as authorized by this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 12-6-22) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.12 DUMPING BY NONRESIDENTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to bring construction debris,
business trash, garbage, household refuse, household trash, industrial waste,
litter, refuse, solid waste, yard waste or any other kind of trash or rubbish
into the town from a point outside the town for the purpose of materials to
become subject to pick up by the town.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly permit the use of his
or her receptacles or any other portion of his or her property by any other
person for the disposal of any construction debris, business trash, garbage,
hazardous refuse, household trash, industrial waste, litter, refuse, solid
waste, yard waste or any other kind of trash or rubbish brought in to the town
from a point outside the town for the purpose of disposing of materials to
become subject to pick up by the town.
(Ord. passed 12-6-22) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.13 CONTAINERS REQUIRED TO REDUCE LITTER.
   (A)   Whenever the town determines that solid wastes are commonly or
routinely deposited by the customers, employees, licensees or invitees of the
premises onto the parking areas or other open spaces of the premises or
adjacent properties or streets, the town may require that the person in
possession of the premises provide a refuse container on the premises. In
locations specified by the town to be necessary to minimize the litter problem
to the extent reasonably possible and practicable under circumstances. This
section is specifically intended to apply, but shall not be limited, to those
establishments commonly known as fast food restaurants, strip shopping centers,
and convenience stores.
   (B)   The presumptions established by this section are that to satisfy the
standard set forth in division (A) above. There shall be one refuse receptacle
for every 20 parking spaces or fraction thereof, with a minimum of two
receptacles per parking lot. This is required for businesses establishments.
However, this is only a presumptive standard to guide the discretion of the
town, and the town may find in any case that more or fewer receptacles are
necessary to satisfy the standard set forth in division (A) above.
   (C)   Whenever premises served by bulk containers (Dumpsters) are required
under division (A) above, other refuse receptacles for the use of employees
must be located on the premises for the use of employees, customers, licensees
or invitees. Whenever other refuse receptacles are furnished voluntarily, the
person in possession of the premises shall collect or make arrangements for a
private contractor to collect the solid waste deposited in refuse receptacles
and place the solid waste in bulk containers serviced by the private
contractor.
   (D)   No person on the parking area or other open spaces of any premises may
place, discard, throw, drop or deposit, or cause to be placed, thrown, dropped
or deposited any solid wastes on premises except in properly designated
receptacles.
(Ord. passed 12-6-22) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.14 SPECIAL COLLECTION; YARD WASTE AND BULK ITEMS.
   (A)   Yard waste (see definition in §
50.01).
      (1)   Yard waste collection shall be provided only to single-family and
special residential units served by the town. Yard waste collection shall not
be provided to commercially cut limbs.
      (2)   There may be occasions when the amount of yard waste in a
designated area exceeds processing capacity. When this occurs, the yard waste
will be picked up at the earliest convenience or next scheduled pickup,
whichever is sooner according to the availability of manpower and equipment.
Yard waste shall be separated from curbside trash and shall not be placed
together to constitute a single, separate collection in order for the town to
carry out its other collection program. Collection forces shall collect an
amount of yard waste that is customarily and reasonably associated with the
residential unit(s) served so long as it is properly prepared or containerized
and in compliance with these regulations.
      (3)   Yard waste, such as grass trimmings, twigs, hedge trimmings, plant
trimmings, hay, straw, pine straw and pine cones, shall be collected at
curbside provided that they are placed in neat piles. Yard waste should not be
piled or blown into the street. Violators are subject to penalty.
      (4)   Loose leaves shall be piled loosely adjacent to and behind the curb
or in front of a ditch (not in street) for collection by special vacuum
equipment. Piles must be within ten feet of the road so that the suction tube
on the vacuum equipment can reach the pile. Loose piles of leaves will not be
collected unless they are free of trash, such as broken glass, rocks, twigs,
cans or other debris that might damage collection equipment. Loose leaf
collection with vacuum equipment will run October 1 to March 1. During this
time, the town crews start the collection at one end of town and collect
throughout town until the whole town is collected, at which point, the route
begins again. No appointments will be taken for leaf collection. From March 1
to September 30, all loose leaves must be bagged in order to be collected.
      (5)   All tree trimmings and limbs or portions thereof will be collected
when the trimmings and limbs are cut from the stump or body of the tree and
placed at the edge of the lot adjoining the street. They must be cut in lengths
not to exceed six feet and not be over four inches in diameter and shall be
placed on the edge of the lot with the larger ends placed in the same direction
and neatly piled substantially perpendicular to the curb. It will be considered
excessive collection if the collection of limbs shall require more than one
load with a truck or more than one hour with the chipper, extra loads or extra
chipping will be performed at the rate set in the current schedule of fees,
which will be invoiced by the Billing Department at Town Hall according to the
current schedule of fees. Town collection forces or its authorized agent will
not collect tree stumps.
      (6)   No materials, such as trees, shrubbery or underbrush resulting from
land being cleared will be collected.
      (7)   No commercially cut limbs or debris will be accepted curbside. No
commercially cut limbs shall be placed for collection by the town but materials
shall be disposed of by the contractor, builder or owner. In the event that the
contractor or builder fails to remove material, the removal thereof shall be
the responsibility of the owner of the property.
      (8)   The town may decline to collect any yard waste that is not prepared
or placed for collection in accordance with these regulations or exceeds the
maximum amount. Damage to equipment due to improper preparation of material
will result in a separate fine as determined by the schedule of fees.
   (B)   Curbside bulk item collection.
      (1)   Residential that are paying for solid waste on their monthly
utility bill are eligible for bulk item collection by the town.
      (2)   The town will collect and dispose of the following properly
prepared items on a scheduled basis from the town's residential customers:
         (a)   Bulky items, such as discarded furniture and appliances not
practical to containerize and appliances (white goods) will be picked up. The
town will collect normal household discarded furniture and appliances,
including sofas, chairs, beds, box springs and similar items.
         (b)   Items not collected by the town include, but are not limited to
furnaces, HVAC units, building/remodeling materials, tires, hazardous materials
(oil, anti-freeze, gas, paint and paint thinner, and the like) lead acid
batteries (such as vehicle or equipment batteries), or similar items. These
items require special handling that local governments are not equipped to
perform.
         (c)   Bulk items from a residential customer that became the property
of a landlord will not be removed by the town as a part of the bulk collection.
      (4)   Special service collection for bulky items and/or scrap materials
shall only be provided to single-family and special residential units. This
service is not available for:
         (a)   Appliance and equipment changes that are related to the
operation of a business or leasing of a property. Those business-related
activities are the responsibility of the rental agent and/or owner of the
property;
         (b)   Items from businesses operated from a residential unit;
         (c)   Items that are the consequence of a fire at a business or
residential structure. The town shall have the authority to provide special
services collection when, as a result of a fire, there is only a single bulky
item or what would otherwise be a normal collection amount as opposed to
clearing the premises of burned or scrap material items; or
         (d)   Oxygen tanks and other medical equipment; propane tanks; large
oil tanks used for household purposes; parts of campers, boats, camper shells,
trailers; automotive parts, including but not limited to: motors, doors, tires,
fenders, car or seats from residentially used premises and the like.
      (5)   The town shall have the authority to determine whether bulky items
or scrap material are subject to town collection and shall have the discretion
to determine whether a request for service is consistent with the eligibility
standards as described above. Special collection service requirements are as
follows:
         (a)   Bulky item or scrap materials shall not be collected if it is
too large to be placed on the solid waste service's division collection vehicle
or weighs over 125 pounds.
         (b)   Any appliance accepted for collection must be empty of its
contents.
         (c)   Large furniture items shall be dismantled prior to collection so
that a reasonable person can expect two individuals to easily load them on to
or off of the special collection vehicle.
         (d)   Gasoline must be removed from all lawn mowers prior to
collection.
         (e)   All glass in windows, doors, mirrors and other items with large
expanses of glass must have the glass taped with an X mark so that it will not
shatter in the collection process.
      (6)   The town shall have the authority to require items to be prepared
for ease of collection and to ensure the safety of the employees performing the
collection task. An item not prepared properly may be refused for collection at
the town's discretion.
      (7)   It shall be unlawful to place trash refuse out for collection along
with a scheduled bulk item pickup.
(Ord. passed 12-6-22) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.15 SOLID WASTE NOT TO BE COLLECTED BY TOWN.
   The town will not collect the following types of solid wastes, and no person
may place any of the following in any container or receptacle intended for
collection by the town:
   (A)   All hazardous refuse and industrial waste shall be stored in suitable
leak-proof containers sufficient to ensure that no refuse or waste leaks or
spills onto any public or private property. Customer will be held responsible
for any leaks, spills, or damage caused by improperly sealed containers. It
shall be the responsibility of the person in possession of the premises where
hazardous refuse or industrial waste is generated to see that it is disposed of
properly;
   (B)   The removal of clothing, bedding or other refuse from homes or other
places where highly infectious diseases have occurred shall be performed under
the supervision and direction of the county Health Department;
   (C)   Building materials shall be removed by the owner of the property or by
the contractor.
   (D)   A material of any nature, including ashes, that contains any hot or
live coals or fire;
   (E)   No person may dispose of or discard any hypodermic syringes, needle or
any instrument or device for making hypodermic injections in the waste stream
of the town before first breaking, disassembling, destroying or otherwise
rendering the instrument or device inoperable and incapable of reuse and
without further safeguarding the disposal thereof by placing in either a sharps
container, milk jug, coffee can with a lid or similar containers. Medical or
other biohazard materials shall be removed and disposed of under the
supervision and direction of the county Health Department.
   (F)   Cardboard boxes that will not fit in the garbage rollout will be
collected.
(Ord. passed 12-6-22)
§ 50.16 ACCUMULATION OF SOLID WASTES PROHIBITED.
   No person may cause, suffer or permit refuse to accumulate or remain on
premises under their control except in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 12-6-22)
§ 50.17 CHICKEN LITTER AND OTHER WASTES.
   (A)   No chicken litter, cow or horse manure, or human waste shall be dumped
or spread on any lot, space, or yard within the town; however, this section
shall not prohibit the placing of small quantities of same around shrubbery,
trees, or plants near or around a dwelling house or business establishment.
   (B)   The disposal of any animal waste, bedding, shavings, and the like must
be properly bagged so that it doesn't leak and placed in the garbage rollout
with your household garbage.
(Ord. passed 12-6-22)
§ 50.99 PENALTIES AND REMEDIES.
   (A)   A violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall constitute
a misdemeanor, punishable as provided in G.S. § 14-4.
   (B)   A violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall also
subject the offender to a civil penalty of $50. If a person fails to pay this
civil penalty within ten days after being cited for a violation, the town may
seek to recover the penalty by filing a civil action in the nature of debt.
   (C)   A second offense at the same location shall warrant a civil penalty of
$75.
   (D)   A third offense at the same location shall warrant a civil penalty of
$100.
   (E)   The town may seek to enforce this chapter through the appropriate
equitable action. The Town Manager or designee shall have authority to issue
notices of violation and/or civil citations to any person if there is
reasonable cause to believe that the person has violated any of the provisions
of this chapter.
   (F)   Any notice of violation or citation shall be delivered personally to
the violator or shall be sent by registered or certified mail to the last known
address of the violator.
   (G)   Each day that a violation continues after the offender has been
notified of the violation shall constitute a separate offense.
   (H)   The town may seek to enforce this chapter by using any one or
combination of the foregoing remedies.
(Ord. passed 12-6-22)
Statutory reference:
   Enforcement of ordinances, see G. S. § 160A-175
CHAPTER 51: WATER AND SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Designation of Water and Sewer Department
   
51.02   Definitions
   
51.03   Inspection of premises
   
51.04   Condition of services; duty of owner
   
51.05   Use of fire hydrants; inspection
   
51.06   Hydrants on private property
Water and Sewer System
   
51.20   Permit required for water and sewer connection
   
51.21   Water and sewer taps
   
51.22   Emergency repairs
   
51.23   Connection to system required
   
51.23.A   Connections prohibited
   
51.24   Lines across private property
   
51.25   Cutting into water or sewer lines prohibited
   
51.26   Application for water and sewer service
   
51.26.A   Irrigation
   
51.26.B   Fire hydrant use/bulk water purchase
   
51.27   Water meters; location and ownership
   
51.28   One service per meter allowed
   
51.29   Multi-family dwellings; multi-purpose buildings
   
51.30   Service discontinued for noncompliance
   
51.31   Water and sewer rates and tap fees
   
51.32   Inspection of plumbing required
   
51.33   Payment of water and sewer service
   
51.34   Leak adjustment policy
 
   
51.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 DESIGNATION OF WATER AND SEWER DEPARTMENT.
   The water and sewer systems of the town shall be operated as a unit, which
shall hereafter be designated as the Water and Sewer Department.
(Ord. 21.4, passed 1-5-54)
§ 51.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words
importing the singular number shall include the plural; words in the plural
shall include the singular. Every word importing the masculine gender shall
apply to females as well as males.
   APARTMENT HOUSES. See DWELLINGS, MULTIPLE. 
   BUILDING, MULTIPLE BUSINESS. A building or portion thereof designed for or
used by two or more businesses, operating independently of each other.
   BUILDING, ONE BUSINESS. A building designed for or occupied exclusively by a
single business.
   CLERK. A person designated or appointed by the Town Board to carry on the
routine business of the town, at a place designated by the Town Board, such as
the town hall.
   DWELLING, BUSINESS BUILDING COMBINATION. A building or portion thereof
designed for or occupied by one or more families and/or one or more businesses
as described in the definitions for APARTMENT HOUSES; DWELLING, ONE-FAMILY;
DWELLING, DUPLEX, TWO-FAMILY; DWELLING, MULTIPLE; FAMILY; HOME OCCUPATION;
BUILDING, ONE BUSINESS; and BUILDING, MULTIPLE BUSINESS.
   DWELLING, DUPLEX, TWO-FAMILY. A building designed for or occupied by two
families living independently of each other.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE. A building or portion thereof used or designated as a
residence for three or more families living independently of each other and
doing their own cooking therein, including apartments, apartment motels and
group houses.
   DWELLING, ONE-FAMILY. A detached building designed for or occupied by one
family.
   FAMILY. One or more persons occupying a premises and living in a single
housekeeping unit, as distinguished from a group occupying a boarding house,
lodging house, or hotel.
   HOME OCCUPATION. An occupation for gain conducted only by the immediate
family all of whom live on the premises and provided that no special space is
designated or arranged for such occupation and provided that no article is sold
or offered for sale except such as may be produced by the immediate family
residing on the premises.
   PATRON. Any person receiving, upon the premises occupied by him the benefit
of the town’s water or sewer service.
   PERSON. Shall extend and be applied to several persons, corporations, and to
partnerships as well as to individuals.
   SEWER MAIN. Includes any line from which run service lateral sewer pipes.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of the Water and Sewer Department of the
town.
   TOWN BOARD. The Town Board of the Town of Taylorsville, North Carolina.
   UNIT. One or more persons occupying a premises and living as a single
housekeeping unit, and/or one business operating independently of any other
business, and/or a premises occupied for a home occupation.
   WATER MAIN. Includes any supply line from which run service lateral water
pipes.
(Ord. 21.4, passed 1-5-54)
§ 51.03 INSPECTION OF PREMISES.
   The Superintendent, or an inspector designated by the Town Board or the
Superintendent, shall have the right to enter any dwelling, apartment house,
store, business building, hotel, or other premises, during the hours between 8:
00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. for the purpose of inspecting the water and/or sewer
pipes, meters, fixtures, and the like, and no such person shall oppose,
obstruct, or interfere with any such officer entering the premises for the
inspections as described in this section.
(Ord. 21.4, passed 1-5-54)
§ 51.04 CONDITION OF SERVICES; DUTY OF OWNER.
   The owner or occupant of any building, place, or other premises having water
and/or sewer connections, shall keep the water and/or sewer pipe lines and
fixtures in proper condition of repair; and upon failure of the owner and/or
occupant to make the necessary repairs within five days after notice of the
defective condition, then and in that event, the service shall be discontinued
by the Superintendent of the Department.
(Ord. 21.4, passed 1-5-54)
§ 51.05 USE OF FIRE HYDRANTS; INSPECTION.
   (A)   No person except the Superintendent of the Department, or the Chief of
the Fire Department or someone authorized by same, shall take water from any
fire hydrant, pipe or fountain, plug, street washer, draw cock, or hose, except
for firefighting purposes or for the use of the Fire Department.
   (B)   All fire hydrants, including those maintained by the town, shall be
carefully inspected and greased once every six months, and all gate valves
shall be carefully inspected and tested at least once a year by the
Superintendent of the Department.
(Ord. 21.4, passed 1-5-54)
§ 51.06 HYDRANTS ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   Any person desiring to run a large pipe from the town’s main to his
premises for the purpose of providing a hydrant for use in case of fire, shall
be permitted to connect with the street main at his own expense, and shall be
permitted to use water therefrom for fire purposes only. All hydrants so
constructed on premises of patrons shall be sealed with suitable material, and
any person breaking or permitting another to break such seal, except for the
purposes of fighting fire, shall be subject to and shall pay a penalty as set
forth in § 51.999. Such proposed connection shall first be approved by the Town
Board.
   (B)   Any person desiring to secure the protection provided in division (A)
of this section, and whose premises are located without the corporate limits of
the town may do so as under the provisions and penalties of division (A) of
this section, provided that he shall pay the Clerk $50 for each hydrant, and
provided such connection is first approved by the Town Board.
(Ord. 21.4, passed 1-5-54)
WATER AND SEWER SYSTEM
§ 51.20 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR WATER AND SEWER CONNECTION.
   (A)   No person shall in any way take water for his or another’s use from
any water line or spigot, without first applying for and receiving a permit
from the Clerk.
   (B)   No person shall make any sewer connection for his or another’s use
without first applying for and receiving a permit from the Superintendent.
(Ord. 21.4, passed 1-5-54) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.21 WATER AND SEWER TAPS.
   The town reserves the exclusive right of tapping all water mains and sewer
lines for any and all connections and of extending all service pipes to the
nearest curb line. A curb box shall be placed over a curb cock, which shall be
under exclusive control of the town. No person shall turn water off or on at
this curb cock, except the Superintendent of the Department, or some employee
of the town acting expressly under orders of the Superintendent.
(Ord. 21.4, passed 1-5-54) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.22 EMERGENCY REPAIRS.
   The town reserves the right at any time to shut off the water in the mains
in case of accidents, or for the purpose of making connections, alterations, or
repairs, and it shall be the duty of the Superintendent of the Department to
give one hour’s notice, if possible, to all the patrons within the district
that shall be temporarily deprived of water. In case of an emergency, the water
may be cut off without notice.
(Ord. 21.4, passed 1-5-54)
§ 51.23 CONNECTION TO SYSTEM REQUIRED.
   Each and every person owning a lot and building in the town, which lot abuts
or adjoins an avenue, street, or alley, along which are a water main and/or a
public sewer line, shall make water and/or sewer connections with his premises;
provided no person shall be required to construct connecting line or lines
across the private property of another, nor to construct connecting lines of
more than 200 feet in length.
(Ord. 21.4, passed 1-5-54) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.23.A CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   No persons shall cause any open gutter, rain water conductor, cesspool,
privy vault, or steam exhaust, or other steam apparatus to be connected to any
wastewater main without specific permission from the Public Works Director.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 51.24 LINES ACROSS PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   Water mains and/or sewer lines or service lines shall not be constructed
across the private property of one person for the purpose of providing water
for another person, without first obtaining a written instrument conveying to
the town a perpetual right-of-way for the construction, repair, and maintenance
of the water mains and/or sewer lines or service lines.
(Ord. 21.4, passed 1-5-54) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.25 CUTTING INTO WATER OR SEWER LINES PROHIBITED.
   Any person wishing to cut into a water or sewer main must have permission of
the town and must do same under the supervision of the Superintendent of the
Department.
(Ord. 21.2, passed 8-6-40) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.26 APPLICATION FOR WATER AND SEWER SERVICE.
   (A)   Any person desiring a water and/or sewer connection shall apply to the
Clerk and pay the fees required. All applications for water and/or sewer
service are subject to the approval of the Superintendent.
      (1)   If applicant has a delinquent account at any location within the
town’s jurisdiction, no new connection(s) may be established at any other
locations within the jurisdiction until the delinquent account is made current.
      (2)   Provision of social security number by applicant is voluntary in
accordance with G.S. 105A-3(C). Social security numbers will only be used for
the collection of outstanding debt through the NC debt setoff program or any
needs of local law enforcement.
   (B)   All persons desiring water and/or sewer service from the town shall
first make application to the Clerk. Non-property owners will be required to
make a deposit of $100 for service inside the corporate limits of the town, or
$150 if service desired is outside the corporate limits of the town. If the
applicant has had service with the town prior and left a delinquent account,
that balance must be made current and the applicant is subject to a deposit fee
25% higher than current deposit charge. The deposits are to be returned to the
patron upon application to discontinue service, less any current water and/or
sewer bills, or for the fractional portion of a month the patron received water
and/or sewer service.
   (C)   A contractor or a builder desiring use of water shall be required to
make an application to the Clerk, and shall secure a permit for such use, and
shall pay the rates provided from in §
51.31 of this chapter.
   (D)   Any person desiring to make extensions to the town’s water and/or
sewer mains, and which extension is to be made outside the corporate limits,
shall first submit to the Town Board, for approval, a complete plan-profile map
showing the extent of the extension. Should the extension be approved by the
Town Board, the person desiring to make such extension shall acquire all
necessary easements for right-of-way, and shall file a written statement with
the Clerk that he shall bear all costs of the extension, and that he will be
governed by any and all provisions as outlined by the Town Board before such
extension is made.
(Ord. 21.4, passed 1-5-54; Am. Ord. passed 7-1-94: Am. Ord. passed 4-2-08; Am.
Ord. passed --)
§ 51.26.A IRRIGATION.
   (A)   Irrigation meter requirement. All new in-ground irrigation systems
that are installed and are supplied water from the town’s water system shall be
independently connected to the system, and water consumption shall be measured
through a separate irrigation meter.
   (B)   Methods of connection.  
      (1)   An irrigation service line may be installed by a direct tap into
the main (separate), or by a split line off the non-irrigation service line at
a point between the main and the non-irrigation meter (split tap).
      (2)   The type of connection will be determined at the sole discretion of
the town on a case-by- case basis.
      (3)   Either method of connection shall be performed by the town’s Public
Works Department or a licensed contractor approved by the town.
      (4)   A licensed contractor must obtain a permit from the town prior to
installing an irrigation service line.
   (C)   Technical and other requirements. An irrigation service line, the
irrigation meter and all related appurtenances, shall be installed in
accordance with the same regulations, policies, procedures, and fees that apply
to non-irrigation meters.
(Ord. passed 12-1-09) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.26.B FIRE HYDRANT USE/BULK WATER PURCHASE.
   (A)   Anyone wishing to purchase bulk water from a fire hydrant on the
town's water system must first apply at Town Hall and be approved by the Public
Works Director before any connection is allowed. If approved, applicant will be
given a designed hydrant location to withdraw the water from. Water may not be
withdrawn from any other hydrant location. Charges for permits are as followed:
 
Length of Permit Cost                    Gallons Allowed
1 day            $85.00 (nonrefundable)  Up to 10,000 gallons
14 days          $205.00 (nonrefundable) Up to 30,000 gallons
30 days          $385.00 (nonrefundable) Up to 60,000 gallons
 
   (B)   If applicant knows he/she will need more than the allotted amount of
water, they must pay for the additional water at the time of the application.
Additional water charges are $5 per 1,000 gallons. If applicant needs more
water after fees have been paid, it is their responsibility to return to Town
Hall and pay for the additional use. If they do not pay for the additional
usage, it will be considered water theft.
   (C)   Once the application has been approved and the fees have been paid the
applicant will be issued a bulk water station permit. The permit holder must
have the permit in their possession when withdrawing water from any hydrant.
Public Works employees can request to see the permit at any time. Permit
holders must use a proper hydrant wrench when collecting water from the
designed fire hydrant. If permit holder is caught not using a hydrant wrench,
their permit will be revoked and they will be charged for the hydrant repair.
If permit holder does not have a proper hydrant wrench, the town will provide
the permit holder one. There is a $50 refundable deposit fee if the town
provides permit holder a hydrant wrench. The deposit will be refunded upon the
return of the wrench, as long as wrench is in good working standards.
   (D)   Any person(s) caught removing water from a fire hydrant without a
permit will be considered as water theft. The first time offense will result in
a penalty of $500 minimum.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 51.27 WATER METERS; LOCATION AND OWNERSHIP.
   Each one-family dwelling, duplex, dwelling, multiple dwelling, one-business
building, multiple- business building, combination dwelling, and business
building, manufacturing plant, or place where town water is used, shall have at
least one water meter, the location of which may be changed from time to time,
as the Superintendent may direct, and such meter shall remain on the property,
and be under the exclusive control of the town.
(Ord. 21.4, passed 1-5-54)
§ 51.28 ONE SERVICE PER METER ALLOWED.
   All water service rendered to two or more dwellings, buildings, premises, or
units, contained within same, through one meter, or in violation of the
provisions of §
51.27 of this chapter, shall be discontinued by the Superintendent, provided
however, the owner of the premises, dwellings, or buildings, has not first made
application for water service according the provisions of §
51.26(A) of this chapter.
(Ord. 21.4, passed 1-5-54)
§ 51.29 MULTI-FAMILY DWELLINGS; MULTI-PURPOSE BUILDINGS.
   (A)   The owner of a duplex dwelling, multiple dwelling, multiple business
building, combination dwelling and business building, or other premises,
containing more than one unit or occupied by more than one tenant may, if he so
desires upon completion of any of the above named dwellings or buildings, file
with the Clerk a written statement to the effect that he will personally pay a
minimum water and/or sewer charge for each unit, occupied or unoccupied,
contained within the premises, plus all excess water used; and thereupon only
one meter shall be required for such multiple dwelling, multiple business
building, combination dwelling and business building, or other premises. The
owner, if he occupies the dwelling or building or any part thereof shall be
construed to be a tenant under the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   In the event the owner shall not file the written statement as
provided in division (A) of this section, then and in that event the
Superintendent shall demand that the owner have installed a separate meter for
each unit, suite of rooms, or other space occupied or arranged for occupancy by
a separate tenant.
(Ord. 21.4, passed 1-5-54) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.30 SERVICE DISCONTINUED FOR NONCOMPLIANCE.
   (A)   In the event any owner of a duplex building, multiple dwelling,
multiple business building, or other premises arranged for occupancy by two or
more tenants does not file with the Clerk the written statement as provided in
§
51.29(A) of this chapter, or has not applied to the Clerk for separate meters,
then and in that event the Superintendent shall discontinue water service to
such duplex dwelling, multiple dwelling, multiple business building,
combination dwelling and business building, suite of rooms, or other premises.
   (B)   In the event water and/or sewer services are discontinued by reason of
the failure to pay the necessary charges therefor, then and in that event such
services shall not be renewed until all charges, penalties, and a fee of $55
for cutting on the water, shall be paid in full. If customer illegally
reconnects the service(s), the meter will be removed and an additional $50 fee
will be charged to the customer. Any subsequential illegal reconnections will
be subject to a $74 fee.
   (C)   The Clerk, the Superintendent, or any other employee or official of
the town, shall not become involved in any controversy between a landlord and
tenant as to their liability between themselves for the payment of water and/or
sewer charges, but if same are not paid when due, the service shall be
discontinued.
(Ord. 21.4, passed 1-5-54; Am. Ord. passed --)
§ 51.31 WATER AND SEWER RATES AND TAP FEES.
   Effective June 15, 2021, the following charges shall be required of each
patron for the use of water and sewer service. The town shall not enter into
any special agreements with any individual or industry lowering the sewer use
charge. Note: Wastewater is based on 100% of water consumption.
   (A)   Residential and non-residential rates.
Residential Rates Inside      Outside
Usage             Water Sewer Water Sewer
Residential Rates                            Inside        Outside
Usage                                        Water  Sewer  Water  Sewer
Flat rate customers (sewer only, well water) n/a    $40.00 n/a    $63.00
Minimum charge (1,000 gallons)               $25.00 $25.00 $42.00 $42.00
1,001 - 5,000 gallons                        $4.35  $4.35  $7.45  $7.45
5,001 - 10,000 gallons                       $6.10  $6.10  $10.75 $10.75
Over 10,000 gallons                          $7.35  $7.35  $14.20 $14.20
Note: Wastewater is based on 100% of water consumption.
 
Non-Residential Rates Inside      Outside
Usage                 Water Sewer Water Sewer
Non-Residential Rates          Inside        Outside
Usage                          Water  Sewer  Water  Sewer
Minimum charge (1,000 gallons) $25.00 $25.00 $42.00 $42.00
1,001 - 5,000 gallons          $4.35  $4.35  $7.45  $7.45
5,001 - 10,000 gallons         $6.10  $6.10  $10.75 $10.75
10,001 - 30,000 gallons        $7.35  $7.35  $14.20 $14.20
30,001 - 1250,000 gallons      $7.85  $7.85  $15.60 $15.60
Over 250,000 gallons           $10.10 $10.10 $20.10 $20.10
Note: Wastewater is based on 100% of water consumption.
 
   (B)   Capital fixed charge (per account).
 
Residential         Inside Outside
Usage
0 - 10,000 gallons  $2.50  $5.00
Over 10,000 gallons $10.00 $20.00
Note: Wastewater is based on 100% of water consumption.
Non-Residential Inside Outside
Usage
Non-Residential             Inside    Outside
Usage
Less than 5,000 gallons     $5.00     $10.00
5,001 - 10,000 gallons      $10.00    $20.00
10,001 - 20,000 gallons     $35.00    $70.00
20,001 - 50,000 gallons     $70.00    $140.00
50,001 - 100,000 gallons    $125.00   $250.00
100,001 - 200,000 gallons   $260.00   $520.00
200,001 - 500,000 gallons   $450.00   $900.00
500,001 - 1,000,000 gallons $850.00   $1,700.00
Over 1,000,000 gallons      $1,300.00 $2,600.00
Note: Wastewater is based on 100% of water consumption.
 
   (C)   Other charges and fees.
Tap Fees
 Inside Outside
Tap Fees
                                                   Inside    Outside
Water taps1                                                  
   3/4"                                         $1,500.00 $3,000.00
   1"                                           $2,000.00 $3,500.00
   Larger than 1" - supplies, plus labor, plus 1          
Sewer taps1                                                  
   4"                                           $1,500.00 $3,000.00
   6"                                           $2,500.00 $4,000.00
Water/sewer tap unit charge2                       $750.00   $1,500.00
1 Additional charges may be incurred based on conditions of the tap.
(Asphalt/concrete cutting, boring, and the like)
2 Unit charge is charged to customers who purchase a single water or sewer
tap to serve multiple units. Charge will be for each unit served by the tap.
This fee is in addition to the tap fee. Each unit will be accessed a minimum
water/sewer charge per month on the billing.
 
Service fees
Administrative account creation fee           $15.00
Water deposit                                  
   Inside                                  $100.00
   Outside                                 $150.00
   Business (over 10,000 gallons average us$250.00
After 3:00 p.m./same day service              $15.00
Reconnection fee                              $35.00
Meter removal fee1                            $50.00
Broken lock fee                               $15.00
Broken setter fee                             $150.00
1 Meter removal fee is charged when customer cuts lock off meter after being
disconnected for nonpayment.
 
 
Sewer Fees
Sewer impact fee (per gallon)1            $0.02
Sewer hauler disposal charge (per gallon) Currently not allowed
1 Impact fee is only accessed on accounts that use an average greater than
10,000 gallons per month.
 
(Ord. passed 7-1-94; Am. Ord. passed 6-30-98; Am. Ord. passed 7-1-02; Am. Ord.
passed 4-6-04; Am. Ord. passed 7- -05; Am. Ord. passed 4-1-08; Am. Ord. passed
7-1-09; Am. Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. passed 6-18-13 ; Am.
Ord. passed 6-18-14; Am. Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. passed 6-16-20; Am. Ord.
passed 6-15-21; Am. Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. passed - -)
Cross-reference:
   Fees and charges for sewer service, see §§
52.036 through
52.038
   Cost of cemetery lots, see §
96.01
   Park shelter fees, see §
98.02
§ 51.32 INSPECTION OF PLUMBING REQUIRED.
   Water shall not be supplied to any premises nor use of a sewer connection be
permitted until and after all plumbing has been inspected and approved by the
Superintendent or such person designated by him as Building Inspector, and
until and after all fees and charges for connections, and charges for building
water have been paid and receipt secured from the Clerk.
(Ord. 21.4, passed 1-5-54) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.33 PAYMENT OF WATER AND SEWER SERVICE.
   (A)   All monthly charges for water and/or sewer services shall become due
on the first day of each month.
   (B)   In the event the water and/or sewer service charges are not paid by
the 15th of the month, a service charge of 10% shall be charged to the total
amount of the original bill. In the event that the charges are not paid by the
15th of the following month, the Clerk shall instruct the Superintendent to
discontinue immediately the services to the delinquent patron, subject to
division (C).
(Ord. 21.4, passed 1-5-54)
   (C)   (1)   It is the policy of the town to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The city’s form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number, and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
         (a)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set
forth on the bill; and
         (b)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second
bill will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid on
or before the date set forth on the bill, service will be discontinued for
nonpayment; and
         (c)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his bill shall
have a right to a hearing at which time he may be represented in person and by
counsel or any other person of his choosing and may present orally or in
writing his complaint and contentions to the city official in charge of utility
billing. This official shall be authorized to order that the customer’s service
not be discontinued and shall have the authority to make a final determination
of the customer’s complaint.
      (2)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained;
only questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence
of payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
      (3)   When it becomes necessary for the town to discontinue utility
service to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only
after all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on
charge in the sum of $55.
   (D)   A returned check fee of $25 will be collected on any check not honored
by the customer’s financial institution. If two checks are returned within a 12
month time period, personal checks will not be accepted as payment for any
accounts established by the customer.
(Am. Ord. passed 7-1-09; Am. Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord.
passed - -)
§ 51.34 LEAK ADJUSTMENT POLICY. 
   (A)   A leak adjustment is a financial adjustment to water and/or waste
water usage charges on a customer’s bill caused by a leak on the customer’s
side of the meter or an exceptional unexplained increase in consumption that a
licensed plumber and/or public utilities meter operations staff has validated.
   (B)   Once a customer notifies the Town of Taylorsville about a possible
high bill that may be related to a leak, the town will provide consideration
for leak adjustments for water and/or waste water usage charges caused by a
leak that occurred on the customer’s side of the meter. The consumption will
need to exceed twice the average monthly usage over the previous 12 month
period dependent upon the type of leak.
   (C)   This monthly average will not include any bills that have been
estimated or that have fewer days than the normal 28 to 33 day billing cycle,
or for periods of zero usage and/or non-occupancy of premise.
   (D)   If a leak occurs on a readily available water pipe (toilet leak,
leaking faucet, leaking hose bib, etc) the water use for customers on the
town’s residential rates will have the water consumption charges returned to
the lowest residential tier for the amount in excess of the average monthly
consumption. There will be no adjustments made for sewer charges.
   (E)   Adjustments to water consumption will not occur on non-tiered rates.
   (F)   If a leak occurs in a non-accessible area such as underground lines,
pipes within walls, hot water heaters, the water consumption charges will be
adjusted to double the monthly average and the wastewater consumption charges
will be adjusted to a minimum charge.
   (G)   If there is usage registered that is above the monthly average on the
meter and a plumber (or meter operations staff) can find no plumbing related
problem and the usage has returned to the monthly average consumption, the
customer may request a financial adjustment to the appeals officer with the
Town of Taylorsville.
   (H)   The appeals officer will have the authority to adjust leaks based on
consumption usage which exceeds twice the normal monthly consumption average
for both water and sewer.
   (I)   The Town of Taylorsville reserves the right to temporarily disconnect
the water service to a location that has a leak with an excessive water flow
until the leak is fixed.
   (J)   Financial adjustments associated to billed usage/consumption will be
allowed one per every two years per customer’s account/premise.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any section or clause of any section of this
chapter for which no specific penalty is provided, shall be subject to and
shall pay a penalty of $50. Each week that such violation continues shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense.
   (B)   The right of any patron to use either or both services of the
Department shall immediately cease upon his failure to pay, within 30 days
after they become due and payable, the charges provided for such services, and
any such patron thereafter using such services shall be subject to a penalty of
$55.
   (C)   Any person whose water or sewer services have been discontinued by the
Superintendent, who shall thereafter cut on the water or otherwise make such
services illegally available shall be subject to and shall pay a penalty of
$50, subject to being charged under G.S. § 14-151.1.
(Ord. 21.4, passed 1-5-54; Am. Ord. passed 7-1-09)
Statutory reference:
   The statute cited in division (C) of this section, G.S. § 14-151.1, has been
repealed.
CHAPTER 52: SEWER USAGE REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
52.001   Purpose and policy
   
52.002   Definitions and abbreviations
   
52.003   Regulations requiring use of public sewers
   
52.004   Regulations concerning private sewage disposal
General Sewer Use Requirements
   
52.015   Prohibited discharge standards
   
52.016   National categorical pretreatment standards
   
52.017   Local limits
   
52.018   State requirements
   
52.019   Right of revision
   
52.020   Dilution
   
52.021   Pretreatment of wastewater
   
52.022   Accidental discharge/slug control plans
   
52.023   Hauled wastewater
Fees
   
52.036   User charges
   
52.037   Surcharges
   
52.038   Pretreatment program administration charges
Wastewater Discharge Permit Application and Issuance
   
52.045   Wastewater dischargers
   
52.046   Wastewater permits
Reporting Requirements
   
52.055   Baseline monitoring reports
   
52.056   Compliance schedule progress reports
   
52.057   Reports on compliance with categorical pretreatment standard deadline
   
52.058   Periodic compliance reports
   
52.059   Reports of changed conditions
   
52.060   Reports of potential problems
   
52.061   Reports from unpermitted users
   
52.062   Notice of violation/repeat sampling and reporting
   
52.063   Notification of the discharge of hazardous waste
   
52.064   Analytical requirements
   
52.065   Sample collection
   
52.066   Timing
   
52.067   Record keeping
Monitoring and Inspection
   
52.075   Monitoring facilities
   
52.076   Inspection and sampling
   
52.077   Search warrants
   
52.078   Confidential information
Enforcement
   
52.085   Administrative remedies
   
52.086   Other available remedies
   
52.087   Remedies nonexclusive
   
52.088   Annual publication of significant noncompliance
Affirmative Defenses to Discharge Violations
   
52.095   Upset
   
52.096   Prohibited discharge standards defense
   
52.097   Bypass
Severability and Conflict
   
52.105   Severability
   
52.106   Conflict
 
   
52.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.001 PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   (A)   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for direct and indirect
contributors into the wastewater collection and treatment system for the Town
of Taylorsville, hereafter referred to as the town, and enables the town to
comply with all applicable state and federal laws including the Clean Water Act
(33 United States Code 1251 et seq.) and the General Pretreatment Regulations
(40 CFR, Part 403).
   (B)   The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipal
wastewater system which will interfere with the operation of the system or
contaminate the resulting sludge;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipal
wastewater system which will pass through the system, inadequately treated,
into receiving water or the atmosphere or otherwise be incompatible with the
system;
      (3)   To promote reuse and recycling of industrial wastewater and sludges
from the municipal system;
      (4)   To provide for equitable distribution of the cost of the operation
maintenance and improvement of municipal wastewater system.
      (5)   To protect both municipal personnel who may be affected by sewage,
sludge, and effluent in the course of their employment as well as protecting
the general public;
      (6)   To ensure that the municipality complies with its NPDES or NON-
discharge Permit conditions, sludge use and disposal requirements and any other
federal or state laws to which the municipal wastewater system is subject.
   (C)   This chapter provides for the regulation of direct and indirect
contributors to the municipal wastewater system, through the issuance of
permits to certain Non-domestic Users and through enforcement of general
requirements for the other Users, authorizes monitoring and enforcement
activities, requires User reporting and provides for the setting of fees for
the equitable distribution of costs resulting from the program established
herein.
   (D)   This chapter shall apply to all users of the municipal wastewater
system. Except as otherwise provided herein, the POTW Director shall
administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this chapter. Any powers
granted to or imposed upon the POTW Director may be delegated by the POTW
Director to other town personnel. Industrial users outside the town limits
agree to comply with the terms and conditions established in this chapter as
well as any permits, enforcement actions, or orders issued hereunder.
(Ord. passed 5-6-96; Am. Ord. passed 11-12-96)
§ 52.002 DEFINITIONS AND ABBREVIATIONS.
   (A)   Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the following
terms and phrases as used in this chapter shall have the meanings hereinafter
designated:
   ACT or “THE ACT”. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act also known as the
Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. 1251, et. seq.
   APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The Director of the Division of Environmental Management
of the State Department of Environment, Health and Natural Resources or his
designee.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF AN INDUSTRIAL USER.
      (1)   If the Industrial User is a corporation, authorized representative
shall mean:
         (a)   The president, secretary, or vice-president of the corporation
in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who performs
similar policy or decision-making functions for the corporation, or
         (b)   The manager of one or more manufacturing, production, or
operation facilities employing more than 250 persons or having gross annual
sales or expenditures exceeding $25,000,000 (in second-quarter 1980 dollars),
if authority to sign documents has been assigned or delegated to the manager in
accordance with corporate procedures.
      (2)   If the Industrial User is a partnership or sole proprietorship, an
authorized representative shall mean a general partner or the proprietor,
respectively.
      (3)   If the Industrial User is a federal, state or local government
facility, an authorized representative shall mean a director or highest
official-appointed or designated to oversee the operation and performance of
the activities of the government facility, or their designee.
      (4)   The individuals described in subsections (1) through (3) of this
definition may designate another authorized representative if the authorization
is in writing, the authorization specifies the individual or position
responsible for the overall operation of the facility from which the discharge
originates or having overall responsibility for environmental matters for the
company, and the written authorization is submitted to the town.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure for
five days at 20°C usually expressed as a concentration (e.g. mg/l).
   BUILDING SEWER. A sewer conveying wastewater from the premises of a User to
the POTW.
   BYPASS. The intentional diversion of wastestreams from any portion of a
user’s treatment facility.
   CATEGORICAL STANDARDS. National Categorical Pretreatment Standards or
Pretreatment Standard.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY or EPA. The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency, or where appropriate the term may also be used as a designation for the
Administrator or other duly authorized official of the agency.
   GRAB SAMPLE. A sample which is taken from a waste stream on a one-time basis
with no regard to the flow in the waste stream and over a period of time not to
exceed 15 minutes.
   HOLDING TANK WASTE. Any waste from holding tanks, including but not limited
to such holding tanks as vessels, chemical toilets, campers, trailers, septic
tanks, and vacuum-pump tank trucks.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGE or DISCHARGE. The discharge or the introduction
pollutants from any nondomestic source regulated under section 307(b), (c) or
(d) of the Act, (33 U.S.C. 1317), into the POTW (including holding tank waste
discharged into the system).
   INDUSTRIAL USER or USER. Any person which is a source of indirect discharge.
   INTERFERENCE. The inhibition, or disruption of the POTW treatment processes,
operations, or its sludge process, use, or disposal, which causes or
contributes to a violation of any requirement of the POTW’s NPDES or Non-
Discharge Permit or prevents sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance with
specified applicable state and federal statutes, regulations or permits. The
term includes prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal by the POTW in
accordance with section 405 of the Act, (33 U.S.C 1345) or any criteria,
guidelines, or regulations developed pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act
(SWDA), the Clean Air Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Marine
Protection Research and Sanctuary Act (MPRSA) or more stringent state criteria
(including those contained in any state sludge management plan prepared
pursuant to Title IV of SWDA) applicable to the method of disposal or use
employed by the POTW.
   MEDICAL WASTE. Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and blood
products, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding,
surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes, and dialysis
wastes.
   NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD or CATEGORICAL STANDARD. Any
regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by EPA in
accordance with section 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. 1317) which
applies to a specific category of Industrial Users, and appears in 40 CFR
Chapter 1, Subchapter N, Parts 405-471.
   NATIONAL PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE STANDARD or DISCHARGE STANDARD. Any
regulation developed under the authority of 307(b) of the Act and 40 CFR,
Section 403.5.
   NEW SOURCE.
      (1)   Any building, structure facility, or installation from which there
may be a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced after the
publication of proposed Categorical Pretreatment Standards under section 307(c)
of the Act which will be applicable to such source if such standards are
thereafter promulgated in accordance with section 307(c), provided that:
         (a)   The building, structure, facility, or installation is
constructed at a site at which no other source is located; or
         (b)   The building, structure, facility, or installation totally
replaces the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of
pollutants at an existing source, or
         (c)   The production or wastewater generating processes of the
building, structure, facility, or installation are substantially independent of
an existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are
substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source, should
be considered.
      (2)   Construction on site at which an existing source is located results
in a modification rather than a new source if the construction does not create
a new building, structure, facility, or installation meeting the criteria of
subsection (1)(b) or (c) of this definition but otherwise alters, replaces, or
adds to existing process or production equipment.
      (3)   For purposes of this definition, construction of a new source has
commenced if the owner or operator has:
         (a)   Begun, or caused to begin, as part of a continuous on-site
construction program:
            1.   Any placement, assembly or installation of facilities or
equipment; or
            2.   Significant site preparation work including clearing,
excavation, or removal of existing buildings, structures, or facilities which
is necessary for the placement, assembly, or installation of new source
facilities or equipment; or
         (b)   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase
of facilities or equipment which are intended to be used in its operation
within a reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts which can be
terminated or modified without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility,
engineering, and design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation
under this definition.
   NATIONAL POLLUTION DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM or NPDES PERMIT. A permit
issued pursuant to section 402 of the Act (33 U.S.C. 1342), or pursuant to
N.C.G.S. 143-215.1 by the state under delegation from EPA.
   NONCONTACT COOLING WATER. Water used for cooling which does not come into
direct contact with any raw material intermediate product, waste product, or
finished product.
   NON-DISCHARGE PERMIT. A disposal system permit issued by the state pursuant
to G.S. § 143-215.1.
   PASS THROUGH. A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the state in
quantities or concentration which, alone or with discharges from other sources,
causes a violation, including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a
violation of the POTW’s NPDES or Non-discharge Permit or a downstream water
quality standard.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, trust, partnership, copartnership,
corporation, association, joint stock company, estate, governmental entity or
any other legal entity, or their legal representatives, agents or assigns. This
definition includes all federal, state, and local government entities.
   pH. A measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a substance. The logarithm
(base 10) of the reciprocal of the concentration of hydrogen ions expressed in
grams per liter of solution.
   POLLUTANT. Any WASTE as defined in G.S. § 143-213 (13) and (18) and dredged
spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage, garbage, sewage sludge,
munitions, medical wastes, chemical wastes, biological materials, radioactive
materials, heat wrecked or discharged equipment, rock, sand cellar dirt and
industrial, municipal, and agricultural waste and certain characteristics of
wastewater (e.g. pH, temperature, TSS, turbidity, color, BOD, COD, toxicity, or
odor).
   POTW DIRECTOR. The Town of Taylorsville Public Works Director.
   POTW TREATMENT PLANT. That portion of the POTW designed to provide treatment
to wastewater.
   PRETREATMENT or TREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the
elimination of pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant
properties in wastewater prior to or in lieu of discharging or otherwise
introducing such pollution into a POTW. The reduction or alteration can be
obtained by physical, chemical or biological processes, or process changes or
other means, except by diluting the concentration of the pollutants unless
allowed by an applicable pretreatment standard.
   PRETREATMENT PROGRAM. The program for the control of pollutants introduced
into the POTW from non-domestic sources which was developed by the town in
compliance with 40 CFR 403.8 and approved by the Approval Authority as
authorized by G.S. § 143-215.3(a)(14).
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment, other than a Pretreatment Standard.
   PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. Prohibited discharge standards, categorical
standards, and local limits.
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW) or MUNICIPAL WASTEWATER SYSTEM. A
treatment works as defined by section 212 of the Act, (33 U.S.C. 1292) which is
owned in this instance by the town. This definition includes any devices or
systems used in the collection, storage, treatment, recycling, and reclamation
of municipal sewage or industrial wastes of a liquid nature. It also includes
sewers, pipes, and other conveyances only if they convey wastewater to the POTW
treatment plant. For the purposes of this chapter, POTW shall also include any
sewers that convey wastewaters to the POTW from persons outside the town who
are, by contract or agreement with the town, or in any other way, users of the
town’s POTW .
   SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE. Substantial physical damage to property, damage to
the user’s treatment facilities which causes them to become inoperable, or
substantial and permanent loss of natural resources which can reasonably by
expected to occur in the absence of a bypass. Severe property damage does not
mean economic loss caused by delays in production.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER. Any Industrial User of the wastewater disposal
system who:
      (1)   Has an average daily process wastewater flow of 25,000 gallons or
more, or
      (2)   Contributes more than 5% of any design or treatment capacity (i.e.,
allowable pollutant load) of the wastewater treatment plant receiving the
indirect discharge, or
      (3)   Is required to meet a National Categorical Pretreatment Standard,
or
      (4)   Is found by the town, the Division of Environmental Management or
the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to have the potential for
impact, either singly or in combination with other contributing industrial
users, on the wastewater treatment system, the quality of sludge, the system’s
effluent quality, or compliance with any pretreatment standards or
requirements.
   SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE or REPORTABLE NONCOMPLIANCE. A status of
noncompliance defined as follows:
      (1)   Violations of wastewater discharge.
         (a)   CHRONIC VIOLATIONS. 66% or more of the measurements exceed (by
any magnitude) the same daily maximum limit or the same average limit in a six-
month period.
         (b)   TECHNICAL REVIEW CRITERIA (TRC) VIOLATIONS. 33% or more of the
measurements are more than the TRC times the limit (maximum or average) in a
six-month period. There are two groups of TRCs:
            1.   For conventional pollutants: BOD, TSS, fats, oil and grease
TRC = 1.4
            2.   For all other pollutants TRC = 1.2
         (c)   ANY OTHER VIOLATION(S) of an effluent limit (average or daily
maximum) that the control authority believes has caused, alone or in
combination with other discharges, interference or pass-through; or endangered
the health of the sewage treatment plant personnel or the public.
         (d)   ANY DISCHARGE OF A POLLUTANT that has caused imminent
endangerment to human health/welfare or to the environment or has resulted in
the POTW’s exercise of its emergency authority to halt or prevent such a
discharge.
      (2)   Violations of compliance schedule milestones, contained in a
pretreatment permit or enforcement order, for starting construction, completing
construction, and attaining final compliance by 90 days or more after the
schedule date.
      (3)   Failure to provide reports for compliance schedule, self-monitoring
reports, 90-day compliance reports, and periodic compliance reports within 30
days from the due date.
      (4)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance.
      (5)   Any other violation or group of violations that the control
authority considers to be significant.
   SLUG LOAD. Any pollutant (including BOD) released in a discharge at a flow
rate or concentration which will cause a violation of the specific discharge
prohibitions in §
52.015 of this chapter and is of a non-routine episodic nature, including but
not limited to an accidental spill or a non-customary batch discharge.
   STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC). A classification pursuant to the
Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the Executive Office of the
President, Office of Management and Budget, 1987.
   STORM WATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting there from.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The total suspended matter that floats on the surface of,
or is suspended in, water, wastewater or other liquids, and which is removable
by laboratory filtering.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The person designated by the town to supervise the operation
of the publicly owned treatment works and who is charged with certain duties
and responsibilities by this section, or his duly authorized representative.
   UPSET. An exceptional incident in which there is unintentional and temporary
noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards because of factors beyond
the reasonable control of the user. An UPSET does not include noncompliance to
the extent caused by operational error, improperly designed treatment
facilities, inadequate treatment facilities lack of preventive maintenance, or
careless or improper operation.
   WASTEWATER. The liquid and water-carried industrial or domestic wastes from
dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities, mobile sources,
treatment facilities and institutions, together with any groundwater, surface
water and storm water that may be present, whether treated or untreated, which
are contributed into or permitted to enter the POTW.
   WASTEWATER PERMIT. As set forth in §
52.046 of this chapter.
   WATERS OF THE STATE. All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, watercourse,
waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation systems, drainage
systems and all other bodies or accumulations of water, surface or underground,
natural or artificial, public or private, which are contained within, flow
through, or border upon the state or any portion thereof.
   This ordinance is gender neutral and the masculine gender shall include the
feminine and vice-versa. SHALL is mandatory; MAY is permissive or
discretionary. The use of the singular shall be construed to include the plural
and the plural shall include the singular as indicated by the context of its
use.
   (B)   The following abbreviations shall have the designated meanings:
      (1)   BOD   - Biochemical Oxygen Demand.
      (2)   CFR   - Code of Federal Regulations.
      (3)   COD   - Chemical Oxygen Demand.
      (4)   EPA   - Environmental Protection Agency.
      (5)   l      - Liter.
      (6)   mg      - Milligrams.
      (7)   mg/l   - Milligrams per liter.
      (8)   NPDES   - National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System.
      (9)   SIC   - Standard Industrial Classification.
      (10)   SWDA   - Solid Waste Disposal Act, 42 U.S.C. 6901, et. seq.
      (11)   USC   - United States Code
      (12)   TSS   - Total Suspended Solids
      (13)   TKN   - Total Kjeldahl Nitrogen
(Ord. passed 5-6-96; Am. Ord. passed 11-12-96)
§ 52.003 REGULATIONS REQUIRING USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS.
   (A)   No one will be allowed to connect to facility without first making
application to the town. The town does not require connection to public sewer
system on existing structures where no sewer is available at time of
construction. All new construction and subdivisions must connect to the public
sewer system where it is available at time of construction. The town will
require anyone within 50 feet of sewer to connect.
   (B)   Any landowner required to connect to the town public sewer system has
120 days to do so.
(Ord. passed 5-6-96) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.004 REGULATIONS CONCERNING PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Local county health department has authority over septic tanks so
local health department regulation will apply. No septic tanks, privies or
cesspools will be allowed where town sewers are available with the town and
Health Department regulation.
   (B)   Discharge is prohibited of septic tank effluent or cesspool overflow
to any open drain, ditch, stream or well penetrating water-bearing formations.
   (C)   The town has the authority to approve or reject any private sewage
disposal into our system. Permit for any disposal must be approved before any
disposal will be allowed. Periodic inspections will be made by town officials
or the County Health Department.
   (D)   The state plumbing code will apply to the regulations concerning the
building of sewers and connections.
(Ord. passed 5-6-96)
GENERAL SEWER USE REQUIREMENTS
§ 52.015 PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS.
   (A)   General Prohibitions. No User shall contribute or cause to be
contributed into the POTW, directly or indirectly, any pollutant or wastewater
which will interfere with the operation or performance of the POTW. These
general prohibitions apply to all Users of a POTW whether or not the User is a
Significant Industrial User or subject to any national, state, or local
Pretreatment Standards or Requirements.
   (B)   Specific Prohibitions. No User shall contribute or cause to be
contributed into the POTW the following pollutants, substances, or wastewater:
      (1)   Pollutants which create a fire or explosive hazard in the POTW,
including, but not limited to, wastestreams with a closed cup flashpoint of
less than 140°F using the test methods specified in 40 CFR 261.21.
      (2)   Solid or viscous substances which will cause obstruction to the
flow in the POTW resulting in interference.
      (3)   Any wastewater having a pH less than 6.0 or more than 9.0 or
wastewater having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or
hazard to structures, equipment, and/or personnel of the POTW.
      (4)   Any wastewater containing pollutants including oxygen-demanding
pollutants, (BOD, and the like) in sufficient quantity, (flow or concentration)
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to cause interference
with the POTW.
      (5)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, or solids or other
wastewater which, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are
sufficient to create a public nuisance or hazard to life or are sufficient to
prevent entry into the sewers for maintenance and repair.
      (6)   Petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil, or products of mineral
oil origin, in amounts that will cause interference or pass through.
      (7)   Any substance which may cause the POTW’s effluent or any other
product of the POTW such as residues, sludges, or scums, to be unsuitable for
the reclamation process. In no case, shall a substance discharged to the POTW
cause the POTW to be in noncompliance with sludge use or disposal regulations
or permits issued under Section 405 of the Act; the Solid Waste Disposal Act,
the Clean Air Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, or state criteria
applicable to the sludge management method being used.
      (8)   Any wastewater which imparts color which cannot be removed by the
treatment process, including, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions, which consequently imparts sufficient color to the treatment
plant’s effluent to render the waters injurious to public health or secondary
recreation or to aquatic life and wildlife or to adversely affect the
palatibility of fish or aesthetic quality or impair the receiving waters for
any designated uses.
      (9)   Any wastewater having a temperature greater than 150°F (66°C) or
which will inhibit biological activity in the POTW treatment plant resulting in
interference, but in no case wastewater with the temperature at the
introduction into the POTW to exceed 104°F.
      (10)   Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes
except as specifically approved by the POTW Director in compliance with
applicable state or federal regulations.
      (11)   Any pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors
or fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems.
      (12)   Any trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points
designated by the POTW Director in accordance with §
52.023 of this chapter.
      (13)   Storm water, surface waters ground water, artesian well water,
roof runoff, subsurface drainage, swimming pool drainage, condensate, deionized
water, noncontact cooling water and unpolluted industrial wastewater, unless
specifically authorized by the POTW Director.
      (14)   Fats, oils, or greases of animal or vegetable origin in
concentrations greater than 100 mg/l. (As defined in § 52.002 of this chapter).
      (15)   Any medical wastes, except as specifically authorized by the POTW
Director in a wastewater discharge permit. (As defined in § 52.002 of this
chapter).
      (16)   Any sludges, screenings or other residues from the pretreatment of
industrial wastes.
      (17)   Any material containing ammonia, ammonia salts, or other chelating
agents which will produce metallic complexes that interfere with the municipal
wastewater system.
      (18)   Any material that would be identified as hazardous waste according
to 40 CFR Part 261 if not disposed of in a sewer except as may be specifically
authorized by the POTW Director.
      (19)   Any wastewater causing the treatment plant effluent to violate
State Water Quality Standards for toxic substances as described in 15A NCAC 2B
.0200.
      (20)   Recognizable portions of the human or animal anatomy.
      (21)   Any wastes containing detergents, surface active agents, or other
substances which may cause excessive foaming in the municipal wastewater
system.
      (22)   Wastewater causing, alone or in conjunction with other sources,
the treatment plant’s effluent to fail a toxicity test.
      (23)   At no time, shall two successive readings on an explosion hazard
meter, at the point of discharge into the system (or at any point in the
system) be more than 5% nor any single reading over 10% of the lower explosive
limit (LEL) of the meter.
   (C)   Pollutants, substances, wastewater, or other wastes prohibited by this
section shall not be processed or stored in such a manner that they could be
discharged to the municipal wastewater system. All floor drains located in
process or materials storage areas must discharge to the Industrial User’s
pretreatment facility before connecting with the system.
   (D)   When the POTW Director determines that a User(s) is contributing to
the POTW, any of the above enumerated substances in such amounts which may
cause or contribute to interference of POTW operation or pass through, the POTW
Director shall: 1) advise the User(s) of the potential impact of the
contribution on the POTW in accordance with §
52.085; and 2) take appropriate actions in accordance with §§
52.045 and
52.046 for such User to protect the POTW from interference or pass through.
(Ord. passed 5-6-96; Am. Ord. passed 11-12-96) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.016 NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   Users subject to categorical pretreatment standards are required to comply
with applicable standards as set out in 40 CFR Chapter 1, Subchapter N, Parts
405-471 and incorporated herein.
   (A)   Where a categorical pretreatment standard is expressed only in terms
of either the mass or the concentration of a pollutant in wastewater, the POTW
Director may impose equivalent concentration or mass limits in accordance with
40 CFR 403.6(c).
   (B)   When wastewater subject to a categorical pretreatment standard is
mixed with wastewater not regulated by the same standard, the POTW Director
shall impose an alternate limit using the combined wastestream formula in 40
CFR 403.6(e).
   (C)   A user may obtain a variance from a categorical pretreatment standard
if the User can prove, pursuant to the procedural and substantive provisions in
40 CFR 403.13, that factors relating to its discharge are fundamentally
different from the factors considered by EPA when developing the categorical
pretreatment standard.
   (D)   A User may obtain a net gross adjustment to a categorical standard in
accordance with 40 CFR 403.15.
(Ord. passed 5-6-96) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.017 LOCAL LIMITS.
   (A)   To implement the general and specific discharge prohibitions listed in
this chapter, Industrial User-specific local limits have been developed
ensuring that the POTW’s maximum allowable headworks loading is not exceeded
for particular pollutants of concern for each Industrial User. Where specific
local limits are not contained for a given parameter or pollutant in an
Industrial User permit, the following limits will apply to all Users:
      0.003   mg/l   arsenic
      0.003   mg/l   cadmium
      0.061   mg/l   copper
      0.010   mg/l   cyanide
      0.049   mg/l   lead
      0.0003   mg/l   mercury
      0.021   mg/l   nickel
      0.005   mg/l   silver
      0.025   mg/l   total chromium
      0.175   mg/l   zinc
      16.0   mg/l   nitrogen ammonia
   (B)   Domestic sewage levels for pollutants not listed above shall be
determined by the Director and shall be based on either actually measured local
domestic sewage levels or literature values.
(Ord. passed 5-6-96) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.018 STATE REQUIREMENTS.
   State requirements and limitations on discharges shall apply in any case
where they are more stringent than federal requirements and limitations of
those in this chapter.
(Ord. passed 5-6-96)
§ 52.019 RIGHT OF REVISION.
   The town reserves the right to establish limitations and requirements which
are more stringent than those required by either state or federal regulation.
(Ord. passed 5-6-96)
§ 52.020 DILUTION.
   No User shall ever increase the use of process water or, in any way, attempt
to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in the National
Categorical Pretreatment Standards, or in any other pollutant specific
limitation developed by the town or state.
(Ord. passed 5-6-96) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.021 PRETREATMENT OF WASTEWATER.
   (A)   Pretreatment facilities. Users shall provide wastewater treatment as
necessary to comply with this chapter, and wastewater permits issued under §
52.046 of this chapter and shall achieve compliance with all National
Categorical Pretreatment Standards, local limits, and the prohibitions set out
in §
52.015 of this chapter within the time limitations as specified by EPA, the
state, or the POTW Director, whichever is more stringent. Any facilities
necessary for compliance shall be provided, operated, and maintained at the
User’s expense. Detailed plans showing the pretreatment facilities and
operating procedures shall be submitted to the town for review, and shall be
approved by the POTW Director before construction of the facility. The review
of such plans and operating procedures shall in no way relieve the User from
the responsibility of modifying the facility as necessary to produce an
effluent acceptable to the town under the provisions of this chapter. Any
subsequent changes in in the pretreatment facilities or method of operation
shall be reported to and be approved by the POTW Director prior to the User’s
initiation of the changes.
   (B)   Additional pretreatment measures.
      (1)   Whenever deemed necessary, the POTW Director may require Users to
restrict their discharge during peak flow periods, designate that certain
wastewater be discharged only into specific sewers, relocate and/or consolidate
points of discharge, separate sewage wastestreams from industrial wastestreams,
and such other conditions as may be necessary to protect the POTW and determine
the User’s compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   The POTW Director may require any person discharging into the POTW
to install and maintain, on their property and at their expense, a suitable
storage and flow-control facility to ensure equalization of flow. A wastewater
discharge permit may be issued solely for flow equalization.
      (3)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the POTW Director they are necessary for the proper handling of
wastewater containing excessive amounts of grease and oil, or sand; except that
such interceptors shall not be required for residential Users. All interception
units shall be of type and capacity approved by the POTW Director and shall be
so located to be easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. Such
interceptors shall be inspected, cleaned, and repaired regularly, as needed, by
the User at their expense.
      (4)   Users with the potential to discharge flammable substances may be
required to install and maintain an approved combustible gas detection meter.
(Ord. passed 5-6-96)
§ 52.022 ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE/SLUG CONTROL PLANS.
   At least once every two years, the POTW Director shall evaluate whether each
significant industrial User needs an accidental discharge/slug control plan.
The POTW Director may require any User to develop, submit for approval, and
implement such a plan. Alternatively, the POTW Director may develop such a plan
for any User. An accidental discharge/slug control plan shall address, at a
minimum, the following:
   (A)   Description of discharge practices, including nonroutine batch
discharges;
   (B)   Description of stored chemicals;
   (C)   Procedures for immediately notifying the POTW Director of any
accidental or slug discharge, as required by §
52.060 of this chapter; and
   (D)   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or slug
discharge. Such procedures include, but are not limited to, inspection and
maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and
unloading operations, control of plant site runoff, worker training, building
of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic organic
pollutants, including solvents, and/or measures and equipment for emergency
response.
(Ord. passed 5-6-96)
§ 52.023 HAULED WASTEWATER.
   (A)   Septic tank waste may be introduced into the POTW only at locations
designated by the POTW Director, and at such times as are established by the
POTW Director. Such waste shall not violate §§
52.015 through 52.024 of this chapter or any other requirements established by
the town. The POTW Director may require septic tank waste haulers to obtain
wastewater discharge permits.
   (B)   The POTW Director shall require haulers of industrial waste to obtain
wastewater discharge permits. The POTW Director may require generators of
hauled industrial waste to obtain wastewater discharge permits. The POTW
Director also may prohibit the disposal of hauled industrial waste. The
discharge of hauled industrial waste is subject to all other requirements of
this chapter.
   (C)   Industrial waste haulers may discharge loads only at locations
designated by the POTW Director. No load may be discharged without prior
consent of the POTW Director. The POTW Director may collect samples of each
hauled load to ensure compliance with applicable standards. The POTW Director
may require the industrial waste hauler to provide a waste analysis of any load
prior to discharge.
   (D)   Industrial waste haulers must provide a waste-tracking form for every
load. This form shall include, at a minimum, the name and address of the
industrial waste hauler, permit number, truck identification, names and
addresses of sources of waste, and volume and characteristics of waste. The
form shall identify the type of industry, known or suspected waste
constituents, and whether any wastes are RCRA hazardous wastes.
(Ord. passed 5-6-96)
FEES
§ 52.035 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to provide for the recovery of costs from
Users of the town’s wastewater disposal system for the implementation of the
program established herein. The applicable charges or fees shall be set forth
in the town’s Schedule of Charges and Fees.
(Ord. passed 5-6-96)
§ 52.036 USER CHARGES.
   A User charge shall be levied on all Users including, but not limited to,
persons, firms, corporations or governmental entities that discharge, cause or
permit the discharge of sewage into the POTW.
   (A)   The User charge shall reflect at least the cost of debt service,
operation and maintenance (including replacement) of the POTW.
   (B)   Each User shall pay its proportionate cost based on volume of flow.
   (C)   The Town Manager shall review annually the sewage contributions of
users, the total costs of debt service, operation and maintenance of the POTW
and will make recommendations to the Town Council for adjustments in the
Schedule of Charges and Fees as necessary.
   (D)   Charges for flow to the POTW not directly attributable to the Users
shall be distributed among all Users of the POTW based upon the volume of flow
of the Users.
(Ord. passed 5-6-96)
§ 52.037 SURCHARGES.
   (A)   All Industrial Users of the POTW are subject to industrial waste
surcharges on discharges which exceed the local limits listed for the
following:
      TSS   350 mg/l
      BOD   350 mg/l
      TKN   50 mg/l
      TP      10 mg/l
   (B)   For a list of current charges, see Water and Sewer Fee Schedule in the
latest town budget.
   (C)   The amount of surcharge will be based upon the mass emission rate (in
pounds per day) discharged above the levels listed above. The amount charged
per pound of excess will be set forth in the schedule of charges and fees.
      (1)   The volume of flow used in determining the total discharge of
wastewater for payment of User charges and surcharges shall be based on the
following:
         (a)   Metered water consumption as shown in the records of meter
readings maintained by the town; or
         (b)   If required by the town or at the individual dischargers option,
other flow monitoring devices which measure the actual volume of wastewater
discharged to the sewer. Such devices shall be accessible and safely located,
and the measuring system shall be installed in accordance with plans by the
town. The metering system shall be installed and maintained at the Users
expense according to arrangements that may be made with the town.
         (c)   Where any User procures all or part of his water supply from
sources other than the town, the User shall install and maintain at his own
expense a flow measuring device of a type approved by the town.
      (2)   The character and concentration and constituents of wastewater used
in determining surcharges shall be determined by samples collected and analyzed
by the town. Samples shall be collected in such a manner as to be
representative of the actual discharge and shall be analyzed using procedures
set forth in 40 CFR Part 136.
      (3)   The determination of the character and concentration and
constituents of wastewater discharge by the POTW Director or his duly appointed
representatives shall be binding as a basis for charges.
(Ord. passed 5-6-96; Am. Ord. passed 11-12-96)
§ 52.038 PRETREATMENT PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION CHARGES.
   The Schedule of Charges and Fees adopted by the town may include charges and
fees for:
   (A)   Reimbursement of costs of setting up and operating the Pretreatment
Program;
   (B)   Monitoring, inspections and surveillance procedures;
   (C)   Reviewing slug control plans, including accidental and/or slug load
discharge procedures and construction plans and specifications;
   (D)   Permitting;
   (E)   Other fees as the town may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements of the Pretreatment Program.
(Ord. passed 5-6-96)
WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT APPLICATION AND ISSUANCE
§ 52.045 WASTEWATER DISCHARGERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to connect or discharge to the POTW
without first obtaining the permission of the town. When requested by the POTW
Director, a User must submit information on the nature and characteristics of
its wastewater within 30 days of the request. The POTW Director is authorized
to prepare a form for this purpose and may periodically require users to update
this information.
(Ord. passed 5-6-96) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.046 WASTEWATER PERMITS.
   All Significant Industrial Users shall obtain a Significant Industrial User
Permit prior to the commencement of discharge to the POTW. Existing Industrial
Users who are determined by the POTW Director to be Significant Industrial
Users shall obtain a Significant Industrial User Permit within 180 days of
receiving notification of the POTW Director’s determination. Industrial Users
who do not fit the Significant Industrial User criteria may at the discretion
of the POTW Director be required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit for
Non-Significant Industrial Users.
   (A)   Significant industrial user determination. All persons proposing to
discharge non-domestic wastewater, or proposing to change the volume or
characteristics of an existing discharge of non- domestic wastewater shall
request from the POTW Director a Significant Industrial User determination. If
the POTW Director determines or suspects that the proposed discharge fits the
Significant Industrial User criteria he will require that a Significant
Industrial User permit application be filed.
   (B)   Significant industrial user permit application. Users required to
obtain a Significant Industrial User Permit shall complete and file with the
town, an application in the form prescribed by the POTW Director, and
accompanied by an application fee in the amount prescribed in the Schedule of
Charges and Fees. Significant Industrial Users shall apply for a Significant
Industrial User Permit within 90 days after notification of the POTW Director’s
determination in division (A) of this section. In support of the application,
the User shall submit, in units and terms appropriate for evaluation, the
following information:
      (1)   Name, address, and location, (if different from the address);
      (2)   Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) codes for pretreatment,
the industry as a whole, and any processes for which categorical pretreatment
standards have been promulgated;
      (3)   Analytical data on wastewater constituents and characteristics
including but not limited to those mentioned in §§
52.015 through
52.024 of this chapter, any of the priority pollutants (section 307(a) of the
Act) which the applicant knows or suspects are present in the discharge as
determined by a reliable analytical laboratory, and any other pollutant of
concern to the POTW; sampling and analysis shall be performed in accordance
with procedures established by the EPA pursuant to Section 304(g) of the Act
and contained in 40 CFR, Part 136, as amended;
      (4)   Time and duration of the indirect discharge;
      (5)   Average daily and 30 minute peak wastewater flow rates, including
daily, monthly and seasonal variations if any;
      (6)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans and details
to show all sewers, floor drains, sewer connections, direction of flow and
appurtenances by the size, location and elevation;
      (7)   Description of activities, facilities and plant processes on the
premises including all materials which are or could be discharged;
      (8)   Where known, the nature and concentration of any pollutants in the
discharge which are limited by any town, state, or federal Pretreatment
Standards, and a statement regarding whether or not the pretreatment standards
are being met on a consistent basis and if not, whether additional Operation
and Maintenance (O&M) and/or additional pretreatment is required for the User
to meet applicable pretreatment standards;
      (9)   If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will be required to meet the
Pretreatment Standards; the shortest schedule by which the User will provide
such additional pretreatment. The completion date in this schedule shall not be
longer than the compliance date established for the applicable pretreatment
standard. The following conditions apply to this schedule:
         (a)   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the forms of
dates for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the
construction and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to
meet the applicable pretreatment standards. No increment in the schedule shall
exceed nine months.
         (b)   No later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and
the final date for compliance, the User shall submit a progress report to the
POTW Director including, at a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress, the reason for any delay, and if appropriate, the steps
being taken by the User to return to the established schedule. In no event
shall more than nine months elapse between such progress reports to the POTW
Director.
      (10)   Each product produced by type, amount, process or processes and
rate of production;
      (11)   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum
per day);
      (12)   Number and type of employees, and hours of operation of plant and
proposed or actual hours of operation of pretreatment system;
      (13)   If subject to a categorical standard, a baseline monitoring report
in accordance with 40 CFR 403.12(b) and 15A NCAC 2H .0908(a), as outlined in §
52.055 of this chapter.
      (14)   Any other information as may be deemed by the POTW Director to be
necessary to evaluate the permit application.
   (C)   Application signatories and certification. All wastewater discharge
permit applications and User reports must be signed by an authorized
representative of the User and contain the following certification statement:
      “I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments
were prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system
designed to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the
information submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage
the system, or those persons directly responsible for gathering the
information, the information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and
belief, true, accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant
penalties for submitting false information, including the possibility of fine
and imprisonment for knowing violations.”
   (D)   Application review and evaluation. The POTW Director will evaluate the
data furnished by the User and may require additional information.
      (1)   The POTW Director is authorized to accept applications for the town
and shall refer all applications to the POTW staff for review and evaluation.
      (2)   Within 30 days of receipt the POTW Director shall acknowledge and
accept the complete application; or if not complete, shall return the
application to the applicant with a statement of what additional information is
required.
   (E)   Tentative determination and draft permit.
      (1)   The POTW staff shall conduct a review of the application and an on-
site inspection of the Significant Industrial User, including any pretreatment
facilities, and shall prepare a written evaluation and tentative determination
to issue or deny the Significant Industrial User permit.
      (2)   If the staff’s tentative determination in subsection (1) of this
division is to issue the permit, the following additional determinations shall
be made in writing:
         (a)   Proposed discharge limitations for those pollutants proposed to
be limited;
         (b)   A proposed schedule of compliance, including interim dates and
requirements, for meeting the proposed limitations; and
         (c)   A brief description of any other proposed special conditions
which will have significant impact upon the discharge described in the
application.
      (3)   The staff shall organize the determinations made pursuant to
subsections (1) and (2) of this division and the town’s general permit
conditions into a Significant Industrial User permit.
   (F)   Permit synopsis. A fact sheet providing a brief synopsis of the
application shall be prepared by the POTW staff for submission to the
applicant, the Approval Authority and made available to the public upon
request. The contents of such fact sheets shall include at least the following
information:
      (1)   A sketch and detailed description of the industrial facilities and
pretreatment facilities including the location of all points of discharge to
the POTW and all established compliance monitoring points;
      (2)   A quantitative description of the discharge described in the
application which includes at least the following:
         (a)   The rate or frequency of the proposed discharge; if the
discharge is continuous, the average daily flow;
         (b)   The actual average daily discharge in pounds per day if any
limited pollutant and any pollutant identified in the application as known or
suspected present; and,
         (c)   The basis for the pretreatment limitations including the
documentation of any calculations in applying categorical pretreatment
standards.
   (G)   Final action on significant industrial user permit applications.
      (1)   The POTW Director shall take final action on all applications not
later than 90 days following receipt of a complete application.
      (2)   The Director is authorized to:
         (a)   Issue a Significant Industrial User permit containing such
conditions as are necessary to effectuate the purposes of this chapter and G.S.
§ 143-215.1;
         (b)   Issue a Significant Industrial User permit containing time
schedules for achieving compliance with applicable pretreatment standards and
requirements;
         (c)   Modify any permit upon not less than 60 days notice and pursuant
to §
52.046 of this chapter;
         (d)   Revoke any permit pursuant to §
52.085 of this chapter;
         (e)   Suspend a permit pursuant to §
52.085 of this chapter;
         (f)   Deny a permit application when in the opinion of the POTW
Director such discharge may cause or contribute to pass-through or interference
of the wastewater treatment plant or where necessary to effectuate the purposes
of G.S. § 143-215.1.
   (H)   Hearings.
      (1)   Initial adjudicatory hearings. An applicant whose permit is denied,
or is granted subject to conditions he deems unacceptable, a permittee/User
assessed a civil penalty under §
52.999, or one issued an administrative order under §
52.085 shall have the right to an adjudicatory hearing before a hearing officer
designated by the POTW Director upon making written demand, identifying the
specific issues to be contested, to the POTW Director within 30 days following
receipt of the significant industrial user permit, civil penalty assessment, or
administrative order. Unless such written demand is made within the time
specified herein, the action shall be final and binding. The hearing officer
shall make a final decision on the contested permit, penalty, or order within
45 days of the receipt of the written demand for a hearing. The POTW Director
shall transmit a copy of the hearing officer’s decision by registered or
certified mail.
         (a)   New permits. Upon appeal, including judicial review in the
General Courts of Justice, of the terms or conditions of a newly issued permit,
the terms and conditions of the entire permit are stayed (process no
discharges) and the permit is not in effect until either the conclusion of
judicial review or until the parties reach a mutual resolution.
         (b)   Renewed permits. Upon appeal, including judicial review in the
General Courts of Justice, of the terms or conditions of a renewed permit the
terms and conditions of the existing permit remain in effect until either the
conclusion of judicial review or until the parties reach a mutual resolution.
      (2)   Final appeal hearings. Any decision of a hearing officer made as a
result of adjudicatory hearing held under §
52.046(H)(1) may be appealed, to the Town Council upon filing a written demand
within ten days of receipt of notice of the decision. Hearing held under this
Subdivision shall be conducted in accordance with the Town Sewer Use Ordinance.
Failure to make written demand within the time specified herein shall bar
further appeal. The Town Council shall make a final decision on the appeal
within 90 days of the date the appeal was filed and shall transmit a written
copy of its decision by registered or certified mail.
      (3)   Official record. When a final decision is issued under § 52.0046(H)
(2), the Town Council shall prepare an official record of the case that
includes:
         (a)   All notices, motions, and other like pleadings;
         (b)   A copy of all documentary evidence introduced;
         (c)   A certified transcript of all testimony taken, if testimony is
transcribed. If testimony is taken and not transcribed, then a narrative
summary of any testimony taken.
         (d)   A copy of the final decision of Town Council.
      (4)   Judicial review. Any person against whom a final order or decision
of the Town Council is entered, pursuant to the hearing conducted under §
52.046(H)(2) may seek judicial review of the order or decision, by filing a
written petition within 30 days after receipt of notice by registered or
certified mail of the order or decision, but not thereafter, with the Superior
Court of the County along with a copy to the town. Within 30 days after receipt
of the copy of the petition of judicial review, the Town Council shall transmit
to the reviewing court the original or a certified copy of the official record.
   (I)   Permit modification.
      (1)   (a)   Modifications of permits shall be subject to the same
procedural requirements as the issuance of permits except as follows:
            1.   Changes in the ownership of the discharge when no other change
in the permit is indicated;
            2.   A single modification of any compliance schedule not in excess
of four months;
            3.   Modification of compliance schedules (construction schedules)
in permits for new sources where the new source will not begin to discharge
until control facilities are operational.
         (b)   Any changes or new conditions in the permit shall include a
reasonable time schedule for compliance.
      (2)   Within nine months of the promulgation of a National Categorical
Pretreatment Standard, the Wastewater Discharge Permit of Users subject to such
standards shall be revised to require compliance with such standard within the
time frame prescribed by such standard. Where a User, subject to a National
Categorical Pretreatment Standard, has not previously submitted an application
for a Wastewater Contribution Permit as required by §
52.046(B), the User shall apply for a Wastewater Contribution Permit within 180
days after the promulgation of the Applicable National Categorical Pretreatment
Standard.
      (3)   A request for a modification by the permittee shall constitute a
waiver of the 60 day notice required by G.S. § 143-215.1(b) for modifications.
   (J)   Permit conditions.
      (1)   The POTW Director shall have the authority to grant a permit with
such conditions attached as he believes necessary to achieve the purpose of
this chapter and G.S. § 143-215.1 such conditions shall include but are not
limited to the following:
         (a)   A statement of duration (in no case more than five years);
         (b)   A statement of non-transferability;
         (c)   Applicable effluent limits based on Categorical Standards or
local limits or both;
         (d)   Applicable monitoring, sampling, reporting, notification, and
record keeping requirements. These requirements shall include an identification
of pollutants to be monitored, sampling location, sampling frequency, and
sample type based on federal, state and local law.
         (e)   Notification requirements for slug loads;
         (f)   A statement of applicable civil and criminal penalties for
violation of Pretreatment Standards and Requirements.
      (2)   In addition, permits may contain, but are not limited to, the
following:
         (a)   Limits on the average and/or maximum rate of discharge, and/or
requirements for flow regulation and equalization.
         (b)   Limits on the instantaneous, daily and monthly average and/or
maximum concentration, mass, or other measure of identified wastewater
pollutants or properties.
         (c)   Requirements for the installation of pretreatment technology or
construction of appropriate containment devices, and the like, designed to
reduce, eliminate, or prevent the introduction of pollutants into the treatment
works.
         (d)   Development and implementation of spill control plans or other
special conditions including management practices necessary to adequately
prevent accidental, unanticipated, or non-routine discharges.
         (e)   Development and implementation of waste minimization plans to
reduce the amount of pollutants discharged to the municipal wastewater system.
         (f)   The unit charge or schedule of User charges and fees for the
management of the wastewater discharged to the system.
         (g)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities and equipment.
         (h)   Specifications for monitoring programs which may include
sampling locations, frequency of sampling, number, types, and standards for
tests, and reporting schedules.
         (i)   Requirements for immediate reporting of any instance of
noncompliance and for automatic resampling and reporting within 30 days where
self-monitoring indicates a violation(s).
         (j)   Compliance schedules for meeting pretreatment standards and
requirements.
         (k)   Requirements for submission of periodic self-monitoring or
special notification reports.
         (l)   Requirements for maintaining and retaining plans records
relating to wastewater discharges as specified in §
52.067 and affording the POTW Director, or his representatives, access thereto.
         (m)   Requirements for prior notification and approval by the POTW
Director of any new introduction of wastewater pollutants or of any significant
change in the volume or character of the wastewater prior to introduction in
the system.
         (n)   Requirements for the prior notification and approval by the POTW
Director of any change in the manufacturing and/or pretreatment process used by
the permittee.
         (o)   Requirements for immediate notification of excessive,
accidental, or slug discharges, or any discharge which could cause any problems
to the system.
         (p)   A statement that compliance with the permit does not relieve the
permittee of responsibility for compliance with all applicable federal and
state pretreatment standards, including those which become effective during the
terms of the permit.
         (q)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the Director to ensure
compliance with this chapter, and state and federal laws, rules, and
regulations; the term of the permit.
   (K)   Permits duration. Permits shall be issued for a specified time period,
not to exceed five years. A permit may be issued for a period less than a year
or may be stated to expire on a specific date. The User shall apply for permit
reissuance a minimum of 180 days prior to the expiration of the User’s existing
permit.
   (L)   Permit transfer. Wastewater Discharge Permits are issued to a specific
User for a specific operation. A wastewater discharge permit shall not be
reassigned or transferred or sold to a new owner, new User, different premises,
or a new or changed operation.
   (M)   Permit reissuance. A significant industrial User shall apply for
permit reissuance by submitting a complete permit application in accordance
with §
52.046 a minimum of 180 days prior to the expiration of the existing permit.
(Ord. passed 5-6-96; Am. Ord. passed 11-12-96)
REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
§ 52.055 BASELINE MONITORING REPORTS.
   (A)   Within either 180 days after the effective date of a categorical
pretreatment standard, or the final administrative decision on a category
determination under 40 CFR 403.6(a)(4), whichever is later, existing
categorical Users currently discharging to or scheduled to discharge to the
POTW shall submit to the POTW Director a report which contains the information
listed in division (B) of this section. At least 90 days prior to commencement
of their discharge, new sources, and sources that become categorical Users
subsequent to the promulgation of an applicable categorical standard, shall
submit to the POTW a report which contains the information listed in division
(B) of this section. A new source shall report the method of pretreatment it
intends to use to meet applicable categorical standards. A new source also
shall give estimates of its anticipated flow and quantity of pollutants to be
discharged.
   (B)   Users described above shall submit the information set forth below.
      (1)   Identifying information. The name and address of the facility,
including the name of the operator and owner.
      (2)   Environmental permits. A list of any environmental control permits
held by or for the facility.
      (3)   Description of operations. A brief description of the nature,
average rate of production, and standard industrial classifications of the
operation(s) carried out by such User. This description should include a
schematic process diagram which indicates points of discharge to the POTW from
the regulated processes.
      (4)   Flow measurement. Information showing the measured average daily
and maximum daily flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW from regulated streams
and other streams, as necessary, to allow use of the combined wastestream
formula set out in 40 CFR 403,6(e).
      (5)   Measurement of pollutants.
         (a)   The categorical pretreatment standards applicable to each
regulated process.
         (b)   1.   The results of sampling and analysis identifying nature and
concentration, and/or mass, where required by the standard or by the POTW
Director, of regulated pollutants in the discharge from each regulated process.
            2.   Instantaneous, daily maximum, long-term average
concentrations, or mass, where required, shall be reported. The sample shall be
representative of daily operations and shall be analyzed in accordance with
procedures set out in §
52.064 of this chapter.
         (c)   Sampling must be performed in accordance with procedures set out
in § 52.0546 of this chapter.
      (6)   Certification. A statement, reviewed by the User’s authorized
representative and certified by a qualified professional, indicating whether
pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis, and, if not,
whether additional operation and maintenance (O&M) and/or additional
pretreatment is required to meet the pretreatment standards and requirements.
      (7)   Compliance schedule. If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will be
required to meet the pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the
User will provide such additional pretreatment and/or O&M. The completion date
in this schedule shall not be later than the compliance date established for
the applicable pretreatment standard. A compliance schedule pursuant to this
section must meet the requirements set out in §
52.056 of this chapter.
      (8)   Signature and certification. All baseline monitoring reports must
be signed and certified in accordance with §
52.046(C) of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 5-6-96)
§ 52.056 COMPLIANCE SCHEDULE PROGRESS REPORTS.
   The following conditions shall apply to the compliance schedule required by
§
52.055(B)(7) of this chapter.
   (A)   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of dates
for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction
and operation of additional pretreatment required for the User to meet the
applicable pretreatment standards (such events include, but are not limited to,
hiring an engineer, completing preliminary and final plans, executing contracts
for major components, commencing and completing construction, and beginning and
conducting routine operation);
   (B)   No increment referred to above shall exceed nine months;
   (C)   The User shall submit a progress report to the POTW Director no later
than 14 days following each date in the schedule and the final date of
compliance including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress, the reason for any delay, and, if appropriate the steps
being taken by the User to return to the established schedule; and
   (D)   In no event shall more than nine months elapse between such progress
reports to the POTW Director.
(Ord. passed 5-6-96)
§ 52.057 REPORTS ON COMPLIANCE WITH CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD DEADLINE.
   Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with applicable
categorical pretreatment standards, or in the case of a new source following
commencement of the introduction of wastewater the POTW, any User subject to
such pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to the POTW Director
a report containing the information described in §
52.055(B)(4) through (6) of this chapter. For Users subject to equivalent mass
or concentration limits established in accordance with the procedures in 40 CFR
403.6(c), this report shall contain a reasonable measure of the User’s long-
term production rate. For all other Users subject to categorical pretreatment
standards expressed in terms of allowable pollutant discharge per unit of
production (or other measure of operation), this report shall include the
User’s actual production during the appropriate sampling period. All compliance
reports must be signed and certified in accordance with §
52.046(C) of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 5-6-96)
§ 52.058 PERIODIC COMPLIANCE REPORTS.
   (A)   All Significant Industrial Users shall, at a frequency determined by
the POTW Director but in no case less than twice per year (in June and
December), submit a report indicating the nature and concentration of
pollutants in the discharge which are limited by pretreatment standards and the
flows for the reporting period. All periodic compliance reports must be signed
and certified in accordance with §
52.046(C) of this chapter.
   (B)   All wastewater samples must be representative of the User’s discharge.
Wastewater monitoring and flow measurement facilities shall be properly
operated, kept clean, and maintained in good working order at all times. The
failure of a User to keep its monitoring facility in good working order shall
not be grounds for the User to claim that sample results are unrepresentative
of its discharge.
   (C)   If a User subject to the reporting requirement in this section
monitors any pollutant more frequently than required by the POTW Director,
using the procedures prescribed in §
52.064 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 5-6-96)
§ 52.059 REPORTS OF CHANGED CONDITIONS.
   Each User must notify the POTW Director of any planned significant changes
to the User’s operations or system which might alter the nature, quality, or
volume of its wastewater at least 30 days before the change.
   (A)   The POTW Director may require the User to submit such information as
may be deemed necessary to evaluate the changed condition, including the
submission of a wastewater discharge permit application under §
52.046 of this chapter.
   (B)   The POTW Director may issue a wastewater discharge permit under §
52.046 of this chapter or modify an existing wastewater discharge permit under
§
52.046 of this chapter in response to changed conditions or anticipated changed
conditions.
   (C)   For purposes of this requirement, significant changes include, but are
not limited to, flow increases of 20% or greater, and discharge of any
previously unreported pollutants.
(Ord. passed 5-6-96)
§ 52.060 REPORTS OF POTENTIAL PROBLEMS.
   (A)   In the case of any discharge, including, but not limited to,
accidental discharges, discharges of a nonroutine, episodic nature, a
noncustomary batch discharge, or a slug load, that may cause potential problems
for the POTW, the User shall immediately telephone and notify the POTW Director
of the incident. This notification shall include the location of the discharge,
type of waste, concentration and volume, if known, and corrective actions taken
by the User.
   (B)   Within five days following such discharge, the User shall, unless
waived by the POTW Director, submit a detailed written report describing the
cause(s) of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the User to prevent
similar future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the User of any
expense, loss, damage, or other liability which may be incurred as a result of
damage to the POTW, natural resources, or any other damage to person or
property; nor shall such notification relieve the User of any fines, penalties,
or other liability which may be imposed pursuant to this chapter.
   (C)   A notice shall be permanently posted on the User’s bulletin board or
other prominent place advising employees whom to call in the event of a
discharge described in division (A) of this section. Employers shall ensure
that all employees, who may cause such a discharge to occur, are advised of the
emergency notification procedure.
(Ord. passed 5-6-96)
§ 52.061 REPORTS FROM UNPERMITTED USERS.
   All Users not required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit shall provide
appropriate reports to the POTW Director as the POTW Director may require.
(Ord. passed 5-6-96)
§ 52.062 NOTICE OF VIOLATION/REPEAT SAMPLING AND REPORTING.
   If sampling performed by a User indicates a violation, the User must notify
the POTW Director within 24 hours of becoming aware of the violation. The User
shall also repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the results of the
repeat analysis to the POTW Director within 30 days after becoming aware of the
violation. The User is not required to resample if the POTW Director monitors
at the User’s facility at least once a month, or if the POTW Director samples
between the User’s initial sampling and when the User receives the results of
this sampling.
(Ord. passed 5-6-96)
§ 52.063 NOTIFICATION OF THE DISCHARGE OF HAZARDOUS WASTE.
   (A)   Any User who commences the discharge of hazardous waste shall notify
the POTW, the EPA Regional Waste Management Division Director, and state
hazardous waste authorities, in writing, of any discharge into the POTW of a
substance which, if otherwise disposed of, would be a hazardous waste under 40
CFR Part 261. Such notification must include the name of the hazardous waste as
set forth in 40 CFR Part 261, the EPA hazardous waste number, and the type of
discharge (continuous, batch, or other). If the User discharges more than 100
kilograms of such waste per calendar month to the POTW, the notification also
shall contain the following information to the extent such information is known
and readily available to the User: an identification of the hazardous
constituents contained in the wastes, an estimation of the mass and
concentration of such constituents in the wastestream discharge during the
calendar month, and an estimation of the mass of constituents in the
wastestream expected to be discharged during the following 12 months. All
notifications must take place no later than 180 days after the discharge
commences. Any notification under this division need be submitted under §
52.059 of this chapter. The notification requirement in this section does not
apply to pollutants already reported by Users subject to categorical
pretreatment standards under the self-monitoring requirements of §§
52.055,
52.057, and
52.058 of this chapter.
   (B)   Discharges are exempt from the requirements of division (A) of this
section, during a calendar month in which they discharge no more than 15
kilograms of hazardous wastes unless the wastes are acute hazardous wastes as
specific in 40 CFR 261.30(d) and 261.33(e). Discharge of more than 15 kilograms
of nonacute hazardous wastes in a calendar month, or of any quantity of acute
hazardous wastes as specified in 40 CFR 261.30(d) and 261.33(e), requires a
one-time notification. Subsequent months during which the User discharges more
than such quantities of any hazardous waste do not require additional
notification.
   (C)   In the case of any new regulation under section 3001 of RCRA
identifying additional characteristics of hazardous waste or listing any
additional characteristics of hazardous waste or listing any additional
substance as a hazardous waste, the User must notify the POTW Director, the EPA
Regional Waste Management Waste Division Director, and state hazardous waste
authorities of the discharge of such substance within 90 days of the effective
date of such regulations.
   (D)   In the case of any notification made under this section, the User
shall certify that it has a program in place to reduce the volume and toxicity
of hazardous wastes generated to the degree it has determined to be
economically practical.
   (E)   This provision does not create a right to discharge any substance not
otherwise permitted to be discharged by this chapter, a permit issued
thereunder, or any applicable federal or state law.
(Ord. passed 5-6-96)
§ 52.064 ANALYTICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   All pollutant analyses, including sampling techniques, to be submitted as
part of a wastewater discharge permit application or report shall be performed
in accordance with the techniques prescribed in 40 CFR Part 136, unless
otherwise specified in an applicable categorical pretreatment standard. If 40
CFR Part 136 does not contain sampling or analytical techniques for the
pollutant in question, sampling and analyses must be performed in accordance
with procedures approved by EPA.
(Ord. passed 5-6-96)
§ 52.065 SAMPLE COLLECTION.
   (A)   Except as indicated in division (B) of this section, the User must
collect wastewater samples using flow proportional composite collection
techniques. In the event flow proportional sampling is infeasible, the POTW
Director may authorize the use of time proportional sampling or a minimum of
four grab samples where the User demonstrates that this will provide a
representative sample of the effluent being discharged. In addition, grab
samples may be required to show compliance with instantaneous discharge limits.
   (B)   Samples for oil and grease, temperature, pH, cyanide, phenols,
sulfides, and volatile organic compounds must be obtained using grab collection
techniques.
   (C)   Samples collected for analyses by Industrial Users must be submitted
to a state certified laboratory.
(Ord. passed 5-6-96)
§ 52.066 TIMING.
   Written reports will be deemed to have been submitted on the date
postmarked. For reports which are not mailed, postage prepaid, into a mail
facility serviced by the United States Postal Service the date of receipt of
the report shall govern.
(Ord. passed 5-6-96)
§ 52.067 RECORD KEEPING.
   Users subject to the reporting requirements of this chapter shall retain,
and make available for inspection and copying, all records of information
obtained pursuant to any monitoring activities required by this chapter and any
additional records of information obtained pursuant to monitoring activities
undertaken by the User independent of such requirements. Records shall include
the date, exact place, method, and time of sampling, and the name of the person
(s) taking the samples: the dates analyses were performed; who performed the
analyses; the analytical techniques or methods used; and the results of such
analyses. These records shall remain available for a period of at least three
years. This period shall be automatically extended for the duration of any
litigation concerning the User or the town, or where the User has been
specifically notified of a longer retention period by the POTW Director.
(Ord. passed 5-6-96)
MONITORING AND INSPECTION
§ 52.075 MONITORING FACILITIES.
   (A)   The town requires the User to provide and operate at the User’s own
expense, monitoring facilities to allow inspection, sampling, and flow
measurement of the building sewer and/or internal drainage systems. The
monitoring facility should normally be situated on the User’s premises, but the
town may, when such a location would be impractical or cause undue hardship on
the User, allow the facility to be constructed in the public street or sidewalk
area and located so that it will not be obstructed by landscaping or parked
vehicles.
   (B)   There shall be ample room in or near such sampling manhole or facility
to allow accurate sampling and preparation of samples for analysis. The
facility, sampling, and measuring equipment shall be maintained at all times in
a safe and proper operating condition at the expense of the User.
   (C)   Whether constructed on public or private property, the sampling and
monitoring facilities shall be provided in accordance with the town’s
requirements and all applicable local construction standards and
specifications. Construction shall be completed within 90 days following
written notification by the town.
(Ord. passed 5-6-96)
§ 52.076 INSPECTION AND SAMPLING.
   The town will inspect the facilities of any User to ascertain whether the
purpose of this chapter is being met and all requirements are being complied
with. Persons or occupants of premises where wastewater is created or
discharged shall allow the town, approval authority and EPA or their
representative ready access at all reasonable times to all parts of the
premises for the purposes of inspection sampling, records examination or in the
performance of any of their duties. The town, approval authority, and EPA shall
have the right to set up on the User’s property such devices as are necessary
to conduct sampling inspection, compliance monitoring and/or metering
operations. Where a User has security measures in force which would require
proper identification and clearance before entry into their premises, the User
shall make necessary arrangements with their security guards so that upon
presentation of suitable identification, personnel from the town, approval
authority, and EPA will be permitted to enter, without delay, for the purposes
of performing their specific responsibilities. Denial of the POTW Director’s
approval authority’s or EPA’s access to the User’s premises shall be a
violation of this chapter. Unreasonable delays may constitute denial of access.
(Ord. passed 5-6-96)
§ 52.077 SEARCH WARRANTS.
   If the POTW Director, approval authority or EPA has been refused access to a
building, structure, or property, or any part thereof, and is able to
demonstrate probable cause to believe that there may be violation of this
chapter, or that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine
inspection and sampling program of the town designed to verify compliance with
this chapter or any permit or order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall
public health, safety and welfare of the community, then the POTW Director,
approval authority, or EPA may seek issuance of a search warrant from the
Alexander County’s Magistrates Office.
(Ord. passed 5-6-96)
§ 52.078 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   Information and data on a User obtained from reports, questionnaires,
permit applications, permits and monitoring programs and from inspections shall
be available to the public or other governmental agency without restriction
unless the User specifically requests and is able to demonstrate to the
satisfaction of the POTW Director that the release of such information would
divulge information, processes or methods of production entitled to protection
as trade secrets of the User. Any such request must be asserted at the time of
submission of the information or data.
   (B)   When requested by the person furnishing a report, the portions of a
report which might disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made
available for inspection by the public but shall be made available upon written
request to governmental agencies for uses related to this chapter, the National
Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit, State Disposal System
permit and/or the Pretreatment Programs; provided, however, that such portions
of a report shall be available for use by the state or any state agency in
judicial review or enforcement proceedings involving the person furnishing the
report. Wastewater constituents and characteristics will not be recognized as
confidential information.
   (C)   All records relating to compliance with Pretreatment Standards shall
be made available to officials of the approval authority and EPA upon request.
(Ord. passed 5-6-96)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 52.085 ADMINISTRATIVE REMEDIES.
   (A)   Notification of violation. Whenever the POTW Director finds that any
Industrial User has violated or is violating this chapter, wastewater
contributor permit, or any prohibition, limitation or requirements contained
therein, the POTW Director may serve upon such a person a written notice
stating the nature of the violation. Within 30 days from the date of this
notice, a plan for the satisfactory correction thereof shall be submitted to
the town by the User. Submission of this plan does not relieve the discharger
of liability for any violations occurring before or after receipt of the Notice
of Violation.
   (B)   Consent orders. The POTW Director is hereby empowered to enter into
Consent Orders, Assurances of Voluntary Compliance, or other similar documents
establishing an agreement with the person responsible for the noncompliance.
Such orders will include specific action to be taken by the discharger to
correct the noncompliance within a time period also specified by the order.
Consent Orders shall have the same force and effect as an Administrative Order
issued pursuant to §
52.085(D) of this section.
   (C)   Show cause hearing.
      (1)   The POTW Director may order any Industrial User who causes or is
responsible for an unauthorized discharge, has violated this chapter or is in
noncompliance with a wastewater contributor permit to show cause why a proposed
enforcement action should not be taken. In the event the POTW Director
determines that a show cause order should be issued, a notice shall be served
on the User specifying the time and place for the hearing, the proposed
enforcement action, the reasons for such action, and a request that the User
show cause why this proposed enforcement action should not be taken. The notice
of the hearing shall be served personally or by registered or certified mail
(return receipt requested) at least ten days before the hearing. Service may be
made on any agent or officer of a corporation.
      (2)   The POTW Director shall review the evidence presented at the
hearing and determine whether the proposed enforcement action is appropriate.
      (3)   A show cause hearing under this section is not a prerequisite to
the assessment of a civil penalty under §
52.999 nor is any action or inaction taken by the POTW under this section
subject to an administrative appeal under §
52.046(H).
   (D)   Administrative orders. When the POTW Director finds that discharge
violates the prohibitions or effluent limitations of this chapter, or those
contained in any permit issued hereunder, the POTW Director may issue an order
to cease and desist, and direct those persons in noncompliance to do any of the
following:
      (1)   Comply forthwith.
      (2)   Comply in accordance with a compliance time schedule set forth in
the order.
      (3)   Take appropriate remedial or preventative action in the event of a
continuing or threatened violation.
      (4)   Disconnect unless adequate treatment facilities, devices or other
related appurtenances are installed and properly operated within a specified
time period.
   (E)   Emergency suspensions.
      (1)   The POTW Director may suspend the wastewater treatment service and/
or wastewater permit when such suspension is necessary in order to stop an
actual or threatened discharge which presents or may present an imminent or
substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons or the
environment, interferes with the POTW or causes the POTW to violate any
condition of its NPDES permit including nondischarge permit.
      (2)   Any User notified of a suspension of the wastewater treatment
service and/or the wastewater permit shall immediately stop or eliminate the
contribution. A hearing will be held within 15 days of the Notice of Suspension
to determine whether the suspension may be lifted or the User’s waste discharge
permit terminated. In the event of a failure of the person to comply
voluntarily with the suspension order, the POTW Director shall take such steps
as deemed necessary including immediate severance of the sewer connection, to
prevent or minimize damage to the POTW system or endangerment to any
individuals. The POTW Director shall reinstate the wastewater permit and the
wastewater treatment service upon proof of the elimination of the noncompliant
discharge. The Industrial User shall submit a detailed written statement
describing the causes of the harmful contribution and the measures taken to
prevent any future occurrence to the POTW Director prior to the date of the
above-described hearing.
   (F)   Termination of permit.
      (1)   Any User who violates the following conditions of this chapter, or
applicable state and federal regulations, is subject to having its permit
terminated:
         (a)   Failure to factually report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of his discharge;
         (b)   Failure to report significant changes in operations, or
wastewater constituents and characteristics;
         (c)   Refusal of reasonable access to the User’s premises for the
purpose of inspection or monitoring; or
         (d)   Violation of conditions of the permit.
      (2)   Noncompliant Industrial Users will be notified of the proposed
termination of their wastewater permit and will be offered an opportunity to
show cause under §
52.085 of this chapter why the proposed action should not be taken.
(Ord. passed 5-6-96; Am. Ord. passed 11-12-96)
§ 52.086 OTHER AVAILABLE REMEDIES.
   Remedies, in addition to those previously mentioned in this chapter, are
available to the POTW Director who may use any single one or combination
against a noncompliant User. Additional available remedies include, but are not
limited to:
   (A)   Criminal violations. The District Attorney for the Town Judicial
District may, at the request of the town, prosecute noncompliant Users who
violate the provisions of G.S. § 143-2l5.6B.
   (B)   Injunctive relief. Whenever an Industrial User is in violation of the
provisions of this chapter or an order or permit issued hereunder, the POTW
Director, through the Town Attorney, may petition the Superior Court of Justice
for the issuance of a restraining order or a preliminary and permanent
injunction, which restrains or compels the activities in question.
   (C)   Water Supply Severance. Whenever an Industrial User is in violation of
the provisions of this Ordinance or an order or permit issued hereunder, water
service to the Industrial User may be severed and service will only recommence,
at the User’s expense, after it has satisfactorily demonstrated ability to
comply.
   (D)   Public nuisance.
      (1)   Any violation of the prohibitions or effluent limitations of this
chapter or contained in a permit or order issued hereunder, is hereby declared
a public nuisance and shall be corrected or abated as directed by the POTW
Director.
      (2)   Any person(s) creating a public nuisance shall be subject to the
provisions of the Town Sewer Use Ordinance governing such nuisances including
reimbursing the POTW for any costs incurred in removing, abating or remedying
the nuisance.
(Ord. passed 5-6-96)
§ 52.082 REMEDIES NONEXCLUSIVE.
   The remedies provided for in this chapter are not exclusive. The POTW
Director may take any, all, or any combination of these actions against a
noncompliant User. Enforcement of pretreatment violations will generally be in
accordance with the town’s enforcement response plan. However, the POTW
Director may take other action against any User when the circumstances warrant.
Further, the POTW Director is empowered to take more than one enforcement
action against any noncompliant User.
(Ord. passed 5-6-96)
§ 52.083 ANNUAL PUBLICATION OF SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE.
   At least annually, the POTW Director shall publish in the largest daily
newspaper circulated in the service area, a list of those Industrial Users
which were found to be in significant noncompliance, also referred to as
reportable noncompliance in 15A NCAC 2H .0903(b)(10), with applicable
pretreatment standards and requirements, during the previous 12 months.
(Ord. passed 5-6-96)
AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES TO DISCHARGE VIOLATIONS
§ 52.095 UPSET.
   (A)   An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an action brought
for noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards if the requirements
of division (B) of this section are met.
   (B)   A User who wishes to establish the affirmative defense of upset shall
demonstrate, through properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs, or other
relevant evidence that;
      (1)   An upset occurred and the User can identify the cause(s) of the
upset;
      (2)   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
workman-like manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures; and
      (3)   The User has submitted the following information to the POTW
Director within 24 hours of becoming aware of the upset. A written submission
must be provided within five days following the oral report of upset:
         (a)   A description of the indirect discharge and cause of
noncompliance;
         (b)   The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times or,
if not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to
continue; and
         (c)   Steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate, and
prevent recurrence of the noncompliance.
   (C)   In any enforcement proceeding, the User seeking to establish the
occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof.
   (D)   Users will have the opportunity for a judicial determination on any
claim of upset only in an enforcement action brought for noncompliance with
categorical pretreatment standards.
   (E)   Users shall control production of all discharges to the extent
necessary to maintain compliance with categorical pretreatment standards upon
reduction, loss, or failure of its treatment facility until the facility is
restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement
applies in the situation where, among other things, the primary source of power
of the treatment facility is reduced, lost, or fails.
(Ord. passed 5-6-96)
§ 52.096 PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS DEFENSE.
   A User shall have an affirmative defense to an enforcement action brought
against it for noncompliance with the general prohibitions in §
52.015(A) of this chapter or the specific prohibitions in §
52.015(B)(2), (6), (4), (9), and (11) of this chapter if it can prove that it
did not know, or have reason to know, that its discharge, alone or in
conjunction with discharges from other sources, would cause pass through or
interference and that either;
   (A)   A local limit exists for each pollutant discharged and the User was in
compliance with each limit directly prior to, and during the pass through or
interference; or
   (B)   No local limit exists, but the discharge did not change substantially
in nature or constituents from the User’s prior discharge when the town was
regularly in compliance with its NPDES permit, and in the case of interference,
was in compliance with applicable sludge use or disposal requirements.
(Ord. passed 5-6-96)
§ 52.097 BYPASS.
   (A)   A User may allow any bypass to occur which does not cause pretreatment
standards or requirements to be violated, but only if it also is for essential
maintenance to assure efficient operation. These bypasses are not subject to
the provision of divisions (B) and (C) of this section.
      (1)   If a User knows in advance of the need for a bypass, it shall
submit prior notice to the POTW Director at least ten days before the date of
the bypass, if possible.
      (2)   A User shall submit oral notice to the POTW Director of an
unanticipated by pass that exceeds applicable pretreatment standards within 24
hours from the time it becomes aware of the bypass. A written submission shall
also be provided within five days of this time the User becomes aware of the
bypass. The written submission shall contain a description of the bypass and
its cause; the duration of the bypass, including exact dates and times, and, if
the bypass has not been corrected, the anticipated time it is expected to
continue; and steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate, and prevent
reoccurrence of the bypass. The POTW Director may waive the written report on a
case-by- case basis if the oral report has been received within 24 hours.
   (C)   (1)   Bypass is prohibited, and the POTW Director may take an
enforcement action against a User for a bypass, unless,
         (a)   Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury,
or severe property damage;
         (b)   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the
use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes, or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate back-up equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventive maintenance; and
         (c)   The User submitted notices as required under division (B) of
this section.
      (2)   The POTW Director may approve an anticipated bypass, after
considering its adverse effects, if the POTW Director determines that it will
meet the three conditions listed in division (C)(1) of this section.
(Ord. passed 5-6-96)
SEVERABILITY AND CONFLICT
§ 52.105 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision, paragraph, word, section or subchapter of this chapter is
invalidated by any court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining provisions,
paragraphs, words, sections, and chapters shall not be affected and shall
continue in full force and effect.
(Ord. passed 5-6-96)
§ 52.106 CONFLICT.
   All other ordinances and parts of other ordinances inconsistent or
conflicting with any part of this chapter are hereby repealed to the extent of
such inconsistency or conflict.
(Ord. passed 5-6-96)
§ 52.999 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any User who is found to have failed to comply with any provision of
this chapter, or the orders, rules, regulations and permits issued hereunder,
may be fined up to $10,000 per day per violation.
   (B)   In determining the amount of the civil penalty, the POTW Director
shall consider the following:
      (1)   The degree and extent of the harm to the natural resources, to the
public health, or to public or private property resulting from the violation;
      (2)   The duration and gravity of the violation;
      (3)   The effect on ground or surface water quantity or quality or on air
quality;
      (4)   The cost of rectifying the damage;
      (5)   The amount of money saved by noncompliance;
      (6)   Whether the violation was committed willfully or intentionally;
      (7)   The prior record of the violator in complying or failing to comply
with the pretreatment program;
      (8)   The costs of enforcement to the town.
   (C)   Appeals of civil penalties assessed in accordance with this section
shall be as provided in §
52.046(H).
(Ord. passed 5-6-96)
CHAPTER 53: WATER CONSERVATION REGULATIONS
Section
   
53.01   Purpose
   
53.02   Stage I (Voluntary Conservation)
   
53.03   Stage II (Mandatory Conservation)
   
53.04   Stage III (Emergency Restrictions)
   
53.05   Stage IV (Water Rationing)
   
53.06   Enforcement
 
   
53.99   Penalty
§ 53.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish procedures for the conservation
of water by utility customers of the town during times of drought and other
natural or man-made events that negatively impact the town’s water supply.
(Ord. passed 8-16-02)
§ 53.02 STAGE I (VOLUNTARY CONSERVATION).
   (A)   The Mayor or Town Manager is authorized to implement Stage I
(Voluntary Conservation) when the town’s water supply situation deems
necessary. The Mayor or Town Manager is further authorized to terminate Stage I
(Voluntary Conservation) based upon a change in the town’s water supply
situation. The order to implement or to terminate Stage I (Voluntary
Conservation) shall be made by public announcement, shall be published at least
one time in a newspaper of general circulation in the town, and shall be
forwarded to each member of the own Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   The order of the Mayor or Town Manager under this section shall:
      (1)   Issue a water shortage advisory to the public.
      (2)   Inform the public of the potential water shortage.
      (3)   Request customers to practice voluntary water conservation.
(Ord. passed 8-16-02) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.03 STAGE II (MANDATORY CONSERVATION).
   (A)   The Mayor or Town Manager is authorized to implement Stage II
(Mandatory Conservation) when the town’s water supply situation deems
necessary. The Mayor or Town Manager is further authorized to terminate Stage
II (Mandatory Conservation) based upon a change in the town’s water supply
situation. The order to implement or to terminate Stage II (Mandatory
Conservation) shall be made by public announcement, shall be published at least
one time in a newspaper of general circulation in the Town, and shall be
forwarded to each member of the Town Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   The order of the Mayor or Town Manager under this section shall:
      (1)   Issue a water shortage alert to the public.
      (2)   Inform the public of the water shortage.
      (3)   Establish water conservation goals.
      (4)   Ban all non-essential water use, including:
         (a)   Watering of lawns, shrubs, trees, ornamental plants, etc. except
by use of hand held containers, including a watering can or bucket.
         (b)   Washing of outside areas such as driveways, carports,
outbuildings, etc.
         (c)   Residential washing of vehicles including RVs and ATVs.
         (d)   Filling of pools of any size or type, including “kiddie” pools.
         (e)   Operation of ornamental pools, ponds, or fountains.
         (f)   Taking water from a hydrant for any reason other than fire
protection.
      (5)   Assist commercial and industrial users in identifying methods to
conserve as much water as possible.
      (6)   Require all bulk water customers to implement mandatory water
conservation policies.
(Ord. passed 8-16-02) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.04 STAGE III (EMERGENCY RESTRICTIONS).
   (A)   The Mayor or Town Manager is authorized to implement Stage III
(Emergency Restrictions) when the town’s water supply situation deems
necessary. The Mayor or Town Manager is further authorized to terminate Stage
III (Emergency Restrictions) based upon a change in the town’s water supply
situation. The order to implement or to terminate Stage III (Emergency
Restrictions) shall be made by public announcement, shall be published at least
one time in a newspaper of general circulation in the town, and shall be
forwarded to each member of the Town Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   The order of the Mayor or Town Manager under this section shall:
      (1)   Issue water shortage emergency statement to the public.
      (2)   Inform the public of a water emergency.
      (3)   Set aggressive water conservation goals.
      (4)   Ban all non-essential water use as defined in §
53.03.
      (5)   Monitor all water related activities, especially with compliance
and bans.
      (6)   Require all commercial and industrial users to identify methods to
conserve as much water as possible.
      (7)   Require all bulk water customers to implement emergency water
restrictions.
(Ord. passed 8-16-02) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.05 STAGE IV (WATER RATIONING).
   (A)   The Mayor or Town Manager is authorized to implement Stage IV (Water
Rationing) when the town’s water supply situation deems necessary. The Mayor or
Town Manager is further authorized to terminate Stage IV (Water Rationing)
based upon a change in the town’s water supply situation. The order to
implement or to terminate Stage IV (Water Rationing) shall be made by public
announcement, shall be published at least one time in a newspaper of general
circulation in the town, and shall be forwarded to each member of the Town
Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   The order of the Mayor or Town Manager under this section shall:
      (1)   Alert the public of water rationing.
      (2)   Inform the public of a state of water emergency.
      (3)   Ban all non-essential water use as defined in §
53.03.
      (4)   Begin mandatory allocation of water, which may include temporary
disconnection of water to non-residential users.
      (5)   Immediately reduce water usage by at least 25%.
      (6)   Require all bulk water customers to implement water rationing
policies.
(Ord. passed 8-16-02) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.06 ENFORCEMENT.
   All elected officials and departments of the town shall monitor and report
all violations of this section to the Town Manager or Director of Public Works.
The Town Manager or Director of Public Works shall enforce penalties as defined
in §
53.99.
(Ord. passed 8-16-02) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   A person who knowingly or intentionally violates or causes the violation of
any restriction or prohibition on the use of water or related activities
contained in the following stages of water conservation orders shall be
punished as shown for each stage:
   (A)   Stage I (Voluntary Conservation) - No penalty.
   (B)   Stage II (Mandatory Conservation) - Warning for first violation; $100
fine for second violation; additional $200 fine for each violation over three.
   (C)   Stage III (Emergency Restrictions) - $100 fine for first violation;
$200 fine for second violation; additional $300 fine for each violation over
three.
   (D)   Stage IV (Water Rationing) - $300 fine for first violation; $400 fine
for second violation; additional $500 for each violation over three.
(Ord. passed 8-16-02)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
71.   STOPPING, STANDING, AND PARKING
      
72.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
73.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
70.01   State traffic laws adopted
   
70.02   Obedience to traffic-control devices
   
70.03   Avoidance of traffic-control devices
   
70.04   Left turns
   
70.05   Traffic signal lights
   
70.06   Sounding of horns
   
70.07   Pedestrian crossings
   
70.08   Yield to Fire Department vehicles
   
70.09   Obedience to orders of police officers
   
70.10   Skateboards
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 STATE TRAFFIC LAWS ADOPTED.
   All North Carolina Motor Vehicle laws, rules, and regulations, as set forth
in G.S. Ch. 20, and this chapter, are hereby adopted by the Board of
Commissioners of the town for streets and highways under the jurisdiction of
the town.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 70.02 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   All pedestrians and drivers of motor vehicles upon the streets of the town
shall at all times obey all traffic signs, and at all times promptly obey all
directions of any police officer.
(Ord. 18.2, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 AVOIDANCE OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   No vehicle shall make a “U”-turn on intersections controlled by stop
lights, or in an intersection marked No “U”-turn.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a motor vehicle to drive or cut
through the driveway, parking area, or parking lot of any business or residence
in order to avoid a traffic-control device to reach or enter another street.
(Ord. 18.2, passed - - ; Am. Ord. passed - - ) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04 LEFT TURNS.
   Drivers intending to turn to the left at an intersection shall approach such
intersection nearest to the center of the street or highway, and in turning
shall pass beyond the center of the intersection, passing as closely as
practical to the right thereof before turning such vehicle to the left.
(Ord. 18.2, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 TRAFFIC SIGNAL LIGHTS.
   Drivers of vehicles approaching an intersection at which a signal light is
located shall, when the light is showing “caution” indicated by a yellow light,
or when the light is showing “danger” indicated by a red light, bring the
vehicle to a stop and remain standing until the light shows “clear”, indicated
by the green light. The driver of a vehicle shall not at any time drive through
or over a safety zone when a danger or caution light is showing. The “caution”
or yellow light is intended to allow vehicles already in the intersection to
move forward or clear out while same is showing.
(Ord. 18.2, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.06 SOUNDING OF HORNS.
   No person shall sound any horn or signal device on any automobile, bus, or
other vehicle except as a danger signal, and the sounding of such horn or
signal device for any period of time longer than is necessary for a danger
signal is hereby prohibited.
(Ord. 18.2, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.07 PEDESTRIAN CROSSINGS.
   (A)   No person shall stop any vehicle on any footway or pedestrian aisle,
safety zone, or other street crossing. For the purpose of this division (A),
SAFETY ZONE shall mean and be construed as the area or space set aside within
the intersection of a street or highway for the exclusive use of pedestrians
and which is marked or indicated by parallel lines.
   (B)   Pedestrians in a crosswalk shall have the right-of-way over motor
vehicles. When approaching a crosswalk, the driver of every motor vehicle shall
slow or stop his motor vehicle in order to yield the right-of-way to any person
or persons in the crosswalk. For the purpose of this division (B), CROSSWALK
shall mean and be construed as the area or space set aside on a street for the
exclusive use of pedestrians and which is marked or indicated by short diagonal
lines within the parallel lines.
(Ord. 18.2, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.08 YIELD TO FIRE DEPARTMENT VEHICLES.
   (A)   The driver of any motor vehicle other than one on official business
shall not follow any fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire alarm
closer than 500 feet, or drive into or park such vehicle within the block where
fire apparatus has stopped in answer to a fire alarm.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of the Fire
Department when laid down on any street, private driveway, or otherwise, to be
used at any fire or alarm of fire, without the consent of the Fire Department
official in command.
(Ord. 18.2, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.09 OBEDIENCE TO ORDERS OF POLICE OFFICERS.
   It shall be the duty of the police officers to clear all congested areas on
sidewalks or in the streets. All pedestrians and drivers of motor vehicles
shall promptly obey the orders of the police officers when called upon to move
where congestion of either traffic in the streets or pedestrians on the
sidewalks exists.
(Ord. 18.2, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.10 SKATEBOARDS.
   Provisions concerning the skateboard ordinance for the property of Ralph
Lowthrophe in the alley way and parking lot behind old Smithey's building are
adopted by reference from the Town Board Meeting of January 7, 1997.
(Ord. passed 1-7-97)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever shall violate any provision of this traffic code for which no
penalty is otherwise provided shall be responsible for an infraction and shall
be required to pay a fine not to exceed $50. Each day that any of the
provisions of this traffic code are violated shall constitute a separate
offense.
(G.S. § 14-4(b))
CHAPTER 71: STOPPING, STANDING, AND PARKING
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Parking prohibited in certain situations
   
71.02   Obedience to no parking signs; unlawful to deface
   
71.03   Parking in fire lane prohibited
   
71.04   Handicapped parking
Parking in Downtown Business District
   
71.20   Marked spaces
   
71.21   Legal manner of parking
   
71.22   Violations
Parking Regulations on Private Property
   
71.40   Written request for regulations
   
71.41   Application
   
71.42   Cost of signs
   
71.43   Regulations adopted
   
71.44   Enforcement
 
   
71.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01 PARKING PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN SITUATIONS.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be parked or left standing on any sidewalk.
   (B)   No person shall park or leave standing any vehicle upon any street
which is marked off with lines indicating the parking spaces for vehicles,
except that such vehicle be parked entirely within the parking lines.
   (C)   No person shall double-park at any time and at any place in the town,
provided that this section shall not prevent buses and trucks from loading and
unloading, and at such times such buses and trucks shall park parallel to the
curb.
   (D)   No person shall park or leave standing any truck, tractor, trailer,
semi-trailer, or other vehicle of such dimension as to extend into the traffic
lane, whether attended or unattended, upon Main Street, extending from and
including the Main Avenue Drive NE, provided that this section shall not
prevent buses and trucks from loading and unloading, and at times such buses
and trucks shall park parallel to the curb.
(Ord. 18.2, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 OBEDIENCE TO NO PARKING SIGNS; UNLAWFUL TO DEFACE.
   (A)   Whenever authorized signs or markings are placed, erected, or
installed on the public streets, sidewalks, or alleyways in the town indicating
no parking zones or safety zones, no driver of a motor vehicle shall disobey
the regulations in connection therewith.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or cause to be placed, to
remove or cause to be removed, or deface or obliterate any “No Parking” sign on
the public streets, sidewalks, or alleyways in the town, unless the placing or
removal of such sign has been authorized by the Town Board or the North
Carolina Department of Transportation.
(Ord. 10.5, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 PARKING IN FIRE LANE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall park a vehicle or permit it to stand, whether attended or
unattended, upon any public vehicular area, street, highway, or roadway in any
area designated as a fire lane. This section includes a prohibition of parking
in designated fire lanes in a shopping center or mall parking lots and all
other public vehicular areas. However, persons loading or unloading supplies or
merchandise may park temporarily in a fire lane located in a shopping center or
mall parking lot as long as the vehicle is not left unattended.
(Ord. 10.13, passed 2-5-91) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 HANDICAPPED PARKING.
   (A)   No person shall park a vehicle or permit it to stand, whether attended
or unattended, upon any public vehicular area, street, highway, or roadway in
any area designated as a handicapped parking space. Provided however, persons
may park in such designated parking spaces if they are handicapped as defined
by G.S. § 20-37.5 or transporting a person who is visually impaired as defined
by G.S. § 111-11.
   (B)   The designation of parking spaces for the physically handicapped and
the visually impaired on streets and other areas, including public vehicular
areas specified in G.S. § 20-4.01(32) shall be by the use of sign R7-8 for
multiple parking spaces as shown in the manual on Uniform Traffic Control
Devices, or sign R7-8A for single parking spaces as shown in the Department of
Transportation Supplement to the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices.
(Ord. 10.14, passed 2-5-91) Penalty, see §
71.99
PARKING IN DOWNTOWN BUSINESS DISTRICT
§ 71.20 MARKED SPACES.
   The Mayor or his representative is hereby directed and authorized to mark
off individual parking spaces in the parking zones of the Downtown Business
District and in such other zones as may hereafter be established, the parking
spaces to be designated by lines painted or durably marked on the curbing or
surface of the street. At each space so marked it shall be unlawful to park any
vehicle in such a way so that the vehicle shall not be entirely within the
limits of the space designated.
(Ord. 10.4, passed 10-2-73) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.21 LEGAL MANNER OF PARKING.
   When a parking space in any parking zone is parallel with the adjacent curb
or sidewalk, any vehicle parked in such parking space shall be parked so that
the foremost part of such vehicle shall be alongside of and nearest to the
front line of the parking space. When a parking space is diagonal to the curb
or sidewalk, any vehicle parked in such parking space shall be parked with the
foremost part of the vehicle directed at and nearest to the front line of the
parking space.
(Ord. 10.4, passed 10-2-73) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.22 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful and a violation of the provisions of this
subchapter for any person to:
      (1)   Park any vehicle across any line or marking of a parking space or
in such a position that the vehicle should not be entirely within the area
designated by such lines or markings.
      (2)   Park any vehicle within the area designated as a parking zone for
the purpose of making sales of any property to any person on the street. This
section shall not apply to the selling or delivery of goods sold within the
buildings abutting such streets.
   (B)   The owner of any vehicle parked in violation of this subchapter shall
be prima facie guilty of such violation.
(Ord. 10.4 passed 10-2-73) Penalty, see §
71.99
PARKING REGULATIONS ON PRIVATE PROPERTY
§ 71.40 WRITTEN REQUEST FOR REGULATIONS.
   Upon the written request of the owner or person in general charge of the
operation and control of any parking areas or driveways of a privately-owned
hospital, shopping center, apartment house, condominium complex, commercial
office complex, or other privately-owned public vehicular area, as defined in
G.S. § 20-4.01(32), the Town Board may regulate or prohibit during specified
hours the stopping, standing, or parking of motor vehicles.
(Ord. 10.6, passed 5-6-80)
§ 71.41 APPLICATION.
   (A)   The owner or person in general charge of the operation and control of
the property must submit the request for regulation in writing, including, at a
minimum, the following information:
      (1)   Name, home address, and business address.
      (2)   Name, location, and type of facility or operation for which
regulation is requested.
      (3)   Name of the owner of the property, and, if the applicant is not the
owner, the position or authority which entitles the applicant to request
regulations.
      (4)   Type of parking regulation requested.
      (5)   A description of the specific area on the property which is to be
regulated, including, if necessary, a map or drawing.
   (B)   Applications shall be submitted to the Town Clerk and shall be on
approved forms, which forms shall be provided by and available upon request
from the Town Clerk.
(Ord. 10.6, passed 5-6-80)
§ 71.42 COST OF SIGNS.
   The cost of erecting, placing, or installing signs, and the cost of all
necessary signs as determined by the Chief of Police, shall be paid by the
person requesting regulations.
(Ord. 10.6, passed 5-6-80)
§ 71.43 REGULATIONS ADOPTED.
   (A)   No person shall stop, leave standing, or park a motor vehicle in the
areas specified in this section in violation of posted signs, when signs are
placed, erected, or installed giving notice that stopping, standing, or parking
is regulated, prohibited, or prohibited during certain hours, in that space or
area.
   (B)   No person or persons shall gather, congregate, loiter, or otherwise
assemble in the areas specified in this section in violation of posted signs,
when signs are placed, erected, or installed giving notice that congregating,
loitering, or otherwise assembling is regulated, prohibited, or prohibited
during certain hours, in that space or area.
   (C)   The locations designated as “No Parking” spaces are set forth in
Chapter 73, Schedule II.
(Ord. 10.6, passed 5-6-80) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.44 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Every law enforcement officer charged with the duty of enforcing this
chapter shall note the tag number of any vehicle stopped, standing, or parked
in violation of the terms or provisions of this subchapter and in violation of
posted signs, when signs are placed, erected, or installed giving notice of the
conduct prohibited.
   (B)   Every law enforcement officer as aforesaid shall attach to the vehicle
a notice to the owner thereof that such vehicle has been stopped, left
standing, or parked in violation of a provision of this subchapter and
instructions to such owner when and where to report with reference to such
violation. Each owner shall within 48 hours from the time when such notice was
attached, pay to the officer on duty at the Police Department a penalty as set
forth in §
71.99 for and in full satisfaction of such violation.
   (C)   The owner of any vehicle parked in violation of this subchapter shall
be prima facie guilty of such violation.
(Ord. 10.6, passed 5-6-80)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter for which
no penalty is otherwise provided shall be subject to the penalty set forth in §
70.99 of this traffic code.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
71.03 or
71.04 of this chapter shall be fined $25, which shall be due and payable within
five business days from the issuing date of the ticket. In the event the fine
is not timely paid, the investigating police officer, shall have the authority
to take a criminal warrant out for the violator in the District Criminal Court
of Alexander County.
      (2)   In the alternative to the fine set forth in division (B)(1) of this
section, the investigating officer shall apply the following penalty for
violation of §§
71.03 or
71.04 of this chapter: the owner of a vehicle parked in violation of this
section shall be deemed to have appointed any municipal law enforcement officer
as his agent for the purpose of arranging for the transportation and safe
storage of any vehicle parked in violation of this section.
(Ord. 10.13, passed 2-5-91; Ord. 10.14, passed 2-5-91)
CHAPTER 72: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Speed limits
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   The speed limit on all streets within the town shall be 35 miles per
hour unless otherwise posted, pursuant state law or town ordinance.
      (1)   Speed limit in all R-1 Residential Districts shall be reduced to 25
miles per hour.
      (2)   Ordinances enacting lower speed limits shall be kept on file for
public inspection in the office of the town manager.
      (3)   Speed limit in all named and unnamed residential subdivisions shall
be reduced to 25 miles per hour.
   (B)   Based upon an engineering and traffic investigation pursuant to the
authority granted by G.S. § 20-141(e) through (g), it is hereby determined and
declared that the following speed limits are safe and reasonable for the
described portions of state highway system streets.
(Am. Ord. 03-2008, passed 2-5-08; Am. Ord. passed 11-3-20)
CHAPTER 73: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   No parking zones
      
II.   Parking regulations for private businesses
SCHEDULE I. NO PARKING ZONES.
   There shall be no stopping, standing or parking of motor vehicles in the
following locations during the hours indicated.
 
Location                                       Time Limits Ord. No. Date Passed
(1) Alongside city hall, except for Police     None        10.1     11-18-46
Department and Fire Department vehicles
(2) South side of Main Avenue Drive southeast
from intersection with 1st Street southeast to None        10.3     5-4-48
East Main Avenue to town limits
(3) 3rd Street southwest from Main Avenue to   None        10.11    5-5-87
town limits
(4) 4th Avenue extending from 1st Street,
Northwest, in an easterly direction to Center  None        10.10    10-7-86
Street Place
 
Penalty, see
Chapter 73, Schedule II (B) through (E)
SCHEDULE II. PARKING REGULATIONS FOR PRIVATE BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Except as necessary and incidental to patronizing the following
business establishments, it shall be unlawful to stop, leave standing, or park
a motor vehicle during the specified days and times on the property and in the
parking areas serving such businesses, as set forth in this parking schedule.
Business Times Ord. No. Date Passed
Business                   Times                         Ord. No. Date Passed
ABC Package Store          Anytime                       10.8     6-16-86
                           6:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m. Monday
Blue Ridge Bank            - Friday; and 12:00 p.m.      10.15    1-2-90
                           Saturday until 8:00 a.m.
                           Monday
Burger Basket              All hours                     —      —
Burger King                7:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. each   10.12    8-4-87
                           day
Carolina Tire Company      7:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m each    10.7     3-4-86
                           day
Family Dollar Stores       All hours                     —      5-29-80
First Baptist Church       All hours                     —      8-6-82
First United Methodist     6:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m.        —      1-8-85
Church
Flower's Auto Parts        7:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m each    10.7     3-4-86
                           day
Food Lion                  All hours                     —      —
Four Brothers              After dark, other than people 10.16    3-17-90
                           doing business in store
Giovanni's Pizza           11:00 a.m. to 12:00 midnight  10.9     9-2-86
                           each day
Hammer Motors              All hours                     —      7-24-81
Lackey Plumbing            6:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.        —      9-22-80
McDonald's                 All hours                     —      —
McLeod-Feimster Hardware   Anytime                       10.18    3-1-94
Convenience
Modern Cleaners            All hours                     —      6-2-82
Larry Schronce Ford        All hours                     —      3-25-82
Sharpe Property            All hours                     —      11-1-83
Tarlton Properties         All hours                     —      3-7-85
Taylor Togs, Inc.          When closed                   —      10-26-82
Wachovia Bank & Trust Co.  All hours                     —      6-2-82
Wash-A-Rama and Speedy Car Anytime                       10.17    9-6-92
Wash
Western Auto               All hours                     —      8-8-83
Westgate Shopping Center   All hours                     —      7-6-82
 
   (B)   Every law enforcement officer charged with the duty of enforcing this
chapter shall note the tag number of any vehicle stopped, standing, or parked
in violation of this schedule during the specified hours. Each such officer
shall attach to the vehicle a notice to the owner thereof that such vehicle has
been stopped, left standing, or parked in violation of a provision of this
parking schedule and instructions to such owner when and where to report with
reference to such violation.
   (C)   The owner of any vehicle parked in violation of this chapter shall be
prima facie guilty of such violation.
   (D)   This parking schedule shall not apply to the owner or owners of the
properties, or to their employees, or agents.
   (E)   Provisions concerning the the businesses of Wally Ballard on 7th
Street SW and Ralph Lowthrophe in the alley way and parking lot behind old
Smithey's store are adopted by reference from the Town Board Meeting of January
7, 1997.
   (F)   Penalty. Each owner whose vehicle has been stopped, left standing, or
parked in violation of this chapter shall have five business days from the time
when such notice was attached to such vehicle to pay to the officer on duty at
the Police Department at city hall, as a penalty for and in full satisfaction
of such violation, the sum of $50. Any person who shall fail to pay said $50
within 48 hours, shall be guilty of an offense and shall be subject to an
additional penalty of $50, plus the costs of court. (Ord. 10.7, passed 3-4-86;
Am. Ord. 10.16, passed 3-17-90; Am. Ord. 10.17, passed 9-6-92; Am. Ord. 10.18,
passed 3-1-94; Am. Ord. passed 1-7-97)
Cross-reference:
   Loitering at certain private businesses - Wash-A-Rama and Speedy Car Wash,
see §
130.03
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
92.   NUISANCES
      
93.   PARADES AND ORGANIZED EVENTS
      
94.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
95.   TREES
      
96.   CEMETERIES
      
97.   CABLE TELEVISION SYSTEM
      
98.   PARKS
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Adoption of county regulations
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   Establishment of Animal Control Department
   
90.04   Duties and responsibilities of Animal Control Department
Keeping of Animals; Regulations
   
90.20   Duties of owners and keepers of animals
   
90.21   Cruelty to animals; teasing and molesting
   
90.22   Confinement and control of dangerous animals
   
90.23   Animals creating a public nuisance
   
90.24   Exemption from provisions
   
90.25   Interference with enforcement of chapter
Rabies Control
   
90.35   Compliance with state law
   
90.36   Inoculation of dogs
   
90.37   Inoculation tag required
   
90.38   Report and confinement of biting animals
   
90.39   Animals bitten by rabid animals
   
90.40   Emergency quarantine
   
90.41   Post mortem diagnosis
   
90.42   Unlawful killing or releasing of certain animals
   
90.43   Failure to surrender animals for quarantine
Impoundment
   
90.55   Lost or stray animals
   
90.56   Notice to owner
   
90.57   Redemption by owner
   
90.58   Destruction or adoption of unredeemed animals
   
90.59   Adoption of unvaccinated dog; procedure
   
90.60   Suspected rabid animals not to be adopted
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 ADOPTION OF COUNTY REGULATIONS.
   The Town of Taylorsville hereby adopts the Alexander County Animal Control
Ordinance adopted by the Alexander County Board of Commissioners on June 4,
1984.
(Ord. 2.4, passed - - )
§ 90.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any premises designated by the county for the purpose of
impounding and caring for all animals found running-at-large or otherwise
subject to impounding in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   AT LARGE. Any animal shall be deemed to be AT LARGE when he is off the
property of his owner and not under the control of a competent person.
   EXPOSED TO RABIES. An animal has been exposed to rabies within the meaning
of this chapter if it has been bitten by, or been exposed to, any animal known
or suspected to have been infected with rabies.
   KENNEL, DEALER, BREEDER, OR PET SHOP. Any person, group of persons,
partnership or corporation engaged in buying, selling, breeding, or boarding
pet animals.
   NEUTERED MALE. Any male which has been operated upon to prevent
reproduction.
   OWNER. Any person, group of persons, firm, partnership, or corporation
owning, keeping, having charge of, sheltering, feeding, harboring, or taking
care of any animal. The owner is responsible for the care, actions, and
behavior of his animals.
   RESTRAINT. An animal is under restraint within the meaning of this chapter
if he is controlled by means of a chain, leash, or other like device; or is
sufficiently near the owner or handler to be under his direct control and is
obedient to that person’s commands; or is on or within a vehicle being driven
or parked; or is within a secure enclosure.
   SPAYED FEMALE. Any female which has been operated upon to prevent
conception.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL. One who has made an unprovoked attack on a human by biting
or in any manner causing abrasions or cuts of the skin; or one which habitually
or repeatedly attacks farm stock and other pets.
(Ord. passed 7-1-84)
§ 90.03 ESTABLISHMENT OF ANIMAL CONTROL DEPARTMENT.
   There is hereby created an Animal Control Department of the county, which
shall be composed of such employees as shall be determined by the Board of
County Commissioners. Such employees shall be appointed and compensated in
accordance with policies of the Board of County Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 7-1-84)
§ 90.04 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF ANIMAL CONTROL DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Responsibilities; generally. The Animal Control Department shall be
charged with the responsibility of:
      (1)   Enforcing, in the county, all state and county laws, ordinances,
and resolutions relating to dogs or to the care, custody and control of
animals.
      (2)   Cooperating with the Health Director and assisting in the
enforcement of the laws of the state with regard to animals and especially with
regard to vaccination of dogs against rabies and confinement or leashing of
vicious animals.
      (3)   Investigating cruelty or animal abuse with regard to dogs, cats,
and other pets.
      (4)   Making such canvasses of the county, including the homes in the
county, as it deems necessary for the purpose of ascertaining that all dogs are
vaccinated against rabies.
   (B)   Keeping of records. It shall be the duty of the Animal Control
Department to keep, or cause to be kept, accurate and detailed records of:
      (1)   Impoundment and disposition of all animals coming into the shelter.
      (2)   Bite cases, violations, and complaints, and investigation of same.
      (3)   All monies belonging to the county which were derived from
impoundment fees, penalties, and sales of animals.
      (4)   All other records deemed necessary by the County Administrator.
   (C)   Investigations; enforcement. Every officer of the Animal Control
Department charged with the duty of enforcing this chapter shall investigate
any possible violations.
(Ord. passed 7-1-84)
KEEPING OF ANIMALS; REGULATIONS
§ 90.20 DUTIES OF OWNERS AND KEEPERS OF ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep animals under unsanitary or
inhumane conditions or to fail to provide proper food and water daily, shelter
from the weather and reasonably clean quarters for such animals, or to fail to
provide proper medical attention for sick, diseased, or injured animals, as
well as adequate inoculation against disease, according to the species of the
animal kept.
(Ord. passed 7-1-84) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.21 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS; TEASING AND MOLESTING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to molest, torture, torment,
deprive of necessary sustenance, cruelly beat, needlessly mutilate or kill,
wound, injure, poison, abandon, or subject to conditions detrimental to its
health or general welfare, any animal, or to cause or to procure such action.
For the purpose of this division (A), the words TORTURE and TORMENT shall be
held to include every action, omission, or neglect whereby unjustifiable
physical pain, suffering, or death is caused or permitted; but such terms shall
not be construed to prohibit lawful shooting of birds, deer, and other game for
human food, nor to prohibit the Animal Control Department or its agents or
veterinarians from destroying dangerous, unwanted, or injured animals in a
humane manner.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to tease, molest, bait, or in any
way bother any animal not belonging to him or legally under his control.
(Ord. passed 7-1-84) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.22 CONFINEMENT AND CONTROL OF DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner to keep any vicious, fierce, or dangerous
animal within the county, unless it is confined within a secure building or
enclosure, or unless it is securely muzzled and under restraint by a competent
person, who, by means of a leash, chain, or rope, has such animal firmly under
control at all times.
(Ord. passed 7-1-84) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.23 ANIMALS CREATING A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner to keep or have within a densely
populated area an animal which habitually or repeatedly makes noises in such a
manner or to such extent that it is a public nuisance. If such an animal is
reported as creating a public nuisance and an animal control officer
determines, after investigation, that the reports are supported by the
evidence, the owner must remove such animal to a more suitable location.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any owner to permit his animal to run-at-
large, if such animal is reported as creating a public nuisance and an animal
control officer determines, after investigation, that the reports are supported
by the evidence. In such cases, and only in such cases, the owner must keep the
animal that has been found to be creating a public nuisance on his own property
at all times, unless the animal is under restraint.
   (C)   Cats and dogs; public nuisance; definitions. For the purpose of this
section, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   CAT. Any and all domestic felines.
      (2)   CAT NUISANCE. The commission on more than one occasion of any of
the following qualifying acts or conditions shall be deemed prima facie
evidence of a public nuisance:
         (a)   Getting into or turning over garbage pails, cans or containers;
         (b)   Walking or sleeping on automobiles of another;
         (c)   Damaging gardens or other foliage or other real or personal
property;
         (d)   Being located on the property of another while not under control
of the owner; or
         (e)   In estrus and not confined to a building or secure enclosure.
      (3)   DOG. Any and all domestic canines.
      (4)   DOG NUISANCE. The commission on more than one occasion of any of
the following qualifying acts or conditions shall be deemed prima facie
evidence of a public nuisance:
         (a)   Being “at large” off the premises of its owner and not under
restraint or control of a person;
         (b)   Chasing, snapping or attacking or otherwise molesting
pedestrians, bicyclists or motor vehicles/passengers or farm stock or other
domestic animals;
         (c)   Getting into or turning over garbage pails, cans or containers;
         (d)   Damaging gardens or other foliage or other real or personal
property; or
         (e)   Being housed, tethered or tied less than 15 feet from a public
street, road or sidewalk such that the dog can actually access the street, road
or sidewalk and posing a threat to the general safety, health and welfare of
the general public.
      (5)   IN ESTRUS. A female cat or dog in what is commonly called “in
heat”.
      (6)   OWNER. Any person, group of persons, firm, partnership or
corporation owning, keeping having charge or taking care of any cat or dog or
allowing any cat or dog to remain on its property for more than 72 hours after
the day of observation.
   (D)   Cat nuisance violation. It shall be a violation of this section for an
owner to allow their cat(s) to engage in any of the acts listed in division (C)
(2) above on more than one occasion. The owner shall be subject to the
sanctions, penalties, fines and remedies stated in §
90.99.
   (E)   Dog nuisance violation. It shall be a violation of this section for an
owner to allow their dog(s) to engage in any of the acts listed in division (C)
(4) above on more than one occasion. The owner shall be subject to the
sanctions, penalties, fines and remedies stated in §
90.99.
(Ord. passed 7-1-84; Am. Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.24 EXEMPTION FROM PROVISIONS.
   Hospitals, clinics, and other premises operated by licensed veterinarians
for the care and treatment of animals are exempt from the provisions of this
subchapter.
(Ord. passed 7-1-84)
§ 90.25 INTERFERENCE WITH ENFORCEMENT OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, hinder, or
molest the Animal Control Department or its agents or animal control officers
or veterinarians in the performance of any duty authorized by this chapter, or
to seek to release any animal in the custody of such agents, except as
otherwise specifically provided.
   (B)   It is a defense to prosecution under this section that the
interference alleged consisted of speech only.
(Ord. passed 7-1-84) Penalty, see §
90.99
RABIES CONTROL
§ 90.35 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAW.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any dog owner or other person to fail to
comply with the state laws relating to the control of rabies.
   (B)   It is the purpose of this subchapter to supplement the state laws by
providing a procedure for the enforcement of state laws relating to rabies
control, in addition to the criminal penalties provided by the state law.
(Ord. passed 7-1-84) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.36 INOCULATION OF DOGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for an owner to fail to provide current
inoculation against rabies (hydrophobia) for any dog four months old or older.
Should it be deemed necessary by the County Health Director, the Board of
County Commissioners, or the State Public Health Veterinarian that other pets
be inoculated in order to prevent a threatened epidemic or to control an
existing epidemic, it shall be unlawful for any owner to fail to provide
current inoculation against rabies for that pet.
   (B)   All antirabic vaccines shall be administered by a licensed
veterinarian.
   (C)   When a rabies vaccine of nervous tissue origin is administered, the
dog must be revaccinated annually.
   (D)   When a rabies vaccine of chick-embryo origin is administered to a dog
four months-of-age or older, the dog shall be revaccinated one year later and
every three years thereafter. Provided, however, when the County Board of
Health or the Commission for Health Services adopts a resolution stating that,
in order to protect the public health, annual vaccination is necessary within
the area over which they have jurisdiction, then the dog must be vaccinated
annually regardless of the type of vaccine used.
(Ord. passed 7-1-84) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.37 INOCULATION TAG REQUIRED.
   (A)   There shall be issued to the owner of the dog inoculated a numbered
metallic tag, stamped with the number and year for which issued, and indicating
that the dog has been inoculated against rabies.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any dog owner to fail to provide his dog with
a collar or harness to which a current tag issued under this section is
securely attached. The collar or harness, with attached tag, must be worn at
all times, except during the time the dog is performing at shows, obedience
trials, tracking tests, field trials, training schools or other events
sanctioned and supervised by a recognized organization.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use for any dog a rabies
inoculation tag issued for a dog other than the one using the tag.
(Ord. passed 7-1-84) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.38 REPORT AND CONFINEMENT OF BITING ANIMALS.
   (A)   Every animal which has bitten any person or which shows symptoms of
rabies shall be confined immediately and shall be promptly reported to the
Animal Control Department, and thereupon shall be securely quarantined, at the
direction of the Animal Control Department, for a period of ten days, and shall
not be released from such quarantine except by written permission from the
Animal Control Department.
   (B)   Animals quarantined under this section shall be confined in a
veterinary hospital or at the county animal shelter, at the expense of the
owner, if an animal control officer shall authorize the animal to be confined
on such premises. The animal control officer may not authorize the animal to be
confined on the owner’s premises unless the owner has a fenced-in area in his
yard and the fenced-in area has no entrances or exits that are not locked. If
the animal is confined on the owner’s premises, the animal control officer
shall revisit the premises for inspection purposes at approximately the middle
of the confinement and again at the conclusion of the confinement period.
   (C)   In the case of stray animals whose ownership is not known, the
supervised quarantine required by this section shall be at the county animal
shelter.
   (D)   If rabies does not develop within ten days after an animal is
quarantined under this section, the animal may be released from quarantine with
the written permission of the Animal Control Department. If the animal has been
confined in the animal shelter, the owner shall pay a sum equal to $2 for each
day of confinement to defray the cost of feeding, upon reclaiming the animal.
(Ord. passed 7-1-84) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.39 ANIMALS BITTEN BY RABID ANIMALS.
   Animals bitten by a known rabid animal shall be immediately destroyed,
unless the owner agrees to strict isolation of the animal in the animal shelter
or at a veterinary hospital for a period of six months; or if the animal has a
current rabies inoculation, revaccination and confinement for a period of six
weeks.
(Ord. passed 7-1-84) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.40 EMERGENCY QUARANTINE.
   (A)   When reports indicate a positive diagnosis of rabies, the County
Director of Public Health shall order an area-wide quarantine for such period
as he deems necessary. Upon invoking of such emergency quarantine, no pet
animal shall be taken into the streets or permitted to be in the streets during
such period. During such quarantine, no animal may be taken or shipped from the
county without written permission of the Animal Control Department and the
Police and Sheriff’s Departments are hereby fully authorized, during such
emergency, to impound any animal found running-at-large in the county.
   (B)   In the event there are additional positive cases of rabies occurring
during the period of quarantine, such period of quarantine may be extended at
the discretion of the County Director of Public Health.
(Ord. passed 7-1-84) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.41 POST MORTEM DIAGNOSIS.
   (A)   If an animal dies while under observation for rabies, the head of such
animal shall be submitted to the County Health Department for shipment to the
state laboratory of hygiene for diagnosis.
   (B)   The carcass of any dead animal exposed to rabies shall be surrendered
to the Animal Control Department. The head of such animal shall be submitted to
the Health Department for shipment to the state laboratory of hygiene for
diagnosis.
(Ord. passed 7-1-84) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.42 UNLAWFUL KILLING OR RELEASING OF CERTAIN ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to kill or release any animal under
observation for rabies, any animal suspected of having been exposed to rabies,
or any animal biting a human, or to remove such animal from the county without
written permission from the Animal Control Department and the County Director
of Public Health.
(Ord. passed 7-1-84) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.43 FAILURE TO SURRENDER ANIMALS FOR QUARANTINE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to surrender any
animal for quarantine or destruction as required in this subchapter, when
demand is made therefore by the Animal Control Department.
(Ord. passed 7-1-84) Penalty, see §
90.99
IMPOUNDMENT
§ 90.55 LOST OR STRAY ANIMALS.
   Any animal which appears to be lost, stray, or unwanted, or which is found
to be not wearing a currently valid rabies vaccination tag, as required by
state law or this chapter, or which is found at large in violation of §
90.23 of this chapter, shall be impounded by the Animal Control Department and
confined in the animal shelter in a humane manner. Impoundment of such an
animal shall not relieve the owner thereof from any penalty which may be
imposed for violation of this chapter, or which is found to be an animal
creating a public nuisance in violation of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-1-84)
§ 90.56 NOTICE TO OWNER.
   Immediately upon impounding an animal, the Animal Control Department shall
make reasonable effort to notify the owner and inform such owner of the
conditions whereby the animal may be redeemed. If the owner is unknown, notice
of such impoundment shall be posted for five days, or until the animal is
disposed of, on a bulletin board at the animal shelter, and the time and place
of the taking of such animal, together with the time and date of posting the
notice shall be stated therein.
(Ord. passed 7-1-84)
§ 90.57 REDEMPTION BY OWNER.
   The owner of an animal impounded under this subchapter may redeem the animal
and regain possession thereof within 120 hours, five days after notice of
impoundment is given or posted by complying with all applicable provisions of
this chapter and paying a redemption fee of $18, plus a board fee of $2 for
each day the animal is held at the animal shelter.
(Ord. passed 7-1-84)
§ 90.58 DESTRUCTION OR ADOPTION OF UNREDEEMED ANIMAL.
   (A)   If an impounded animal is not redeemed by the owner within 120 hours,
it may be destroyed in a humane manner or offered for adoption by any
responsible adult who is willing to comply with this section. Such animal may
be adopted by the first such person who pays an adoption fee of $18 plus a
board fee of $2 for each day the animal is held at the animal shelter.
   (B)   The Animal Control Department shall recommend that all adopted female
dogs released from the animal shelter be spayed.
   (C)   No animal which has been impounded by reason of being a stray,
unclaimed by its owner, shall be allowed to be adopted from the animal shelter
during a period of emergency rabies quarantine except by special authorization
of the public health officials and the Superintendent of the Animal Control
Department.
   (D)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this subchapter, any animal
impounded which is badly wounded or diseased (not a rabies suspect), and has no
identification, shall be destroyed immediately in a humane manner. If the
animal has identification, the Animal Control Department shall attempt to
notify the owner before disposing of such animal, but if the owner cannot be
reached readily, and the animal is suffering, the Animal Control Department may
destroy the animal at its discretion in a humane manner.
(Ord. passed 7-1-84)
§ 90.59 ADOPTION OF UNVACCINATED DOG; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Unless proof of a current rabies vaccination can be furnished, every
person who either adopts or redeems a dog at the animal shelter will be given a
proof of rabies vaccination card at the time of the redemption or adoption.
This card will be stamped with a date stating the maximum time limit allowed to
take the dog to the veterinarian of such person’s choice for rabies
vaccination. The time limit for dogs four months and older will be 48 hours
with Sundays and holidays excluded. For puppies under four months, the time
limit will vary according to their age.
   (B)   The proof of rabies vaccination card will be completed and returned to
the animal shelter by the veterinarian. If this card is not returned to the
animal shelter within the time limit specified on the card, an animal control
officer will be dispatched to retrieve the dog.
   (C)   Payment for the rabies vaccination provided for in this section will
be the responsibility of the person redeeming or adopting the dog.
(Ord. passed 7-1-84)
§ 90.60 SUSPECTED RABID ANIMALS NOT TO BE ADOPTED.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, animals impounded which
appear to be suffering from rabies shall not be redeemed or adopted, but shall
be dealt with in accordance with §§
90.35 through
90.43 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-1-84)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whenever in this chapter an act is prohibited or is made or declared
to be unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor, or whenever in this chapter the
doing of an act is required or the failure to do an act is declared to be
unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor, where no specific penalty is provided
therefor, the violation of the provision of chapter or of any such ordinance
shall be punished by a fine of not more than $500 or by imprisonment for not
more than 30 days for each separate violation. Each day any violation of this
chapter or any ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense,
unless otherwise specified.
   (B)   In addition to the provisions of division (A) of this section, any
provision of chapter may be enforced by any one or more of the remedies
authorized by G.S. § 153A-123.
   (C)   Enforcement of this chapter may also be by appropriate equitable
remedy, injunction, or order of abatement issuing from a court of competent
jurisdiction pursuant to G.S. § 153A-123(d) and (e).
   (D)   Sanctions, penalties, fines and remedies for public nuisance
violations. Violations of §
90.23(C) shall be punishable as follows:
      (1)   Warnings. When an Animal Control Enforcement Officer determines
that a violation of §
90.23(C) has occurred he or she shall first issue a written warning of the
violation and notice of the public nuisance which shall be served on the owner.
The owner shall be responsible for abating the nuisance within 72 hours by
taking reasonable steps or measures to ensure that the animal does not engage
in any further act or acts which may constitute a nuisance.
      (2)   Civil penalty/criminal summons. If the animal engages in any
further acts of public nuisance or the owner fails to abate the condition which
constitutes the nuisance within 72 hours, the Animal Control Enforcement
Officer may issue a civil penalty for further violations. If the owner fails to
abate the nuisance after the second civil penalty or fails to ensure that the
animal ceases to engage in further acts of public nuisance, the issuing officer
may cause a criminal summons to be issued for the owner.
      (3)   Owner unknown. In situations where the owner of an animal is
unknown or cannot with reasonable diligence be ascertained by the Animal
Control Enforcement Officer, the animal may be impounded. If the owner does not
redeem the animal within three working days, the animal shall become the
property of the county and may be disposed of as provided by law.
      (4)   Criminal violation. If an owner is convicted of violating §
90.23(C) by a court of competent jurisdiction, the owner shall be guilty of a
class three misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $50 or imprisoned as
provided by law.
      (5)   Private remedies. Nothing in §
90.23 shall prevent a private citizen from suing the owner of an animal which
has caused injury to the private citizen or the citizen’s property.
(Am. Ord. passed - -)
Editor’s note:
   This penalty provision is a customized version of the general penalty
provision of Alexander County, the penalty which is currently being applied to
violations of the town-county animal control ordinance.
CHAPTER 91: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
   
91.01   Burning of trash regulated
   
91.02   Burning in streets and on sidewalks prohibited
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 BURNING OF TRASH REGULATED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to burn any trash
within the town, excepting papers and leaves, unless the same be done under
supervision of town authorities, provided that business establishments may burn
trash in incinerators approved by Town Board and its fire underwriters.
(Ord. 3.1, passed 11-7-49) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 BURNING IN STREETS AND ON SIDEWALKS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to burn any paper, trash, rubbish, or
other refuse in any street or sidewalk.
(Ord. 3.2, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violation of any provision of this chapter shall subject the
violator to a civil penalty in the sum of $50 per day.
      (1)   A citation for said civil penalty shall be issued by the town
Police Department.
      (2)   Each citation for a civil penalty must be paid within five business
days of issuance.
   (B)   Each and every day that the violator continues in violation shall be a
separate and distinct offense.
   (C)   The municipality may also, and in addition, seek any and all
appropriate equitable remedies, injunctions, and/or abatement orders from the
appropriate court of competent jurisdiction.
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES
Section
Weeds
   
92.01   Weeds to be removed
   
92.02   Standing water prohibited
Noise Control
   
92.15   Unnecessary disturbing noise prohibited
 
   
92.99   Penalty
WEEDS
§ 92.01 WEEDS TO BE REMOVED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to allow
noxious weeds to continue to grow on its property adjoining the streets of the
city.
   (B)   If any person, firm, or corporation shall not destroy weeds on the
property within ten days after written notice from the town authorities to do
so, the town authorities may destroy the weeds and assess the property owner
with the cost thereof.
(Ord. 9.4, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02 STANDING WATER PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any lot or parcel of land in the
town to permit surface water to collect and stand, or to permit weeds, vines
and other types of undergrowth of an unsightly and obnoxious nature to grow, or
to permit trash to be deposited, or in general to permit a foul and unhealthy
condition to exist on the lot or parcel of land.
   (B)   If any person, firm, or corporation shall not comply with this section
within ten days after written notice from the town authorities to do so, the
town authorities may correct the condition existing on the lot and assess the
property owner with the costs thereof.
(Ord. 9.5, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
92.99
NOISE CONTROL
§ 92.15 UNNECESSARY DISTURBING NOISE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The creation and continuation of any loud, disturbing, and unnecessary
noises in the city is prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to cause,
make or contribute to creating any loud or disturbing noise of such character,
intensity or duration as to be detrimental to the life or health of any
individual, or such noises as to disturb the quiet and peace of any citizen of
the city.
   (B)   The following acts, among others, are declared to be loud, disturbing,
annoying and unnecessary noises in violation of this section, but this
enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive:
      (1)   Horns, signal devices. The sounding or blowing of any horn or
signal device on any automobile, motorcycle, motor bus, or other vehicle,
except as a danger signal if another vehicle is approaching apparently out of
control, or if in motion only as a danger signal; the creation by means of any
signal device of any loud or harsh noise, and the sounding of such device for
any unnecessary or unreasonable period of time.
      (2)   Radios, phonographs, and the like. The playing of any radio,
phonograph, piccolo, or any musical instrument in such manner or with such
volume as to annoy or disturb any person, or the playing of such instrument in
such manner as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of any person
in any dwelling, hotel or other residence.
      (3)   Pets. The keeping of any animal or bird which by causing frequent
or long-continued noise shall disturb the comfort or repose of any person in
the vicinity.
      (4)   Improper vehicle equipment. The use of any automobile, motorcycle,
or vehicle so out of repair, so loaded, or used or repaired in such manner, as
to create loud or unnecessary noises, particularly grating, grinding, rattling,
riveting, or other disturbing noises.
      (5)   Whistles. The blowing of any steam whistle attached to any
stationary boiler, except to give notice of the time to begin or stop work or
as a warning of danger.
      (6)   Exhaust discharge. To discharge into the open air the exhaust from
any steam engine, stationary internal combustion engine, motorboat engine, or
motor vehicle, except through a muffler or other device which will effectively
prevent loud or explosive noises therefrom.
      (7)   Devices using compressed air. The use of any mechanical device
operated by compressed air, unless the noise created thereby is effectively
muffled and reduced.
      (8)   Building operations. The erection (including excavation),
demolition, alteration, or repair of any building in a residential or business
district other than between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m., on weekdays,
except in case of urgent necessity in the interest of public safety, and then
only with a permit from the proper city officials.
      (9)   Noises near schools, hospitals, churches, and the like. The
creation of any excessive noise on any street adjacent to any school,
institution of learning, library, sanitorium, hospital, or court, while the
same is in session, or adjacent to any church during church services, which
interferes with work or worship in any such place or institution; provided,
that signs must be displayed on such streets indicating that the same is a
school, hospital, church, library, sanitorium, or court.
      (10)   Loading and unloading operations. The creation of loud and
excessive noises in connection with loading or unloading of any vehicle, or
repairing any vehicle, or opening and destroying bales, boxes, crates and
containers.
      (11)   Bells, gongs. The sounding of any bell or gong attached to any
building or premises which disturbs the quiet or repose of any person in the
vicinity thereof.
      (12)   Hawking, peddling, soliciting. Shouting, loud talking, crying, or
soliciting by peddlers, hawkers, taxi drivers, solicitors, and vendors, which
disturbs the quiet and peace of the neighborhood or any person therein.
      (13)   Attention-getting devices. The use of any drum, loudspeaker, or
other instrument or device for the purpose of attracting attention to any
performance or event, show, or sale or the display or advertisement of
merchandise by the creation of noise.
      (14)   Loudspeakers or amplifiers on vehicles. The use of any mechanical
loudspeakers or amplifiers on trucks, airplanes, or other vehicles for
advertising or other purposes, except by special permission of the Chief of
Police.
      (15)   Business noises at night near residences. The operation of any
garage, filling station, auto repair business, taxi business, plant, store,
factory, or other place of business, between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 7:00
a.m. in such manner as to create loud and disturbing noises of such frequency
or such volume as to annoy or disturb the quiet and comfort of any citizen, and
particularly the creating of disturbing noises of such frequency and volume so
to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort, peace, or repose of any person in any
dwelling, hotel, boardinghouse, or other type of residence.
(Ord. passed 9-4-90) Penalty, see §
92.99
Cross-reference:
   Noise during parades, see § 93.15
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violation of any provision of this chapter shall subject the
violator to a civil penalty in the sum of $100 per day.
      (1)   A citation for said civil penalty shall be issued by the town
Police Department.
      (2)   Each citation for a civil penalty must be paid within five business
days of issuance.
   (B)   Each and every day that the violator continues in violation shall be a
separate and distinct offense.
   (C)   The municipality may also, and in addition, seek any and all
appropriate equitable remedies, injunctions, and/or abatement orders from the
appropriate court of competent jurisdiction.
(Am. Ord. passed 11-7-06)
CHAPTER 93: PARADES AND ORGANIZED EVENTS
Section
Parades
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Permit required; exemptions
   
93.03   Permit applications
   
93.04   Permit application fee
   
93.05   Standards for permit issuance; notice of denial
   
93.06   Alternative permit
   
93.07   Contents of permit; carrying permit
   
93.08   Revocation of permit
   
93.09   Compliance with laws and regulations
   
93.10   Police escort; authorized route
   
93.11   Noises disturbing the peace
   
93.12   Prima facie evidence of participation; automobile registration
   
93.13   Mask and hoods unlawful; exceptions; definition of cavalcade
   
93.14   Street solicitation prohibited
Organized Events
   
93.50   Organized event application
   
93.51   Organized event deposit
   
93.52   Organized event cleanup fees
General Provisions
   
93.75   Police security by off-duty officer request
 
   
93.99   Penalty
PARADES
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ORGANIZED EVENT. Any special event including but not limited to races and
festivals that take place anywhere within the town limits.
   PARADE. Any parade, march, or procession, cavalcade, or caravan.
(Ord. passed 8-1-95; Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 93.02 PERMIT REQUIRED; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall engage in, participate in, aid, form, or start any
parade or public demonstration, without a parade permit issued by the Chief of
Police.
   (B)   This chapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions;
      (2)   Students going to and from school class or participating in
educational activities, provided that such conduct is under the immediate
direction and supervision of the proper school authorities;
      (3)   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
(Ord. passed 8-1-95) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   A person desiring a parade permit shall file an application with the
Chief of Police on forms provided by such officer. The application shall be
filed not less than seven days nor more than ten days before the date on which
it is proposed to conduct the parade.
   (B)   The application for a parade permit shall set forth the following
information:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct the parade or public demonstration;
      (2)   If the parade or public demonstration is proposed to be conducted
for, on behalf of, or by an organization, the name, address, and telephone
number of the headquarters of the organization, and of the authorized and
responsible heads of such organization;
      (3)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person who will be
the parade or public demonstration chairman and who will be responsible for its
conduct;
      (4)   The date when the parade or public demonstration is to be
conducted;
      (5)   The route to be traveled, the starting point, and the termination
point;
      (6)   The approximate number of persons who, and animals and vehicles
which, will constitute the parade or public demonstration; the type of animals
and description of the vehicles;
      (7)   The hours when the parade or public demonstration will start and
terminate;
      (8)   A statement as to whether the parade or public demonstration will
occupy all or only a portion of the width of the streets proposed to be
traversed;
      (9)   The location by streets of any assembly areas for the parade or
public demonstration;
      (10)   The time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at
any such assembly area or areas;
      (11)   The interval of space to be maintained between units of the parade
or public demonstration;
      (12)   Any additional information which the Chief of Police shall find
reasonably necessary to make a fair determination as to whether a permit should
be issued.
   (C)   The Chief of Police, where good cause is shown therefor, shall have
the authority to consider any application hereunder which is filed less than
seven days before the date such parade is proposed to be conducted.
(Ord. passed 8-1-95) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 PERMIT APPLICATION FEE.
   Any person applying for a parade permit shall submit a nonrefundable $50
fee, made payable to the town. This fee shall be due and payable on the date
the application is submitted.
(Ord. passed 8-1-95; Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 93.05 STANDARDS FOR PERMIT ISSUANCE; NOTICE OF DENIAL.
   (A)   Issuance standards. The Chief of Police shall issue a parade permit
when, from a consideration of the application and from such other information
as may otherwise be obtained, he or she finds that:
      (1)   The conduct of the parade or public demonstration will not
substantially interrupt the safe and orderly movement of other traffic
contiguous to its route;
      (2)   The conduct of the parade or public demonstration will not require
the diversion of so great a number of police officers of the city to properly
police the line of movement and the areas contiguous thereto, as to prevent
normal police protection to this city;
      (3)   The conduct of such parade will not require the diversion of so
great a number of ambulances as to prevent normal ambulance service to portions
of this city other than that to be occupied by the proposed line of march and
areas contiguous thereto;
      (4)   The concentration of persons, animals, and vehicles at assembly
points of the parade or public demonstration will not unduly interfere with
proper fire and police protection of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous
to such assembly areas;
      (5)   The conduct of the parade or public demonstration will not
interfere with the movement of fire fighting equipment en route to a fire;
      (6)   The conduct of the parade or public demonstration is not reasonably
likely to cause injury to persons or property, to provoke disorderly conduct,
or to create a disturbance;
      (7)   The parade or public demonstration is scheduled to move from its
point of origin to its point of termination expeditiously and without
unreasonable delays en route;
      (8)   The parade or public demonstration is not to be held for the sole
purpose of advertising any produce, cause, goods, or events, and is not
designed to be held purely for private profit.
   (B)   Denial. If the Chief of Police disapproves the application for a
parade permit, he or she shall mail to the applicant, within three days after
the date upon which the application was filed, a notice of his or her action.
(Ord. passed 8-1-95)
§ 93.06 ALTERNATIVE PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police, in denying an application for a parade permit, shall be
empowered to authorize the conduct of the parade on a date, at a time, or over
a route different from that named by the applicant. An applicant desiring to
accept an alternate permit shall, within five days after notice of the action
of the Chief of Police, file a written notice of acceptance with the Chief of
Police. An alternate parade permit shall conform to the requirements of and
shall have the effect of a parade permit under this chapter.
(Ord. passed 8-1-95)
§ 93.07 CONTENTS OF PERMIT; CARRYING PERMIT.
   (A)   Permit contents. Each parade permit shall state the following
information:
      (1)   Starting time;
      (2)   Minimum speed;
      (3)   Maximum speed;
      (4)   Maximum interval of space to be maintained between the units of the
parade or public demonstration;
      (5)   The portions of the streets to be traversed that may be occupied by
the parade or public demonstration;
      (6)   The maximum length of the parade or public demonstration in miles
and fractions thereof;
      (7)   Such other information as the Chief of Police shall find necessary
to the enforcement of this chapter.
   (B)   Carrying permit. The parade or public demonstration chairman or other
person heading or leading such activity shall carry the parade permit upon his
or her person during the conduct of the parade or public demonstration.
(Ord. passed 8-1-95) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.08 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police shall have the authority, after a hearing affording due
process, to revoke a parade permit issued hereunder upon application of the
standards for issuance as set forth in this chapter, or the likelihood of civil
unrest, or the unavailability of adequate police, fire, and/or emergency
service protection.
(Ord. passed 8-1-95)
§ 93.09 COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS AND REGULATIONS.
   A person holding a parade permit shall comply with all permit directions and
conditions and with all applicable laws and ordinances.
(Ord. passed 8-1-95) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.10 POLICE ESCORT; AUTHORIZED ROUTE.
   If permission is granted as required in this chapter to any person to
conduct any parade, procession, cavalcade, caravan, and other public
demonstration, the Chief of Police, through his or her department, shall
provide proper escort for all lawful purposes within the town limits. The route
shall be determined by the Chief of Police or his or her duly authorized agent
before such parade, procession, cavalcade, caravan, or public demonstration
shall proceed upon any of the streets and alleyways of the town.
(Ord. passed 8-1-95)
§ 93.11 NOISES DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   No person who shall or may hereafter receive written permission as required
in this chapter to conduct any parade, procession, cavalcade, caravan, or any
other public demonstration within the town limits shall disturb the peace of
the citizens by the loud blowing of horns or making any other unusual, loud, or
obnoxious noise to the detriment of the peace and quiet of the citizens
residing within the town limits.
(Ord. passed 8-1-95) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.12 PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE OF PARTICIPATION; AUTOMOBILE REGISTRATION.
   The Police Department may make note of the registration plates of all
automobiles which shall or may be engaged in and upon such parade, procession,
cavalcade, caravan, or public demonstration, and the registration record of the
ownership of any automobile engaged in or upon any such parade, procession,
cavalcade, caravan, or public demonstration shall be prima facie evidence that
the registered owner of such automobile consented to and was a party to
participation in such parade, procession, cavalcade, caravan, or public
demonstration and shall be subject to the penalties hereinafter prescribed as a
participant therein.
(Ord. passed 8-1-95)
§ 93.13 MASK AND HOODS UNLAWFUL; EXCEPTIONS; DEFINITION OF CAVALCADE.
   (A)   Any person who shall or may hereafter engage in a parade, procession,
cavalcade, caravan, or public demonstration as a party thereto shall not wear a
mask or hood of any kind which would prevent recognition of his or her identity
by any member of the Police Department. This section shall not apply nor is it
designed to apply to the wearing of masks or costumes by any person 16 years
old or younger who is engaged upon celebration of Halloween upon the streets
and alleys of the town, nor shall this section apply to funeral processions in
any event.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, a cavalcade or caravan of motor
vehicle traffic upon a common enterprise shall mean more than three automobiles
or motor vehicles.
(Ord. passed 8-1-95) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.14 STREET SOLICITATION PROHIBITED.
   No person, organization or firm shall seek or solicit funds from any
occupied, wheeled vehicle on any street within the town.
(Ord. passed 5-2-06) Penalty, see §
93.99
ORGANIZED EVENTS
§ 93.50 ORGANIZED EVENT APPLICATION.
   Any person(s)/organizations desiring to organize an event must file an
application with the town manager on forms provided by the Town Manager. The
application shall be filed not less than 14 days before the date on which it is
proposed to occur, include a non-refundable $50 application fee, and provide
proof of event liability insurance with a base coverage of no less than
$1,000,000. A copy of the forms can be found in Appendix III of Chapter 93.
(Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 93.51 ORGANIZED EVENT DEPOSIT.
   Once an event has been approved by the Town Manager, the applicant must pay
a $300 deposit. The deposit will be refunded after the event is over provided
that the area used for the event has been left in the condition it was in prior
to the event. A checklist will be completed by the Public Works Director or his
or her designee before and after the event has occurred which will decide if
and how much of the deposit will be refunded. A copy of the checklist can be
found in Appendix IV of Chapter 93. The applicant may accompany the Public
Works Director or his or her designee while he or she is completing the
checklist. A list of the cleanup charges that will be deducted from the
applicant’s deposit can be found in §
93.52.
(Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 93.52 ORGANIZED EVENT CLEANUP FEES.
 
Organized Event Cleanup Fees
Garbage bags left at site    $5.00 per bag
Trash cleanup/table cleaning $20.00 per hour (charged on 30-minute intervals)
Banner placement and removal $10.00 per banner
Dumpster use                 $25.00 per pickup
Street sweeping              $50.00 per hour
 
(Ord. passed - -)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.75 POLICE SECURITY BY OFF-DUTY OFFICER REQUEST.
   Anyone requesting security service by an off-duty officer beyond normal
police duties must have prior approval by the Chief of Police. The requesting
party will be charged a fee of $5 per vehicle per hour. The hourly rate of pay
for the officer(s) will be determined by the Chief of Police and the off-duty
officer(s). Anyone requesting security services for more than one event per
calendar year must provide proof of worker’s compensation coverage covering the
off-duty officer(s) who are acting as a contractor outside the color of the
law.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A fine of $100 per occurrence shall be imposed on any person or
persons who violates any provisions of §§
93.01 through
93.13 of this chapter or gives false information to obtain a permit under this
chapter.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the foregoing division (A), the town shall enforce
this chapter by the appropriate equitable remedy issuing from a court of
competent jurisdiction pursuant to G.S. § 160A-175(d).
   (C)   A $50 fine will be imposed for each violation of §
93.14.
(Ord. passed 8-1-95; Am. Ord. passed 5-2-06)
Statutory reference:
   Penalties for ordinance violation, see G.S. § 160A-175
APPENDIX I: PARADE PERMIT APPLICATION
   Taylorsville, Alexander County, North Carolina
      I.   Name:
      II.   Address:
      III.   Telephone Number:
      IV.   If applicable:
         (a)   Name of Sponsoring Organization:
         (b)   Address of Sponsoring Organization:
         (c)   Telephone Number of Sponsoring Organization:
         (d)   Names and Titles of Officer of Sponsoring Organization:
      V.   Parade Chairman (Responsible for its conduct):
         (a)   Name of Parade Chairman:
         (b)   Address of Parade Chairman:
         (c)   Telephone Number of Parade Chairman:
      VI.   Route to be traveled:
         Starting Point:
         Termination Point:
      VII.   Date Parade is to be conducted:
      VIII.   Approximate Number of:
         (a)   People:
         (b)   Animals (include types):
         (c)   Vehicles (include types):
      IX.   Hours Parade will last:
         (a)   Starting time:
         (b)   Termination time:
      X.   Will the parade occupy all or only a portion of the width of the
streets proposed to be traversed?
      XI.   Location, by streets, of any assembly areas for the parade or
public demonstration:
      XII.   Time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at any
such assembly area or areas:
      XIII.   The interval of space to be maintained between units of the
parade or public:
      XIV.   If applicant is acting on behalf of another person or
organization, list the name of such person or organization:
      XV.   Additional information:
         This the                   day of
                                     , 19            .
                                    Applicant
APPENDIX II: PARADE PERMIT
   Taylorsville, Alexander County, North Carolina
   1.   Starting Time:
   2.   Minimum Speed:
   3.   Maximum Speed:
   4.   Maximum interval of space to be maintained between the units of the
parade or public demonstration:
   5.   The portion of the streets to be traversed that may be occupied by the
parade or public demonstration:
   6.   The maximum length of the parade or public demonstration in miles
(include fractions):
   7.   Other information:
         This the                   day of
                                     , 19            .
                                    Chief of Police
                                    Taylorsville, Alexander County, North
Carolina
APPENDIX III: EVENT APPLICATION
   TOWN OF TAYLORSVILLE
   67 Main Avenue Drive
   Taylorsville, NC 28681
   Phone: 828-632-2218
   Fax: 828-632-7964
   EVENT APPLICATION
   CONTACT INFORMATION
Event Name:
                                                                                                                            
Contact Person:
                                                                                                                        
Address:
                                                                                                                                  
City:                                                              State:
                                   Zip:                          
Phone Number:                                               Email Address:
                                                     
   EVENT INFORMATION
Type of Event:
                                                                                                                         
Location of Event:
                                                                                                                    
Date of Event:
                                                                                                                          
Rain Date for Event:
                                                                                                                 
Event Hours:    Start:                                                   End:
                                           
Set-Up:       Start:                                                   End:
                                           
Break Down:    Start:                                                   End:
                                           
Attendance:    Participants:
                                        Spectators:
                                        
Overall Event Description:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
Names of streets to be closed:
                                          Between:
                                        And:
                                    
                                          Between:
                                        And:
                                    
                                          Between:
                                        And:
                                    
                                          Between:
                                        And:
                                    
                                          Between:
                                        And:
                                    
                                          Between:
                                        And:
                                    
                                          Between:
                                        And:
                                    
                                          Between:
                                        And:
                                    
                                          Between:
                                        And:
                                    
Parade/walk/run route (map must be submitted with application):
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
Time of street closure:       Start:
                                           End:
                                     
Anticipated entries:                                      
   RULES AND REGULATIONS
A non-refundable processing fee is required at the time the application is
submitted to the Town of Taylorsville in the amount of $50.
Applications must be filed no later than 20 business days prior to the event.
A site plan of your event must be submitted no later than 10 business days
prior to the event identifying the location of stages, vendor booths, portable
toilets, trash can, barricades, etc.
For runs, walks, and parades a site plan outlining your route must be submitted
along with your application. If your event will generate additional traffic, or
interrupt existing traffic on any street, a traffic control plan outlining
necessary street closures is required before an Event Permit will be issued. If
any NCDOT streets are to be closed for the event, you must file for the
necessary permits with NCDOT,
A certificate of insurance must be filed no later than 10 business days prior
to the event with a base coverage of no less than one million ($1,000,000)
dollars.
If the event is held at Matheson Park and park shelters are desired, a separate
fee will be required over and above the application fee and deposit. Park
shelter are available on a first come first serve basis and is not guaranteed
with the event permit.
All debris and trash must be removed from an event site immediately after the
event. Failure to do so will require the town to call upon the Solid Waste
Department. All expenses will be the responsibility of the event applicant. A
list of fees can be found on the Cleanup Checklist.
You must receive approval for your event before you promote, market or
advertise your event.
If you have banners you want hung up by the town, there will be a charge of
$10.00 per banner to hang and to take down. If you want them placed in an area
where a bucket truck is needed, you will be responsible for the bill from the
contractor for use of their bucket truck.
The event applicant shall assume and reimburse the town for any and all costs
and expenses determined by the town to be unusual or extraordinary, and related
to the event for which the permit is sought. The town requires a deposit of
three hundred ($300.00) that is refundable upon completion of a cleanup
checklist completed by the Public Works Director or his designee.
   AGREEMENT AND SIGNATURE
I the undersigned representative have read the rules and regulations with
reference to this application and am duly authorized by the organization to
submit this application on its behalf. The information contained herein is
complete and accurate.
Name (printed):
                                                                                                                        
Signature:
                                                                      Date:
                                                
 
Submit your completed application packet to:
Special Event Services
Town of Taylorsville
67 Main Avenue Drive
Taylorsville, NC 28681
Email: townmanager@taylorsvillenc.com
 
(Ord. passed - -)
APPENDIX IV: CLEANUP CHECKLIST
   TOWN OF TAYLORSVILLE
   67 Main Avenue Drive
   Taylorsville, NC 28681
   Phone: 828-632-2218
   Fax: 828-632-7964
   Cleanup Checklist
   Description    Checked Off
   Grounds are free of trash                                             
   Bagged garbage is hauled off                                             
   Streets and sidewalks are clean                                             
   Area is as it was prior to event
                                            
   Other (based upon event)
                                                                                                   
                                                                                                   
                                                                                                   
                                                                                                   
                                                                                                   
                                                                                                   
Cleanup Fees
Garbage bags left at site - $5.00 per bag
Trash Cleanup / Table Cleaning - $20.00 per hour (charged on 30 minute
intervals)
Banner Placement and Removal - $10.00 per banner
Dumpster use - $25.00 per pickup
Street Sweeping - $50.00 per hour
                                                                                                            
   Inspected By:    Date:
                                                                                                            
   Event Applicant:   Date:
(Ord. passed - -)
CHAPTER 94: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
   
94.01   Skateboards and skates prohibited in certain areas
   
94.02   Digging into streets and sidewalks
   
94.03   Nailing or tacking signs on posts along streets
   
94.04   Removal of snow or sleet from sidewalks
   
94.05   Removal of dangerous obstructions
   
94.06   Numbering of houses and business establishments
   
94.07   Driveway connections with public streets
 
   
94.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   For provisions regulating trees, see
Chapter 95
§ 94.01 SKATEBOARDS AND SKATES PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN AREAS.
   (A)   The unlawful use of sidewalks and streets in certain areas of the city
by persons operating skateboards, roller skates, and go-carts is prohibited. It
shall be unlawful for any person to use or operate a skateboard, roller skates,
or go-cart in such a manner as to be detrimental to the life or health of any
individual.
   (B)   The use of skateboards, roller skates, or go-arts by any individual or
individuals shall be prohibited in the following areas:
      (1)   The sidewalks, steps, and lawn on all four sides of the courthouse.
      (2)   The sidewalks and street on Main Avenue from Hardee’s to McDonald’s
restaurants.
      (3)   Main Avenue Drive from Alexander Hotel to Modern Cleaners.
      (4)   Any parking lot, sidewalk, or public vehicular area of any town
merchant applying to the Town Board of Commissioners and protected by this
chapter.
      (5)   The parking lot and grounds of East Taylorsville Baptist Church.
(Ord 15.10, passed 9-4-90; Am. Ord. 15.10.1, passed 11- -90)
§ 94.02 DIGGING INTO STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   No sidewalk or street shall be dug into for erection of light or power poles
or any other poles or sewer and water connections except under the supervision
of the town.
(Ord. 15.1, passed 11-7-39) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 NAILING OR TACKING SIGNS ON POSTS ALONG STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor for any individual, firm, or
corporation to nail, tack, or otherwise attach to any post erected by the town
or an electric light or telephone post, or state highway post, any sign,
placard, poster, or other advertising matter.
(Ord. 15.4, passed - - )
§ 94.04 REMOVAL OF SNOW OR SLEET FROM SIDEWALKS.
   The tenant or occupant, or if there is no tenant, the owner, agent, or
custodian of every business establishment, church, nonresidential building, or
lot of land bordering on any street in the town where there is a sidewalk
abutting on either front and/or on the side thereof, shall within 24 hours
after any fall of snow or sleet has ceased to fall, remove or cause to be
removed from the sidewalks of their respective premises.
(Ord. 15.5, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 REMOVAL OF DANGEROUS OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   All obstructions above, across, under, or adjacent to any street,
public alley, or highway in the town, which, upon investigation may be
considered dangerous or unsafe by the Town Board of Commissioners to the public
using the street, alley, or highway, shall be removed. The Town Board of
Commissioners, after first finding that such obstruction or obstructions are
dangerous or unsafe for the public using the street, alley or highway, shall
make or enter upon its minutes an order directing the person, firm, or
corporation maintaining such obstruction to remove the same within a reasonable
time, not exceeding 30 days.
   (B)   If any person, firm, or corporation shall not comply with this section
within the time set out in the order after receiving written notice form the
town authorities to do so, the town authorities may remove the obstructions and
assess the person, firm, or corporation with the costs thereof.
(Ord. 15.6, passed - - )
§ 94.06 NUMBERING OF HOUSES AND BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS.
   It shall be the duty of each owner, agent, or occupant of every house or
business establishment now in the town or that may be hereafter built in the
town, to cause such house or business establishment to be numbered by placing a
number in numerals not less than two inches in height in some conspicuous place
in front of the building. The Town Clerk shall furnish the number to any person
on application, which number shall correspond with that number respectively
assigned on the official street name map of the town on file in the office of
the Town Clerk.
(Ord. 15.7, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.07 DRIVEWAY CONNECTIONS WITH PUBLIC STREETS.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall make a driveway connection with the
public streets of the town unless he shall first obtain a permit from the town
and shall make the connection in accordance with plans and specifications of
the town for making driveway connections.
(Ord. 15.8, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violation of any provision of this chapter shall subject the
violator to a civil penalty in the sum of $50 per day.
      (1)   A citation for said civil penalty shall be issued by the town
Police Department.
      (2)   Each citation for a civil penalty must be paid within five business
days of issuance.
   (B)   Each and every day that the violator continues in violation shall be a
separate and distinct offense.
   (C)   The municipality may also, and in addition, seek any and all
appropriate equitable remedies, injunctions, and/or abatement orders from the
appropriate court of competent jurisdiction.
CHAPTER 95: TREES
Section
General Provisions
   
95.01   Definitions
   
95.02   Tree Board; creation, term of office, compensation
   
95.03   Duties and responsibilities of Tree Board; operation
   
95.04   Interference
   
95.05   Arborist’s license and bond
   
95.06   Review by Town Board
Care and Maintenance of Trees
   
95.20   Street tree species to be planted
   
95.21   Spacing
   
95.22   Distance from curb and sidewalk
   
95.23   Distance from street corners and fire plugs
   
95.24   Utilities
   
95.25   Public tree care
   
95.26   Tree topping and pruning; corner clearance
   
95.27   Dead or diseased tree removal on private property
   
95.28   Removal of stumps
 
   
95.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   For provisions regulating streets and sidewalks, see
Chapter 94
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 95.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARK TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation in public
parks having individual names, and all areas owned by the town, or to which the
public has free access as a park.
   STREET TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other woody vegetation on land
lying between property lines on either side of all streets, avenues, or ways
within the town.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 95.02 TREE BOARD; CREATION, TERM OF OFFICE, COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Creation and establishment. There is hereby created and established a
Town Tree Board, which shall consist of three members, citizens and residents
of this town, who shall be appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the Town
Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   Term of office. The term of the three members to be appointed by the
Mayor shall be three years. In the event that a vacancy shall occur during the
term of any member, his or her successor shall be appointed for the unexpired
portion of the term.
   (C)   Compensation. Members of the Tree Board shall serve without
compensation.
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. passed 11-3-20)
§ 95.03 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF TREE BOARD; OPERATION.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of the Tree Board to study,
investigate, council, and develop and/or update annually, and administer a
written plan for the care, preservation, pruning, planting, replanting,
removal, or disposition of trees and shrubs in parks, along streets, and in
other public areas. Such plan will be presented annually to the Town Board and
upon their acceptance and approval shall constitute the official comprehensive
town tree plan. The Tree Board, when requested by the Town Board, shall
consider, investigate, make finding, report, and recommend upon any special
matter of question coming within the scope of its work.
   (B)   The Tree Board shall choose its own officers, make its own rules and
regulations and keep a journal of its proceedings. A majority of the members
shall be a quorum for the transaction of business.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 95.04 INTERFERENCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay, or interfere with the
Town Tree Board, or any of its agents, while engaging in or about the planting,
cultivating, mulching, pruning, spraying, or removing of any street trees, park
trees, or trees on private ground, as authorized in this chapter.
(Ord. passed - - ) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.05 ARBORIST’S LICENSE AND BOND.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or firm to engage in the business or
occupation of pruning, treating, or removing street or park trees within the
town without first applying for and procuring a license. The license fee shall
be $25 annually in advance; provided, however, that no license shall be
required of any public service company or town employee doing such work in the
pursuit of their public service endeavors. Before any license shall be issued,
each applicant shall first file evidence of possession of liability insurance
in the minimum amounts of $50,000 for bodily injury and $100,000 property
damage indemnifying the town or any person injured or damaged resulting from
the pursuit of such endeavors as herein described.
(Ord. passed - - ) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.06 REVIEW BY TOWN BOARD.
   The Town Board shall have the right to review the conduct, acts, and
decisions of the Town Tree Board. Any person may appeal from any ruling or
order of the Town Tree Board to the Town Board of Commissioners who may hear
the matter and make final decision.
(Ord. passed - - )
CARE AND MAINTENANCE OF TREES
§ 95.20 STREET TREE SPECIES TO BE PLANTED.
   (A)   The trees indicated in division (B) of this section shall constitute
the official street tree species for the town. No species other than those
included in division (B) of this section may be planted as street trees without
written permission of the Town Tree Board.
   (B)   Schedule of permitted street tree species.
Small Trees Medium Trees Large Trees
Small Trees  Medium Trees       Large Trees
Apricot      Pear               Hackberry
Crabapple    Ash                Oaks (all)
Rain tree    Honey locust       Pecan
Hawthorne    Linden or Basswood Birch
Soapberry    Mulberry           Maple
Lilac        Persimmon          Sycamore
Peach        Poplar             White Pine
Plum         Sassafras          Cherry
Serviceberry Dogwood            Sourwood
Holly                           Cedar
 
(Ord. passed - - ) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.21 SPACING.
   The spacing between trees will be in accordance with the three species size
classes listed in §
95.20(B) of this chapter, and no trees shall be planted closer together, except
in special plantings designed or approved by a landscape architect, than the
following:
   (A)   Small Trees - 30 feet;
   (B)   Medium Trees - 40 feet;
   (C)   Large Trees - 50 feet.
(Ord. passed - - ) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.22 DISTANCE FROM CURB AND SIDEWALK.
   The distance trees may be planted from curbs or curblines and sidewalks will
be in accordance with the three species size classes listed in §
95.20(B) of this chapter, and no trees may be planted closer to any curb or
sidewalk than the following:
   (A)   Small Trees - Two feet;
   (B)   Medium Trees - Three feet;
   (C)   Large Trees - Four feet.
(Ord. passed - - ) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.23 DISTANCE FROM STREET CORNERS AND FIRE PLUGS.
   No street tree shall be planted closer than 35 feet of a street corner,
measured from the point of nearest intersecting curbs or curblines. No street
tree shall be planted closer than 10 feet of any fireplug.
(Ord. passed - - ) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.24 UTILITIES.
   No street trees other than those species listed as small trees in §
95.20(B) of this chapter may be planted under or within 20 lateral feet of any
overhead utility wire or over or within 10 lateral feet of any underground
water line, sewer line, transmission line, or other utility.
(Ord. passed - - ) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.25 PUBLIC TREE CARE.
   The town shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain, and remove trees,
plants, and shrubs within the lines of all streets, alleys, avenues, lanes,
squares, and public grounds, as may be necessary to insure public safety or to
preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of such public grounds. The Town
Tree Board may remove or cause to be removed, any tree or part thereof which is
in an unsafe condition or which by reason of its nature is injurious to sewers,
electric power lines, gas lines, water lines, or other public improvements, or
is affected with any injurious fungus, insect, or other pests. This section
does not prohibit the planting of street trees by adjacent property owners
providing that the selection and location of said trees is in accordance with
§§
95.20 through
95.24 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 95.26 TREE TOPPING AND PRUNING; CORNER CLEARANCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person, firm, or
city department to top any street tree, park tree, or other tree on public
property. Topping is defined as the severe cutting back of limbs to stubs
larger than three inches in diameter within the tree’s crown to such a degree
so as to remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree. Trees severely
damaged by storms or other causes, or trees under utility wires or other
obstructions where other pruning practices are impractical shall be exempted
from this section.
   (B)   Every owner of any tree overhanging any street or right-of-way within
the town shall prune the branches so that such branches shall not obstruct the
light from any street lamp or obstruct the view of any street intersection and
so that there shall be a clear space of eight feet above the surface of the
street or sidewalk. Owners shall remove all dead, diseased, or dangerous trees,
or broken or decayed limbs which constitute a menace to the safety of the
public. The town shall have the right to prune any tree or shrub on private
property when it interferes with the proper spread of light along the street
from a street light or interferes with visibility of any traffic control device
or sign.
(Ord. passed - - ) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.27 DEAD OR DISEASED TREE REMOVAL ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   The town shall have the right to cause the removal of any dead or diseased
trees on private property within the town, when such trees constitute a hazard
to life and property, or harbor insects or disease which constitute a potential
threat to other trees within the town. The Town Tree Board will notify in
writing the owners of such trees. Removal shall be done by the owners at their
own expense within 60 days after the date of service of notice. In the event of
failure of owners to comply with such provisions, the town shall have the
authority to remove such trees and charge the costs of removal on the owners
property tax notice.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 95.28 REMOVAL OF STUMPS.
   All stumps of street and park trees shall be removed below the surface of
the ground so that the top of the stumps shall not project above the surface of
the ground.
(Ord. passed - - ) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violation of any provision of this chapter shall subject the
violator to a civil penalty in the sum of $100 per day.
      (1)   A citation for said civil penalty shall be issued by the town
Police Department.
      (2)   Each citation for a civil penalty must be paid within five business
days of issuance.
   (B)   Each and every day that the violator continues in violation shall be a
separate and distinct offense.
   (C)   The municipality may also, and in addition, seek any and all
appropriate equitable remedies, injunctions, and/or abatement orders from the
appropriate court of competent jurisdiction.
CHAPTER 96: CEMETERIES
Section
   
96.01   Cost and transfer of cemetery lots
   
96.02   Upright monument sections
   
96.03   Flush monument sections
   
96.04   Cremation section
   
96.05   Heirship
   
96.06   Disinterment or removal
   
96.07   Floral arrangements and accessories
   
96.08   Burial
   
96.09   General regulations
§ 96.01 COST AND TRANSFER OF CEMETERY LOTS.
   (A)   The cost for cemetery lots shall be as follows:
      (1)   In town residence - $1,000.00;
      (2)   Outside town residence - $1,500.00;
      (3)   Cremation section (in town and outside town residence) - $500.00.
   (B)   The town must be made aware of all sales, transfers, or assignments of
any plots for record keeping purposes.
Ord. passed 7-1-94; Am. Ord. passed 5-5-98; Am. Ord. passed 4-6-04; Am. Ord.
passed 7- -05; Am. Ord. passed 7-1-09; Am. Ord. passed 6-18-13; Am. Ord. passed
- - ; Am. Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 96.02 UPRIGHT MONUMENT SECTIONS.
   (A)   All plots in sections Old and New A, B, C, D, E, Upright F, and J may
have an upright monument/marker at the head of the grave. All plots are limited
to one upright monument/marker and one flush- to-ground footstone. Monuments/
markers and footstones must be placed in the center of the burial plot and
cannot extend out past the edge of the plot. If a family owns two or more plots
next to each other, a family monument may be placed in the center of the group
of plots in place of individual monuments for each plot. The family monument
cannot extend past the outside edge of the outside two plots in the group. If a
family monument is erected, flush-to-ground footstones may still be placed at
each burial plot.
   (B)   Monuments/markers cannot be delivered until proper foundation has been
installed. Foundations for monuments and markers must:
      (1)   Extend ten inches in depth except where granite is used and then a
four inch foundation is required;
      (2)   Be one piece not to exceed five inches overall margin;
      (3)   Not project above the ground.
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. passed - - )
§ 96.03 FLUSH MONUMENT SECTIONS.
   All plots in sections G, H, and I are limited to one flush-to- ground
monument/marker and one flush-to-ground footstone. Monuments/markers and
footstones must be placed in the center of the burial plot and cannot extend
out past the edge of the plot. If a family owns two or more plots next to each
other, a family monument may be placed in the center of the group of plots in
place of individual monuments for each plot. The family monument cannot extend
past the outside edge of the outside two plots in the group. If a family
monument is erected, flush-to-ground footstones may still be placed at each
burial plot.
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. passed - - )
§ 96.04 CREMATION SECTION.
   All plots in this section are limited to a maximum of two cremations. Each
plot is allowed one flush-to-ground monument/marker which cannot exceed three
foot by two foot in size. Monuments/markers must be placed in the center of the
upper end of the burial plot. There are no provisions for family monuments in
this section.
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. passed - - )
§ 96.05 HEIRSHIP.
   In case of the death of a plot owner, the town will recognize the rights of
the surviving spouse or next of kin, insofar as the town is able to ascertain
who such parties are. The town shall not be responsible for errors committed,
unless the town is promptly notified of the death of the plot owner and given a
certificate designating the surviving spouse or next of kin to whom the right
of the plot owner has passed by descent, request, or devise.
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. passed - - )
§ 96.06 DISINTERMENT OR REMOVAL.
   (A)   No disinterment or removal of a body from any plot will be allowed
without:
      (1)   The written consent of the surviving spouse or next of kin of the
person whose body is to be disinterred or removed;
      (2)   The notarized written consent of the legal plot holder or lawful
representative;
      (3)   The town's approval.
   (B)   Graves shall not be reopened for inspection after interment except for
official investigations.
Remains moved from other cemeteries must be accompanied by proper papers as
prescribed by law.
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. passed - - )
§ 96.07 FLORAL ARRANGEMENTS AND ACCESSORIES.
   (A)   Floral arrangements.
      (1)   During the mowing season (March to October), floral arrangements
are restricted to flowers contained in vases or containers integral to the
marker. If the marker does not have a receptacle, then arrangements should be
made for a monument company to pour a concrete border to accommodate a vase or
container. No framed arrangements will be allowed during the mowing season. The
town reserves the rights to remove any arrangement that is deemed unsightly.
      (2)   In the upright monument/marker section, floral arrangements my be
attached to the upright monument/marker at the top and sides of the monument/
marker, as long as the floral arrangements are not on the ground or sticking
out past the base of the monument/marker.
   (B)   Planting flowers, trees, shrubs, etc. on the grave plot is prohibited.
   (C)   No plot or grave shall be defined by fence, railing, coping, or hedge.
Boxes, shells, toys, wire screens, arbors, trellises, tripods, chairs, benches,
decorative gravel, stones, etc. will not be permitted on any plot or grave.
Memorial objects left in the cemetery must be within the permits of the town
ordinance. The town is not responsible for the loss or damage to any such
memorial objects. If anything is placed upon any plot, grave, or monument/
marker which is deemed unsightly or injurious (glass vases, wire, etc.), the
town reserves the right to remove it.
   (D)   Potted plants and special arrangements will be permitted at Christmas,
Easter, and Memorial Day. The arrangements may be placed on the grave five days
prior to the holiday and must be removed within five days after the holiday. If
not removed after the five days, the town reserves the right to remove the
arrangement.
   (E)   Floral arrangements and frames shall be removed by those lawfully
entitled to them within seven days of the burial. Any remaining items after
seven days will be removed by the town.
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. passed - - )
§ 96.08 BURIAL.
   (A)   Not more than one interment is allowed per grave, except for a parent
and infant child buried at one time and in one casket, two children buried at
one time and in one casket, or a maximum of four cremations, if the grave site
will accommodate. Every casket earth interment must include the use of a vault
or the minimum of a concrete liner.
   (B)   Cremation remains are permitted to be sprinkled or buried on top of
existing graves.
   (C)   Only human remains are intended to be buried in the cemetery. No
animals or fowl shall be interred in the cemetery.
   (D)   Whenever interments are to be made, at least 24 hours' notice must be
given in order that the grave may be prepared.
   (E)   Temporary markers supplied by funeral homes must be removed within 30
days of burial, if the family wishes to keep the marker. After 30 days the town
will remove the marker.
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. passed - - )
§ 96.09 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Visitors and family members are welcome to visit the graves of loved
ones, keeping in mind the purpose of the area. Visitors are reminded that these
grounds are sacredly devoted to the interment of the human dead and that strict
observance of the decorum due such a place will be required by all.
   (B)   Conduct in cemetery. No person shall:
      (1)   Sit, lean or lounge on monuments, memorials, markers or statues or
in anyway injure or deface any monument, stone or other structure, or property
within the cemetery;
      (2)   Skate, skateboard, or ride dirt bikes on cemetery property;
      (3)   Treasure hunt or use metal detectors on cemetery property;
      (4)   Hunt on cemetery property;
      (5)   Consume alcoholic beverages on cemetery property;
      (6)   Discharge firearms in the cemetery except during burial services
conducted by recognized military organizations or associations of the United
States;
      (7)   Remove any flowers or memorials from a grave that they are not
lawfully entitled to.
   (C)   Automobiles and other vehicles, when in operation within the cemetery,
shall observe the following rules:
      (1)   Speed limit is ten miles per hour.
      (2)   Sounding of horns or other warning signals is prohibited.
      (3)   Vehicles shall drive on established drives only.
      (4)   Persons driving in the cemetery shall be responsible for any damage
done by and to their vehicle.
   (D)   The town will perform the following duties, such as, but not limited
to:
      (1)   Removal of floral arrangements when they become dirty or unsightly;
      (2)   All work reasonable to insure a good general appearance of the
cemetery;
      (3)   Realigning and leveling of markers when necessary.
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. passed - - )
CHAPTER 97: CABLE TELEVISION SYSTEM
Section
   
97.01   Regulation of basic service tier rates and related equipment;
installation and service charges
§ 97.01 REGULATION OF BASIC SERVICE TIER RATES AND RELATED EQUIPMENT;
INSTALLATION AND SERVICE CHARGES.
   (A)   The town will follow the FCC rate regulations in its regulation of the
basic service rates and charges of the company and any other cable television
system operating in the town, notwithstanding any different or inconsistent
provisions in the franchise;
   (B)   In connection with such regulation, the town will ensure a reasonable
opportunity for consideration of the views of interested parties; and
   (C)   The Town Manager, is authorized to execute on behalf of the town and
file with the FCC such certification forms or other instruments as are now or
may hereafter be required by the FCC rate regulations in order to enable the
town to regulate basic service rates and charges.
(Ord. 4.93, passed 11-3-93)
CHAPTER 98: PARKS
Section
   
98.01   Town Matheson Park Board established
   
98.02   Fees
§ 98.01 TOWN MATHESON PARK BOARD ESTABLISHED.
   (A) There is hereby created and established a Town Matheson Park Board which
shall consist of nine members, citizens and residents of this town, who shall
be appointed by the Mayor with approval of the Town Board of Commissioners.
   (B) The term of the nine persons to be appointed by the Mayor shall be as
follows: The term of three members of the first Board shall be for three years;
the term of three members of the first Board shall be two yeas; and the terms
of three members of the first Board shall be for one year. In the event that a
vacancy shall occur during the term of any member, his or her successor shall
be appointed by the Mayor for the unexpired portion of the term. All members
can serve a second term. Carl Matheson or a member of his immediate family
shall be made an ex-officio member of the Board. Members of the Matheson Park
Board shall serve without compensation.
   (C)   It shall be the responsibility of the Board to study, investigate,
counsel, and develop and/or update annually, and administer a written plan for
the care and preservation of Matheson Park. Such plan will be presented
annually to the Town Board and upon their acceptance and approval shall
constitute the official comprehensive town park plan. The Board, when requested
by the Town Board, shall consider, investigate, make findings, report, and
recommend upon any special matter of question coming within the scope of its
work.
   (D)   The Board shall choose its own officers, make its own rules and
regulations and keep a journal of its proceedings. A majority of the members
shall be a quorum for the transaction of business.
(Ord. 98, passed 8-4-98)
§ 98.02 FEES.
   Town park shelter fees are as set forth in the below schedule.
 
Matheson Park
Park shelter rental fee (large shelters only) $20.00
Additional 2 hours                            $5.00
 
(Ord. passed 4-6-04; Am. Ord. passed 7- -05; Am. Ord. passed 7-1-09; Am. Ord.
passed 6-18-13; Am. Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. passed - -)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
111.   ADULT BUSINESSES
      
112.   TAXICABS
      
113.   AMUSEMENTS
      
114.   ITINERANT MERCHANTS
      
115.   SOLICITING
      
116.   MASSAGE THERAPY
      
117.   BUSINESS LICENSES
CHAPTER 110: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Reserved
   
110.03   Reserved
   
110.04   Reserved
   
110.05   Days and hours of sale
   
110.06   Unlawful possession of alcoholic beverages
   
110.07   Public drinking and display of alcoholic beverages prohibited
   
110.08   Possession of alcoholic beverages by minors
   
110.09   Sale of alcoholic beverages to minors, intoxicated persons prohibited
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Alcoholic beverages of any and all kinds which contain
more than 14% alcohol by volume.
   INTOXICATING LIQUOR. Includes alcohol, brandy, whiskey, rum, gin, beer, ale,
porter, and wine, in addition thereto any spirituous, vinous, malt, or
fermented liquors, liquids, and compounds, whether medicated, proprietary,
patented, or not, and by whatever name called, containing .5% or more of
alcohol by volume, which are fit for beverage purposes.
   MINOR. Any person less than 21 years of age.
(Ord. 7.11, passed - - )
§ 110.02 RESERVED.
§ 110.03 RESERVED.
§ 110.04 RESERVED.
§ 110.05 DAYS AND HOURS OF SALE.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B), it shall be unlawful to
sell malt beverages, unfortified wine, fortified wine, or mixed beverages
(hereinafter “alcoholic beverages”), between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 7:00
a.m., or to consume any of those alcoholic beverages between the hours of 2:30
a.m. and 7:00 a.m. in any place that has been issued a permit under G.S. § 18B-
1001, county, and/or town ordinance.
   (B)   Pursuant to the authority contained in G.S. § 153A-145.7, the sale of
malt beverages, unfortified wine, fortified wine, and mixed beverages is
allowed in the county beginning at 10:00 a.m. on Sunday pursuant to the
licensed premises’ permit issued under G.S. § 18B-1001. Pursuant to the
authority contained in G.S. § 153A-122(b), the town can adopt a resolution
approving the ordinance enforcement of the county’s Sunday brunch ordinance
within the town limits.
(Ord. passed 4-15-43; Am. Ord. 7.7, passed - -; Am. Ord. passed 2-7-17; Am.
Ord. passed 9-6-22) Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state statute, see G.S. § 18B-1004.
§ 110.06 UNLAWFUL POSSESSION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess any alcoholic beverage with
the seal broken on a public street or sidewalk or in a public place in the
town.
(Ord. 7.8, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.07 PUBLIC DRINKING AND DISPLAY OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drink intoxicating liquors or to
offer a drink of intoxicating liquor to another person, whether accepted or
not, or to make any prominent public display of intoxicating liquors on any
public street or sidewalk or in any public place in the town.
(Ord. 7.3, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.08 POSSESSION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES BY MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any minor to possess intoxicating liquors on a
public street or sidewalk or in a public place in the town.
(Ord. 7.11, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.09 SALE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES TO MINORS, INTOXICATED PERSONS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell alcoholic beverages to a minor,
or to sell alcoholic beverages to a person under the influence of any
intoxicant, drug, or otherwise, as provided by state law.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violation of this chapter for which no specific penalty has been
enacted shall constitute a misdemeanor and shall be punishable by a fine not to
exceed $50 or imprisoned for not more than 30 days in the discretion of the
court.
(Ord. 7.12, passed - - )
   (B)   Upon a violation of this §
110.09, and a verdict of guilty by the Town Board of Commissioners, the license
issued by the town shall, for the first offense, be suspended for a period of
not less than 30 days, and, for a second offense for the same person or
establishment so licensed, the license shall be permanently revoked and the
State Commissioner of Revenue duly notified according to law.
(Res. passed 7-14-47)
CHAPTER 111: ADULT BUSINESSES
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Purpose
   
111.02   Definitions
   
111.03   Classification
   
111.04   Civil injunction
   
111.05   Liability for conduct of others
License Requirements
   
111.15   License required
   
111.16   Issuance of license
   
111.17   Appeal
   
111.18   Fees
   
111.19   Inspection
   
111.20   Expiration of license
   
111.21   Suspension
   
111.22   Revocation
   
111.23   Denial
   
111.24   Transfer of license
Regulations
   
111.35   Hours of operation
   
111.36   Escort agencies
   
111.37   Adult theaters, cabarets, and massage parlors
   
111.38   Adult motels; regulations
   
111.39   Minors prohibited from premises
   
111.40   Viewing rooms
 
   
111.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 PURPOSE.
   The Town Board of Commissioners is committed to protecting the general
welfare of the town through the enforcement of laws prohibiting obscenity,
indecency, and sexual offenses. It seeks to reduce and eliminate the
deleterious effects of sexually oriented businesses while preserving
constitutionally protected forms of expression. The Town Board of Commissioners
finds that sexually oriented businesses in certain locations contribute to
neighborhood deterioration and blight through an increase in crime and
diminution of property values, among other adverse consequences, and finds that
such effects are contrary to the general welfare of the town. The Town Board of
Commissioners recognizes that important and substantial government interests
provide a constitutional basis for reasonable regulation of the time, place,
and manner under which sexually oriented businesses operate; and that,
therefore, the Town Board of Commissioners has determined that persons seeking
to operate sexually oriented businesses shall be required to observe specific
locational requirements before they commence business, as provided for in this
chapter. The Town Board of Commissioners finds that the licensing of sexually
oriented businesses is necessary to ensure compliance with the locational and
zoning requirements of such businesses. The Town Board of Commissioners finds
that sexually oriented businesses in other communities have been used for
unlawful sexual activities, including prostitution, and sexual encounters of a
casual nature. The concern over sexually transmitted diseases is a legitimate
health concern of the town. The provisions of this chapter shall not be
construed as permitting any use, activity, or structure that is otherwise
prohibited, illegal, or made punishable by law, nor shall it be construed so as
to prohibit conduct or expression that is subject to constitutional protection.
(Ord. passed 5-3-94)
§ 111.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT ARCADE or PEEP SHOW. Any place to which the public is permitted or
invited wherein coin-operated or slug-operated, or electronically,
electrically, or mechanically-controlled still or motion picture machines,
projectors, or other image-producing devices are maintained to show images to
persons in booths or viewing rooms where the images so displayed depict or
describe specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE. A commercial establishment:
      (1)   Which receives a majority of its gross income during any calendar
month from the sale of or rental of any one or more of the following:
         (a)   Books, magazines, periodicals, or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes or video reproductions,
slides, or other visual representations that depict or describe specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas; or
         (b)   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia that are designed for use
in connection with specified sexual activities.
      (2)   Having as a preponderance of its books, magazines, periodicals, or
other printed matter, or photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes
or video reproductions, slides, or other visual representations that depict or
describe specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, restaurant, or other commercial
establishment that regularly features, exhibits, or displays as one of its
principal business purposes:
      (1)   Persons who appear nude or semi-nude;
      (2)   Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities;
      (3)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other
photographic reproductions which depict or describe specified sexual activities
or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT MOTEL. A hotel, motel, or similar commercial establishment that:
      (1)   Offers accommodations to the public for any form of consideration,
provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions, films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other photographic reproductions that
depict or describe specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas as
one of its principal business purposes;
      (2)   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is less
than 10 hours; or
      (3)   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to subrent the room
for a period of time that is less than 10 hours.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment where, for any form
of consideration, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or similar
photographic reproductions are regularly shown as one of its principal business
purposes that depict or describe specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
   ADULT THEATER. A theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar commercial
establishment which regularly features, exhibits, or displays, as one of its
principal business purposes, persons who appear in a state of nudity or semi-
nude, or live performances that expose or depict specified anatomical areas or
specified sexual activities.
   ADULT MASSAGE PARLOR. A commercial establishment where, for any form of
consideration an employee rubs, massages, or otherwise touches the body parts
of another in specified anatomical areas or engages in specified sexual
activities.
   APPLICANT. The person who will operate the sexually oriented business, and
shall include each of the following persons associated with that business:
      (1)   The owner of a sole proprietorship;
      (2)   Each member of a firm, association, general partnership, or limited
liability company;
      (3)   Each general partner in a limited partnership;
      (4)   Each officer, director and owner of more than 10% of the stock of a
corporation;
      (5)   The manager of an establishment operated by a corporation;
      (6)   Any manager who has been empowered as attorney-in-fact for a
nonresident individual or partnership.
   TOWN CLERK. The Town of Taylorsville Clerk.
   TOWN MANAGER. The Town of Taylorsville Manager or his designee.
   EMPLOY, EMPLOYEE, and EMPLOYMENT. Any person who performs any service on the
premises of a sexually oriented business on a full-time, part-time, or contract
basis, whether or not the person is denominated an employee, independent
contractor, agent or otherwise. EMPLOYEE does not include a person exclusively
on the premises for repair or maintenance of the premises or for the delivery
of goods to the premises.
   ESCORT. A person who, for tips or any other form of consideration, agrees or
offers to act as a date for another person, or who agrees or offers to
privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for another
person.
   ESCORT AGENCY. A person or business that furnishes, offers to furnish, or
advertises to furnish escorts as one of its principal business purposes, for a
fee, tip, or other consideration.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Includes any of the following:
      (1)   The opening or commencement of any sexually oriented business as a
new business;
      (2)   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually
oriented business, to any sexually oriented business;
      (3)   The addition of any sexually oriented business to any other
existing sexually oriented business;
      (4)   Relocation of any sexually oriented business.
   LICENSEE. Person or persons in whose name a license to operate a sexually
oriented business has been issued.
   NUDE MODEL STUDIO. Any place where a person who appears semi-nude, in a
state of nudity, or who displays specified anatomical areas is provided to be
observed, sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed, or similarly
depicted by other persons who pay money or any form of consideration. NUDE
MODEL STUDIO shall not include a proprietary school licensed by the state or a
college, junior college, or university supported entirely or in part by public
taxation; a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or in a
structure:
      (1)   That has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and no
other advertising that indicates a nude or semi-nude person is available for
viewing;
      (2)   Where in order to participate in a class a student must enroll at
least three days in advance of the class;
      (3)   Where no more than one nude or semi-nude model is on the premises
at any one time.
   OPERATES or CAUSES TO BE OPERATED. To cause to function or to put or keep in
operation. A person may be found to be operating or causing to be operated a
sexually oriented business whether or not that person is an owner, part owner,
or licensee of the business.
   NUDITY or A STATE OF NUDITY means:
      (1)   The appearance of a human anus, male genitals, or female genitals;
      (2)   A state of dress which fails to opaquely cover a human anus, male
genitals, or female genitals.
   PERSON. An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation,
association, limited liability company, or other legal entity.
   SEMI-NUDE. A state of dress in which clothing covers no more than the
genitals, pubic region, and areola of the female breast, as well as portions of
the body covered by supporting straps or devices.
   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER. A business or commercial enterprise that, as one of
its principal business purposes, offers for any form of consideration physical
contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between persons of the opposite
sex, or activities between male and female persons and/or persons of the same
sex when one or more of the persons is in a state of nudity or semi-nude.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. An adult arcade, adult bookstore, or adult video
store, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult motion picture theater, adult theater,
escort agency, nude model studio, sexual encounter center, or any combination
of the foregoing.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Human genitals in a state of sexual arousal.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Includes any of the following:
      (1)   The fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus, or female breasts;
      (2)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, or sodomy;
      (3)   Masturbation, actual or simulated; or
      (4)   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in divisions (1) through (3) of this definition.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. Includes
any of the following:
      (1)   The sale, lease, or sublease of the business;
      (2)   Persons other than those named as applicants for a license becoming
associated with the business, as provided in the definition of applicant;
except that a mere substitution of a person as manager of an establishment
shall only require filing with the Town Manager as provided in Section § 111.07
(B) of this chapter;
      (3)   The establishment of a trust, gift, or other similar legal devise
which transfers the ownership or control of the business, except for transfer
by bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person possessing
the ownership or control.
(Ord. passed 5-3-94)
§ 111.03 CLASSIFICATION.
   Sexually oriented businesses are classified as follows:
   (A)   Adult arcades.
   (B)   Adult bookstores or adult video stores.
   (C)   Adult cabarets.
   (D)   Adult motels.
   (E)   Adult motion picture theaters.
   (F)   Adult theaters.
   (G)   Escort agencies.
   (H)   Nude model studios.
   (I)   Sexual encounter centers.
   (J)   Adult massage parlors.
(Ord. passed 5-3-94)
§ 111.04 CIVIL INJUNCTION.
   Any person who violates this chapter is subject to a civil suit for
injunction as well as prosecution for criminal violations and liability for
licensing sanctions such as suspension or revocation.
(Ord. passed 5-3-94)
§ 111.05 LIABILITY FOR CONDUCT OF OTHERS.
   A licensee of a sexually oriented business is jointly and individually
liable for violations of and offenses under this chapter by the employees of
the sexually oriented business, and for all civil and criminal sanctions or
remedies for such violations and offenses, including but not limited to license
suspension or revocation, prescribed herein.
(Ord. passed 5-3-94)
LICENSE REQUIREMENTS
§ 111.15 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to operate a sexually oriented business
without a valid sexually oriented business license issued by the Town Manager
pursuant to this section.
   (B)   An application for a license must be made on a form prescribed by the
Town Manager and such application shall be made under oath and contain the
following information:
      (1)   If the applicant is a person, the name and residence address of the
person. If the applicant is a partnership, corporation, limited liability
company, or association, the name and residence address of all persons having
any legal or beneficial interest in such applicant. The name of the managers of
the establishment along with their resident address.
      (2)   The address of the premises where the establishment shall be
located.
      (3)   A complete statement of all convictions of any persons whose name
is required to be given in division (B)(1) of this section for any felony or
prostitution or any violation of any law relative to prostitution.
      (4)   A complete statement of any revocation by any governmental unit of
any license to operate a sexually oriented business.
      (5)   A complete statement of any conviction of any person whose name is
required to be given in division (B)(1) of this division for violation of any
statute, law, ordinance, or regulation of any government concerning sexually
oriented businesses.
      (6)   The name and address of any sexually oriented business or other
establishment owned or operated by any person whose name is required to be
given in division (B)(1) of this section.
      (7)   A description of any other business to be operated on the same
premises or on adjoining premises owned or controlled by the applicant.
      (8)   An application must be accompanied by a sketch or diagram showing
the configuration of the premises, including a statement of total floor space
occupied by the business. The sketch or diagram need not be professionally
prepared but must be drawn to a designated scale with marked dimensions of the
interior of the premises. For additional requirements for businesses with
viewing or other rooms, see §
111.19 of this chapter.
   (C)   The application may request and the applicant shall provide such
information as to enable the Town Manager to determine whether each applicant
meets the qualifications established in this chapter.
   (D)   Each applicant must be qualified under this section and each applicant
shall be considered a licensee if a license is granted.
   (E)   The Town Manager shall transmit a copy of the application to the
Police Department for an investigative report, to the Planning Department to
determine compliance with all zoning and building regulations and ordinances,
and to the Fire Department to determine compliance with any law relating to
fire protection. The Police and Fire Departments and the Planning Department
shall within a reasonable time report the results of their examinations to the
Town Manager.
   (F)   No license shall be issued for any sexually oriented business to
operate at any building, premises, structure, or other facility that contains
any other kind of sexually oriented business.
(Ord. passed 5-3-94) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.16 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   Within 30 days after receipt of a completed application, the Town Manager
will approve or deny the issuance of the license to an applicant for a sexually
oriented business license. The Town Manager will approve the issuance of a
license to an applicant unless the Town Manager finds one or more of the
following to be true:
   (A)   An applicant is under 18 years-of-age;
   (B)   The license fee required by this §
111.18 of this chapter has not been paid;
   (C)   An applicant is overdue in payment to the town of taxes, fees, fines,
or penalties assessed against or imposed upon the applicant in relation to a
sexually oriented business;
   (D)   An applicant has failed to provide information required in order to
determine the qualifications of the applicant under this section for issuance
of the license, or has falsely answered a question or request for information
on this application form;
   (E)   An applicant or the proposed establishment is in violation of or is
not in compliance with this section or other provisions of this chapter or this
code, including local zoning requirements;
   (F)   An applicant has been convicted of a crime involving:
      (1)   Any offense described in G.S. Ch. 14, Articles 7A, 26, 26A, 27, 37,
or 39; or any similar offenses to those described above under the criminal or
penal code of North Carolina, other states, Taylorsville, other towns, or other
countries; or facilitation, attempt, conspiracy, or solicitation to commit any
of the foregoing offenses for which:
         (a)   Less than two years have elapsed since the date of conviction or
the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction, whichever is
the later date, if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense;
         (b)   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement for the conviction, whichever is the
later date, if the conviction is of a felony offense; or
         (c)   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of the last
conviction or the date of release from confinement for the last conviction,
whichever is the later date, if the convictions are of two or more misdemeanor
offenses or combination of misdemeanor offenses occurring within any 24-month
period.
      (2)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect
on the disqualification of the applicant.
      (3)   An applicant who has been convicted of an offense listed above may
qualify for a sexually oriented business license only when the time period
required by this section has lapsed.
      (4)   The license, if granted, shall state on its face the legal name of
the person or persons to whom it is granted, the classification of sexually
oriented business for which it is granted, the expiration date, and the address
of the sexually oriented business. Licenses shall be posted in a conspicuous
place at or near the entrance to the sexually oriented business so that they
may be easily read at any time.
   (G)   The applicant has failed to make application using a legal name or has
failed to produce a valid North Carolina Driver’s License or a valid North
Carolina Identification Card.
(Ord. passed 5-3-94)
§ 111.17 APPEAL.
   An applicant whose application is denied, suspended, or revoked by the Town
Manager may appeal such action in writing within 30 days to the Town Board of
Commissioners, which shall decide either to uphold the action or to issue the
license no later than the second regular Town Board of Commissioners meeting
after receipt of the appeal. The applicant or licensee shall have the right to
present evidence before the Town Board of Commissioners. The decision to uphold
the action of the Town Manager or issue the license shall be based solely on
the criteria established herein for the action by the Town Manager. A
suspension or revocation shall be stayed during the pendency of an appeal to
the Town Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 5-3-94)
§ 111.18 FEES.
   (A)   Every sexually oriented business that applies for a new license shall
pay to the town a fee of $1,000, which shall be non refundable if the license
is issued. If the license is denied then one-half shall be refunded to the
applicant. An application for renewal must be accompanied by a nonrefundable
fee of $500. The fee required by this section is imposed for regulatory
purposes and not intended to be a tax.
   (B)   A substitution of a manager of the business which occurs during the
license year shall be filed with the Town Manager within 30 days of its
occurrence, and a $100 investigation fee paid.
(Ord. passed 5-3-94) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.19 INSPECTION.
   (A)   A sexually oriented business license applicant or licensee shall
permit representatives of the Police Department or any other town, county,
state, or federal department, division, or agency that enforces codes,
regulations, or statutes relating to human health, safety, or welfare or
structural safety to inspect the premises of a sexually oriented business for
the purpose of ensuring compliance with the law, at any time it is occupied or
open for business.
   (B)   A person who operates a sexually oriented business or his agent or
employee commits an offense if such person refuses to permit a lawful
inspection of the premises by persons designated above.
   (C)   The provisions of this section do not apply to areas of an adult motel
which are currently being rented by the customer for use as a permanent or
temporary habitation.
(Ord. passed 5-3-94) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.20 EXPIRATION OF LICENSE.
   All licenses shall expire one year from the date of issuance and may be
renewed only by making application as provided in §
111.15 and paying the renewal fee as provided in §
111.18 of this chapter. Application for renewal should be made at least 30 days
before the expiration date, and when made less than 30 days before the
expiration date, the expiration of the license will not be affected.
(Ord. passed 5-3-94)
§ 111.21 SUSPENSION.
   The Town Manager is authorized to, and will, suspend a sexually oriented
business license for a period not to exceed 30 days if the Police Department
and/or Inspections Department determines that a business licensee has:
   (A)   Violated or is not in compliance with this chapter or with any other
requirements of this code, including those relating to buildings, electricity,
plumbing, fire safety, and mechanical equipment; or
   (B)   Refused to allow an inspection of the sexually oriented business
premises as authorized by this chapter;
   (C)   Permitted illegal gambling by any person on the sexually oriented
business premises; or
   (D)   Demonstrated an inability to operate or manage a sexually oriented
business in a peaceful and law-abiding manner thus necessitating action by law
enforcement officers.
(Ord. passed 5-3-94)
§ 111.22 REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Town Manager is authorized to, and will, revoke a license if a
cause for suspension in §
111.21 of this chapter occurs and the license has been suspended within the
preceding 12 months.
   (B)   The Town Manager is authorized to, and will, revoke a sexually
oriented business license if the Town Manager determines that a business
licensee:
      (1)   Gave false or misleading information in the material submitted to
the town during the application process, including, but not limited to, the use
of a name other than a legal name to procure a license;
      (2)   Has allowed the possession, use, or sale of controlled substances
on the premises;
      (3)   Has allowed prostitution on the premises;
      (4)   Has operated or worked in the sexually oriented business during a
period of time when the licensee’s license was suspended;
      (5)   Has been convicted of an offense named in §
111.16(F) or (G) of this chapter for which the time period required in §
111.16(F) or (G) has not lapsed;
      (6)   On two or more occasions within a 12-month period, a person or
persons committed an offense occurring in or on the licensed premises of a
crime named in §
111.16(G) for which a conviction has been obtained, and the person or persons
were employees of the sexually oriented business at the time the offenses were
committed;
      (7)   Has allowed any act of sexual intercourse, masturbation, oral
copulation, or sodomy to occur in or on the licensed premises;
      (8)   Is delinquent in payment to the town of ad valorem taxes, sales
taxes, or the annual license fee, or any other fee or tax related to the
sexually oriented business or other business of the licensee.
   (C)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect on
the revocation of the license.
   (D)   Division (B)(7) of this section does not apply to adult motels as a
ground for revoking the license unless the business licensee or employee
allowed the act of sexual intercourse, masturbation, oral copulation, sodomy,
or sexual contact to occur in a public place or within public view.
   (E)   When the Town Manager revokes a license, the revocation shall continue
for one year and the licensee shall not be issued a sexually oriented business
license for one year from the date revocation became effective. If, subsequent
to revocation, the Town Manager finds that the basis for the revocation has
been corrected or abated, the licensee may be granted a license if at least 90
days have elapsed since the date the revocation became effective. If the
license was revoked under the authority of division (B)(5) or (6) of this
section an applicant may not be granted another license until the appropriate
number of years required under §
111.16(F) or (G) of this chapter, as the case may be, have elapsed.
(Ord. passed 5-3-94) Penalty, see 111.99
§ 111.23 DENIAL.
   If the town denies the issuance of a license, or suspends or revokes a
license, or denies an appeal, the town will send to the applicant, or licensee,
by certified mail, return receipt requested, written notice of the action.
(Ord. passed 5-3-94)
§ 111.24 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   Unless a new application for a license is made, a licensee shall not
transfer a license to another, nor shall a business licensee operate a
different classification of a sexually oriented business than that designated
in the application, or transfer ownership or control to another person, or
operate a sexually oriented business under the authority of a license at any
place other than the address designated in the application. No sexually
oriented business shall be operated under any name or conducted under any
designation or classification not specified in the license for that business.
(Ord. passed 5-3-94) Penalty, see §
111.99
REGULATIONS
§ 111.35 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No sexually oriented business, except for an adult motel, may remain open at
any time between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on weekdays and
Saturdays, and 1:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m. on Sundays, except to the extent
allowed by North Carolina law and regulations pertaining to the sale of
alcoholic beverages by the business if the sexually oriented business has a
state ABC permit.
(Ord. passed 5-3-94) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.36 ESCORT AGENCIES.
   A person commits an offense if the person acts as an escort or agrees to act
as an escort for any person under the age of 18 years.
(Ord. passed 5-3-94) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.37 ADULT THEATERS, CABARETS, AND MASSAGE PARLORS.
   (A)   A person commits an offense if the person appears in a state of nudity
in an adult cabaret, adult theater, adult motion picture theater, adult arcade,
or adult massage parlor.
   (B)   A licensee or employee commits an offense if the licensee or employee
allows a person to appear in a state of nudity in an adult cabaret, adult
theater, adult motion picture theater, adult arcade, or adult massage parlor.
(Ord. passed 5-3-94) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.38 ADULT MOTELS; REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Evidence that a sleeping room in a hotel, motel, or similar commercial
establishment has been rented and vacated two or more times in a period of time
that is less than ten hours creates a rebuttable presumption that the
establishment is an adult motel as that term is defined in §
111.02 of this chapter.
   (B)   A person commits an offense if, as the person in control of a sleeping
room in a hotel, motel, or similar commercial establishment that does not have
a sexually oriented business license, such person rents or sub-rents a sleeping
room to another and, within ten hours from the time the room is rented, such
person rents or sub-rents the same sleeping room again.
(Ord. passed 5-3-94) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.39 MINORS PROHIBITED FROM PREMISES.
   A person commits an offense if the person allows another person under the
age of 18 years to enter or remain on or in the enclosed portion of a sexually
oriented business.
(Ord. passed 5-3-94) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.40 VIEWING ROOMS.
   (A)   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented
business, other than an adult motel, which either exhibits on the premises in a
viewing room of less than 150 square feet of floor space, a film, video
cassette, or other view reproduction which depicts specified sexual activities
or specified anatomical areas; or has a room or booth (excluding rest rooms) of
less than 150 square feet to which patrons are admitted for any reason, shall
comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   Upon application for a sexually oriented business license, the
application shall be accompanied by a diagram of the premises showing a plan
thereof specifying the location of one or more manager’s stations and the
location of all overhead lighting fixtures and designating any portion of the
premises in which patrons will not be permitted. A manager’s station may not
exceed 32 square feet of floor area. The diagram shall also designate the place
at which the license will be conspicuously posted, if granted. A professionally
prepared diagram in the nature of an engineer’s or architect’s blueprint shall
not be required; however, each diagram should be oriented to the north or to
some designated street or object and should be drawn to a designated scale with
marked dimensions sufficient to show the various internal dimensions of all
areas of the interior of the premises. The Town Manager may waive the foregoing
diagram for renewal applications if the applicant adopts a diagram that was
previously submitted and certifies that the configuration of the premises has
not been altered since it was prepared.
      (2)   The application shall be sworn to be true and correct by the
applicant.
      (3)   No alteration in the configuration or location of a manager’s
station may be made without the prior approval of the Town Manger or his
designee.
      (4)   It is the duty of the owners and operator of the premises to ensure
that at least one employee is on duty and situated in each manager’s station at
all times that any patron is present inside the premises. It is the duty of the
owners and operator of the premises and the employees who are present to ensure
that no more than one person occupies a room or booth at any time, and that all
other entrances to rooms, booths or viewing areas (and to the aisles, walkways,
and hallways leading to rooms, booths, or viewing areas) are maintained free of
any obstruction such as a door, curtain, panel, board, slat, ribbon, cord,
rope, chain, or other device.
      (5)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from a manager’s station of every area of
the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose, excluding
rest rooms. Rest rooms may not contain video reproduction equipment, cameras,
or any other kind of photographic equipment. If the premises have two or more
manager’s stations designated, then the interior of the premises shall be
configured in such a manner that there is an unobstructed view of each area of
the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose from at
least one of the manager’s stations. The view required in this subsection must
be by direct line of sight from the manager’s station.
      (6)   It shall be the duty of the owners and operator, and it shall also
be the duty of all employees present in the premises to ensure that the line of
sight and view area specified in division (A)(5) of this section remains
unobstructed by any doors, walls, merchandise, display racks and other
materials at all times that any patron is present in the premises and to ensure
that no patron is permitted in the area designated in the application filed
pursuant to division (A)(1) of this section.
      (7)   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted
access to an illumination of not less than one footcandle as measured at the
floor level.
      (8)   It shall be the duty of the owners and operator and it shall also
be the duty of all employees present on the premises to ensure that the
illumination described above is maintained at all times that any patron is
present in the premises.
      (9)   No operator, owner, or employee shall allow openings of any kind to
exist between rooms or booths.
      (10)   No person shall make or attempt to make an opening of any kind
between rooms or booths.
      (11)   The operator or owner, shall, during each business day, regularly
inspect the walls between the rooms or booths to determine if any openings or
holes exist.
      (12)   The owner or operator shall cause all floor coverings in rooms,
booths, and viewing areas to be nonporous, easily cleanable surfaces, with no
rugs or carpeting.
      (13)   The owner or operator shall cause all wall surfaces and seating
surfaces in rooms, booths, and viewing areas to be constructed of, or
permanently covered by, nonporous, easily cleanable material. No wood, plywood,
composition board or other porous material shall be used within 48 inches of
the floor.
   (B)   A person having a duty under divisions (A)(1) through (13) of this
section commits an offense if the person fails to fulfill that duty.
(Ord. passed 5-3-94) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
Class III misdemeanor and the person who violates this chapter shall be subject
to a fine of $500, or imprisonment of not more than 30 days, or both.
(Ord. passed 5-3-94)
CHAPTER 112: TAXICABS
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Compliance with chapter required
   
112.03   Rates
   
112.04   Overcharges; forfeiture of license
   
112.05   Equipment information on file
   
112.06   Authority of Police Chief to inspect
   
112.07   Stands in business districts
   
112.08   Soliciting passengers
   
112.09   Maximum hours of active duty
Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity
   
112.20   Certificate required
   
112.21   Application for certificate
   
112.22   Filing of application
   
112.23   Authority of Town Board to grant or refuse certificate
   
112.24   Form and contents of certificate
   
112.25   Revocation of certificate
Taxi Driver’s License
   
112.35   License required
   
112.36   Application
   
112.37   Investigation of applicant
   
112.38   Issuance of license
   
112.39   License card
   
112.40   Revocation of license
Requirements For Vehicles
   
112.50   Five-passenger sedan required
   
112.51   Vehicles to be in good repair
   
112.52   Owner’s name to appear on cab
   
112.53   Name and address of operator and rates posted
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CERTIFICATE. The certificate of public convenience and necessity granted by
the Town Board of Commissioners to engage in the taxicab business as provided
in this chapter.
   DRIVER. Includes every person in charge of or operating a taxicab.
   OWNER. Includes any person having control of the operation or maintenance
and collection of the revenue of taxicabs.
   PERSON. Includes both the singular and plural and shall mean and include any
person, firm, corporation, association, partnership, or society.
   STREET. Includes any street, alley, avenue, lane, public place, or highway
within five miles thereof at any point.
   TAXICAB. Includes any vehicle for hire for the purpose of transporting
passengers upon the streets, except vehicles operating over a fixed route and
between fixed termini.
   WITHIN THE LIMITS OF THE TOWN. All of the territory within the corporate
limits of the town and all of the territory outside of the town within five
miles of the corporate limits thereof at any point.
(Ord. passed 11-4-94)
§ 112.02 COMPLIANCE WITH CHAPTER REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of operating a
taxicab or taxicabs within the town or to drive a taxicab with the town unless
the provisions of this chapter have been complied with.
(Ord. passed 11-4-94) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.03 RATES.
   The following rates are hereby fixed as the maximum rates for services
rendered by taxicabs within the limits of the town: For each passenger, $2 for
the first mile or fraction of a mile traveled, and $1.75 for each additional
mile or major fraction of a mile traveled. In addition to the regular fare, a
charge of $.50 for each stop requested by any passenger en route to his or her
destination; a charge of $.50 for each piece of baggage or large parcel which
the driver is requested to assist the passenger in loading and/or unloading;
and a charge of $.25 per minute for each minute of waiting time in excess of
five minutes.
(Ord. passed 11-4-94)
§ 112.04 OVERCHARGES; FORFEITURE OF LICENSE.
   Any person who shall be found to have willfully charged in excess of the
maximum fees established by §
112.03 of this chapter shall forfeit his license to operate a taxicab within
the limits of the town.
(Ord. passed 11-4-94) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.05 EQUIPMENT INFORMATION ON FILE.
   Every owner shall keep a description of equipment at all times on file with
the Town Clerk showing the make, model passenger capacity, date of acquisition,
from whom acquired, the motor number and serial number, and the state and town
license number of each taxicab for which he holds a certificate. No equipment
shall be substituted for that described in the certificate, until it has been
inspected by the Chief of Police or his authorized agent and approved, and the
substitution or addition of such equipment has been endorsed on the operator
certificate issued under this chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-4-94)
§ 112.06 AUTHORITY OF POLICE CHIEF TO INSPECT.
   The Chief of Police or his authorized agent shall have the right and
privilege at any time to inspect any taxicab operating under this chapter to
determine if the taxicab is in good working condition and is otherwise
complying with the provisions of this chapter. Failure to fully cooperate on
the part of the driver shall be sufficient reason to suspend the driver’s taxi
permit until a hearing before the Town Board of Commissioners can be held.
(Ord. passed 11-4-94)
§ 112.07 STANDS IN BUSINESS DISTRICTS.
   No person shall operate a taxicab stand within the business districts of the
town which requires temporary or permanent parking space on the street.
(Ord. passed 11-4-94) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.08 SOLICITING PASSENGERS.
   No person shall solicit passengers for a cab or taxicab on the public
streets or sidewalks except the driver thereof when sitting upon the driver’s
seat of his vehicle. Soliciting passengers by cruising is hereby expressly
prohibited.
(Ord. passed 11-4-94) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.09 MAXIMUM HOURS OF ACTIVE DUTY.
   No driver of any taxicab shall be permitted to continue on active taxicab
duty for more than 12 consecutive hours, mean time included, during any 24-hour
period.
(Ord. passed 11-4-94) Penalty, see §
10.99
CERTIFICATE OF PUBLIC CONVENIENCE AND NECESSITY
§ 112.20 CERTIFICATE REQUIRED.
   No person shall hereafter operate within the town any taxicab unless a
certificate of public convenience and necessity for the operation of such
taxicab, as herein provided for, has been issued and is in effect.
(Ord. passed 11-4-94) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.21 APPLICATION FOR CERTIFICATE.
   Application for a certificate shall be made to the Town Board of
Commissioners upon forms provided by the town therefor, and shall furnish the
following information:
   (A)   The name and address of the proposed owner. If the proposed operation
is to be financed wholly or partly by means of borrowed money or capital in any
form furnished by any person other than the owner, the name of the person
lending the money or furnishing the capital shall be disclosed on the
application.
   (B)   The financial ability and responsibility of the applicant.
   (C)   The number and kind of vehicles, and the character and location of the
depots and terminals to be used.
   (D)   The experience of the applicant in the transportation of passengers
for hire.
   (E)   Any facts upon which the applicant believes public convenience and
necessity require the granting of his application.
(Ord. passed 11-4-94)
§ 112.22 FILING OF APPLICATION.
   The application for a certificate may be filed at any time with the Town
Clerk, upon forms provided by the town, and shall be referred by him to the
Town Board of Commissioners at its next meeting.
(Ord. passed 11-4-94)
§ 112.23 AUTHORITY OF TOWN BOARD TO GRANT OR REFUSE CERTIFICATE.
   The Town Board of Commissioners shall have the authority to grant a
certificate as applied for, or to grant a certificate to the applicant for
lesser number of vehicles than specified in the application, or to deny the
application, in the exercise of a sound discretion after a consideration of the
factors prescribed by §
112.02 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-4-94)
§ 112.24 FORM AND CONTENTS OF CERTIFICATE.
   The form of a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued under
this chapter shall be prescribed by the Town Board of Commissioners, and shall
contain the name and address of the owner, the number, kind, and description of
vehicles, the operation of which is authorized by the certificate, and special
limitations prescribed by the Town Board of Commissioners in granting the
certificate, and the certificate shall state that it is issued subject to the
provisions of this chapter and all other laws and ordinances governing the
operation of taxicabs within the town limits.
(Ord. passed 11-4-94)
§ 112.25 REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   A certificate issued under this chapter may be revoked by the Town
Board of Commissioners for the following causes:
      (1)   Failure to personally operate the taxicabs specified in the
certificate, or other taxicabs substituted therefor, in such manner as to serve
the public adequately, and repeated failure to answer calls.
      (2)   Failure to maintain taxicabs in good order and repair.
      (3)   Failure to pay taxes due to the town for the operation of taxicabs.
      (4)   Repeated and persistent violation of traffic and safety ordinances
by drivers.
      (5)   Failure to report any accident as required by law, however slight.
      (6)   Willful failure to comply with any provisions of this chapter.
      (7)   Failure to operate the cab or cabs under the certificate for a
period of 30 days unless extended for cause by the Town Clerk.
      (8)   Failure to comply with any law or ordinance regulating the
operation of taxicabs within the town.
   (B)   No certificate shall be revoked until the owner has had at least five
days’ notice by personal service or by registered mail of the charges against
him and of the time and place of a hearing thereon, after hearing, and after a
finding that the owner is guilty of one or more of the causes of revocation
prescribed in this section, but the owner may be ordered to suspend operation
after notice by special order of the Town Board of Commissioners upon any
charge except that prescribed in division (A)(1) of this section. After the
hearing by the Town Board of Commissioners, they shall have the power to revoke
a certificate or to condition revocation upon compliance with its order within
and time fixed by it.
(Ord. passed 11-4-94)
TAXI DRIVER’S LICENSE
§ 112.35 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Before any person shall drive a taxicab within the limits of the town, he
shall make written application to the Chief of Police for a driver’s license as
required by this chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-4-94) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.36 APPLICATION.
   The application for the driver’s license shall be made upon blanks furnished
by the town. The application shall give the age, home address of the applicant,
whether the applicant is in sound physical condition, including good hearing
and good eyesight, whether or not he uses intoxicating liquors, drugs or
narcotics, and whether or not he has been convicted of or has pleaded guilty or
nolo contendere to the violation of any town, state, federal, or other criminal
law, and if so, the number of times and kind of offenses, and such other
information as the Town Board of Commissioners shall require.
(Ord. passed 11-4-94)
§ 112.37 INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT.
   The Chief of Police is hereby charged with the duty of investigating the
facts stated in the application and he shall report his findings thereon in
writing to the Town Board of Commissioners. The Town Board of Commissioners
shall have the authority to require any further investigation it deems
necessary, or to hold a hearing upon the application after giving such notice
as it shall prescribe to the applicant.
(Ord. passed 11-4-94)
§ 112.38 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   If the Town Board of Commissioners determines that the applicant is in sound
physical condition, including good hearing and good eyesight, that the
applicant is of good character and is qualified to drive a taxicab it shall
order the issuance to the applicant of a license card authorizing such person
to operate a taxicab within the limits of the town.
(Ord. passed 11-4-94)
§ 112.39 LICENSE CARD.
   (A)   Information to be shown on card. The license card when issued shall
bear a number and shall contain the name, home address, business address, and
employer of the driver.
   (B)   Display. It shall be the duty of every driver to whom a license card
is issued to carry such license with him at all times and it shall be the duty
of such driver to expose such license upon the request of any person at any
time.
(Ord. passed 11-4-94) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.40 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   The license of any driver shall become void, and shall be surrendered by
him, upon his conviction, or plea of guilty or nolo contendere, in any court in
this state or any other state, on a charge of any offense involving moral
turpitude. The Town Board of Commissioners shall have the authority, after such
hearing as it shall prescribe, upon not less than five days’ notice, to revoke
the license of any driver under this subchapter for any of the following
causes:
   (A)   Found guilty of repeated and persistent violation of traffic and
safety laws and ordinances, and other ordinances relating to the operation of a
taxicab with the limits of the town.
   (B)   Failure to report any accident in which such driver is involved,
however slight.
   (C)   Operation of a taxicab known to the driver not to be in good order and
repair.
   (D)   Dangerous and reckless driving by such drivers at any time while
engaged in the operation of a taxicab within the limits of the town under such
circumstances as in the opinion of the Town Board of Commissioners shall
constitute a reckless and indifferent disregard of the rules of traffic and the
safety of passengers in the taxicab or of persons or property within the limits
of the town.
(Ord. passed 11-4-94)
REQUIREMENTS FOR VEHICLES
§ 112.50 FIVE-PASSENGER SEDAN REQUIRED.
   Every taxicab for which a certificate is issued shall be of the enclosed, or
sedan type, with four doors, at least two seats, and of not less than five
passenger capacity.
(Ord. passed 11-4-94) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.51 VEHICLES TO BE IN GOOD REPAIR.
   Every taxicab for which a certificate is issued shall be at all times in
good repair when in operation, and shall not be withdrawn from service for
repairs exceeding ten days, without special written permission of the Town
Board of Commissioners. It shall be inspected by the Chief of Police or his
authorized agent, and written report of such inspection filed with the Town
Clerk. Regular inspections shall be made each 90 days by the Chief of Police or
his authorized agent.
(Ord. passed 11-4-94) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.52 OWNER’S NAME TO APPEAR ON CAB.
   Every taxicab shall bear on the outside the name of the owner or trade name
in letters not less than two inches high and plainly visible at a distance of
100 feet.
(Ord. passed 11-4-94) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.53 NAME AND ADDRESS OF OPERATOR AND RATES POSTED.
   The name and address of the operator, and the rates and fares in effect
shall be kept posted inside of each taxicab visible to all occupants, at all
times, when it is in operation and shall be exhibited to any person demanding
such name and address.
(Ord. passed 11-4-94) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 113: AMUSEMENTS
Section
   
113.01   Operation of pool rooms
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 OPERATION OF POOL ROOMS.
   It shall be permissible for pool rooms to be operated within the town
limits, provided, and upon the following conditions:
   (A)   That no drinking will be allowed therein of any intoxicant, whether
liquor, rum, whiskey, wine, beer, or cordials.
   (B)   That no person be allowed to carry into the pool room any intoxicants
of any nature, as particularly defined in division (A) of this section.
   (C)   That no person under the age of 18 years be allowed within the pool
rooms.
   (D)   That no gambling of any sort, kind, or nature be allowed or permitted
therein, whether it be betting on the games played, the outcome of any game or
series of games, by any and all names whatsoever to the effect and intent that
gambling by whatever names or devices carried on, with or without machines, be
absolutely and totally forbidden within the pool rooms.
   (E)   That the applicant for pool room license shall personally file with
the Town Board of Commissioners, an application requesting the issuance of a
license and shall state in the application that he is acquainted with and has
some knowledge of the restrictions and conditions herein set forth, and that he
will, in the operation of the pool room, fully and completely abide by and obey
the restrictions and conditions in their entirety.
(Ord. passed 5-4-93) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Violations of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of
not more than $50 and/or imprisonment in the county jail for a term not to
exceed 30 days.
(Ord. passed 7-7-39; Ord. passed 5-4-93)
CHAPTER 114: ITINERANT MERCHANTS
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   License tax levied
   
114.03   Duties of the Town Clerk
   
114.04   Term of license; due date
   
114.05   Application
   
114.06   No abatement of tax
   
114.07   Effect of license
   
114.08   Exemptions
   
114.09   Collections of unpaid tax
   
114.10   Street solicitation prohibited
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. Any trade, occupation, profession, business, franchise, or calling
of any kind.
   ITINERANT. Any person, firm, corporation, or business who or which conducts
business within the town for less than six consecutive months.
   PERSON. Includes any individual, trustee, executor, other fiduciary,
corporation, association, partnership, company, firm, or other legal entity or
agent thereof.
   REGULAR MERCHANT. Includes any person, firm, corporation, or business who or
which maintains a fixed permanent location within the town at or in which at
least 90% of his or her or its total sales volume is made.
(Ord. passed 11-22-88)
§ 114.02 LICENSE TAX LEVIED.
   (A)   A license tax is hereby levied of every itinerant salesperson or
merchant who shall expose for sale, either on the street, in a lot, in a
vehicle, or in a building occupied, in whole or in part, for that purpose, any
goods, wares, or merchandise, not being a regular merchant in the town and the
itinerant salesperson or merchant shall apply for in advance and procure a
privilege license from the Town Clerk for the privilege of transacting business
and shall pay for such license an annual tax of $100.
   (B)   This tax shall not apply to persons who sell fruits, vegetables, farm
products, books, periodicals, printed music, ice, wood for fuel, fish, beef,
mutton, pork, bread, cakes, pies, products of the dairy, poultry, eggs,
livestock, or articles produced by the individual vendor offering them for
sale.
(Ord. passed 11-22-88) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.03 DUTIES OF THE TOWN CLERK.
   (A)   The Town Clerk is hereby designated as the proper town official to
collect license taxes and to issue privilege licenses.
   (B)   The Town Clerk shall make any investigation necessary to determine the
tax liability of persons engaged in the business within the town. If necessary,
the Town Clerk is authorized to enter upon the premises of any such business
for the purpose of determining whether this chapter has been complied with.
   (C)   When any salesperson or merchant, beginning the business, does not pay
the tax herein levied in advance, on the ground of his or her stated intention
to become a regular merchant, the Town Clerk may, in his or her discretion,
require the salesperson or merchant to make a cash deposit in the sum of $100,
which deposit shall be forfeited in payment of the tax herein levied in case
such salesperson or merchant discontinues the business in the town within less
than six months for any reason other than death or disablement of said
salesperson or merchant, or insolvency of the business, or destruction of the
stock by fire or other catastrophe. When any salesperson or merchant, having
been required to post such deposit, has conducted the business for six
consecutive months, or has discontinued the business within six months for one
of the reasons specifically mentioned herein, he or she shall be entitled to
have the deposit returned.
(Ord. passed 11-22-88)
§ 114.04 TERM OF LICENSE; DUE DATE.
   Each privilege license issued shall cover the 12-month period beginning July
1 of each calendar year and ending June 30 of the subsequent calendar year.
(Ord. passed 11-22-88)
§ 114.05 APPLICATION.
   Every person desiring to obtain a license for the privilege of engaging in
said business within this town shall make application therefor in writing to
the Town Clerk. The application, to be made on a form provided by the Town
Clerk, shall contain the following information:
   (A)   Name and nature of the business for which the license is sought;
   (B)   The address where the business is conducted, and a mailing address for
the business, if different;
   (C)   The name and address of the person filling out the application, and
his or her relationship to the business;
   (D)   The gross receipts of the business for the most recently completed tax
year; and
   (E)   Any other information which the Town Clerk determines to be necessary.
(Ord. passed 11-22-88) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.06 NO ABATEMENT OF TAX.
   If a licensee discontinues a business before the end of the period for which
the license was issued, the license tax shall not be abated nor shall a refund
of any part of the license tax be made.
(Ord. passed 11-22-88)
§ 114.07 EFFECT OF LICENSE.
   The issuance of a license under this chapter does not authorize the carrying
on of a business for which additional licenses or qualifications are required
by state or local law, nor does the issuance of a license prevent the town from
enacting additional regulations applicable to the licensee.
(Ord. passed 11-22-88)
§ 114.08 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Any person who engages in business within the town for religious,
educational, or charitable purposes shall be exempt from paying any privilege
license tax levied by this chapter.
   (B)   Any blind person engaging in business within the town shall be exempt
from paying any privilege license tax levied by this chapter.
   (C)   Any person serving in any branch of the armed forces of the United
States or in the merchant marine, and desiring to engage in business within the
town, shall be exempt from paying any privilege license tax levied by this
chapter during the period of such service.
   (D)   Any person associated with any town-approved parade or event, such as
the annual Christmas Parade, shall be exempted for a period of three hours
before and after the parade or event, as well as during the parade or event.
(Ord. passed 11-22-88)
§ 114.09 COLLECTIONS OF UNPAID TAX.
   (A)   If a person begins or continues to engage in a business taxed under
this chapter without payment of the required privilege license tax, the Town
Clerk may use either of the following methods to collect the unpaid tax:
      (1)   The remedy of levy and sale or attachment and garnishment, in
accordance with G.S. § 160A-207; or
      (2)   The remedy of levy and sale of real and personal property of the
taxpayer in accordance with G.S. § 105-109(d).
   (B)   Any person who begins or continues to engage in a business taxed under
this chapter without payment of such tax is liable for an additional tax of 10%
of the original tax due for each 30 days or portion thereof that the tax is
delinquent.
(Ord. passed 11-22-88)
§ 114.10 STREET SOLICITATION PROHIBITED.
   No person, organization or firm shall seek or solicit funds from any
occupied, wheeled vehicle on any street within the town.
(Ord. passed 5-2-06) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in said business within
this town upon which a privilege license tax is imposed by this chapter,
without having paid the license tax specified in §
114.02 herein. Violators shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction,
shall be fined not more than $50, or imprisoned for not more than 30 days. Each
day that a person engages in business in violation of this section constitutes
a separate offense.
      (1)   The town may seek an injunction against any person engaging in
business in violation of this section.
      (2)   A conviction under this section does not relieve a person of his or
her liability for the license tax or taxes imposed by this chapter.
   (B)   Any person who willfully makes a false statement on a license
application as set forth in §
114.05 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined
not more than $50, or imprisoned for not less than 30 days.
   (C)   A $50 fine will be imposed for each violation of §
114.10.
(Ord. passed 11-22-88; Am. Ord. passed 5-2-06)
CHAPTER 115: SOLICITING
Section
   
115.01   Soliciting memberships in clubs, unions, and the like
 
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01 SOLICITING MEMBERSHIPS IN CLUBS, UNIONS, AND THE LIKE.
   Every person who shall solicit membership or memberships in any club,
association, or union within the corporate limits of the town, where there is
any charge for membership therein, shall prior to any solicitation for members
thereof, apply to the Chief of Police for a license and upon approval of the
Chief of Police, obtain from the Town Clerk a license authorizing such
activities upon his or her part, the license when issued to be valid for a
period of 30 days only. Provided, however, this section shall not apply to
those persons, clubs, associations, or unions where the solicitor or solicitors
of membership receive no compensation for their services. A prerequisite for
the obtaining of such license shall be:
   (A)   A showing that the applicant is of good moral character, by furnishing
to the Chief of Police two letters, from residents of the county,
substantiating such character.
   (B)   That he or she has never been convicted of any offense against the
laws of any state or of the United States wherein such crime involved moral
turpitude or the commission of a felony.
   (C)   That the applicant agrees to be fingerprinted.
   (D)   A payment of the sum of $1 to the Town Clerk as a license fee.
   (E)   A statement of the name of the club, association, or union for which
membership is so solicited.
   (F)   It being expressly understood that a separate license must be obtained
by each person that solicits memberships as hereinabove provided, in order that
a firm, partnership, or corporation cannot obtain a license that would be valid
for all persons in the firm, partnership, or corporation to use.
   (G)   In addition to the above required information, the person, firm,
association, partnership, or corporation must first list the location and
address of the principal office and place of business together with the local
office of the business and, if a corporation, the name of its president and
secretary and treasurer, and their respective addresses.
(Ord. 13.1, passed 5-3-60) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall fail or refuse to comply with the
provisions of this chapter, shall upon conviction thereof, be punished by a
fine of $25 or imprisonment for 30 days for the first offense, or both fine and
imprisonment, in discretion of the court; a fine of $50 or imprisonment for 30
days for the second or subsequent offenses, or both fine and imprisonment, in
discretion of the court, and each day that this chapter is not complied with as
provided shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. 13.1, passed 5-3-60)
CHAPTER 116: MASSAGE THERAPY
Section
   
116.01   Purpose; exemptions
   
116.02   Definitions
   
116.03   Licensing of massage businesses
   
116.04   Licensing of massagists
   
116.05   Employer to use only licensed employees
   
116.06   Posting of license
   
116.07   Appeal
   
116.08   Hours of operations
   
116.09   Patronage of massage businesses by minors and employment of minors
   
116.10   Privilege license annual
   
116.11   Criminal penalties
   
116.12   Civil injunction
   
116.13   Severability
   
116.14   Liability for conduct of others
   
116.15   Massage of private parts for hire prohibited
   
116.16   Massage of persons of opposite sex restricted
   
116.17   Fees
§ 116.01 PURPOSE; EXEMPTIONS.
   To protect public health, safety, welfare, and morals, the following
privilege license provisions and regulations are ordained for the privilege of
carrying on the business, trade, or profession of massagists and for the
operation of carrying on businesses, trades, or professions commonly known as
massage parlors, health salons, physical culture studios, bath parlors, or
similar establishments wherein massage or physical manipulation of the human
body is carried on or practiced. The provisions of these sections shall not
apply to a regularly established and licensed hospital, sanitarium, nursing
home, nor to an office or clinic operated and regularly used by a duly
qualified and licensed medical practitioner, osteopath or chiropractor in
connection with the practice of medicine, chiropractical, osteopathy, nor will
they apply to any treatment given in the residence of a patient if administered
by a licensed physician, osteopath, or registered physical therapist or
chiropractor.
(Ord. passed 6-27-96)
§ 116.02 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this section unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, the
following works and phrases shall have the following meanings:
   APPLICANT. The person who will operate the massage business, it shall
include each of the following persons associated with that business:
      (1)   The owner of a sole proprietorship;
      (2)   Each member of a firm, association, or limited liability company;
      (3)   Each general partner in a general or limited partnership;
      (4)   Each officer and director of a corporation.
   BUSINESS OR PROFESSION OF MASSAGE. Includes the massage or treatment of any
person for a fee or in expectation of a gratuity from the person massaged.
   MASSAGE. The manipulation of body muscles or tissue by rubbing, stroking,
kneading, or tapping by hand or mechanical device.
   MASSAGE BUSINESS. Any establishment or business wherein massage is
practiced, including establishments commonly known as massage parlors, health
clubs, physical culture studios, and massage studios.
   MASSAGIST. Any person engaged in business or profession of massage.
   PRIVATE PARTS. The penis, scrotum, mons veneris, vulva or vaginal area.
(Ord. passed 6-27-96)
§ 116.03 LICENSING OF MASSAGE BUSINESSES.
   (A)   No person, partnership, limited liability company, corporation, or
association shall operate a massage business as herein defined unless that
person, partnership, corporation, or association shall have first applied for
and received a privilege license provided by this section.
   (B)   Every application for the privilege license prescribed herein shall be
upon a form approved by the Town Manager and shall be filed with the Town Clerk
and such application shall be made under oath and shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   If the applicant is an individual, the name and residence address
of the individual. If the applicant is a partnership (limited or general) the
name and residence of each of the general partners. If the applicant is a firm,
association, or limited liability company, the name and residence address of
each member. If the applicant is a corporation the name and residence address
of each officer and director. The names of the manager(s) of the business along
with their residence address.
      (2)   The address of the premises where the massage business shall be
located.
      (3)   A complete statement of all convictions of any persons whose name
is required to be given in division (B)(1) for any felony for prostitution or
any violation of any law relative to prostitution.
      (4)   A complete statement of any revocation by any governmental unit of
any license to operate a massage business or to engage in the business or
profession of massage held by any person whose name is required to be given in
division (B)(1) of this section.
      (5)   A complete statement of any conviction of any person whose name is
required to be given in division (B)(1) of this section for violation of any
statute, law, ordinance, or regulation of government concerning the operation
of a massage business or the business or profession of massage.
      (6)   The name and address of any massage business or other establishment
owned or operated by any person whose name is required to be given in division
(B)(1) of this section wherein the business or profession of massage is carried
on.
      (7)   The name and address of the individuals who will be performing the
massage services and the proof required by G.S. § 14-4(C) and (3) and (4).
   (C)   The Town Clerk shall transmit a copy of the application to the Police
Department for an investigative report, to the Zoning Department to determine
compliance with all zoning and building regulations and ordinances, and to the
Fire Department to determine compliance with any law relating to fire
protection. The Police and Fire Departments and the Zoning Department shall
within a reasonable time report the results of their examinations to the Town
Clerk.
   (D)   An application in proper form accompanied by all reports required by
this section shall be submitted to the Town Manager who shall approve such
application if the manager determines that:
      (1)   The application contains no misstatement of fact, including, but
not limited to, use of any name other than a legal name to procure an
application or privilege license;
      (2)   The applicant has not been convicted of any crime involving sexual
misconduct, including but not limited to offices described in G.S. Ch. 14,
Articles 26, 26A, 27, or 39, or of any federal statute relative to prostitution
or of any violation of any law or ordinance of any governmental unit concerning
or related to the business of profession of massage.
      (3)   The applicant conforms to all requirements of applicable zoning,
building, and fire prevention codes.
      (4)   The applicant has not for the three years period preceding the
application had a previously issued license for engaging in the business or
profession of massage revoked.
      (5)   The individuals who will be performing the massage services for the
massage business are properly licensed under the provisions of this chapter.
      (6)   The town reserves the right to request submission of any additional
information deemed necessary to process any such application.
   (E)   Upon approval of the application by the Town Manager and upon receipt
of a license fee as fixed from time to time by the Town Council, the town shall
issue a privilege license to the applicant.
   (F)   A license issued pursuant to this section shall be revoked by action
of the Town Manager if he/she determines that:
      (1)   The licensee has violated any provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   The licensee or any agent of the licensee employs or permits to be
on the premises of the applicant’s massage business any person practicing the
business or profession of massage who has not been issued the privilege license
as required by this chapter or whose license under this chapter has been
revoked;
      (3)   The license or the legal or beneficial owner of an interest in the
licensee is convicted of any crime involving sexual misconduct;
      (4)   Any employee of the licensee is convicted of any felony in
connection with his or her employment or is convicted of any crime involving
sexual misconduct;
      (5)   The licensee violates any zoning, building, or fire prevention
ordinance.
   (G)   A license issued pursuant to this section is void if the licensee
moves or ceases operating a massage business at the location required to be
stated in the application for license pursuant to division (B)(2) of this
section.
(Ord. passed 6-27-96)
§ 116.04 LICENSING OF MASSAGISTS.
   (A)   No person shall engage in the business or profession of massage unless
that person shall have first applied for and received a privilege license
provided by this section.
   (B)   The application for the license required by this section shall be upon
a form approved by the Town Manager and shall be filed with the Town Clerk. The
application shall be given under oath and shall contain the following
information.
      (1)   The name, age, and residence address of the applicant.
      (2)   A complete statement of all convictions of the applicant for any
felony or misdemeanor or violation of a local ordinance.
      (3)   A complete statement of any revocation of any license granted by
any governmental unit to the applicant to engage in the business or profession
of massage.
      (4)   The date and place of applicant’s birth, the name of applicant’s
parents, and the residence address or addresses of the applicant for the five
years immediately preceding the date of application.
   (C)   The applicant shall submit as part of the application the following:
      (1)   Fingerprints of the applicant taken by the Police Department;
      (2)   Two recent photographs of the applicant’s head and shoulders of the
size and quality prescribed by the Town Manager.
      (3)   The applicant must furnish the following proof of training:
         (a)   A diploma or certificate of graduation from an institute or
school of massage whose curriculum is approved by the American Massage Therapy
Association, Associated Bodywork and Massage Professionals or any other
nationally recognized organization; or
         (b)   A diploma, transcript, or certificate of completion from a
school or other institution of learning, or a workshop/seminar. The applicant
must show proof that he/she has successfully completed no less than 500
classroom hours of instruction in the area of massage therapy and/or must show
successful completion of the program of a period of no less than six months of
professional training in the area of massage therapy; or
         (c)   Any license or certificate required by the state.
      (4)   In addition to division (3)(b), all applicants shall have submitted
two written notarized recommendations from two members in good standing with
the American Massage Therapy Association, Associated Bodywork and Massage
Professionals, or any other nationally recognized organization or from two
persons or instructors from other schools or institutions of learning,
attesting to the notification and good standing of any such applicant for a
license hereunder; and
      (5)   The town reserves the right to request submission of any additional
information deemed necessary to process any such application.
   (D)   The Town Clerk shall transmit a copy of the application to the Police
Department for an investigative report. The Police Department shall within a
reasonable time report the results of its investigation to the Town Clerk.
   (E)   An application in proper form shall be submitted to the Town Manager
with all reports required by this division. The Town Manager shall approve such
application if he/she determines:
      (1)   That the applicant is at least 18 years of age;
      (2)   That the application contains no misstatement of fact, including,
but not limited to, the use of any name other than a legal name to procure the
application or privilege license;
      (3)   That the applicant has not been convicted of any crime involving
sexual misconduct or any federal statute relating to prostitution or a
violation of any law or ordinance of any governmental unit concerning or
relating to business or profession of massage;
      (4)   That the applicant has not for the three year period preceding the
application had a previously issued license for engaging in the business or
profession of massage revoked;
      (5)   The applicant has furnished the necessary proof of training as
required by this chapter;
      (6)   That the applicant has not been previously convicted of any
violation of any provision of this chapter.
   (F)   Upon approval of the application by the Town Manager and upon receipt
of a license fee as fixed from time to time by the Town Council, the town shall
issue a privilege license to the applicant.
   (G)   The Town Manager shall have the authority to direct that any person
licensed under this section submit to a medical examination by a licensed
physician approved by the Town Manager. This authority shall be exercised only
when the Manager has reason to believe that any such person has contracted a
communicable disease. Refusal to submit to the examination shall be grounds for
revocation of the license as provided in division (H) of this section.
   (H)   A license issued pursuant to this section shall be revoked by action
of the Town Manager if he/she determines:
      (1)   The licensee has violated any provision of this chapter;
      (2)   The licensee is afflicted with a communicable disease;
      (3)   The licensee is found not to have the required diploma or
certificate of graduation or required the correct number of hours and length of
courses;
      (4)   The licensee has been convicted of a felony or any crime involving
sexual misconduct.
(Ord. passed 6-27-96)
§ 116.05 EMPLOYER TO USE ONLY LICENSED EMPLOYEES.
   No person, corporation, limited liability company, partnership, or
association licensed under §
116.03 of this chapter shall allow or permit any person to massage or treat any
person upon the premises operated by the licensee unless the person giving a
massage or treatment has complied with all requirements of licensing under §
116.04. Violation of this section shall be grounds for revocation of the
license issued to such violator pursuant to this section.
(Ord. passed 6-27-96)
§ 116.06 POSTING OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Every massagist shall post the license required by §
116.04 in his/her work area.
   (B)   Every person, corporation, limited liability company, partnership, or
association licensed under §
116.03 shall display the license in a prominent place within the premises of
the business.
(Ord. passed 6-27-96)
§ 116.07 APPEAL.
   (A)   If the Town Manager revokes a license issued pursuant to this section
or if the Town Manager determines reasonable grounds exist to deny an
application or license pursuant to this section, the Manager shall cause a
written notice to be sent by certified mail to the licensee affected or
applicant affected at the address stated in the license or application. The
notice shall advise the affected party of the right to appeal to the Town
Council the decision of the Town Manager. Such appeal shall be in writing
within 30 days of the date of the notice of action by the Town Manager. The
Town Council shall decide to hear the appeal no later than the second regular
Council meeting after receipt of the appeal. The applicant or licensee may
appear before the Town Council, with or without legal counsel, at a stated time
and place for the purpose of presenting any evidence relevant to such
revocation or denial and for the purpose of hearing all evidence submitted and
examining or cross-examining any person providing such evidence.
   (B)   The decision to uphold the action of the Town Manager or reverse the
action of the Town Manager shall be based solely on the requirements
established herein for the action by the Town Manager. A revocation shall be
stayed during the pendency of an appeal to the Town Council.
(Ord. passed 6-27-96)
§ 116.08 HOURS OF OPERATIONS.
   (A)   No person licensed as a massagist under this section shall massage or
treat any person or engage in the business or profession of massage before 6:00
a.m. or after 12:01 a.m.
   (B)   No person, corporation, limited liability company, partnership, or
association licensed under this section shall admit customers or prospective
customers or remain open for business or allow, permit or condone any massage
or treatment of any person upon the premises before 6:00 a.m. or after 12:01
a.m.
   (C)   No person in charge of managing a massage business upon the premises
shall allow, permit, or condone any massage or treatment of any person before
6:00 a.m. or after 12:01a.m.
(Ord. passed 6-27-96)
§ 116.09 PATRONAGE OF MASSAGE BUSINESSES BY MINORS AND EMPLOYMENT OF MINORS.
   (A)   No person licensed as a massagist under this section shall massage or
treat any person under the age of 18 upon the licensed premises except upon
written order by a licensed physician, osteopath, chiropractor, or registered
physical therapist, or upon receiving written consent from the minor’s parents
and such orders or consents being dated and in the possession of the massagist
giving the massage or treatment. A violation of this section shall be grounds
for revocation of any license issued to such violator pursuant to this section.
   (B)   No person, corporation, limited liability company, partnership, or
association licensed under this section shall allow, permit, or condone the
massage or treatment of any person under the age of 18 except upon written
orders from a licensed osteopath, chiropractor, or registered physical
therapist, such order being dated and a true copy of such order being in the
possession of the license before administration of any massage or treatment or
a copy of the written parental consent being in the possession of the licensee
before administration of any massage or treatment. A violation of this section
shall be grounds for revocation of any license issued to such violator pursuant
to this section.
   (C)   No person, corporation, limited liability company, partnership, or
association licensed under this section shall employ any person under the age
of 18 in the operation of a massage business.
(Ord. passed 6-27-96)
§ 116.10 PRIVILEGE LICENSE ANNUAL.
   The licenses required under this section are annual privilege licenses and
shall expire at midnight on June 30 of each year. Such licenses shall be due
and payable in the same manner and prescribed for other privilege licenses
issued by the town pursuant to the license and privilege tax ordinance of the
town.
(Ord. passed 6-27-96)
§ 116.11 CRIMINAL PENALTIES.
   Any person convicted of violation of any provisions of this section shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be subject to a fine of $500
or imprisonment or both.
(Ord. passed 6-27-96)
§ 116.12 CIVIL INJUNCTION.
   Any person who violates this section is subject to a civil suit or
injunction as well as prosecution for criminal violation and liability for
licensing sanctions such as suspension or revocation.
(Ord. passed 6-27-96)
§ 116.13 SEVERABILITY.
   If any subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of this section is
for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed as separate, distinct, and
independent provision, and such holding shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions thereof.
(Ord. passed 6-27-96)
§ 116.14 LIABILITY FOR CONDUCT OF OTHERS.
   A licensee under this section is jointly and individually liable for
violations of and offenses under this chapter by the employees of the massage
establishment and for all civil and criminal sanctions or remedies for such
violations and offenses, including but not limited to license suspension or
revocation prescribed herein.
(Ord. passed 6-27-96)
§ 116.15 MASSAGE OF PRIVATE PARTS FOR HIRE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to massage or to offer to massage the
private parts of another for hire. The provisions of this section shall not
apply to licensed medical practitioners, osteopaths, chiropractors, or persons
operating at their direction in connection with the practice of medicine,
chiropractic, or osteopathy.
(Ord. passed 6-27-96)
§ 116.16 MASSAGE OF PERSONS OF OPPOSITE SEX RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to massage a person of the opposite sex
without holding the license required by this chapter. The requirements of this
section shall not apply to massages given in the office of a licensed
physician, osteopath, chiropractor, or registered physical therapist, or in a
regularly established and licensed hospital or sanitarium. Nor shall it apply
to any treatment given in the residence of a patient if administered by a
licensed physician, osteopath, registered physical therapist or chiropractor.
Failure to abide by this section shall give rise to all available criminal and
civil penalties.
(Ord. passed 6-27-96)
§ 116.17 FEES.
   (A)   Every massage business shall pay to the town an annual non-refundable
privilege licensee fee of $75 upon license issuance or renewal.
   (B)   Every massagist shall pay to the town an annual non-refundable
privilege license fee of $50 upon license issuance or renewal; however, if the
massagist is a sole-proprietorship there shall be no additional fee as required
for the individual massagist under this division.
(Ord. passed 6-27-96)
CHAPTER 117: BUSINESS LICENSES
Section
   
117.01   Definitions
   
117.02   License required
   
117.03   Licenses required for every separate business
   
117.04   License required for every place of business
   
117.05   New license if business moved or sold
   
117.06   Personal nature of licenses
   
117.07   Application
   
117.08   Levy of license taxes; schedule
   
117.09   Term; proration of tax
   
117.10   Abatement or refund of tax prohibited
   
117.11   Contents of licenses; copy to be kept by Town Clerk
   
117.12   Display
   
117.13   Revocation
   
117.14   Powers declared cumulative
 
   
117.99   Violations; penalty
§ 117.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Whenever in this chapter the words set out in this section are used, they
shall, unless the context requires otherwise, be deemed to have the following
meaning.
   AGENT. The person having the agency for a manufacturer, producer or
distributor.
   BUSINESS. Any business, trade, occupation, profession, avocation or calling
of any kind, subject, by the provision of this chapter, to a license tax.
   ENGAGED IN THE BUSINESS. Engaged in the business as owner or operator.
   FISCAL YEAR. The fiscal year of the town as prescribed by G.S. § 159-8(b),
and/or as referenced in §
117.09.
   QUARTER. Any three consecutive months.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 117.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or his or her agent or servant to engage
in or carry on a business in the town for which there is required a license,
without first having paid the license tax and obtained the license. For the
purpose of this section the opening of a place of business, or offering to
sell, followed by a single sale or the doing of any act or thing in furtherance
of the business shall be construed to be engaging in or carrying on such
business; and each day that such person shall engage in or carry on such
business shall be construed to be a separate offense.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.03 LICENSES REQUIRED FOR EVERY SEPARATE BUSINESS.
   The payment of any particular tax imposed by this chapter shall not relieve
the person paying the same from the payment of any other tax imposed by this
chapter for any other business he or she may carry on, unless so provided by
the section imposing such tax; it being the intent of this chapter that license
taxes prescribed by this chapter applicable to any business shall be cumulative
except where otherwise specifically provided.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 117.04 LICENSE REQUIRED FOR EVERY PLACE OF BUSINESS.
   A license issued for the privilege of conducting a business is only valid
for the business conducted at the place and by the licensee named therein.
Every person doing business in more than one factory, mill, warehouse, store,
stall, stand or other place of business shall secure a separate license for
each such place of business, unless such places of business are contiguous to
each other, communicate directly with and open into each other, and are
operated as a unit; and shall pay the prescribed license fee for each such
place of business.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 117.05 NEW LICENSE IF BUSINESS MOVED OR SOLD.
   If a business is moved or if the licensee sells to another, then a new
license is necessary, unless a special permit to continue business under the
original license is obtained from the Council.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 117.06 PERSONAL NATURE OF LICENSES.
   Each license shall be a personal privilege and shall not be transferable.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 117.07 APPLICATION.
   Every application for a license required by this chapter shall be made at
Town Hall.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 117.08 LEVY OF LICENSE TAXES; SCHEDULE.
   (A)   In addition to the tax on property, as otherwise provided for, and
under the power and authority conferred in the laws of North Carolina, there
shall be levied and collected annually, or more often, where provided for, a
privilege license tax on trades, professions, agencies, business operations,
exhibitions, circuses and all subjects authorized to be licensed.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Town Council to prepare and levy each year
a schedule of license taxes on such trades and occupations as may be deemed
necessary and not inconsistent with state law, and a permanent copy of the same
shall be kept on file in the office of the Town Clerk throughout the current
year. This permanent copy shall constitute the official license tax levy as of
that year.
   (C)   Schedule of license taxes (privilege licenses) shall be included and
charged accordingly by the most recently adopted “Schedule of Fees” for the
town.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 117.09 TERM; PRORATION OF TAX.
   (A)   All license taxes provided for in this chapter shall be for 12 months,
from July 1 to June 30, unless otherwise specified.
   (B)   Provided, that where the license is issued after November 30, the
licensee shall be required to pay one-half the tax prescribed, except where
otherwise specifically provided.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 117.10 ABATEMENT OR REFUND OF TAX PROHIBITED.
   No license tax shall be abated nor shall any refund of any part thereof be
made in any case where the licensee discontinues his or her business before the
end of the period for which such license was issued.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 117.11 CONTENTS OF LICENSES; COPY TO BE KEPT BY TOWN CLERK.
   Every license issued hereunder shall show on the face thereof the name of
the licensee, the nature of the business, the location thereof, if it is to be
operated at a fixed place, the time for which issued, and the amount of license
tax and penalty, if any, paid. Any license requiring the approval of the Town
Council or of any officer of the town shall show such approval on its face; and
it shall be the duty of the Town Clerk before issuing any such license to see
that the required approval is properly endorsed on the license. The Town Clerk
shall keep an exact copy of every license issued, such copy to show such
approval as may appear on the original.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 117.12 DISPLAY.
   Every license must be kept prominently displayed at the place of business of
the licensee named in the license, or, if the licensee has no fixed place of
business, such licensee must keep the same wherever such business is being
operated and where it can be inspected at any time by the proper municipal
official.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 117.13 REVOCATION.
   Any license issued by the Town Clerk may be revoked by the Town Council upon
the finding by the Council that the licensee has willfully or persistently
violated any ordinance of the town or any laws of the state, or that such
licensee is conducting his or her business in a fraudulent or unlawful manner
or is abusing his or her license.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 117.14 POWERS DECLARED CUMULATIVE.
   Nothing herein contained shall be construed to prevent the Town Council from
imposing from time to time, as they may see fit, such other license taxes as
are authorized, or from increasing or decreasing the amount of any special
license tax, or from prohibiting or regulating the business or acts licensed,
and all licenses are granted subject to the provisions of existing ordinances
or those thereafter enacted.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 117.99 VIOLATIONS; PENALTY.
   (A)   If any person shall continue the business, trade, employment, or
profession, or to do the act, after the expiration of a license previously
issued, without obtaining a new license, he or she shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, and upon conviction shall be fined and/or imprisoned in the
discretion of the court, but the fine shall not be less than 20% of the tax in
addition to the tax and the costs; and if such failure to apply for and obtain
a new license is continued, such person shall pay an additional tax of 5% of
the amount of the municipal license tax which was due and payable on the first
day of the fiscal year, in addition to the municipal license tax imposed by
this chapter, for each and every 30 days that such municipal license tax
remains unpaid from the date that same was due and payable. Such additional tax
shall be assessed by the Town Clerk and paid with the municipal license tax,
and shall become a part of the municipal license tax. The penalties for delayed
payment hereinbefore provided shall not impair the obligation to procure a
license in advance or modify any of the penalties for failure to do so.
   (B)   If any person shall commence to exercise any privilege or to promote
any business, trade, employment, or profession, or to do any act requiring a
municipal license under this chapter without such municipal license, he or she
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be fined and/or imprisoned in the
discretion of the court; and if such failure, neglect, or refusal to apply for
and obtain such municipal license is continued, such person shall pay an
additional tax of 5% of the amount of such municipal license tax which was due
and payable at the commencement of the business, trade, employment or
profession, or doing of the act, in addition to the municipal license tax
imposed by this chapter, for each and every 30 days that such municipal license
tax remains unpaid from the date that same was due and payable. Such additional
tax shall be assessed by the Town Clerk and paid with the municipal license tax
and shall become a part of the municipal license tax.
(Ord. passed - -)
APPENDIX I: SCHEDULE OF FEES
SCHEDULE B - Privilege License Taxes Limited under North Carolina General
Statues:
   Listed below are classifications of business activities governed within the
North Carolina Revenue Laws, pursuant to G.S. § 160A-211. Businesses conducting
these activities are taxed under this section in addition to Schedule C, when
applicable.
Statutory reference:
   Note that most of the statutes cited in this schedule have been repealed.
G.S. § 160A-211, however,
    continues to authorize taxes to the extent permitted before the sections
were repealed.
ABC Licenses.
   On-premises malt beverage - $15.00.
   Off-premises malt beverage - $5.00.
   On-premises unfortified wine, fortified wine, or both - $15.00.
   Off-premises unfortified wine, fortified wine, or both - $10.00.
   State law reference: G.S. §§ 105-113.77 and 105-113.70
Automobile Dealers - $25.00.
   Engaging in the business of buying, selling, distributing, servicing,
storing, or exchanging motor vehicles, trailers, semitrailers, tires, tools,
batteries, electrical equipment, lubricants, or automotive equipment, radios
designed for exclusive use in automobiles, and supplies.
   State law reference: G.S. § 105-89 (G.S. §§ 106A-211 and 153A-152)
Barbershops and Beauty Parlors - $2.50 for each barber, manicurist,
cosmetologist, beautician, or other operator employed in the shop or parlor.
   Engaging in the business of conducting a barbershop, beauty salon or parlor,
or other shop of like kind.
   State law reference: G.S. § 160A-211(b)
Bicycle Dealers - $25.00.
   Selling bicycles, bicycle supplies, or bicycle accessories.
   State law reference: G.S. § 105-102.5 (G.S. §§ 160A-211 and 153A-152)
Bowling Alleys - $10.00 for each alley kept or maintained.
   Operating a bowling alley or alleys of like kind.
   State law reference: G.S. § 105-102.5 (G.S. §§ 160A-211 and 153A-152)
Campgrounds and Trailer Parks - $25.00.
   Operating for profit a campground, trailer park, tent-camping area, or
similar place and advertising or soliciting transient patronage. It is
irrelevant whether rental to patrons is on a daily, weekly, biweekly, or
monthly basis.
   State law reference: G.S. § 105-102.5 (G.S. §§ 160A-211 and 153A-152)
Chain Stores - $50.00.
   Engaging in the business of operating or maintaining in this state, (a) two
or more stores or mercantile establishments under the same general management,
supervision, or ownership where goods, wares, or merchandise are sold or
offered for sale, or from which such goods, wares, or merchandise are sold or
distributed at wholesale or retail; or (b) controlling by lease, either as
lessor or lessee or by contract, the manner in which any such store or stores
are operated, or the varieties, character, or brands of merchandise which are
sold therein.
   G.S. § 105-98 (G.S. § 160A-211)
Check-Cashing Businesses - $100.00.
   Engaging in the business of check cashing, as regulated under G.S. Ch. 53,
Art. 22. This is the business of cashing checks, drafts, or money orders for a
fee.
   State law reference: G.S. § 105-88
Circuses and Animal Shows - $25.00 per day of the exhibition at each location.
   Exhibiting performances, such as a circus or dog show, or any other similar
show, exhibition, or performance not taxed in other sections of Schedule B.
Collection Agencies - $50.00.
   Engaging in the business of operating a collecting agency, defined as
collecting for a profit, claims, accounts, bills, notes, or other money
obligations for others.
   State law reference: G.S. § 105-45 (G.S. § 106A-211)
Contractors - $10.00.
   Offering or bidding for a fixed price, commission, fee, or wage to construct
any building, highway, street, sidewalk, bridge, culvert, sewer or water
system, drainage or dredging system, electric or steam railway, reservoir or
dam, hydraulic or power plant, transmission line, tower, dock, wharf,
excavation, grading, or other improvement or structure.
   State law reference: G.S. 105-54 (G.S. 106A-211)
Dances - $25.00.
   Giving or managing any dance or athletic contest of any kind that charges an
admission fee in excess of fifty cents.
Dealer in Firearms - $50.00.
   Engaging in the business of selling or offering for sale firearms.
   State law reference: G.S. § 105-80 (G.S. §§ 160A-211 and 153A-152)
Dealer in Other Weapons - $200.00.
   Engaging in the business of selling or offering for sale bowie knives,
dirks, daggers, leaded canes, iron or metallic knuckles, or similar weapons.
   State law reference: G.S. § 105-80 (G.S. §§ 160A-211 and 153A-152)
Dry Cleaners - $50.00 for each business location if business does not solicit
business outside Alexander County, $100.00 for each location if it solicits
business outside Alexander County.
   Engaging in the business of operating a cleaning plant, press club, or hat-
blocking establishment.
   State law reference: G.S. § 105-74 (G.S. § 160A-211)
Electronic Video Games - $5.00 per machine.
   Owning or operating machines that play electronic video games when a coin or
other thing of value is deposited in the machine.
   State law reference: G.S. § 105-66.1 (G.S. §§ 106A-211 and 153A-152)
Emigrant and Employment Agents.
   Engaging in the business of soliciting, hiring, or contracting with laborers
for employment out of state; or engaging in the business of securing employment
for a person or persons and charging a fee, commission, or other compensation.
   State law reference: G.S. § 105-90 (G.S. §§ 160A-211 and 153A-152)
Hotels and Motels - $1.00 per room, with a minimum tax of $25.00.
   Operating a hotel, motel, tourist court, tourist home, or similar place
advertising in any manner or soliciting for transient patronage. A hotel is
defined as a building or group of buildings providing lodging and usually (but
not necessarily) meals, entertainment, and various personal services for the
public. A motel is a building or group of buildings where rooms usually are
directly accessible from an outdoor parking area and are used primarily as
lodging for the public.
   The principal test in deciding whether this section applies is the use of
such places for temporary abode by transient patrons. It is immaterial whether
a particular room is occupied by a “permanent” guest or whether it is rented on
a daily, weekly, or monthly basis.
   State law reference: G.S. § 105-61 (G.S. § 160A-211)
Installing Elevators and Sprinkler Systems - $100.00.
   Engaging in the business of selling or installing elevators or automatic
sprinkler systems.
   State law reference: G.S. § 105-55 (G.S. §§ 160A-211 and 153A-152)
Itinerant Merchants - $100.00.
   Engaging in the business of itinerant merchant, defined as “a merchant,
other than a merchant with an established retail store in the city, who
transports an inventory of goods to a building, vacant lot, or other location
in a city and who, at that location, displays the goods for sale and sells the
goods at retail or offers the goods for sale at retail.” “A merchant who sells
goods, other than farm products, in a city for less than six consecutive months
is considered an itinerant merchant unless he/she stopped selling goods in that
city because of his death or disablement, the insolvency of his/her business,
or destruction of his/her inventory by fire or other catastrophe.”
   State law reference: G.S. § 105-53 (G.S. §§ 106A-211 and 153A-152)
Laundries - $50.00 for each business location if business does not solicit
business outside Alexander County, $100.00 for each location if it solicits
business outside Alexander County.
   Engaging in the business of operating a laundry, including wet or damp-wash
laundries and businesses known as launderettes, launderalls, and similar types
of businesses; or engaging in the business of supplying or renting clean
linens, towels, or wearing apparel.
   State law reference: G.S. § 105-85 (G.S. § 160A-211)
Loan Agencies - $100.00.
   Engaging in the regular business of making loans or lending money, accepting
liens on or contracts of assignment of salaries, wages, or any part thereof, or
other security or evidence of debt for repayment of such loans in installment
payment or otherwise; and maintaining in connection with such activity any
office or established place for the conduct, negotiation, or transaction of
such business, or advertising or soliciting such business in any manner.
   State law reference: G.S. § 105-88
Motorcycle Dealers - $12.50.
   Engaging in the business of buying, selling, distributing, or exchanging
motorcycles, motorcycle supplies, or any of such commodities.
   State law reference: G.S. § 105-89-1 (G.S. §§ 160A-211 and 153A-152)
Movie Theaters - $200.00 ($100.00 if operated three (3) days a week or less).
   Operation of a movie theater for compensation.
   State law reference: G.S. § 105-37 (G.S. § 160A-211)
Music Machines - $5.00 per machine.
   Operating, maintaining, or placing on location any machine or machines that
play records or produces music.
   State law reference: G.S. § 105-65 (G.S. §§ 160A-211 and 153A-152)
Outdoor Advertising - $35.00.
   Engaging in the business of outdoor advertising by placing, erecting, or
maintaining one or more outdoor advertising signs or structures of any nature
by means of signboards, poster boards, painted bulletins, or other painted
matter; or any other outdoor advertising device, erected upon the grounds,
walls, or roofs of buildings.
   State law reference: G.S. § 105-86 (G.S. § 160A-211)
Outdoor Theaters - $100.00.
   Operating an outdoor or drive-in movie theater for compensation.
   State law reference: G.S. § 105-36.1 (G.S. § 160A-211)
Pawnbrokers - $100.00.
   Engaging in the business of pawnbroker, as regulated by G.S. Ch. 91A.
   State law reference: G.S. § 105-88
Peddler of farm products only - $25.00.
Peddler on foot - $10.00.
Peddler with vehicle - $25.00.
   Engaging in the business of peddler, defined as “a person who travels from
place to place with an inventory of goods, who sells the goods at retail or
offers the goods for sale at retail, and who delivers the identical goods he
carries with him.”
   State law reference: G.S. § 105-53 (G.S. §§ 106A-211 and 153A-152)
Pinball Machines and Similar Amusements - $25.00.
   Operating a bagatelle table; merry-go-round or other riding device;
hobbyhorse; switchback railway; shooting gallery; swimming pool; skating rink;
other amusements of a like kind; or a place for other games or play with or
without name at a permanent location.
   State law reference: G.S. § 105-102.5 (G.S. §§ 160A-211 and 153A-152)
Plumbers, Heating Contractors, and Electricians - $50.00.
   Engaging in the business of a plumber, installing plumbing fixtures, piping
or equipment, steam or gas fitter, hot-air heating systems, electrical
equipment, or offering to perform such services.
   State law reference: G.S. § 105-91 (G.S. § 160A-211)
Pool tables - $25.00 for each business location where tables are operated.
   Operating billiards or pool tables, whether by slot (coin) or otherwise.
   State law reference: G.S. § 105-102.5 (G.S. §§ 160A-211 and 153A-152)
   Town Code of Ordinances reference: Chapter 113
Restaurants - $25.00 for businesses with 4 seats or less, $85.00 for businesses
with more than 4 seats.
   Operating a restaurant, café, cafeteria, hotel with dining service on the
European plan, drugstore, or other place where prepared food is sold.
   State law reference: G.S. § 105-62 (G.S. § 160A-211)
Sale of Pianos and Record Players - $5.00.
   Selling, offering or ordering for sale, repairing or servicing pianos,
organs, record players, records, tape players, tape cartridges designed for use
in tape players, television sets, television accessories and repair parts,
radios (including radios designed for exclusive use in motor vehicles), and
radio accessories and repair parts.
   State law reference: G.S. § 105-102.5 (G.S. §§ 160A-211 and 153A-152)
Sellers of Ice Cream - $2.50.
   Selling at retail ice cream purchased from a manufacturer who has not paid
the manufacturer’s tax levied by G.S. § 105-97; or manufacturing ice cream
using a counter freezer and selling at retail only.
   State law reference: G.S. § 105-102.5 (G.S. §§ 160A-211 and 153A-152)
Service Stations - $12.50.
   Engaging in the business of servicing, storing, painting, repairing,
welding, or upholstering motor vehicles, trailers, and semitrailers; or retail
selling or delivering of any tires, tools, batteries, electrical equipment,
automotive accessories, radios designed for exclusive use in automobiles,
supplies, motor fuels, lubricants, or any such commodities.
   State law reference: G.S. § 105-89 (G.S. §§ 160A-211 and 153A-152)
Specialty Market Operators - $200.00.
   Engaging in the business of operating a specialty market, defined as “a
person who rents space, at a location other than a permanent retail store, to
others for the purpose of selling goods at retail or offering goods for sale at
retail.”
   State law reference: G.S. § 105-53 (G.S. §§ 106A-211 and 153A-152)
Sundries - $4.00.
   (a) The sale of sandwiches in drugstores or other stands or places not
licensed and taxed as a restaurant under G.S. § 105-62 (“sandwiches” does not
include crackers or cookies in combination with any food filling); (b)
operating, maintaining, or placing on location fewer than five of the following
types of dispensers or machines: dispensers of cigarettes or other tobacco
products, dispensers of soft drinks, dispensers of food or other merchandise,
or weighing machines; (c) retailing soft drinks; or (d) retailing or jobbing
cigarettes or other tobacco products.
   State law reference: G.S. § 105-102.5 (G.S. §§ 160A-211 and 153A-152)
Tobacco Warehouses - $50.00.
   Engaging in the business of operating a warehouse for the sale of leaf
tobacco on commission.
   State law reference: G.S. § 105-77 (G.S. § 160A-211)
Undertakers - $50.00.
   Engaging in the business of burying the dead or the retail sale of coffins.
   State law reference: G.S. § 105-46 (G.S. § 106A-211)
Video Rental or Sale - $25.00.
   Selling, leasing, furnishing, and/or distributing movies, including video
movies, for use in places where no admission fee is charged or in schools or
other institutions of learning.
   State law reference: G.S. § 105-102-5 (G.S. §§ 160A-211 and 153A-152)
Wholesale Supply Dealer - $37.50.
   Engaging in the business of buying, selling, distributing, exchanging, or
delivering automotive accessories, including radios designed for exclusive use
in automobiles, parts, tires, tools, batteries, other automotive equipment or
supplies, or any such commodities at wholesale.
   State law reference: G.S. § 105-89 (G.S. §§ 106A-211 and 153A-152)
SCHEDULE C - Privilege License Limited by City Ordinance:
   Business categories in this schedule are specifically taxed. Businesses
conducting these activities are taxed under this schedule in addition to
Schedule B, if applicable.
Arborist/Tree Trimmers/Tree Removers - $25.00.
   Engaging in the business of maintaining, pruning, removing, and etc. of
trees, bushes, or other shrubbery.
   Town Code of Ordinances reference: Chapter 95
Beach Bingo - $1,000.00 per location.
   Bingo games which have prizes of ten dollars ($10.00) or less or merchandise
that is not redeemable for cash and that has a value of ten dollars ($10.00) or
less.
   State law reference: G.S. § 14-309.5
Carnivals - $25.00 per day per location.
   Engaging in temporarily providing riding devices for a fee other than an
admission charge.
Event Vendor (Products and Services Sales) - $10.00 per day.
   Engaging in the sale of products or services for profit at an organized
event.
   Exemptions: Government Agencies, Schools, and Non-Profit Organizations.
Event Vendor (Food Sales) - $25.00 per day.
   Engaging in the sale of food for profit at an organized event.
   Exemptions: Government Agencies, Schools, and Non-Profit Organizations.
Fortune-Tellers - $100.00.
   Engaging in telling or pretending to tell fortunes, practicing the art of
palmistry, clairvoyance, and other crafts of similar kind for profit.
   State law reference: G.S. § 105-58
Massage Therapist - $75.00 per business plus $50.00 per massage therapist.
   Engaging in the business of performing massages or treatments of any persons
for a fee or in expectation of a gratuity from the person massaged.
   Town Code of Ordinances reference:
Chapter 116
Sexually Oriented Business - $1,000.00.
   To include, but not limited to adult arcade, adult bookstore, or adult video
store, adult cabaret, adult model, adult motion picture theater, adult theater,
escort agency, nude model studio, sexual encounter center, or any combination
thereof. MUST comply with
Chapter 111 of the Town Code of Ordinances and any state regulations.
   Town Code of Ordinances reference:
Chapter 111
Sweepstakes Gaming - $1,000.00 per location plus $500.00 per machine/computer
or device (whether or not in operation).
   Any business that has any computers and/or gaming terminals, to conduct
games of chance, including sweepstakes, where money, credit, merchandise or
other items of value are redeemed by or otherwise distributed, no matter how
the odds are determined. This term includes, but is not limited to internet
cafes, cybercafes, sweepstakes entertainment business, or internet sweepstakes,
etc. (This section does not apply to any game or process prohibited by G.S. §§
14-304 through 14-309 and does not include the North Carolina Education
Lottery.) Must comply with any restrictions of the town and state regulations.
(Ord. passed - -)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND ORDER
      
131.   FIRE ARMS AND EXPLOSIVES
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND ORDER
Section
   
130.01   Loitering; generally
   
130.02   Loitering at certain private businesses
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 LOITERING; GENERALLY.
   (A)   A person commits a violation if he or she loiters or prowls in a
place, at a time, or in a manner not usual for law-abiding individuals under
circumstances that warrant alarm for the safety of persons or property in the
vicinity. Among the circumstances which may be considered in determining
whether alarm is warranted is the fact that the person takes flight upon
appearance of a police officer, refuses to identify himself or herself, or
manifestly endeavors to conceal himself or herself or any object. Unless flight
by the person or other circumstances makes it impractical, a police officer
shall, prior to any arrest for an offense under this section, afford the person
an opportunity to dispel any alarm which would otherwise be warranted, by
requesting the person to identify himself or herself and to explain his or her
presence or conduct. No person shall be convicted of an offense under this
section if the police officer did not comply with the preceding sentence, or if
it appears at trial that the explanation given by the person was true and, if
it had been believed by the police officer at the time, would have dispelled
the alarm. Any police officer may arrest any person suspected of being a
loiterer or prowler without a warrant if it reasonably appears that the delay
in arresting the suspect caused by obtaining a warrant would result in the
suspect's escape.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, after first being warned by a
police officer, or where a "no loitering" sign or signs have been posted, to
loiter, stand, sit, or lie in or upon any public or quasi-public sidewalk,
street, curb, cross-walk, walkway area, mall or that portion of private
property utilized for public use, so as to hinder or obstruct unreasonably the
free passage of pedestrians or vehicles thereon. It shall be unlawful for any
person to block, obstruct, or prevent free access to the entrance to any
building open to the public.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, PUBLIC PLACE has the following
definition unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning: an area generally visible to public view, including streets,
sidewalks, bridges, alleys, plazas, parks, driveways, parking lots, automobiles
(whether moving or not), and buildings open to the general public, including
those which serve food or drink or provide entertainment, and the doorways and
entrances to buildings or dwellings and the grounds enclosing them.
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 LOITERING AT CERTAIN PRIVATE BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Except as necessary and incidental to patronizing the business
establishments of Wash-A-Rama and Speedy Car Wash, it shall be unlawful for any
person or persons to remain on the premises of Wash-A-Rama and Speedy Car Wash
when requested to leave by their proprietors or during hours in which the
businesses are not open to the general public.
   (B)   Every law enforcement officer charged with the duty of enforcing
division (A) of this section, shall give persons on the premises of Wash-A-Rama
and Speedy Car Wash in violation of division (A) of this section a verbal
warning to leave the premises.
   (C)   If such person or persons found loitering on the premises of Wash-A-
Rama and Speedy Car Wash do not leave the premises after a verbal warning by a
town police officer, then and in that event, the police officer shall give that
person or persons a citation for violation of this section.
(Ord. 10.17, passed 9-6-92) Penalty, see §
130.99
Cross-reference:
   Parking regulated at Wash-A-Rama and Speedy Car Wash, see Ch. 74, Sched. II
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whenever in this title any act is prohibited or is made or declared to
be unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor or whenever in the code or ordinance
the doing of any act is required or the failure to do such act is declared to
be unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of
any such provision of this code or other ordinance shall be a Class 3
misdemeanor punished by a fine not exceeding $50 or by imprisonment for a term
not exceeding 30 days. Each day that any violation of this code or of any
ordinance continues shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Despite the provisions of division (A) above, violation of any
provision of this Code of Ordinances regulating the operation of any vehicle
shall constitute an infraction, subject to the penalty provisions of G.S. §§
14-3.1 and 14.4.
   (C)   In addition to or in lieu of the penalty provisions set forth above,
the violator may be subject to civil penalties and/or equitable remedies as
permitted under state law.
   (D)   Any act constituting a violation of the provisions of this code or a
failure to comply with any of its requirements shall subject the offender to a
civil penalty of $100 for each separate offense. If the offender fails to pay
this penalty within five days after being notified of a violation, the penalty
may be recovered by the town in a civil action in the nature of debt. Each day
that any violation continues after notification exists shall be considered a
separate offense for purposes of the penalties and remedies specified in this
section.
CHAPTER 131: FIRE ARMS AND EXPLOSIVES
Section
   
131.01   Killing birds and damaging windows with air rifles prohibited
   
131.02   Discharge of fire arms and combustible materials
   
131.03   Fire bombs unlawful
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 KILLING BIRDS AND DAMAGING WINDOWS WITH AIR RIFLES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to kill birds or damage windows with air
rifles.
(Ord. 5.1, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.02 DISCHARGE OF FIRE ARMS AND COMBUSTIBLE MATERIALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to shoot off, discharge, or explode any
gun, any kind of fireworks, or any combustible material within the corporate
limits of the town, without proper authority to do so.
(Ord. 5.2, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.03 FIRE BOMBS UNLAWFUL.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   FIREBOMB. Any type of object designed or constructed so that upon being
propelled it will explode or ignite its area of impact.
   MOLOTOV COCKTAIL. Any breakable container or any container which is designed
in such a manner that upon being propelled it will at impact empty its
contents, which is filled with an inflammable fluid or substance, and which is
fitted with a fuse or wick.
(Ord. 5.3, passed - - )
   (B)   Prohibited acts. It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to
manufacture, possess, transport, or use any molotov cocktail or other firebomb.
(Ord. 5.4, passed - - )
   (C)   Possession of materials restricted. It shall be unlawful for any
person or group of persons to possess all of the items or materials needed to
manufacture molotov cocktails or other firebombs, other than on his or their
premises. (Ord. 5.5, passed - - )
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violation of any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty has been enacted shall subject the violator to a civil penalty in the
sum of $100 per day.
      (1)   A citation for said civil penalty shall be issued by the town
Police Department.
      (2)   Each citation for a civil penalty must be paid within five business
days of issuance.
   (B)   Each and every day that the violator continues in violation shall be a
separate and distinct offense.
   (C)   The municipality may also, and in addition, seek any and all
appropriate equitable remedies, injunctions, and/or abatement orders from the
appropriate court of competent jurisdiction.
   (D)   Persons under the age of 16 who shall violate §
131.01 of this chapter or any part of same shall be tried and dealt with by the
Clerk of the Superior Court, who is the Juvenile Judge of the county.
(Ord. 5.1, passed - - )
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
      
151.   ZONING CODE
      
152.   HOUSING CODE
      
153.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION: NON-COASTAL REGULAR PHASE
CHAPTER 150: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
Article A: Introductory Provisions
   
150.01   Short title
   
150.02   Authority
   
150.03   Jurisdiction
   
150.04   Purpose
   
150.05   Thoroughfare plans
   
150.06   Zoning and other plans
   
150.07   School sites on land use plan
   150.08 through 150.09 Reserved
Article B: Definitions
   
150.10   Subdivision defined
   
150.11   Other definitions
   
150.12   Word interpretation
   150.13 through 150.14 Reserved
Article C: Procedure for Review and Approval of Subdivision Plats
   
150.15   Plat shall be required on any subdivision of land or any manipulation
of property lines or boundaries
   
150.16   Approval prerequisite to plat recordation
   
150.17   Procedures for review of major and minor subdivisions
   
150.18   Approval process for minor subdivisions
   
150.19   Procedure for review of minor subdivisions
   
150.20   Dispute of findings
   
150.21   Final plat for minor subdivisions
   
150.22   Certifications to be depicted on final plat (minor subdivisions)
   
150.23   Procedure for review of major subdivisions
   
150.23.1   Preliminary plat submission and review
   
150.23.2   Final plat submission and review
   
150.24   Performance, defects, and maintenance guarantees
   
150.25   Information to be contained in or depicted on preliminary and final
plats
   
150.26   Recombination of land
   
150.27   Resubdivision procedures
   150.28 through 150.29 Reserved
Article D: Required Improvements, Dedication, Reservation, and Minimum
Standards of Design
   
150.30   General
   
150.30.1   Cost of improvements
   
150.31   Suitability of land
   
150.32   Name duplication
   
150.33   Subdivision design
   
150.34   Type of street required
   
150.35   Subdivision street disclosure statement
   
150.36   Half-streets
   
150.37   Marginal access streets
   
150.38   Access to adjacent properties
   
150.39   Nonresidential streets
   
150.40   Design standards of streets
   
150.41   Right-of-way widths
   
150.42   Pavement type
   
150.43   Geometric characteristics
   
150.43.1   Design speed
   
150.43.2   Maximum and minimum grades
   
150.43.3   Sight distance
   
150.43.4   Intersections
   
150.43.5   Cul-de-sacs
   
150.43.6   Alleys
   
150.44   Utilities
   
150.44.1   Water and sanitary sewer systems
   
150.44.2   Storm water drainage system
   
150.45   Other requirements
   
150.46   Placement of monuments
   
150.47   Construction procedures
   
150.48   Oversized improvements
   
150.49   Reserved
Article E: Legal Provisions
   
150.50   General procedure for plat approval
   
150.51   Statement by owner
   
150.52   Effect of plat approval on dedications
   
150.53   Penalties for violation
   
150.54   Separability
   
150.55   Variances
   
150.56   Amendments
   
150.57   Abrogation
   
150.58   Administrator
   
150.59   Re-enactment and repeal of existing subdivision ordinance
ARTICLE A: INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Subdivision Regulations
of the Town of Taylorsville, North Carolina.
(Ord. 01-2000, passed 6-27-00)
§ 150.02 AUTHORITY.
   The Town Commissioners, pursuant to the authority conferred by an Act of the
General Assembly of the State of North Carolina (G.S. §§ 160A-371 et seq), does
hereby ordain and enact into law these articles and sections.
(Ord. 01-2000, passed 6-27-00)
§ 150.03 JURISDICTION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply within the corporate limits of
the town and within the territory beyond such corporate limits referred to as
the town's extraterritorial jurisdiction as shown on the Official Zoning Map of
Taylorsville.
(Ord. 01-2000, passed 6-27-00)
§ 150.04 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish procedures and standards for the
development and subdivision of real estate within the corporate limits and
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the town in an effort to, among other things,
insure proper legal description, identification, monumentation, and recordation
of real estate boundaries; further the orderly layout and appropriate use of
the land; provide safe, convenient and economic circulation of vehicular
traffic; provide adequate building sites which are readily accessible to
emergency vehicles; assure the proper installation of streets and utilities;
promote the eventual elimination of unsafe or unsanitary conditions because of
undue concentration of population; and help conserve and protect the physical
and economic resources of the town and its environs.
(Ord. 01-2000, passed 6-27-00)
§ 150.05 THOROUGHFARE PLANS.
   Where a proposed subdivision includes any part of a thoroughfare which has
been designated as such upon the officially adopted thoroughfare plan of the
town, such part of the thoroughfare plan shall be platted by the subdivider in
the location shown on the thoroughfare plan and at the width specified in the
thoroughfare plan or this chapter.
(Ord. 01-2000, passed 6-27-00)
§ 150.06 ZONING AND OTHER PLANS.
   Proposed subdivisions must comply in all respects with the requirements of
the zoning ordinance in effect in the area to be subdivided, and any other
officially adopted plans.
(Ord. 01-2000, passed 6-27-00)
§ 150.07 SCHOOL SITES ON LAND USE PLAN.
   If the town and the Alexander County Board of Education have jointly
determined the specific location and size of any school sites to be reserved,
and this information appears in the comprehensive land use plan, the Town
Planning Board shall immediately notify the Board of Education whenever a
sketch plan for a subdivision is submitted which includes all or part of a
school site to be reserved. The Board of Education shall promptly decide
whether it still wishes the site to be reserved. If the Board of Education does
not wish to reserve the site, it shall so notify the Planning Board. If the
Board of Education does wish to reserve the site, the subdivision shall not be
approved without such reservation. The Board of Education shall then have 18
months beginning on the date of final approval of the subdivision within which
to acquire the site by purchase or by initiating condemnation proceedings. If
the Board of Education has not purchased or begun proceedings to condemn the
site within 18 months, the subdivider may treat the land as free of the
reservation.
(Ord. 01-2000, passed 6-27-00)
§§ 150.08 THROUGH 150.09 RESERVED.
ARTICLE B: DEFINITIONS
§ 150.10 SUBDIVISION DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this chapter, a subdivision shall include all divisions
of a tract or parcel of land into two or more lots, building sites, or other
divisions for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of sale or building
development, and shall include all divisions involving the dedication of a new
street or a change in existing streets; provided, however, that the following
shall not be included within the definition nor subject to the regulations
prescribed by this chapter:
   (A)   The combination or recombination of portions of previously platted
lots where the total number of lots is not increased and the resultant lots are
equal to or exceed the standards of the town as required by this chapter.
   (B)   The division of land into parcels greater than ten acres where no
street right-of-way dedication is involved.
   (C)   The public acquisition by purchase of strips of land for the widening
or opening of streets.
   (D)   The division of a tract in single ownership whose entire area is no
greater than two acres into not more than three lots, where no street right-of-
way dedication is involved and where the resultant lots are equal to or exceed
the standards of the town, as shown in its subdivision regulations, as amended.
(Ord. 01-2000, passed 6-27-00)
§ 150.11 OTHER DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, certain words or terms used herein shall be
defined as follows:
   BLOCK. A piece of land bounded on one or more sides by streets or roads.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE. A line establishing the minimum allowable distance
between the nearest portion of the building foundation and the nearest right-
of-way line or property line when measured perpendicular thereto.
   DEDICATION. A gift, by the owner, or a right to use of land for a specified
purpose or purposes. Because a transfer of property rights is entailed,
dedication must be made by written instrument and is completed with an
acceptance.
   EASEMENT. A grant by the property owner of a strip of land for a specified
purpose and use by the public, a corporation, or persons.
   HALF STREET. A street whose centerline coincides with a subdivision plat
boundary, with one- half (½) the street right-of-way being contained within the
subdivision plat. Also, any existing street to which the parcel of land to be
subdivided abuts on only one side.
   LOT. A parcel of land occupied or capable of being occupied by a building or
a group of buildings devoted to a common use, together with the customary
accessories and open spaces belonging to same.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is part of a subdivision, a plat of which has
been recorded in the Office of the Alexander County Register of Deeds prior to
the adoption of this chapter, or a lot described by metes and bounds, the
description of which has been so recorded prior to the adoption of this
chapter.
   LOT TYPES:
      (1)   CORNER LOT. A lot which occupies the interior angle at the
intersection of two street lines which make an angle of more than 45 degrees
and less than 135 degrees with each other. The street line forming the least
frontage shall be deemed the front of the lot except where the two street lines
are equal, in which case the owner shall be required to specify which is the
front when requesting a zoning compliance certificate.
      (2)   DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOT. A continuous (through) lot which is accessible
from both streets upon which it fronts.
      (3)   INTERIOR LOT. A lot other than a corner lot with only one frontage
on a street.
      (4)   THROUGH LOT or DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOT. A lot other than a corner lot
with frontage on more than one street. Through lots abutting two streets may be
referred to as double frontage lots.
      (5)   REVERSED FRONTAGE LOT. A lot on which the frontage is at right
angles or approximately right angles (interior angles less than 135 degrees) to
the general pattern in the area. A reversed frontage lot may also be a corner
lot, an interior lot or a through lot.
      (6)   SINGLE-TIER LOT. A lot which backs upon a limited access highway, a
railroad, a physical barrier, or another type of land use and to which access
from the rear is usually prohibited.
      (7)   FLAG LOT. A lot which does not meet the minimum frontage
requirements and access is provided by a narrow driveway leading to the major
portion of the lot.
   OFFICIAL MAPS OR PLANS. Any maps or plans officially adopted by the Town of
Taylorsville.
   OPEN SPACE. An area (land and/or water) generally lacking in man-made
structures and reserved for enjoyment in its unaltered state.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. A form of development characterized by a unified
site design for a number of housing units, clustering of buildings and
providing common open space, density increases, and a mix of building types. It
permits the planning of a project and a calculation of densities over the
entire development rather than on an individual lot-by-lot basis. The site must
include two or more principal buildings. Such development shall be based on a
plan that allows for flexibility of design most available under normal district
requirements.
   PLANNING AND ZONING BOARD. The Planning and Zoning Board of the Town of
Taylorsville, North Carolina.
   PLAT. A map or plan of a parcel of land which is to be or has been
subdivided or meets the exemption requirements of §
150.10.
   PUBLIC SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. A system serving two or more dwelling units
and approved by the Alexander County Health Department.
   RECREATION AREA OR PARK. An area of land or combination of land and water
resources that is developed for active and/or passive recreation pursuits with
various man-made features that accommodate such activities.
   RESERVATION. A reservation of land does not involve any transfer of property
rights. It simply constitutes an obligation to keep property free from
development for a stated period of time.
   STREET. A dedicated, recorded, and accepted public right-of-way for
vehicular and pedestrian circulation. The following classifications shall
apply:
      (1)   RURAL ROADS.
         (a)   PRINCIPAL ARTERIAL. A rural link in a network of continuous
routes serving corridor movements having trip length and travel density
characteristics indicative of substantial statewide or interstate travel and
existing solely to serve traffic. This network would consist of interstate
routes and other routes designed as principal arterials.
         (b)   MINOR ARTERIAL. A rural link in a network joining cities and
larger towns and providing intrastate and intercounty service at relatively
high overall travel speeds with minimum interference to through movement. This
network would primarily serve traffic.
         (c)   MAJOR COLLECTOR. A road which serves major intracounty travel
corridors and traffic generators and provides access to the arterial system.
         (d)   MINOR COLLECTOR. A road which provides service to small local
communities and links locally important traffic generators with their rural
hinterland.
         (e)   LOCAL ROAD. A local road serves primarily to provide access to
adjacent land and for travel over relatively short distances.
      (2)   URBAN STREETS.
         (a)   MAJOR THOROUGHFARES. Major thoroughfares consist of interstate,
other freeway and expressway links, and major streets that provide for the
expeditious movement of volumes of traffic within and through urban areas.
         (b)   MINOR THOROUGHFARES. Minor thoroughfares are important streets
in the urban system and perform the function of collecting traffic from local
access streets and carrying it to the major thoroughfare system by facilitating
a minor through traffic movement and may also serve abutting property.
         (c)   LOCAL STREET. A local street is any link not part of a higher-
order urban system that serves primarily to provide direct access to abutting
land and access to higher systems.
      (3)   SPECIFIC TYPE RURAL OR URBAN STREETS.
         (a)   FREEWAY, EXPRESSWAY, OR PARKWAY. Divided multi-lane roadway
designed to carry large volumes of traffic at relatively high speeds. A freeway
is a divided highway providing for continuous flow of vehicles with no direct
access to abutting property or streets and with access to selected crossroads
provided via connecting ramps. An expressway is a divided highway with full or
partial control of access and generally with grade separations at major
intersections. A parkway is a highway for noncommercial traffic, with full or
partial control of access, and usually located within a park or a ribbon of
parklike development.
         (b)   RESIDENTIAL COLLECTOR STREET. A local access street which serves
as a connector street between local residential streets and the thoroughfare
system. Residential collector streets typically collect traffic from 100 to 400
dwelling units.
         (c)   LOCAL RESIDENTIAL STREET. Cul-de-sacs, loop streets less than
2,500 feet in length, or streets less than one mile in length that do not
connect thoroughfares or serve major traffic generators, and do not collect
traffic from more than 100 dwelling units.
         (d)   CUL-DE-SAC. A short street having one end open to traffic and
the other end being permanently terminated and a vehicular turnaround provided.
         (e)   FRONTAGE ROAD. A local street or road that is parallel to a full
or partial access controlled facility and functions to provide access to
adjacent land.
         (f)   ALLEY. A public or private thoroughfare that affords only a
secondary means of access to abutting property and not intended for general
traffic circulation.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person, firm or corporation who subdivides or develops any
land deemed to be a subdivision as herein defined.
   TOWN COMMISSIONERS. The Town Commissioners of the Town of Taylorsville,
North Carolina.
   TOWN ENGINEER. The Consulting Engineer retained by the Town of Taylorsville.
(Ord. 01-2000, passed 6-27-00)
§ 150.12 WORD INTERPRETATION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, certain words shall be interpreted as
follows:
   (A)   Words used in the present tense include the future tense.
   (B)   Words used in the singular number include the plural and words used in
the plural number include the singular, unless the natural construction of the
wording indicates otherwise.
   (C)   The word "person" includes a firm, association, corporation, trust,
and company as well as an individual.
   (D)   The word "used for" shall include the meaning "designed for".
   (E)   The word "structure" shall include the word "building".
   (F)   The word "lot" shall include the words "plot", "parcel", or "tract".
   (G)   The word "shall" is always mandatory and not merely directory.
(Ord. 01-2000, passed 6-27-00)
§§ 150.13 THROUGH 150.14 RESERVED.
ARTICLE C: PROCEDURE FOR REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF SUBDIVISION PLATS
§ 150.15 PLAT SHALL BE REQUIRED ON ANY SUBDIVISION OF LAND OR ANY MANIPULATION
OF PROPERTY LINES OR BOUNDARIES.
   Pursuant to state law, a final plat shall be prepared, approved, and
recorded pursuant to the provisions of this chapter whenever any subdivision of
land takes place. Whenever any manipulation of property lines or property
boundaries takes place within the jurisdiction of the town as established in §
150.03 of this chapter that is exempt from these regulations as provided by §
150.10 of this chapter, a plat clearly displaying such change must be presented
to the Subdivision Administrator. Said plat must also be presented to the
Alexander County Register of Deeds for recordation.
(Ord. 01-2000, passed 6-27-00)
§ 150.16 APPROVAL PREREQUISITE TO PLAT RECORDATION.
   Pursuant to state law, no final plat of a subdivision within the
jurisdiction of the town as established in §
150.03 of this chapter shall be recorded by the Register of Deeds of Alexander
County until it has been approved by the proper board or official as provided
herein. To secure such approval of a final plat, the subdivider shall follow
the procedures established in this article.
(Ord. 01-2000, passed 6-27-00) Penalty, see §
150.53
§ 150.17 PROCEDURES FOR REVIEW OF MAJOR AND MINOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   All subdivisions shall be considered major subdivisions except those
defined as minor subdivisions in this section. Major subdivisions shall be
reviewed in accordance with the procedures in §§
150.23 through
150.25. Minor subdivisions shall be reviewed in accordance with the provisions
in §§
150.18 through
150.22.
   (B)   For purposes of these regulations, a minor subdivision is defined as a
subdivision:
      (1)   Involving not more than five lots fronting on an existing approved
street;
      (2)   Not involving any new street or prospectively requiring any new
street for access to interior property;
      (3)   Not requiring extension of public sewage or water lines or creation
of new drainage easements through lots to serve property at the rear;
      (4)   Not adversely affecting the development of the remainder of the
parcel or of adjoining property;
      (5)   Creating no new or residual parcels not conforming to the
requirements of these regulations; and
      (6)   All included land must be under ownership of one sponsor.
(Ord. 01-2000, passed 6-27-00)
§ 150.18 APPROVAL PROCESS FOR MINOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   If the land to be subdivided meets the requirements of a minor subdivision
as defined in §
150.17(B) above, the subdivider will not have to follow the same procedures as
for a major subdivision. The review process for minor subdivisions shall be
adequate to protect the public interest, but shall also provide minimum delay
and expense to the subdivider. A preliminary plat is required. The following
minor plat approval process may be used only where the subdivision meets the
requirements of §
150.17(B) above.
(Ord. 01-2000, passed 6-27-00)
§ 150.19 PROCEDURE FOR REVIEW OF MINOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Prior to submission of a final plat, the subdivider shall submit to
the Subdivision Administrator three copies of a sketch plan of the proposed
subdivision containing the following information:
      (1)   A sketch vicinity map showing the location of the subdivision in
relation to neighboring tracts, subdivisions, roads, and waterways;
      (2)   The boundaries of the tract and the portion of the tract to be
subdivided;
      (3)   The total acreage to be subdivided;
      (4)   The existing and proposed uses of the land within the subdivision
and the existing uses of land adjoining it;
      (5)   The existing street layout and right-of-way width, lot layout and
size of lots;
      (6)   The name, address and telephone number of the owner;
      (7)   The name, if any, of the proposed subdivision;
      (8)   Streets and lots of adjacent developed or platted properties;
      (9)   The zoning classification of the tract and of adjacent properties;
      (10)   The location of water and sewer facilities serving the proposed
minor subdivision, if applicable;
      (11)   A statement from the Alexander County Health Department that a
copy of the sketch plan has been submitted to them, if septic tanks or other
on-site water or wastewater systems are to be used in the subdivision.
   (B)   The Subdivision Administrator shall review the sketch plan for general
compliance with the requirements of this article, and shall advise the
subdivider or his authorized agent of the regulations pertaining to the
proposed minor subdivision and the procedures to be followed in the preparation
and submission of the final plat.
   (C)   The Subdivision Administrator, after determining that all requirements
of this article have been met, shall advise the subdivider to proceed with the
preparation of a final plat, which conforms to the submitted sketch plan. The
approval of the sketch plan shall in no way be construed as constituting
official approval of the final plat.
(Ord. 01-2000, passed 6-27-00)
§ 150.20 DISPUTE OF FINDINGS.
   In the event that the subdivider disagrees with any findings of the
Subdivision Administrator concerning approval of a sketch plan of a minor
subdivision, the matter shall be taken to the Town Commissioners for a
decision. No final plat shall be prepared until the Town Commissioners have
acted on the disputed sketch plan.
(Ord. 01-2000, passed 6-27-00)
§ 150.21 FINAL PLAT FOR MINOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   The Subdivision Administrator shall review the final plat for complete
compliance with the requirements outlined for final plat approval of these
minor subdivision regulations. The final plat shall be complete and show all
information required for final plats in §
150.25, and all certifications and notarizations required in §
150.22 for final plat approval of a minor subdivision.
   (B)   The final plat shall be prepared by a Registered Land Surveyor
currently licensed and registered in the State of North Carolina by the North
Carolina State Board of Registration for professional Engineers and Land
Surveyors. The final plat shall conform to the provisions for plats,
subdivisions, and mapping requirements set forth in G.S. § 47-30 and the Manual
of Practice for Land Surveying in North Carolina.
   (C)   Three copies of the final plat shall be submitted to the Subdivision
Administrator. One of these shall be on reproducible material; two shall be
black or blue line paper prints. Material and drawing medium for the original
shall be in accordance with the Manual of Practice for Land Surveying in North
Carolina, where applicable, and the requirements of the Alexander County
Register of Deeds.
   (D)   The final plat shall be of a size suitable for recording with the
Alexander County Register of Deeds and shall be at a scale of not less than one
inch equals 200 feet. Maps may be placed on more than one sheet with
appropriate match lines.
(Ord. 01-2000, passed 6-27-00)
§ 150.22 CERTIFICATIONS TO BE DEPICTED ON FINAL PLAT (MINOR SUBDIVISION).
   (A)   The final plat shall meet the specifications in §
150.25. The following signed certificates shall appear on all three copies of
the final plat:
      (1)   Certificate of ownership and dedication.
   I hereby certify that I am the owner of the property shown and described
hereon, which is located in the subdivision jurisdiction of the Town of
Taylorsville and that I hereby adopt this plan of subdivision with my free
consent and establish minimum building setback lines as noted.
                                                                                                               
   Owner                                Date
      (2) Certificate of survey and accuracy. In accordance with the Manual of
Practice for Land Surveying in North Carolina:
   On the face of each map prepared for recordation there shall appear a
certificate acknowledged before an officer authorized to take acknowledgments
and executed by the person making the survey or map including deeds and any
recorded data shown thereon. The certificate shall include a statement of error
of closure calculated by latitudes and departures. Any lines on the map which
were not actually surveyed must be clearly indicated on the map and a statement
included in the certificate revealing the source of information. The
certificate shall take the following general form:
State of North Carolina   Alexander County
   I,                                       certify that this map was (drawn by
me) (drawn under my supervision) from (an actual survey made by me) (an actual
survey made under my supervision) (deed description recorded in Book
              , Page                , Book                , Page
               , etc.) (Other); that the ratio of precision as calculated by
latitudes and departures is 1:          , (that the boundaries not surveyed are
shown as broken lines plotted from information found in Book              ,
Page             ); that this map was prepared in accordance with G.S. § 47-30,
as amended.
Witness my hand and seal this               day of                      ,
20       .
                                                   
Registered Land Surveyor
Official Seal
                                                  
Registration Number
      (3)   Review Officer certification.
North Carolina   Alexander County
   I,                                         , Review Officer of Alexander
County, certify that the map or plat to which this certification is affixed
meets all statutory requirements for recording.
                                                                                                                       
   Review Officer                                 Date
   (B)   During its review of the final plat, the Subdivision Administrator may
appoint an engineer or surveyor to confirm the accuracy of the final plat (if
agreed to by the Town Manager). If substantial errors are found, the costs
shall be charged to the subdivider and the plat shall not be recommended for
approval until such errors have been corrected.
   (C)   If the Subdivision Administrator finds that the minor subdivision
final plat is in full compliance with the requirements of this article, he may
then present the final plat to the Town Manager for the following
certification:
   I hereby certify that the minor subdivision plat hereon has been found to
comply with the minor subdivision regulations for the Town of Taylorsville and
is hereby approved for recording in the office of the Register of Deeds by the
subdivider within ninety (90) days of the date of this approval.
                                                             
   Town Manager                                    Date
   (D)   If the Subdivision Administrator recommends disapproval of the final
plat, he shall instruct the subdivider concerning resubmission of a revised
plat and the subdivider may make such changes as will bring the plat into
compliance with the provisions of this article and resubmit same for
reconsideration by the Subdivision Administrator, or appeal to the Town
Commissioners. If the subdivider appeals to the Town Commissioners, the Town
Commissioners shall review and approve or disapprove the final plat within 30
days after they receive the plat and recommendations of the Subdivision
Administrator.
(Ord. 01-2000, passed 6-27-00)
§ 150.23 PROCEDURE FOR REVIEW OF MAJOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Prior to the preliminary plat submission, the subdivider may submit to
the Subdivision Administrator two copies of a sketch plan of the proposed
subdivision containing the following information:
      (1)   A sketch vicinity map showing the location of the subdivision in
relation to neighboring tracts, subdivisions, roads, and waterways;
      (2)   The boundaries of the tract and the portion of the tract to be
subdivided;
      (3)   The total acreage to be subdivided;
      (4)   The existing and proposed uses of the land within the subdivision
and the existing uses of land adjoining it;
      (5)   The existing street layout and right-of-way width, lot layout and
size of lots;
      (6)   The name, address and telephone number of the owner;
      (7)   The name, if any, of the proposed subdivision;
      (8)   Streets and lots of adjacent developed or platted properties;
      (9)   The zoning classification of the tract and of adjacent properties;
      (10)   The location of water and sewer facilities serving the proposed
minor subdivision, if applicable; and
      (11)   A statement from the Alexander County Health Department that a
copy of the sketch plan has been submitted to them, if septic tanks or other
on-site water or wastewater systems are to be used in the subdivision.
(Ord. 01-200, passed 6-27-00)
§ 150.23.1 PRELIMINARY PLAT SUBMISSION AND REVIEW.
   (A)   For every subdivision within the territorial jurisdiction established
by §
150.03 of this chapter, which does not qualify as a minor subdivision, the
subdivider shall submit a preliminary plat which shall be reviewed and approved
by the Planning Board before any construction or installation of improvements
may begin.
   (B)   Eight copies of the preliminary plat (as well as any additional copies
which the Subdivision Administrator determines are needed to be sent to other
agencies) shall be submitted to the Subdivision Administrator at least 20 days
prior to the Planning Board meeting at which the subdivider desires the
Planning Board to review the preliminary plat.
   (C)   Preliminary plats shall meet the specifications in §
150.25.
   (D)   After having received the preliminary plat from the subdivider, the
Subdivision Administrator shall submit copies of the preliminary plat and any
accompanying material to other officials and agencies concerned with new
development including, but not limited to:
      (1)   The district highway engineer as to proposed streets, highways, and
drainage systems (required if new streets are to be placed on the State
System);
      (2)   The county health director as to proposed water or sewerage systems
(required if subdivision is in the extraterritorial jurisdiction);
      (3)   Any other agency or official designated by the Planning Board or
town official.
   (E)   The Planning Board shall review the preliminary plat at or before its
next regularly scheduled meeting which follows at least 20 days after the
Subdivision Administrator receives the preliminary plat and the comments from
the appropriate agencies.
   (F)   The Planning Board shall, in writing, recommend approval, conditional
approval with recommended changes to bring the plat into compliance, or
disapproval with reasons within 20 days of its first consideration of the plat.
   (G)   If the Planning Board recommends approval of the preliminary plat, it
shall retain one copy of the plat for its minutes, and transmit two copies of
the plat to the Town Commissioners with its recommendation.
   (H)   If the Planning Board recommends conditional approval of the
preliminary plat, it shall keep one copy of the plat for its minutes, transmit
two copies of the plat and its recommendation to the Town Commissioners, and
return the remaining copies of the plat and its recommendation to the
subdivider.
   (I)   If the Planning Board recommends disapproval of the preliminary plat,
it shall retain one copy of the plat for its minutes, transmit two copies of
the plat and its recommendation to the Town Commissioners, and return the
remaining copy of the plat and its recommendation to the subdivider.
   (J)   If the preliminary plat is disapproved, the subdivider may make the
recommended changes and submit a revised preliminary plat, or appeal the
decision to the Town Commissioners.
   (K)   If the Planning Board does not make a written recommendation within 40
days after its first consideration of the plat, the subdivider may apply to the
Town Commissioners for approval or disapproval.
   (L)   If the subdivider appeals the decision of the Planning Board, he shall
present the preliminary plat to the Town Commissioners at its next regularly
scheduled meeting which follows the Planning Board's decision by at least 20
days.
   (M)   If the Town Commissioners approve the preliminary plat in the case of
an appeal, such approval shall be noted on two copies of the plat. One copy of
the plat shall be retained by Town Commissioners and one copy shall be returned
to the subdivider. If the Town Commissioners approve the preliminary plat with
conditions, approval shall be noted on two copies of the plat along with a
reference to the conditions. One copy of the plat along with the conditions
shall be retained by Town Commissioners and one copy of the preliminary plat
along with the conditions shall be returned to the subdivider. If the Town
Commissioners disapprove the preliminary plat, the reasons for such disapproval
shall be specified in writing. One copy of the plat and the reasons shall be
retained by Town Commissioners and one copy shall be returned to the
subdivider.
(Ord. 01-2000, passed 6-27-00)
§ 150.23.2 FINAL PLAT SUBMISSION AND REVIEW.
   (A)   The subdivider shall submit the final plat, so marked, to the
Subdivision Administrator not less than 20 days prior to the Planning Board
meeting at which it will be reviewed; further, the final plat for the first
stage of the subdivision shall be submitted not more than 12 months after the
date on which the preliminary plat was approved; otherwise such approval shall
be null and void, unless a written extension of this limit is granted by the
Town Commissioners on or before the twelfth month anniversary of the approval.
   (B)   The final plat shall be prepared by a Registered Land Surveyor
currently licensed and registered in the State of North Carolina by the North
Carolina State Board of Registration for Professional Engineers and Land
Surveyors. The final plat shall conform to the provisions for plats,
subdivisions, and mapping requirements set forth in G.S. § 47-30 and the Manual
of Practice for Land Surveying in North Carolina.
   (C)   Nine copies of the final plat shall be submitted; one of these shall
be on reproducible material; eight shall be black or blue line paper prints.
Material and drawing medium for the original shall be in accordance with the
Manual of Practice for Land Surveying in North Carolina, where applicable, and
the requirements of the Alexander County Register of Deeds.
   (D)   The final plat shall be of a size suitable for recording with the
Alexander County Register of Deeds and shall be at a scale of not less than one
inch equals 200 feet. Maps may be placed on more than one sheet with
appropriate match lines.
   (E)   Submission of the final plat for subdivisions shall be accompanied by
a fee of $1 per lot or $25, whichever is greater. Additionally, at the
discretion of the Town Manager, all fees associated with recording the plat at
the Register of Deeds shall be paid to the town, and the town will have the
plat recorded after final approval by the Town Commissioners.
   (F)   The final plat shall meet the specifications in §
150.25 of this article.
   (G)   The following signed certificates shall appear on all copies of the
final plat:
      (1)   Certificate of ownership and dedication.
   I hereby certify that I am the owner of the property shown and described
hereon, which is located in the subdivision jurisdiction of the Town of
Taylorsville and that I hereby adopt this plan of subdivision with my free
consent, establish minimum building setback lines, and dedicate all streets,
alleys, walks, parks, and other sites and easements to public or private use as
noted. Furthermore, I hereby dedicate all sanitary sewer, storm sewer and water
lines to the Town of Taylorsville.
                                                                                                               
   Owner                                       Date
      (2)   Certificate of survey and accuracy.
In accordance with the Manual of Practice for Land Surveying in North Carolina:
   On the face of each map prepared for recordation there shall appear a
certificate acknowledged before an officer authorized to take acknowledgments
and executed by the person making the survey or map including deeds and any
recorded data shown thereon. The certificate shall include a statement of error
of closure calculated by latitudes and departures. Any lines on the map which
were not actually surveyed must be clearly indicated on the map and a statement
included in the certificate revealing the source on information.
   The certificate shall take the following form:
State of North Carolina   Alexander County
   I                                   , certify that this map was (drawn by
me) (drawn under my supervision) from (an actual survey made by me) (an actual
survey made under my supervision) (deed description recorded in Book         ,
Page           , Book           , Page        , etc.)(other); that the ratio of
precision as calculated by latitudes and departure is 1:          , (that the
boundaries not surveyed are shown as broken lines plotted from information
found in Book           , Page            ); that this map was prepared in
accordance with G.S. § 47-30, as amended. Witness my hand and seal this
         day of
                     , A.D. 20       .
                                                                                               
Registered Land Surveyor   Registration Number
Official Seal
      (3)   Certificate of approval of the design and installation of streets,
utilities, and other required improvements.
   I hereby certify that all streets, utilities and other required improvements
have been installed in an acceptable manner and according to Town
specifications and standards in the
                                                         Subdivision or that
guarantees of the installation of the required improvements in an amount and
manner satisfactory to the Town of Taylorsville have been received, and that
the filing fee for this plat, in the amount of $                   has been
paid.
                                                                                                
Town Engineer                                                 Date
      (4)   If the subdivision is located outside town limits, then the
following certificate must be included on the final plat.
      Certificate of approval of the design and installation of public streets.
   DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
   DIVISION OF HIGHWAYS
   SUBDIVISION ROAD CONSTRUCTION CERTIFICATION
   APPROVED                                                          
               District Engineer
   DATE                          
      (5)   In accordance with the G.S. § 47-30, the following certification
must be included on the final plat:
State of North Carolina    County of Alexander
   I,                                        , Review Officer of Alexander
County, certify that the map or plat to which this certification is affixed
meets all statutory requirements for recording.
                                                                                                                        
   Review Officer                                    Date
   (H)   The Planning Board shall review the final plat at or before its next
regularly scheduled meeting which follows at least 20 days after the
Subdivision Administrator receives the final plat and shall recommend approval
or disapproval of the final plat with reasons within 40 days of its first
consideration of the plat.
   (I)   During its review of the final plat the Planning Board may appoint a
Registered Land Surveyor to confirm the accuracy of the final plat (if agreed
to by the Town Commissioners). If substantial errors are found, the costs shall
be charged to the subdivider and the plat shall not be recommended for approval
until such errors have been corrected.
   (J)   If the Planning Board recommends approval of the final plat, it shall
transmit all copies of the plat and its written recommendations to the Town
Commissioners through the Subdivision Administrator. Such approval shall be
shown on each copy of the final plat by the following signed certification:
The Taylorsville Planning Board hereby approves the final plat for the
subdivision.
                                                                                                       
Chairman, Taylorsville Planning Board   Date
   (K)   If the Planning Board recommends disapproval of the final plat, it
shall instruct the subdivider concerning resubmission of a revised plat and the
subdivider may make such changes as will bring the plat into compliance with
the provisions of this chapter, and resubmit same for reconsideration by the
Planning Board, or appeal the decision to the Town Commissioners.
   (L)   Failure of the Planning Board to make a recommendation within 40 days
shall constitute grounds for the subdivider to apply to the Town Commissioners
for approval.
   (M)   If the Planning Board recommends approval, or if the subdivider
appeals to the Town Commissioners, the Town Commissioners shall review and
approve or disapprove the final plat within 30 days after the plat and
recommendations of the Planning Board have been received by the Subdivision
Administrator.
   (N)   If the Town Commissioners approve the final plat, such approval shall
be shown on each copy of the plat by the following signed certificate:
   Certificate of approval for recording.
   I hereby certify that the subdivision plat shown hereon has been found to
comply with the Subdivision Regulations of the Town of Taylorsville, North
Carolina and that this plat has been approved by Town Commissioners for
recording in the Office of the Register of Deeds of Alexander County.
                                                                    
Mayor                                                         Date
Town of Taylorsville, North Carolina
   (O)   If the final plat is disapproved by the Town Commissioners, the
reasons for such disapproval shall be stated in writing, specifying the
provisions of this chapter with which the final plat does not comply. One copy
of such reasons and one print of the plat shall be retained by the Town
Commissioners as part of its proceedings; one copy of the reasons and three
copies of the plat shall be transmitted to the subdivider. If the final plat is
disapproved, the subdivider may make such changes as will bring the final plat
into compliance and resubmit for reconsideration by the Planning Board and the
Town Commissioners or by the Town Commissioners as determined by the Town
Commissioners.
   (P)   If the final plat is approved by the Town Commissioners, the original
mylar and one print of the plat shall be retained by the subdivider. One print
shall be filed with the Town Clerk, and one print shall be returned to the
Planning Board for its records.
   (Q)   The subdivider shall file the approved final plat with the Register of
Deeds of Alexander County within six months of the Town Commissioners approval;
otherwise, such approval shall be null and void.
(Ord. 01-2000, passed 6-27-00)
§ 150.24 PERFORMANCE, DEFECTS, AND MAINTENANCE GUARANTEES.
   (A)   Upon approval of the preliminary plat by the Planning Board (or the
Town Commissioners in the event of an appeal), the subdivider may proceed with
the preparation of the final plat, and the installation of or arrangement for
required improvements in accordance with the approved preliminary plat and the
requirements of this chapter. Prior to approval of a final plat, the subdivider
shall have installed the improvements specified in this chapter or guaranteed
their installation as provided herein. No final plat will be accepted for
review by the Planning Board or the Town Commissioners unless accompanied by
written notice from the Town Manager and/or Town Engineer acknowledging
compliance with the improvement and guarantee standards of this chapter. The
final plat shall constitute only that portion of the preliminary plat which the
subdivider proposes to record and develop at that time; such portion shall
conform to all requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Where the required improvements have not been completed prior to the
submission of the final plat for approval, the approval of said plat shall be
subject to the subdivider guaranteeing the installation of said improvements in
one of the following methods:
      (1)   Filing a performance or surety bond in an amount to be determined
by the town. The bond shall be payable to the town, and its duration shall be
until such time as the improvements are accepted by the Town Commissioners.
      (2)   Depositing or placing in escrow a certified check or cash in an
amount to be determined by the town. Portions of the security deposit may be
released as work progresses.
      (3)   Entering into an agreement with the town guaranteeing the
completion of the required work, said agreement to be binding on subsequent
purchasers of the property and to be recorded at the option of the town. The
agreement shall provide that satisfactory security be furnished guaranteeing
the completion of the necessary improvements before each section is developed.
(Ord. 01-2000, passed 6-27-00)
§ 150.25 INFORMATION TO BE CONTAINED IN OR DEPICTED ON PRELIMINARY AND FINAL
PLATS.
 
Information                                                           MINOR MAJOR       MAJOR
                                                                      Final Preliminary Final
Title Block Containing:
•Property designation
•Name of Owner
•Location (including township, county and state)                    Yes   Yes         Yes
•Date or dates survey was conducted and plat prepared
•A scale of drawing in feet per inch listed in words or figures
•Name, address, registration number of the registered land surveyor
Name of the subdivider                                                Yes   Yes         Yes
A sketch vicinity map showing the relationship between the proposed            Yes Yes Yes
subdivision and surrounding area
Corporate limits, township boundaries, county lines if on the subdivision      Yes Yes Yes
tract
Names, addresses and telephone numbers of all owners, registered land          Yes Yes Yes
surveyors and professional engineers responsible for the subdivision
Registration numbers and seals of professional engineers                       Yes Yes Yes
The exact boundaries of the tract, or portion thereof, to be subdivided, fully
dimensioned by lengths and bearings, and the location of existing boundary     Yes Yes Yes
lines of adjoining parcels
Proposed lot lines, lot and block numbers, and approximate dimensions          Yes Yes Yes
Lots numbered consecutively throughout the subdivision                         Yes No  Yes
North arrow and orientation                                                    Yes Yes Yes
Names of owners of adjoining properties                                        Yes Yes Yes
Names of any adjoining subdivisions of record or proposed and under review     Yes Yes Yes
Minimum building setback lines (either listed on the plat or drawn on each     Yes Yes Yes
lot)
Zoning classifications of the tract to be subdivided and adjoining properties  Yes Yes Yes
Existing buildings or other structures, water courses, railroads, bridges,
culverts, storm drains on the land to be subdivided. Additionally, any of the  Yes Yes Yes
same features located on adjacent properties which may be impacted by the
subdivision.
Wooded areas, marshes, swamps, rock outcrops, ponds or lakes, streams or       Yes Yes Yes
streambeds and any other natural features affecting the site
•The exact location of the flood hazard, floodway and floodway fringe from the
community's FEMA maps                                                          Yes Yes Yes
•Base flood elevation data for subdivisions which contain at least five lots
or 50 acres, whichever is less
A copy of any proposed deed restrictions or similar covenants. Such            Yes No  Yes
restrictions are mandatory when private recreation areas are established.
Topographic map with contour intervals of no greater than 20 feet at a scale
of no less than 1:24,000 (if deemed necessary by the Subdivision               No  No  Yes
Administrator)
 
A copy of the erosion control plan submitted to the appropriate     Yes Yes No
authority, if such a plan is required
All certifications required in §§
150.22 and                                                          Yes No  Yes
150.23.2(G)
Any other information considered by either the subdivider, Planning
Board or the Town Commissioners to be pertinent to the review of    Yes Yes Yes
the plat.
 
Street Information MINOR Final MAJOR Preliminary MAJOR Final
Street Information                                  MINOR MAJOR       MAJOR
                                                    Final Preliminary Final
Proposed streets                                    N/A   Yes         Yes
Existing and platted streets in the proposed        Yes   Yes         Yes
subdivision and on adjoining properties
Rights-of-way locations and dimensions              Yes   Yes         Yes
Pavement widths                                     N/A   Yes         Yes
Approximate grades                                  N/A   Yes         Yes
Design engineering data for all corners and curves  N/A   Yes         Yes
Typical street cross sections                       N/A   Yes         Yes
Street names                                        N/A   Yes         Yes
Street maintenance agreement in accordance with §  N/A   No          Yes
150.34(E)
Type of street dedication; all streets must be      N/A   Yes         Yes
designated “public”.*
Where streets are dedicated to the public, but not
accepted into a municipal or the state system
before lots are sold, a statement explaining the    N/A   N/A         Yes
status of the street in accordance with §
150.34(E)
If any street is proposed to intersect with a state
maintained road, the subdivider shall apply for
driveway approval as required by the NCDOT,         N/A   No          Yes
Division of Highways' Manual on Driveway
Regulations
Evidence that the subdivider has obtained such      N/A   Yes         N/A
approval
 
*Where public streets are involved which will be dedicated to the town, the
subdivider must submit all street plans to the Subdivision Administrator for
approval prior to preliminary plat approval. Where public streets are involved
which will not be dedicated to a municipality, the Subdivision Administrator
will submit the following documents to the NCDOT District Highway Office for
review:
   •A complete site layout, including any future expansion anticipated
   •Horizontal alignment indicating general curve data on the site layout plan
   •Vertical alignment indicated by percent grade, PI station and vertical
curve length on site plan layout
   •The District Engineer may require the plotting of the ground profile and
grade line for roads where special conditions or problems exist
   •Typical section indicating the pavement design and width, and the slopes,
widths and details for either the curb and gutter or the shoulder and ditch
proposed
   •Drainage facilities and drainage areas
 
Utility Information                   MINOR Final MAJOR Preliminary MAJOR Final
Location of all utility easements     Yes         Yes               Yes
If deemed necessary by the
Subdivision Administrator, the plans
for utility layouts including:
•Sanitary sewers
•Storm sewers
•Other drainage facilities, if any
•Water distribution lines
•Natural gas lines                  N/A         Yes               Yes
•Telephone lines
•Electric lines
Plans should illustrate connections
to existing systems, showing line
sizes, the location of fire hydrants,
blowoffs, manholes, force mains and
gate valves.
Plans for individual water supply and Yes         Yes               Yes
sewerage disposal systems, if any
SITE CALCULATIONS MINOR Final MAJOR Preliminary MAJOR Final
SITE CALCULATIONS                     MINOR Final MAJOR Preliminary MAJOR Final
Acreage in total tract to be          Yes         Yes               No
subdivided
Acreage in parks and recreation       Yes         Yes               No
areas, and other nonresidential uses
Total number of parcels created       Yes         Yes               No
Acreage of each lot in the            Yes         Yes               Yes
subdivision
Linear feet in streets                N/A         Yes               No
The name and location of any property
or buildings within the proposed
subdivision or within any contiguous  Yes         Yes               Yes
property that is located on the U.S.
Department of Interior's National
Register of Historic Places
Sufficient data to determine readily
and reproduce on the ground the
location, bearing and length of every
street line, lot line, boundary line
(with errors of closure), block line
and building line, whether curved or
straight, and including true north
point. This should include the        Yes         No                Yes
radius, central angle, point of
tangency, tangent distance and arcs
and chords of all curved streets and
curved property lines. All dimensions
should be to the nearest one-tenth
(1/10) of a foot and angles to the
nearest minute.
The accurate location and description
of all monuments, markers and control Yes         No                Yes
points
 
(Ord. 01-2000, passed 6-27-00)
§ 150.26 RECOMBINATION OF LAND.
   (A)   Any plat or any part of a plat may be vacated by the owner at any time
before the sale of any lot in the subdivision by a written instrument to which
a copy of such plat shall be attached, declaring the same to be vacated.
   (B)   Such an instrument shall be approved by the same agencies that
approved the final plat. The governing body may reject any such instrument
which abridges or destroys any public rights in any of its public uses,
improvements, streets or alleys.
   (C)   Such an instrument executed, acknowledged or approved and recorded and
filed shall operate to destroy the force and effect of the recording of the
plat so vacated, and to divest all public rights in the streets, alleys, and
public grounds, and all dedications laid out or described in such plat.
   (D)   When lots have been sold, the plat may be vacated in the manner
provided in divisions (A) through (C) by all the owners of the lots in such
plat joining in the execution of such writing.
(Ord. 01-2000, passed 6-27-00)
§ 150.27 RESUBDIVISION PROCEDURES.
   For any replatting or resubdivision of land, the same procedures, rules and
regulations shall apply as prescribed herein for an original subdivision.
(Ord. 01-2000, passed 6-27-00)
§§ 150.28 THROUGH 150.29 RESERVED.
ARTICLE D: REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS, DEDICATION, RESERVATION, AND MINIMUM
STANDARDS OF DESIGN
§ 150.30 GENERAL.
   Each subdivision shall contain the improvements specified in this article,
which shall be installed in accordance with the requirements of this chapter
and paid for by the subdivider, unless other means of financing is specifically
stated in this chapter. Land shall be dedicated and reserved in each
subdivision as specified in this article. Each subdivision shall adhere to the
minimum standards of design established by this article.
(Ord. 01-2000, passed 6-27-00)
§ 150.30.1 COST OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   For land located within the corporate limits of the town and at the
discretion of the Town Commissioners when funds are available, the town may
assist with the costs of street improvements (after approval of final grading),
utilities and sidewalks. The subdivider is responsible for the remainder of the
costs. For land lying outside the town limits and within the extraterritorial
jurisdiction, the subdivider will bear all costs of improvements.
(Ord. 01-2000, passed 6-27-00)
§ 150.31 SUITABILITY OF LAND.
   (A)   Land which has been determined by the Town Commissioners on the basis
of engineering or other expert surveys to pose an ascertainable danger to life
or property by reason of its unsuitability for the use proposed shall not be
platted for that purpose, unless and until the subdivider has taken the
necessary measures to correct said conditions and to eliminate said dangers.
   (B)   Areas that have been used for disposal of solid waste shall not be
subdivided.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
(Ord. 01-2000, passed 6-27-00)
§ 150.32 NAME DUPLICATION.
   The name of the subdivision shall not duplicate nor closely approximate the
name of an existing subdivision within Alexander County.
(Ord. 01-2000, passed 6-27-00) Penalty, see §
150.53
§ 150.33 SUBDIVISION DESIGN.
   (A)   Blocks.
      (1)   The lengths, widths, and shapes of blocks shall be determined with
due regard to: provision of adequate building sites suitable to the special
needs of the type of use contemplated; zoning requirements; needs for vehicular
and pedestrian circulation; control and safety of street traffic; limitations
and opportunities of topography; and convenient access to water areas.
      (2)   Blocks shall be wide enough to allow two tiers of lots of minimum
depth, except where fronting on major streets or prevented by topographic
conditions, in which case a single tier of lots may be approved.
      (3)   Where deemed necessary by the Planning Board, a pedestrian
crosswalk at least 15 feet in width may be required to provide convenient
public access to a public area such as a park or school, to a water area, or to
areas such as shopping centers, religious or transportation facilities.
      (4)   Block numbers shall conform to the county or town street numbering
system, if applicable.
   (B)   Lots.
      (1)   All lots in new subdivisions shall conform to the zoning
requirements of the district in which the subdivision is located. Conformance
to zoning requirements means, among other things, that the smallest lot in the
subdivision must meet all dimensional requirements of
Chapter 151. It is not sufficient merely for the average lot to meet zoning
requirements.
      (2)   Lots shall meet any applicable Alexander County Health Department
requirements.
      (3)   Flag lots are discouraged, but may be permitted in unique
circumstances with the approval of the Planning Board.
      (4)   Double frontage lots shall be avoided wherever possible.
      (5)   Side lot lines shall be substantially at right angles to or radial
to street lines.
   (C)   Easements.
      (1)   Easements for underground or above ground utilities shall be
provided, where necessary, across lots or centered on rear or side lot lines.
Easements shall be at least 25 feet wide for water and sanitary sewer lines and
as required by the companies involved, for telephone, gas and power lines. The
Town Commissioners will determine whether one easement is sufficient or whether
several easements are necessary to accommodate the various facilities, and the
subdivider shall provide the required easements.
      (2)   Where a subdivision is traversed by a stream or drainage way, a
drainage easement shall be provided conforming with the lines of such stream
and of sufficient width as will be adequate for the purpose.
(Ord. 01-2000, passed 6-27-00)
§ 150.34 TYPE OF STREET REQUIRED.
   (A)   All subdivision lots shall abut on a public street.
   (B)   All public streets shall be built to the standards of this chapter and
all other applicable standards of the town or the North Carolina Department of
Transportation (when outside the town limits).
   (C)   Public streets not dedicated to the town which are eligible for
acceptance into the State Highway System shall be constructed to the standards
necessary to be put on the State Highway System or the standards in this
chapter, whichever is stricter, in regard to each particular item, and shall be
put on such system.
   (D)   Streets not dedicated to the town which are not eligible to be put on
the State Highway System because there are too few lots or residences shall,
nevertheless, be dedicated to the public and shall be in accordance with the
standards in this chapter or the standards necessary to be put on the State
Highway System, whichever is stricter in regard to each particular item, so as
to be eligible to be put on the system at a later date.
   (E)   A written maintenance agreement with provisions for maintenance of the
street until it is put on the State System shall be included with the final
plat.
(Ord. 01-2000, passed 6-27-00)
§ 150.35 SUBDIVISION STREET DISCLOSURE STATEMENT.
   (A)   All streets shown on the final plat shall be designated in accordance
with G.S. § 136-102.6 and designation as public shall be conclusively presumed
an offer of dedication to the public.
   (B)   Where streets are dedicated to the public but not accepted into a
municipal system or the State system, before lots are sold, a statement
explaining the status of the street shall be included with the final plat.
(Ord. 01-2000, passed 6-27-00)
§ 150.36 HALF-STREETS.
   The dedication of half streets of less than 50 feet at the perimeter of a
new subdivision shall be prohibited. If circumstances render this impractical,
adequate provision for the concurrent dedication of the remaining half of the
street must be furnished by the subdivider. Where there exists a half street in
an adjoining subdivision, the remaining half shall be provided by the proposed
development.
(Ord. 01-2000, passed 6-27-00)
§ 150.37 MARGINAL ACCESS STREETS.
   Where a tract of land to be subdivided adjoins a principal arterial street,
the subdivider may be required to provide a marginal access street parallel to
the arterial street or reverse frontage on a minor street for the lots to be
developed adjacent to the arterial. Where reverse frontage is established,
private driveways shall be prevented from having direct access to the principal
arterial.
(Ord. 01-2000, passed 6-27-00)
§ 150.38 ACCESS TO ADJACENT PROPERTIES.
   Where, in the opinion of the Town Commissioners, it is necessary to provide
for street access to an adjoining property, proposed streets shall be extended
by dedication to the boundary of such property and a temporary turnaround
provided. Adequate turnaround facilities shall be provided as determined by the
Planning Board and approved by the Town Commissioners.
(Ord. 01-2000, passed 6-27-00)
§ 150.39 NONRESIDENTIAL STREETS.
   The subdivider of a nonresidential subdivision shall provide streets in
accordance with the North Carolina Department of Transportation, Division of
Highways' Subdivision Roads Minimum Construction Standards, January 1, 2000, as
amended, and the standards in this chapter, whichever are stricter in regard to
each particular item.
(Ord. 01-2000, passed 6-27-00)
§ 150.40 DESIGN STANDARDS OF STREETS.
   The design of all streets and roads within the jurisdiction of this chapter
shall be in accordance with the accepted policies of the North Carolina
Department of Transportation, Division of Highways, as taken or modified from
the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials (AASHTO)
manuals. The North Carolina Department of Transportation, Division of Highways'
Subdivision Roads Minimum Construction Standards, January 1, 2000, as amended,
shall apply for any items not included in this chapter, or where stricter than
this chapter. Curb and gutter, swales, or ditches shall be installed as
prescribed by the Town Engineer.
(Ord. 01-2000, passed 6-27-00)
§ 150.41 RIGHT-OF-WAY WIDTHS.
   (A)   Right-of-way widths shall not be less than the following and shall
apply except in those cases where right-of-way requirements have been
specifically set out in the thoroughfare plan.
 
Rural                       Minimum Right-of-Way (feet)
Principal Arterial Freeways 350
Other                       200
Minor Arterial              100
Major Collector             100
Minor Collector             60
Local Road                  45
 
 
Urban                                     Minimum Right-of-Way (feet)
Major Thoroughfare other than Freeway and 90
Expressway
Minor Thoroughfare                        60
Local Street                              45
Cul-de-sac                                50' radius
 
   (B)   The subdivider will only be required to dedicate a maximum of 100 feet
of right-of-way. In cases where over 100 feet of right-of-way is desired, the
subdivider will be required only to reserve the amount in excess of 100 feet.
In all cases in which right-of-way is sought for an access controlled facility,
the subdivider will only be required to make a reservation.
(Ord. 01-2000, passed 6-27-00)
§ 150.42 PAVEMENT TYPE.
   (A)   All road construction shall be in accordance with the latest edition
of the Standard Specifications for Roads and Structures as published by the
North Carolina Department of Transportation, Division of Highways. Condition of
subgrade shall be determined by the Town Engineer.
   (B)   Widths for street and road classifications other than local shall be
as required by the thoroughfare plan. Width of local roads and streets shall be
as follows:
 
Road Type                       w/Curb and Gutter (feet) w/o Curb and Gutter
Local Residential, Local Street 26, to face of curb      24
Residential Collector           34                       24
Cul-de-sac*
 
* The distance from the edge of the pavement of the turnaround to the right-of-
way line shall not be less than the distance from the edge of the pavement to
the right-of-way line on the street approaching the turnaround, as illustrated
on the following page.
(Ord. 01-2000, passed 6-27-00)
§ 150.43 GEOMETRIC CHARACTERISTICS.
   The standards outlined below shall apply to all subdivision streets proposed
for addition to the State Highway System (or Municipal Street System). In cases
where a subdivision is sought adjacent to a proposed thoroughfare corridor, the
requirements of dedication and reservation discussed in §
150.34(B) shall apply.
(Ord. 01-2000, passed 6-27-00)
§ 150.43.1 DESIGN SPEED.
   Minimum design speeds for subdivision-type streets shall be in accordance
with A Policy on Geometric Design of Highways and Streets (AASHTO).
(Ord. 01-2000, passed 6-27-00)
§ 150.43.2 MAXIMUM AND MINIMUM GRADES.
   (A)   The maximum grades in percent shall be:
 
Design Speed Level Rolling Mountainous
60           3     4       6
50           4     5       7
40           5     6       8
30                9       10
20                       12
 
   (B)   A minimum grade for curbed streets normally should not be less than
0.5%, a grade of 0.35% may be allowed where there is a high type pavement
accurately crowned and in areas where special drainage conditions may control.
   (C)   Grades for 100 feet each way from intersections should not exceed 5%.
   (D)   For streets and roads with projected annual average daily traffic less
than 250, short grades, less than 500 feet long, may be no greater than 15.0%.
(Ord. 01-2000, passed 6-27-00) Penalty, see §
150.53
§ 150.43.3 SIGHT DISTANCE.
   Sight distance provided for stopped vehicles at intersections shall be in
accordance with A Policy on Geometric Design of Highways and Streets (AASHTO).
(Ord. 01-2000, passed 6-27-00)
§ 150.43.4 INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   It is recommended that no street shall intersect any other street at
an angle less than 90 degrees. However, at the discretion of the Planning
Board, a street may intersect at less than 90 degrees but more than 75 degrees.
Under no circumstances may a street intersect at less than a 75-degree angle.
   (B)   Property sight lines shall be maintained at all intersections of
streets. Measured along the centerline, there shall be a clear sight triangle
of 75 feet (150 feet for major streets) from a point of intersection. This
shall be indicated on all plans. No building or obstruction shall be permitted
in this area.
   (C)   Offset intersections are to be avoided unless the Division of Highways
grants exception. Intersections which cannot be aligned should be separated by
a minimum length of 200 feet between survey center lines.
   (D)   Intersections with arterials, collectors and thoroughfares shall be at
least 1,000 feet from center line to center line, or more if required by the
North Carolina Department of Transportation.
(Ord. 01-2000, passed 6-27-00) Penalty, see §
150.53
§ 150.43.5 CUL-DE-SACS.
   (A)   Permanent dead-end streets shall not exceed 800 feet in length
depending on topography and shall be provided with a turn-around having a
right-of-way radius of 50 feet.
   (B)   Where one cul-de-sac intersects with another cul-de-sac, the end of
each cul-de-sac shall be no more than 800 feet from a through street.
   (C)   The distance from the edge of pavement on the vehicular turnaround to
the right-of-way line shall not be less than the distance from the edge of
pavement to right-of-way line on the street approaching the turnaround, as
illustrated in §
150.42.
   (D)   Cul-de-sacs should not be used to avoid connection with an existing
street or to avoid the extension of an important street, unless an exception is
recommended by the Planning Board and granted by the Town Commissioners.
(Ord. 01-2000, passed 6-27-00; Am. Ord. 03-2000, passed 11-6-00; Am. Ord. 03-
2001, passed 11-13-01) Penalty, see §
150.53
§ 150.43.6 ALLEYS.
   (A)   Alleys shall be required to serve lots used for commercial and
industrial purposes except that this requirement may be waived where other
definite and assured provision is made for service access.
   (B)   The width of an alley shall be at least 20 feet.
   (C)   Dead-end alleys shall be avoided where possible, but if unavoidable,
shall be provided with adequate turnaround facilities at the dead-end as may be
recommended by the Planning Board and approved by the Town Commissioners.
   (D)   Sharp alignment or grade changes shall be avoided.
   (E)   All alleys shall be designed in accordance with North Carolina
Department of Transportation Standards.
(Ord. 01-2000, passed 6-27-00)
§ 150.44 UTILITIES.
   Storm and sanitary sewer, water mains, and fire hydrants shall be designed
by a registered engineer and shall be approved by the Town Engineer.
(Ord. 01-2000, passed 6-27-00)
§ 150.44.1 WATER AND SANITARY SEWER SYSTEMS.
   Each lot in all subdivisions within the corporate limits of the town shall
be provided with an extension of the municipal water and sanitary sewer
systems.
(Ord. 01-2000, passed 6-27-00)
§ 150.44.2 STORM WATER DRAINAGE SYSTEM.
   The subdivider shall provide a surface water drainage system constructed to
the standards of the North Carolina Department of Transportation, as reflected
in Handbook for the Design of Highway Surface Drainage Structures, 1973,
subject to review by the Town Engineer.
   (A)   No surface water shall be channeled or directed into a sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Where feasible, the subdivider shall connect to an existing storm
drainage system.
   (C)   Where an existing storm drainage system cannot feasibly be extended to
the subdivision, a surface drainage system shall be designed to protect the
proposed development from water damage.
   (D)   Surface drainage courses shall have side slopes of at least three feet
of horizontal distance for each one foot of vertical distance, and courses
shall be of sufficient size to accommodate the drainage area without flooding,
and designed to comply with the standards and specifications for erosion
control of the North Carolina Sedimentation Pollution Control Act, G.S. § 243-
34.12, Chapter 113A, Article 4, and the N.C. Administrative Code Title 15,
Chapter 4, and any locally adopted erosion and sedimentation control
ordinances.
   (E)   The minimum grade along the bottom of a surface drainage course shall
be a vertical fall of at least one foot in each 200 feet of horizontal
distance.
   (F)   Streambanks and channels downstream from any land disturbing activity
shall be protected from increased degradation from accelerated erosion caused
by increased velocity of runoff from the land disturbing activity in accordance
with the North Carolina Sedimentation Pollution Control Act, G.S. § 143-34.12,
Chapter 113A, Article 4, and the North Carolina Administrative Code Title 15,
Chapter 4.
   (G)   Anyone constructing a dam or impoundment within the subdivision must
comply with the North Carolina Dam Safety Law of 1967 and the North Carolina
Administrative Code Title 15, Subchapter 2K.
   (H)   In all areas of special flood hazards, all subdivision proposals shall
have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood damage.
(Ord. 01-2000, passed 6-27-00)
Statutory reference:
   The first statute cited in this section contains a typographical error, the
intended citation being G.S. 143-34.12. In any event that statute has been
repealed and did not relate to the state Sedimentation Pollution Control Act,
G.S. Chapter 113A, Article 4. See also division (F) of this section.
§ 150.45 OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Through traffic discouraged on (residential) local streets. Local
streets shall be laid out in such a way that their use by through traffic will
be discouraged. Streets shall be designed or walkways dedicated to assure
convenient access to parks, playgrounds, schools or other places of public
assembly.
   (B)   Sidewalks. Sidewalks shall be constructed on such streets as the Board
of Commissioners, on recommendation from the Planning Board, consider
necessary. Such sidewalks shall be constructed to a minimum width of five feet,
and shall consist of a minimum thickness of four inches of concrete. All
sidewalks shall be placed in the street right-of-way, unless the development is
platted as a planned unit or group development. Sidewalks shall consist of a
minimum of six inches of concrete at driveway crossings.
   (C)   Street names. Proposed streets that are obviously in alignment with
existing streets shall be given the same name. In assigning new names,
duplication of existing names shall be avoided and in no case shall the
proposed name be phonetically similar to existing names in the county
irrespective of the use of a suffix such as street, road, drive, place, court,
etc. Street names shall be subject to the approval of the Town Commissioners.
   (D)   Street name signs. The subdivider shall be required to provide and
erect street name signs to the town standards at all intersections within the
subdivision.
   (E)   Permits for connection to state roads. An approved permit is required
for connection to any existing state system road. This permit is required prior
to any construction on the street or road. The application is available at the
office of the nearest District Engineer of the Division of Highways.
   (F)   Offsets to utility poles. Poles for overhead utilities should be
located clear of roadway shoulders, preferably at least 30 feet from the edge
of pavement on major thoroughfares. On streets with curb and gutter, utility
poles should be set back a minimum distance of six feet from the face of curb.
   (G)   Wheelchair ramps. In accordance with G.S. § 136-44.14, all street
curbs in North Carolina being constructed or reconstructed for maintenance
procedures, traffic operations, repairs, correction of utilities, or altered
for any reason after September 1, 1973, shall provide wheelchair ramps for the
physically handicapped at all intersections where both curb and gutter and
sidewalks are provided and at other major points of pedestrian flow.
(Ord. 01-2000, passed 6-27-00)
§ 150.46 PLACEMENT OF MONUMENTS.
   Unless otherwise specified by this chapter, the Manual of Practice for Land
Surveying as adopted by the North Carolina State Board of Registration for
Professional Engineers and Land Surveyors, under the provisions of Title 21 of
the North Carolina Administrative Code, Chapter 56 (21 NCAC 56), shall apply
when conducting surveys for subdivisions; to determine the accuracy for surveys
and placement of monuments, control corners, markers, and property corner ties;
to determine the location, design and material of monuments, markers, control
corners, and property corner ties; and to determine other standards and
procedures governing the practice of land surveying for subdivisions.
(Ord. 01-2000, passed 6-27-00)
§ 150.47 CONSTRUCTION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   No construction or installation of improvements shall commence in a
proposed subdivision until the preliminary plat has been approved, and all
plans and specifications have been approved by the appropriate authorities.
   (B)   No building, zoning or other permits shall be issued for erection of a
structure on any lot not of record at the time of adoption of this chapter
until all the requirements of this chapter have been met.
   (C)   The subdivider, prior to commencing any work within the subdivision,
shall make arrangements with the Subdivision Administrator to provide for
adequate inspection.
   (D)   The approving authorities having jurisdiction or their representatives
shall inspect and approve all completed work prior to release of the sureties.
(Ord. 01-2000, passed 6-27-00) Penalty, see §
150.53
§ 150.48 OVERSIZED IMPROVEMENTS.
   The town may require installation of certain oversized utilities or the
extension of utilities to adjacent property when it is in the interest of
future development. If the town requires the installation of improvements in
excess of the standards required in this chapter, including all standards
adopted by reference, the town shall pay the cost differential between the
improvement required and the standards in this chapter.
(Ord. 01-2000, passed 6-27-00)
§ 150.49 RESERVED.
ARTICLE E: LEGAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.50 GENERAL PROCEDURE FOR PLAT APPROVAL.
   (A)   After the effective date of this chapter, no subdivision plat of land
within the town's jurisdiction shall be filed or recorded until it has been
submitted to and approved by the appropriate board or official as set forth in
§
150.17 of this chapter, and until this approval is entered in writing on the
face of the plat by the Town Commissioners for major subdivisions, or the Town
Manager for minor subdivisions.
   (B)   The Register of Deeds shall not file or record a plat of a subdivision
of land located within the territorial jurisdiction of the town that has not
been approved in accordance with these provisions, nor shall the Clerk of
Superior Court order or direct the recording of a plat if the recording would
be in conflict with this section.
(Ord. 01-2000, passed 6-27-00) Penalty, see §
150.53
§ 150.51 STATEMENT BY OWNER.
   The owner of land shown on a subdivision plat submitted for recording, or
his authorized agent, shall sign a statement on the plat stating whether or not
any land shown thereon is within the subdivision regulation jurisdiction of the
town.
(Ord. 01-2000, passed 6-27-00)
§ 150.52 EFFECT OF PLAT APPROVAL ON DEDICATIONS.
   Pursuant to state law, the approval of a plat shall not be deemed to
constitute or affect the acceptance by the municipality or public of the
dedication of any street or other ground, public utility line, or other public
facility shown on the plat. However, the Town Council may by resolution accept
any dedication made to the public of lands or facilities for streets, parks,
public utility lines, or other public purposes, when the lands or facilities
are located within its subdivision regulation jurisdiction. Acceptance of
dedication of lands or facilities located within the subdivision regulation
jurisdiction but outside the corporate limits of the municipality shall not
place on the town any duty to open, operate, repair, or maintain any street,
utility line, or other land or facility, and the municipality shall in no event
be held to answer in any civil action or proceeding for failure to open, repair
or maintain any street located outside its corporate limits.
(Ord. 01-2000, passed 6-27-00)
§ 150.53 PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION.
   (A)   After the effective date of this chapter, any person who, being the
owner or agent of the owner of any land located within the territorial
jurisdiction of this chapter, thereafter subdivides his land by reference to,
exhibition of, or any other use of a plat showing a subdivision of the land
before the plat has been properly approved under the terms of this chapter and
recorded in the Office of the Alexander County Register of Deeds, shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor. The description by metes and bounds in the instrument
of transfer or other document used in the process of selling or transferring
land shall not exempt the transaction from this penalty. The town through its
attorney or other official designated by the Town Commissioners may enjoin
illegal subdivision, transfer or sale of land by action for injunction.
Further, violators of this chapter shall be subject, upon conviction, to fine
and/or imprisonment as provided by G.S. § 14-4.
   (B)   The violation of any provision of this chapter shall subject the
offender to a civil penalty in the amount of $50 to be recovered by the town.
Violators shall be issued a written citation which must be paid within ten
days.
   (C)   Each day's continuing violation of this chapter shall be a separate
and distinct offense.
   (D)   Notwithstanding division (B) above, this chapter may be enforced by
appropriate equitable remedies issued from a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (E)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the use of
remedies available to the town. The town may seek to enforce this chapter by
using any one, all, or a combination of remedies.
(Ord. 01-2000, passed 6-27-00)
§ 150.54 SEPARABILITY.
   Should any section or provision of this chapter be decided by a court of
competent jurisdiction to be unconstitutional or invalid, such decision shall
not affect the validity of the chapter as a whole or any part thereof other
than the part so declared to be unconstitutional or invalid.
(Ord. 01-2000, passed 6-27-00)
§ 150.55 VARIANCES.
   Where, because of topographical or other conditions peculiar to the site,
strict adherence to the provisions of the regulations in this chapter would
cause unnecessary hardship, the Planning Board may recommend and the Town
Commissioners authorize a variance, if such variance can be made without
destroying the intent of this chapter. Any variance thus authorized is required
to be entered in writing in the minutes of the Planning Board and of the Town
Commissioners, and the reasoning on which the departure was justified set
forth.
(Ord. 01-2000, passed 6-27-00)
§ 150.56 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The Town Commissioners may from time to time amend the terms of this
chapter, but no amendment shall become effective unless it shall have been
proposed by or shall have been submitted to the Planning Board for review and
recommendation. The Planning Board shall have 45 days from the time the
proposed amendment is submitted within which to submit its report. If the
Planning Board fails to submit a report within the specified time, it shall be
deemed to have recommended approval of the amendment.
   (B)   No amendment shall be adopted by the governing body until they have
held a public hearing on the amendment. Notice of the hearing shall be
published in a newspaper of general circulation in the town's area at least
once a week for two successive calendar weeks prior to the hearing. The initial
notice shall appear not more than 25 nor less than 10 days prior to the hearing
date. In computing the 10- to 25-day period, the date of first publication
shall not be counted, but the date of the hearing shall be counted.
(Ord. 01-2000, passed 6-27-00)
§ 150.57 ABROGATION.
   It is not intended that this chapter repeal, abrogate, annul, impair, or
interfere with any existing easements, covenants, deed restrictions,
agreements, rules, regulations, or permits previously adopted or issued
pursuant to law. However, where this chapter imposes greater restrictions, the
provisions of this chapter shall govern.
(Ord. 01-2000, passed 6-27-00)
§ 150.58 ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Town Manager or his designee(s) (Town Planner) is hereby appointed to
serve as Subdivision Administrator.
(Ord. 01-2000, passed 6-27-00)
§ 150.59 RE-ENACTMENT AND REPEAL OF EXISTING SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE.
   This chapter in part carries forward by re-enactment some of the provisions
of the subdivision regulations of the town, adopted by the Town Council in
September, 1966, as amended, and it is not the intention to repeal but rather
to re-enact and continue in force such existing provisions so that all rights
and liabilities that have accrued hereunder are preserved and may be enforced.
All provisions of the subdivision regulations of the town enacted in September,
1966, as amended, which are not continued in effect are hereby repealed. All
suits at law or in equity and/or all prosecutions resulting from the violation
of any subdivision regulations heretofore in effect, which are now pending in
any of the courts of this state or the United States, shall not be abated or
abandoned by reason of the adoption of this chapter, but shall be prosecuted to
their finality the same as if this chapter had not been adopted. Any and all
violations of the existing subdivision regulations, prosecutions for which have
not yet been instituted, may be hereafter filed and prosecuted, and nothing in
this chapter shall be construed as to abandon, abate or dismiss any litigation
or prosecution now pending, and/or which may heretofore have been instituted or
prosecuted.
(Ord. 01-2000, passed 6-27-00)
CHAPTER 151: ZONING CODE
Section
   
151.01   Zoning Code adopted by reference
§ 151.01 ZONING CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Alexander County/Town of Taylorsville Zoning Ordinance, as amended,
copies of which are on file in the office of the Town Clerk, is adopted by
reference and incorporated herein as if fully set out at length in this code of
ordinances.
(Ord. 01-2017, passed 6-12-17)
CHAPTER 152: HOUSING CODE
Section
   
152.01   Housing Code adopted by reference
§ 152.01 HOUSING CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Alexander County/Town of Taylorsville Housing Code, as amended, copies
of which are on file in the office of the Town Clerk, is adopted by reference
and incorporated herein as if fully set out at length in this code of
ordinances.
(Ord. passed - -)
CHAPTER 153: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION: NON-COASTAL REGULAR PHASE
Section
Statutory Authorization, Findings of Fact, Purpose and Objectives
   
153.01   Statutory authorization
   
153.02   Findings of fact
   
153.03   Statement of purpose
   
153.04   Objectives
General Provisions
   
153.10   Definitions
   
153.11   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
153.12   Basis for establishing the special flood hazard areas
   
153.13   Establishment of floodplain development permit
   
153.14   Compliance
   
153.15   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
153.16   Interpretation
   
153.17   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Administration
   
153.20   Designation of Floodplain Administrator
   
153.21   Floodplain development application, permit and certification
requirements
   
153.22   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
   
153.23   Corrective procedures
   
153.24   Variance procedures
Flood Hazard Reduction
   
153.30   General standards
   
153.31   Specific standards
   
153.32   Standards for floodplains without established base flood elevations
   
153.33   Standards for riverine floodplains with BFE but without established
floodways or non- encroachment areas
   
153.34   Floodways and non-encroachment areas
   
153.35   Standards for areas of shallow flooding (Zone AO)
Legal Status Provisions
   
153.40   Effect on rights and liabilities under the existing flood damage
prevention ordinance
   
153.41   Effect upon outstanding floodplain development permits
 
   
153.99   Penalty
STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES
§ 153.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   (A)   The legislature of the state has in G.S. Ch. 143, Art. 21, Part 6, and
G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 8 and Art. 19, Parts 3, 5, and 8 delegated to local
governmental units the responsibility to adopt regulations designed to promote
the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   The Town Council does ordain the following chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-2-07; Am. Ord. passed 6-2-09)
§ 153.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood prone areas within the jurisdiction of the town are subject
to periodic inundation which results in loss of life, property, health and
safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary
public expenditures of flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax
base, all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general
welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities and by the
occupancy in flood prone areas of uses vulnerable to floods or other hazards.
(Ord. passed 10-2-07; Am. Ord. passed 6-2-09)
§ 153.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions within flood prone areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water or erosion hazards or that result in damaging increases
in erosion, flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities that
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and all other development that may
increase erosion or flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers that will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(Ord. passed 10-2-07; Am. Ord. passed 6-2-09)
§ 153.04 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are to:
   (A)   Protect human life, safety, and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business losses and interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities (that is, water and
gas mains, electric, telephone, cable and sewer lines, streets, and bridges)
that are located in flood prone areas;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas; and
   (G)   Ensure that potential buyers are aware that property is in a special
flood hazard area.
(Ord. passed 10-2-07; Am. Ord. passed 6-2-09)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.10 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE or APPURTENANT STRUCTURE. A structure located on the
same parcel of property as the principal structure, the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principal structure. Garages, carports, and
storage sheds are common urban ACCESSORY STRUCTURES. Pole barns, hay sheds, and
the like qualify as accessory structures on farms and may or may not be located
on the same parcel as the farm dwelling or shop building.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING BUILDING). An extension or increase in the floor
area or height of a building or structure.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator's
interpretation of any provision of this chapter.
   APPURTENANT STRUCTURE. See ACCESSORY STRUCTURE.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated Zone AO on a community's flood
insurance rate map (FIRM) with base flood depths determined to be from one to
three feet. These areas are located where a clearly defined channel does not
exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate, and where
velocity flow may be evident.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. See SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA).
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION or BFE. A determination of the water surface elevations
of the base flood as published in the flood insurance study. When the BFE has
not been provided in a special flood hazard area, it may be obtained from
engineering studies available from a federal, state, or other source using FEMA
approved engineering methodologies. This elevation, when combined with the
freeboard, establishes the regulatory flood protection elevation.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BFE. See BASE FLOOD ELEVATION.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   CHEMICAL STORAGE FACILITY. A building, portion of a building, or exterior
area adjacent to a building used for the storage of any chemical or chemically
reactive products.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
   DISPOSAL. As defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(6), the discharge, deposit,
injection, dumping, spilling, leaking, or placing of any solid waste into or on
any land or water so that the solid waste or any constituent part of the solid
waste may enter the environment or be emitted into the air or discharged into
any waters, including groundwaters.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. A non-basement building which has its lowest elevated
floor raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear walls, posts, piers,
pilings, or columns.
   ENCROACHMENT. The advance or infringement of uses, fill, excavation,
buildings, structures, or development into a floodplain, which may impede or
alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. A
manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities
for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) was
completed before the initial effective date of the floodplain management
regulations adopted by the community.
   FBFM. See FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP.
   FHBM. See FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP.
   FIRM. See FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP or FBFM. An official map of a community,
issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, on which the special flood
hazard areas and the floodways are delineated. This official map is a
supplement to and shall be used in conjunction with the flood insurance rate
map (FIRM).
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP or FHBM. An official map of a community, issued by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency, where the boundaries of the special
flood hazard areas have been defined as Zone A.
   FLOOD INSURANCE. The insurance coverage provided under the National Flood
Insurance Program.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP or FIRM. An official map of a community, issued by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency, on which both the special flood hazard
areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community are delineated.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY or FIS. An examination, evaluation, and determination
of flood hazards, corresponding water surface elevations (if appropriate),
flood hazard risk zones, and other Hood data in a community issued by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency. The Flood Insurance Study report includes
Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMs) and Flood Boundary and Floodway Maps (FBFMs),
if published.
   FLOOD PRONE AREA. See FLOODPLAIN.
   FLOOD ZONE. A geographical area shown on a flood hazard boundary map or
flood insurance rate map that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the
area.
   FLOODING. See FLOOD.
   FLOODPLAIN. Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any
source.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The individual appointed to administer and enforce
the floodplain management regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. Any type of permit that is required in
conformance with the provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of
any development activity.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including but not limited
to emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations, and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances, and other applications of police power. This term describes
federal, state, or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide
standards for preventing and reducing flood loss and damage.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitation facilities,
structures, and their contents.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   FREEBOARD. The height added to the base flood elevation (BFE) to account for
the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater that
the height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such
as wave action, blockage of bridge openings, and the hydrological effect of
urbanization of the watershed. The base flood elevation plus the FREEBOARD
establishes the regulatory flood protection elevation.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT FACILITY. A facility which cannot be used for its
intended purpose unless it is located in close proximity to water, limited to a
docking or port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or
passengers, shipbuilding, or ship repair. The term does not include long-term
storage, manufacture, sales, or service facilities.
   HAG. See HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT FACILITY. As defined in G.S. Ch. 130A, Article 9,
a facility for the collection, storage, processing, treatment, recycling,
recovery, or disposal of hazardous waste.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE or HAG. The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface, prior to construction, immediately next to the proposed walls of the
structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the U.S. Department of Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of Interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic landmarks in
communities with a “certified local government (CLG) program”; or
      (4)   Certified as contributing to the historical significance of a
historic district designated by a community with a “certified local government
(CLG) program.” Certified local government (CLG) programs are approved by the
U.S. Department of the Interior in cooperation with the state Department of
Cultural Resources through the state Historic Preservation Officer as having
met the requirements of the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, as
amended in 1980.
   LAG. See LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE or LAG. The elevation of the ground, sidewalk, or
patio slab immediately next to the building or deck support after completion of
the building.
   LOWEST FLOOR. Lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including basement).
An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking of
vehicles, building access, or limited storage in an area other than a basement
area is not considered a building's lowest floor, provided that such an
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a recreational vehicle.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MARKET VALUE. The building value, not including the land value and that of
any accessory structures or other improvements on the lot. MARKET VALUE may be
established by independent certified appraisal; replacement cost depreciated
for age of building and quality of construction (actual cash value); or
adjusted tax assessed values.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. For purposes of this chapter, the National Geodetic Vertical
Datum (NGVD) as corrected in 1929, the North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) as
corrected in 1988, or other vertical control datum used as a reference for
establishing varying elevations within the floodplain, to which base flood
elevations (BFEs) shown on a FIRM are referenced. Refer to each FIRM panel to
determine datum used.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of the initial floodplain management regulations
and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NON-ENCROACHMENT AREA. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot
as designated in the flood insurance study report.
   NUISANCE. See PUBLIC SAFETY.
   POST-FIRM. Construction or other development for which the start of
construction occurred on or after the effective date of the initial flood
insurance rate map.
   PRE-FIRM. Construction or other development for which the start of
construction occurred before the effective date of the initial flood insurance
rate map.
   PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND. That at least 51% of the actual cash value of the
structure is above ground.
   PUBLIC SAFETY and/or NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to the safety or
health of an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of
persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE or RV. A vehicle, which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal
projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REFERENCE LEVEL. The top of the lowest floor for structures within special
flood hazard areas designated as Zone A1-A30, AE, A, A99, or AO.
   REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION. The base flood elevation plus the
freeboard. In special flood hazard areas where base flood elevations (BFEs)
have been determined, this elevation shall be the BFE plus two feet of
freeboard. In special flood hazard areas where no BFE has been established,
this elevation shall be at least two feet above the highest adjacent grade.
   REMEDY A VIOLATION. To bring the structure or other development into
compliance with state and community floodplain management regulations, or, if
this is not possible, to reduce the impacts of its noncompliance. Ways that
impacts may be reduced include protecting the structure or other affected
development from flood damages, implementing the enforcement provisions of this
chapter or otherwise deterring future similar violations, or reducing federal
financial exposure with regard to the structure or other development.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, etc.
   SALVAGE YARD. Any non-residential property used for the storage, collection,
and/or recycling of any type of equipment, including but not limited to
vehicles, appliances, and related machinery.
   SFHA. See SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA.
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITY. Any facility involved in the disposal of
solid waste, as defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(35).
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL SITE. As defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(36), any place
at which solid wastes are disposed of by incineration, sanitary landfill, or
any other method.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA or SFHA. The land in the floodplain subject to a
1% or greater chance of being flooded in any given year, as determined §
153.12 of this chapter.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and the date the
building permit was issued, provided that the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement, or other
improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start means
either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site,
such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading, and filling; nor does
it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include
excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual START
OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of the building, whether or not that alteration affects
the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, a manufactured home, or a gas,
liquid, or liquefied gas storage tank that is principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure during any
one-year period whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before
damaged condition would equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the
structure before the damage occurred. See definition of “substantial
improvement.” SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE also means flood-related damage sustained by a
structure on two separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost
of repairs at the time of each such flood event, on the average, equals or
exceeds 25% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any combination of repairs, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, or other improvement of a structure, taking place
during any one-year period for which the cost equals or exceeds 50% of the
market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred substantial
damage, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
      (1)   Any correction of existing violations of state or community health,
sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been identified by the
community code enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
historic structure.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in §§
153.20 -
153.24 and §§
153.30 -
153.35 is presumed to be in violation until such time as that documentation is
provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION or WSE. The height, in relation to mean sea level,
of floods of various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of riverine
areas.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel, or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
   WSE. See WATER SURFACE ELEVATION.
(Ord. passed 10-2-07; Am. Ord. passed 6-2-09)
§ 153.11 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all special flood hazard areas within the
jurisdiction, including extra- territorial jurisdictions (ETJs) if applicable,
of the town and within the jurisdiction of any other community whose governing
body agrees, by resolution, to such applicability.
(Ord. passed 10-2-07; Am. Ord. passed 6-2-09)
§ 153.12 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   The special flood hazard areas are those identified under the cooperating
technical state (CTS) agreement between the state and FEMA in its flood
insurance study (FIS) for the county dated December 18, 2007, and its
accompanying flood insurance rate map panels (3748, 3749, 3758, 3759, 3769,
3840, 3850, and 3860) which are adopted by reference and declared to be a part
of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-2-07; Am. Ord. passed 6-2-09)
§ 153.13 ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities within special flood hazard areas determined in accordance with the
provisions of §
153.12 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-2-07; Am. Ord. passed 6-2-09)
§ 153.14 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted,
altered, or developed in any way without full compliance with the terms of this
chapter and other applicable regulations.
(Ord. passed 10-2-07; Am. Ord. passed 6-2-09)
§ 153.15 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeat, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions
shall prevail.
(Ord. passed 10-2-07; Am. Ord. passed 6-2-09)
§ 153.16 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. passed 10-2-07; Am. Ord. passed 6-2-09)
§ 153.17 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
consideration. Larger floods can and will occur. Actual flood heights may be
increased by man-made or natural causes. This chapter does not imply that land
outside the special flood hazard areas or uses permitted within such areas will
be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create liability
on the part of the town or by any officer or employee thereof for any flood
damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. passed 10-2-07; Am. Ord. passed 6-2-09)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 153.20 DESIGNATION OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Town Manager or designee, hereinafter referred to as the “Floodplain
Administrator,” is hereby appointed to administer and implement the provisions
of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-2-07; Am. Ord. passed 6-2-09)
§ 153.21 FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT APPLICATION, PERMIT AND CERTIFICATION
REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Application requirements. Application for a floodplain development
permit shall be made to the Floodplain Administrator prior to any development
activities located within special flood hazard areas. The following items shall
be presented to the Floodplain Administrator to apply for a floodplain
development permit:
      (1)   A plot plan drawn to scale which shall include but shall not be
limited to the following specific details of the proposed floodplain
development:
         (a)   The nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the area of
development/disturbance, existing and proposed structures, utility systems,
grading/pavement areas, fill materials, storage areas, drainage facilities, and
other development;
         (b)   The boundary of the special flood hazard area as delineated on
the FIRM or other flood map as determined in §
153.12, or a statement that the entire lot is within the special flood hazard
area;
         (c)   Flood zone(s) designation of the proposed development area as
determined on the FIRM or other flood map as determined in §
153.12;
         (d)   The boundary of the floodway(s) or non-encroachment area(s) as
determined in §
153.12;
         (e)   The base flood elevation (BFE) where provided as set forth in §
153.12, §
153.22, or §
153.32;
         (f)   The old and new location of any watercourse that will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development;
         (g)   The certification of the plot plan by a registered land surveyor
or professional engineer.
      (2)   Proposed elevation, and method thereof, of all development within a
special flood hazard area including but not limited to:
         (a)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the proposed
reference level (including basement) of all structures:
         (b)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any non-
residential structure in Zone AE, A or AO will be flood-proofed; and
         (c)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any proposed
utility systems will be elevated or floodproofed;
      (3)   If floodproofing, a floodproofing certificate (FEMA Form 81-65)
with supporting data, an operational plan, and an inspection and maintenance
plan that include but are not limited to installation, exercise, and
maintenance of floodproofing measures.
      (4)   A foundation plan, drawn to scale, which shall include details of
the proposed foundation system to ensure all provisions of this chapter are
met. These details include but are not limited to:
         (a)   The proposed method of elevation, if applicable (that is, fill,
solid foundation perimeter wall, solid backfilled foundation, open foundation
on columns/posts/piers/piles/shear walls);
         (b)   Openings to facilitate automatic equalization of hydrostatic
flood forces on walls in accordance with §
153.31(D)(3) when solid foundation perimeter walls are used in zones A, AO, AE,
and A1-30;
      (5)   Usage details of any enclosed areas below the lowest floor.
      (6)   Plans and/or details for the protection of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems to be located and
constructed to minimize flood damage;
      (7)   Certification that all other local, state, and federal permits
required prior to floodplain development permit issuance have been received.
      (8)   Documentation for placement of recreational vehicles and/or
temporary structures, when applicable, to ensure that the provisions of §
153.31(F) and (G) of this chapter are met.
      (9)   A description of proposed watercourse alteration or relocation,
when applicable, including an engineering report on the effects of the proposed
project on the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the effects to
properties located both upstream and downstream, and a map (if not shown on
plot plan) showing the location of the proposed watercourse alteration or
relocation.
   (B)   Permit requirements. The floodplain development permit shall include
but not be limited to:
      (1)   A description of the development to be permitted under the
floodplain development permit.
      (2)   The special flood hazard area determination for the proposed
development in accordance with available data specified in §
153.12.
      (3)   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the
reference level and all attendant utilities.
      (4)   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the
protection of all public utilities.
      (5)   All certification submittal requirements with timelines.
      (6)   A statement that no fill material or other development shall
encroach into the floodway or non-encroachment area of any watercourse, as
applicable.
      (7)   The flood openings requirements, in zones A, AO, AE, or A1-30.
      (8)   Limitations of below BFE enclosure uses (if applicable) (that is,
parking, building access, and limited storage only).
   (C)   Certification requirements.
      (1)   Elevation certificates.
         (a)   An elevation certificate (FEMA Form 81-31) is required prior to
the actual start of any new construction. It shall be the duty of the permit
holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the
elevation of the reference level, in relation to mean sea level. The Floodplain
Administrator shall review the certificate data submitted. Deficiencies
detected by such review shall be corrected by the permit holder prior to the
beginning of construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure to
make required corrections shall be cause to deny a floodplain development
permit.
         (b)   An elevation certificate (FEMA Form 81-31) is required after the
reference level is established. Within seven calendar days of establishment of
the reference level elevation, it shall be the duty of the permit holder to
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the elevation of the
reference level, in relation to mean sea level. Any work done within the seven-
day calendar period and prior to submission of the certification shall be at
the permit holder's risk. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the
certificate data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be
corrected by the permit holder immediately and prior to further work being
permitted to proceed. Failure to submit the certification or failure to make
required corrections shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the project.
         (c)   A final as-built elevation certificate (FEMA Form 81-31) is
required after construction is completed and prior to certificate of
compliance/occupancy issuance. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of final as-built
construction of the elevation of the reference level and all attendant
utilities. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data
submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the
permit holder immediately and prior to certificate of compliance/occupancy
issuance. In some instances, another certification may be required to certify
corrected as-built construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure
to make required corrections shall be cause to withhold the issuance of a
certificate of compliance/occupancy.
      (2)   Floodproofing certificate. If non-residential floodproofing is used
to meet the regulatory flood protection elevation requirements, a floodproofing
certificate (FEMA Form 81-65), with supporting data, an operational plan and an
inspection and maintenance plan are required prior to the actual start of any
new construction. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to the
Floodplain Administrator a certification of the floodproofed design elevation
of the reference level and all attendant utilities, in relation to mean sea
level. Floodproofing certification shall be prepared by or under the direct
supervision of a professional engineer or architect and certified by same. The
Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data, the operational
plan, and the inspection and maintenance plan. Deficiencies detected by such
review shall be corrected by the applicant prior to permit approval. Failure to
submit the certification or failure to make required corrections shall be cause
to deny a floodplain development permit. Failure to construct in accordance
with the certified design shall be cause to withhold the issuance of a
certificate of compliance/occupancy.
      (3)   If a manufactured home is placed within Zone A, AO, AE, or A1-30
and the elevation of the chassis is more than 36 inches in height above grade,
an engineered foundation certification is required in accordance with the
provisions of §
153.31(C)(2).
      (4)   If a watercourse is to be altered or relocated, a description of
the extent of watercourse alteration or relocation, a professional engineer's
certified report on the effects of the proposed project on the flood-carrying
capacity of the watercourse and the effects to properties located both upstream
and downstream, and a map showing the location of the proposed watercourse
alteration or relocation shall all be submitted by the permit applicant prior
to issuance of a floodplain development permit.
      (5)   Certification exemptions. The following structures, if located
within Zone A, AO, AE, or A1-30, are exempt from the elevation/floodproofing
certification requirements specified in subdivisions (C)(1) and (2) of this
section:
         (a)   Recreational vehicles meeting requirements of §
153.31(F)(1);
         (b)   Temporary structures meeting requirements of §
153.31(G); and
         (c)   Accessory structures less than 150 square feet meeting
requirements of §
153.31(H).
(Ord. passed 10-2-07; Am. Ord. passed 6-2-09)
§ 153.22 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Floodplain Administrator shall perform but not be limited to the
following duties:
   (A)   Review all floodplain development applications and issue permits for
all proposed development within special flood hazard areas to assure that the
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied.
   (B)   Review all proposed development within special flood hazard areas to
assure that all necessary local, state, and federal permits have been received.
   (C)   Notify adjacent communities and the state Department of Crime Control
and Public Safety, Division of Emergency Management, state coordinator for the
National Flood Insurance Program prior to any alteration or relocation of a
watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA).
   (D)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is maintained.
   (E)   Prevent encroachments into floodways and non-encroachment areas unless
the certification and flood hazard reduction provisions of §
153.31(6) are met.
   (F)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the
reference level (including basement) and all attendant utilities of all new and
substantially improved structures, in accordance with §
153.21(C).
   (G)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which all
new and substantially improved structures and utilities have been floodproofed,
in accordance with the provisions of §
153.21(C).
   (H)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of all public
utilities in accordance with the provisions of §
153.21(C).
   (I)   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, obtain
certifications from a registered professional engineer or architect in
accordance with the provisions of §
153.21(C) and §
153.31(B).
   (J)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of boundaries
of the special flood hazard areas, floodways, or non-encroachment areas (for
example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and
actual field conditions), make the necessary interpretation. The person
contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity
to appeal the interpretation as provided in this subchapter.
   (K)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data has not been provided in
accordance with §
153.12, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any base flood elevation (BFE)
data, along with floodway data or non-encroachment area data available from a
federal, state, or other source, including data developed pursuant to §
153.32(B)(2), in order to administer the provisions of this chapter.
   (L)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is provided but no floodway or
non-encroachment area data has been provided in accordance with §
153.12, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any floodway data or non-
encroachment area data available from a federal, state, or other source in
order to administer the provisions of this chapter.
   (M)   Permanently maintain all records that pertain to the administration of
this chapter and make these records available for public inspection,
recognizing that such information may be subject to the Privacy Act of 1974, as
amended.
   (N)   Make on-site inspections of work in progress. As the work pursuant to
a floodplain development permit progresses, the Floodplain Administrator shall
make as many inspections of the work as may be necessary to ensure that the
work is being done according to the provisions of the local chapter and the
terms of the permit. In exercising this power, the Floodplain Administrator has
a right, upon presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises
within the jurisdiction of the community at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action.
   (O)   Issue stop-work orders as required. Whenever a building or part
thereof is being constructed, reconstructed, altered, or repaired in violation
of this chapter, the Floodplain Administrator may order the work to be
immediately stopped. The stop-work order shall be in writing and directed to
the person doing or in charge of the work. The stop-work order shall state the
specific work to be stopped, the specific reason(s) for the stoppage, and the
condition(s) under which the work may be resumed. Violation of a stop-work
order constitutes a misdemeanor.
   (P)   Revoke floodplain development permits as required. The Floodplain
Administrator may revoke and require the return of the floodplain development
permit by notifying the permit holder in writing stating the reason(s) for the
revocation. Permits shall be revoked for any substantial departure from the
approved application, plans, and specifications; for refusal or failure to
comply with the requirements of state or local laws; or for false statements or
misrepresentations made in securing the permit. Any floodplain development
permit mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable state or local law may
also be revoked.
   (Q)   Make periodic inspections throughout the special flood hazard areas
within the jurisdiction of the community. The Floodplain Administrator and each
member of his or her inspections department shall have a right, upon
presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises within the
territorial jurisdiction of the department at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action.
   (R)   Follow through with corrective procedures of §
153.23.
   (S)   Review, provide input, and make recommendations for variance requests.
   (T)   Maintain a current map repository to include but not be limited to the
FIS report, FIRM, and other official flood maps and studies adopted in
accordance with §
153.12 of this chapter, including any revisions thereto including letters of
map change, issued by FEMA. Notify state and FEMA of mapping needs.
   (U)   Coordinate revisions to FIS reports and FIRMs, including letters of
map revision based on fill (LOMR-F) and letters of map revision (LOMR).
(Ord. passed 10-2-07; Am. Ord. passed 6-2-09)
§ 153.23 CORRECTIVE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Violations to be corrected. When the Floodplain Administrator finds
violations of applicable state and local laws, it shall be his or her duty to
notify the owner or occupant of the building of the violation. The owner or
occupant shall immediately remedy each of the violations of law cited in such
notification.
   (B)   Actions in event of failure to take corrective action. If the owner of
a building or property shall fail to take prompt corrective action, the
Floodplain Administrator shall give the owner written notice, by certified or
registered mail to the owner's last known address or by personal service,
stating:
      (1)   That the building or property is in violation of the floodplain
management regulations;
      (2)   That a hearing will be held before the floodplain administrator at
a designated place and time, not later than ten days after the date of the
notice, at which time the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or by
counsel and to present arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter; and
      (3)   That following the hearing, the Floodplain Administrator may issue
an order to alter, vacate, or demolish the building or to remove fill as
applicable.
   (C)   Order to take corrective action. If, upon a hearing held pursuant to
the notice prescribed above, the Floodplain Administrator shall find that the
building or development is in violation of the flood damage prevention
ordinance, they shall issue an order in writing to the owner, requiring the
owner to remedy the violation within a specified time period, not less than 60
calendar days, nor more than 180 calendar days. Where the Floodplain
Administrator finds that there is imminent danger to life or other property, he
or she may order that corrective action be taken in such lesser period as may
be feasible.
   (D)   Appeal. Any owner who has received an order to take corrective action
may appeal the order to the local elected governing body by giving notice of
appeal in writing to the Floodplain Administrator and the clerk within ten days
following issuance of the final order. In the absence of an appeal, the order
of the Floodplain Administrator shall be final. The local governing body shall
hear an appeal within a reasonable time and may affirm, modify and affirm, or
revoke the order.
   (E)   Failure to comply with order. If the owner of a building or property
fails to comply with an order to take corrective action for which no appeal has
been made or fails to comply with an order of the governing body following an
appeal, the owner shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished at the
discretion of the court.
(Ord. passed 10-2-07; Am. Ord. passed 6-2-09)
§ 153.24 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment as established by the town, hereinafter
referred to as the “appeal board,” shall hear and decide requests for variances
from the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the appeal board may appeal
such decision to the court, as provided in G.S. Ch. 7A.
   (C)   Variances may be issued for:
      (1)   The repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon the
determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the
structure's continued designation as a historic structure and that the variance
is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the
structure.
      (2)   Functionally dependent facilities if determined to meet the
definition as stated in §
153.10 of this chapter, provided that provisions of subdivisions (I)(2), (3),
and (5) of this section have been satisfied, and such facilities are protected
by methods that minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no
additional threats to public safety.
      (3)   Any other type of development, provided that it meets the
requirements of this section.
   (D)   In passing upon variances, the appeal board shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other
sections of this chapter, and:
      (1)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (2)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location as defined
under §
153.10 of this chapter as a functionally dependent facility, where applicable;
      (6)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (10)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
      (11)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
   (E)   A written report addressing each of the above factors shall be
submitted with the application for a variance.
   (F)   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of
this chapter, the appeal board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes and objectives of this
chapter.
   (G)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation (BFE) and the
elevation to which the structure is to be built, that such construction below
the base flood elevation increases risks to life and property, and that the
issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the base flood elevation
will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to $25 per $100
of insurance coverage. Such notification shall be maintained with a record of
all variance actions, including justification for their issuance.
   (H)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency and
the state upon request.
   (I)   Conditions for variances:
      (1)   Variances shall not be issued when the variance will make the
structure in violation of other federal, state, or local laws, regulations, or
ordinances.
      (2)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway or
non-encroachment area if the variance would result in any increase in flood
levels during the base flood discharge.
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (4)   Variances shall only be issued prior to development permit
approval.
      (5)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, or
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
   (J)   A variance may be issued for solid waste disposal facilities or sites,
hazardous waste management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage
facilities that are located in special flood hazard areas provided that all of
the following conditions are met.
      (1)   The use serves a critical need in the community.
      (2)   No feasible location exists for the use outside the special flood
hazard area.
      (3)   The reference level of any structure is elevated or floodproofed to
at least the regulatory flood protection elevation.
      (4)   The use complies with all other applicable federal, state, and
local laws.
      (5)   The town has notified the Secretary of the state Department of
Crime Control and Public Safety of its intention to grant a variance at least
30 calendar days prior to granting the variance.
(Ord. passed 10-2-07; Am. Ord. passed 6-2-09)
FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 153.30 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas the following provisions are required:
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be designed
(or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, and
lateral movement of the structure.
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
   (C)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damages.
   (D)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as
to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components during
conditions of flooding to the regulatory flood protection elevation. These
include but are not limited to HVAC equipment, water softener units, bath/
kitchen fixtures, ductwork, electric/gas meter panels/boxes, utility/cable
boxes, hot water heaters, and electric outlets/switches.
   (E)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
   (F)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters.
   (G)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (H)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a
structure, which is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, shall
meet the requirements of “new construction” as contained in this chapter.
   (I)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the repair, reconstruction, or
replacement of a building or structure existing on the effective date of this
chapter and located totally or partially within the floodway, non-encroachment
area, or stream setback, provided that there is no additional encroachment
below the regulatory flood protection elevation in the floodway, non-
encroachment area, or stream setback, and provided that such repair,
reconstruction, or replacement meets all of the other requirements of this
chapter.
   (J)   New solid waste disposal facilities and sites, hazardous waste
management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage facilities shall not
be permitted, except by variance as specified in §
153.34(J). A structure or tank for chemical or fuel storage incidental to an
allowed use or to the operation of a water treatment plant or wastewater
treatment facility may be located in a special flood hazard area only if the
structure or tank is either elevated or floodproofed to at least the regulatory
flood protection elevation and certified in accordance with the provisions of §
153.21(C).
   (K)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall be
consistent with the need to minimize flood damage.
   (L)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water
systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage.
   (M)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (N)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
received all necessary permits from those governmental agencies for which
approval is required by federal or state law, including Section 404 of the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. § 1334.
   (O)   When a structure is partially located in a special flood hazard area,
the entire structure shall meet the requirements for new construction and
substantial improvements.
   (P)   When a structure is located in multiple flood hazard zones or in a
flood hazard risk zone with multiple base flood elevations, the provisions for
the more restrictive flood hazard risk zone and the highest base flood
elevation shall apply.
(Ord. passed 10-2-07; Am. Ord. passed 6-2-09)
§ 153.31 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas where base flood elevation (BFE) data has
been provided, as set forth in §
153.12 or §
153.32, the following provisions, in addition to the provisions of §
153.30 are required:
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure (including manufactured homes) shall have the
reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the regulatory
flood protection elevation, as defined in §
153.10 of this chapter.
   (B)   Non-residential construction. New construction and substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or other non-residential structure
shall have the reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the
regulatory flood protection elevation, as defined in §
153.10 of this chapter. Structures located in A, AE, AO, and A1-30 zones may be
floodproofed to the regulatory flood protection elevation in lieu of elevation
provided that all areas of the structure, together with attendant utility and
sanitary facilities, below the regulatory flood protection elevation are
watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water, using
structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and the effect of buoyancy. For AO zones, the floodproofing
elevation shall be in accordance with §
153.35(B)(2). A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify
that the standards of this subsection are satisfied. Such certification shall
be provided to the Floodplain Administrator as set forth in §
153.21(C), along with the operational and maintenance plans.
   (C)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   New and replacement manufactured homes shall be elevated so that
the reference level of the manufactured home is no lower than the regulatory
flood protection elevation, as defined in §
153.10 of this chapter.
      (2)   Manufactured homes shall be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement, either
by certified engineered foundation system, or in accordance with the most
current edition of the state regulations for manufactured homes adopted by the
Commissioner of Insurance pursuant to G.S. § 143-143.15. Additionally, when the
elevation would be met by an elevation of the chassis 36 inches or less above
the grade at the site, the chassis shall he supported by reinforced piers or
engineered foundation. When the elevation of the chassis is above 36 inches in
height, an engineering certification is required.
      (3)   All enclosures or skirting below the lowest floor shall meet the
requirements of §
153.31(D).
      (4)   An evacuation plan must be developed for evacuation of all
residents of all new, substantially improved or substantially damaged
manufactured home parks or subdivisions located within flood prone areas. This
plan shall be filed with and approved by the Floodplain Administrator and the
local emergency management coordinator.
   (D)   Elevated buildings. Fully enclosed area, of new construction and
substantially improved structures, which is below the lowest floor:
      (1)   Shall not be designed or used for human habitation but shall only
be used for parking of vehicles, building access, or limited storage of
maintenance equipment used in connection with the premises. Access to the
enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow for parking of vehicles
(garage door) or limited storage of maintenance equipment (standard exterior
door), or entry to the living area (stairway or elevator). The interior portion
of such enclosed area shall not be finished or partitioned into separate rooms,
except to enclose storage areas;
      (2)   Shall be constructed entirely of flood resistant materials at least
to the regulatory flood protection elevation;
      (3)   Shall include in Zones A. AO, AE, and A1-30 flood openings to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on walls by allowing for the
entry and exit of floodwaters. To meet this requirement, the openings must
either be certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed
the following minimum design criteria:
         (a)   A minimum of two flood openings on different sides of each
enclosed area subject to flooding;
         (b)   The total net area of all flood openings must be at least one
square inch for each square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding;
         (c)   If a building has more than one enclosed area, each enclosed
area must have flood openings to allow floodwaters to automatically enter and
exit;
         (d)   The bottom of all required flood openings shall be no higher
than one foot above the adjacent grade;
         (e)   Flood openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other
coverings or devices, provided that they permit the automatic flow of
floodwaters in both directions; and
         (f)   Enclosures made of flexible skirting are not considered
enclosures for regulatory purposes and therefore do not require flood openings.
Masonry or wood underpinning, regardless of structural status, is considered an
enclosure and requires flood openings as outlined above.
   (E)   Additions/improvements.
      (1)   Additions and/or improvements to pre-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
         (a)   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or improvements
must be designed to minimize flood damages and must not be any more non-
conforming than the existing structure.
         (b)   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and the
addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
      (2)   Additions to post-FIRM structures with no modifications to the
existing structure other than a standard door in the common wall shall require
only the addition to comply with the standards for new construction.
      (3)   Additions and/or improvements to post-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
         (a)   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or improvements
only must comply with the standards for new construction.
         (b)   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and the
addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
   (F)   Recreational vehicles. Recreational vehicles shall either:
      (1)   Be on site for fewer than 180 consecutive days and be fully
licensed and ready for highway use (a recreational vehicle is ready for highway
use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by
quick disconnect type utilities, and has no permanently attached additions); or
      (2)   Meet all the requirements for new construction.
   (G)   Temporary non-residential structures. Prior to the issuance of a
floodplain development permit for a temporary structure, the applicant must
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a plan for the removal of such structure
(s) in the event of a hurricane, flash flood, or other type of flood warning
notification. The following information shall be submitted in writing to the
Floodplain Administrator for review and written approval:
      (1)   A specified time period for which the temporary use will be
permitted. Time specified may not exceed three months, renewable up to one
year;
      (2)   The name, address, and phone number of the individual responsible
for the removal of the temporary structure;
      (3)   The time frame prior to the event at which a structure will be
removed (that is, minimum of 72 hours before landfall of a hurricane or
immediately upon flood warning notification);
      (4)   A copy of the contract or other suitable instrument with the entity
responsible for physical removal of the structure; and
      (5)   Designation, accompanied by documentation, of a location outside
the special flood hazard area, to which the temporary structure will be moved.
   (H)   Accessory structures.
      (1)   When accessory structures (sheds, detached garages, etc.) are to be
placed within a special flood hazard area, the following criteria shall be met:
         (a)   Accessory structures shall not be used for human habitation
(including working, sleeping, living, cooking, or restroom areas);
         (b)   Accessory structures shall not be temperature-controlled;
         (c)   Accessory structures shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential;
         (d)   Accessory structures shall be constructed and placed on the
building site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
         (e)   Accessory structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance with
the provisions of §
153.30(A);
         (f)   All service facilities such as electrical shall be installed in
accordance with the provisions of §
153.30(D); and
         (g)   Flood openings to facilitate automatic equalization of
hydrostatic flood forces shall be provided below regulatory flood protection
elevation in conformance with the provisions of §
153.31(D)(3).
      (2)   An accessory structure with a footprint less than 150 square feet
that satisfies the criteria outlined above does not require an elevation or
floodproofing certificate. Elevation or floodproofing certifications are
required for all other accessory structures in accordance with §
153.21(C).
(Ord. passed 10-2-07; Am. Ord. passed 6-2-09)
§ 153.32 STANDARDS FOR FLOODPLAINS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS.
   Within the special flood hazard areas designated as approximate Zone A and
established in §
153.12, where no base flood elevation (BFE) data has been provided by FEMA, the
following provisions, in addition to the provisions of §
153.30 shall apply:
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements, or new development shall be permitted within a distance of 20
feet each side from top of bank or five times the width of the stream,
whichever is greater, unless certification with supporting technical data by a
registered professional engineer is provided demonstrating that such
encroachments shall not result in any increase in flood levels during the
occurrence of the base flood discharge.
   (B)   The BFE used in determining the regulatory flood protection elevation
shall be determined based on the following criteria:
      (1)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is available from other
sources, all new construction and substantial improvements within such areas
shall also comply with all applicable provisions of this chapter and shall be
elevated or floodproofed in accordance with standards in §§
153.30 and
153.31.
      (2)   When floodway or non-encroachment data is available from a federal,
state, or other source, all new construction and substantial improvements
within floodway or non-encroachment areas shall also comply with the
requirements of §
153.31 and
153.34.
      (3)   All subdivision, manufactured home park, and other development
proposals shall provide base flood elevation (BFE) data if development is
greater than five acres or has more than 50 lots/manufactured home sites. Such
base flood elevation (BFE) data shall be adopted by reference in accordance
with §
153.12 and utilized in implementing this chapter.
      (4)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is not available from a
federal, state, or other source as outlined above, the reference level shall be
elevated or floodproofed (nonresidential) to or above the regulatory flood
protection elevation, as defined in §
153.10. All other applicable provisions of §
153.31 shall also apply.
(Ord. passed 10-2-07; Am. Ord. passed 6-2-09)
§ 153.33 STANDARDS FOR RIVERINE FLOODPLAINS WITH BFE BUT WITHOUT ESTABLISHED
FLOODWAYS OR NON-ENCROACHMENT AREAS.
   Along rivers and streams where BFE data is provided by FEMA or is available
from another source but neither floodway nor non-encroachment areas are
identified for a special flood hazard area on the FIRM or in the FIS report,
the following requirements shall apply to all development within such areas:
   (A)   Standards of §§
153.30 and
153.31; and
   (B)   Until a regulatory floodway or non-encroachment area is designated, no
encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial improvements, or
other development, shall be permitted unless certification with supporting
technical data by a registered professional engineer is provided demonstrating
that the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined with all
other existing and anticipated development, will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point within the
community.
(Ord. passed 10-2-07; Am. Ord. passed 6-2-09)
§ 153.34 FLOODWAYS AND NON-ENCROACHMENT AREAS.
   (A)   Areas designated as floodways or non-encroachment areas are located
within the special flood hazard areas established in §
153.12. The floodways and non-encroachment areas are extremely hazardous areas
due to the velocity of floodwaters that have erosion potential and carry debris
and potential projectiles.
   (B)   The following provisions, in addition to standards outlined in §§
153.30 and
153.31 B, shall apply to all development within such areas:
      (1)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements, and other developments shall be permitted unless:
         (a)   It is demonstrated that the proposed encroachment would not
result in any increase in the flood levels during the occurrence of the base
flood, based on hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with
standard engineering practice and presented to the Floodplain Administrator
prior to issuance of floodplain development permit; or
         (b)   A conditional letter of map revision (CLOMR) has been approved
by FEMA. A letter of map revision (LOMR) must also be obtained upon completion
of the proposed encroachment.
      (2)   If subdivision (B)(1) of this section is satisfied, all development
shall comply with all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of this
chapter.
      (3)   No manufactured homes shall be permitted, except replacement
manufactured homes in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision,
provided that the following provisions are met:
         (a)   The anchoring and the elevation standards of §
153.31(C); and
         (b)   The no encroachment standard of subdivision (B)(1) of this
section.
(Ord. passed 10-2-07; Am. Ord. passed 6-2-09)
§ 153.35 STANDARDS FOR AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (ZONE AO).
   (A)   Located within the special flood hazard areas established in §
153.12 are areas designated as shallow flooding areas. These areas have special
flood hazards associated with base flood depths of one to three feet where a
clearly defined channel does not exist and where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate.
   (B)   In addition to §§
153.30 and
153.31, all new construction and substantial improvements shall meet the
following requirements:
      (1)   The reference level shall be elevated at least as high as the depth
number specified on the flood insurance rate map (FIRM), in feet, plus a
freeboard of four feet, above the highest adjacent grade; or at least four feet
above the highest adjacent grade if no depth number is specified.
      (2)   Non-residential structures may, in lieu of elevation, be
floodproofed to the same level as required in subdivision (B)(1) of this
section so that the structure, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, below that level shall be watertight with walls substantially
impermeable to the passage of water and with structural components having the
capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of
buoyancy. Certification is required in accordance with §
153.21(C) and §
153.31(B).
      (3)   Adequate drainage paths shall be provided around structures on
slopes, to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed structures.
(Ord. passed 10-2-07; Am. Ord. passed 6-2-09)
LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS
§ 153.40 EFFECT ON RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES UNDER THE EXISTING FLOOD DAMAGE
PREVENTION ORDINANCE.
   This chapter in part comes forward by re-enactment of some of the provisions
of the flood damage prevention ordinance, enacted October 2, 2007, as amended,
and it is not the intention to repeal but rather to re-enact and continue to
enforce without interruption of such existing provisions, so that all rights
and liabilities that have accrued thereunder are reserved and may be enforced.
The enactment of this chapter shall not affect any action, suit, or proceeding
instituted or pending. All provisions of the flood damage prevention ordinance
of the town, enacted on October 2, 2007, as amended, which are not reenacted
herein, are repealed.
(Ord. passed 6-2-09)
§ 153.41 EFFECT UPON OUTSTANDING FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMITS.
   Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the plans,
construction, size, or designated use of any development or any part thereof
for which a floodplain development permit has been granted by the floodplain
administrator or his or her authorized agents before the time of passage of
this chapter; provided, however, that when construction is not begun under such
outstanding permit within a period of six months subsequent to the date of
issuance of the outstanding permit, construction or use shall be in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-2-07; Am. Ord. passed 6-2-09)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with grants of variance or special exceptions, shall constitute a
misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any
of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than $50
or imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both. Each day such violation
continues shall be considered a separate offense. Nothing herein contained
shall prevent the town from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to
prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. passed 10-2-07; Am. Ord. passed 6-2-09)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   FRANCHISES
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.   Date   Description
No.    Passed
       12- -  Proposing annexation of certain property beginning at a northeast corner of the
6.1977 77     town in the southern line of the Mr. and Mrs. Richard White property and running
              thence along the existing town limits.
6.5-4-        Annexing certain property beginning at an iron pin in the southern right-of-way
82     5-4-82 line of West Main Street (Highway 90), same being the northeast corner of the Sam
              J. Herman property.
              Annexing certain property being a total of 12.82 acres known as the Van Tarlton
6.7-7- 7-6-82 Property and the Brookshire and Associates Property lying south of Highway 90 and
19-82         generally west of Liledoun Road (State Road #1110), with a small portion lying
              within the road right-of-way, immediately west of the present town limits.
              Annexing certain property beginning at an iron pin located at the southeast
6.12-  12-28- corner of Mrs. T.B. Campbell’s property in a northern line of the Brookshire and
28-82  82     Associates property, same being located in the existing city limits boundary of
              the town.
6.3-1-        Annexing certain property beginning at an iron pin in a western existing town
83     3-1-83 limits line, same being in the western right-of-way of Seventh Street, Northwest,
              and in the eastern line of the Glenn A. Fox and wife, Brenda G. Fox property.
6.2-7-        Annexing certain property beginning at an iron pin in an eastern existing town
84     2-7-84 limits line, the same being in the southern right-of- way line of First Avenue
              Drive, Southeast, and in the northern line of the Dorothy S. Feimster property.
6-84-  6-11-  Annexing certain property beginning at the existing town boundary at its
8-1-2  84     intersection SR 1104 west of Liledoun Road.
6-84-  6-11-  Annexing certain property beginning at the town boundary approximately 1050 feet
8-1-3  84     east of N.C. 16 south and the eastern property line of lot 103 as shown on Tax
              Map E-7C at the County Tax Office.
6-84-  9-11-  Annexing certain territory beginning at the southwest corner of Lelia Watts’
9-11-4 84     property and the southeast corner of Lynn Barnes’ property, a point in the
              existing town boundary.
6-85-  6-19-  Annexing certain property beginning at a point in the center of Highway No. 16
6-30-1 85     South, Betty McLeod’s northwest corner in Dallas Campbell’s line, and running
              south 85° 20' east 100.2 feet to a stone, Dallas Campbell’s corner.
              Proposing annexation of certain property beginning at the existing town boundary
6-86-  8-4-87 at its intersection with State Road No. 1104 (School Avenue, S.W.) west 1,200
8-19-1        feet, more or less, with the existing town boundary to a corner of the town
              boundary, thence running west.
              Annexing certain property beginning at the intersection of Liledoun Road (SR
6-87-  11-4-  1110) and Seventh Street, Southwest (SR 1109), thence with the existing town
1-1-1  86     boundary approxi- mately 1200 feet to the property of Frank S. and Judy H. Smith
              (D.B. 183 P. 189).
6-87-         Annexing certain property beginning at a point, said point being 0.38 miles from
3-3-2  3-3-87 the intersection of SR 1100 and NC Highway 16, said point being an existing nail
              in the center line of NC Highway 16.
6-87-  3-3-87 Annexing certain property beginning at an iron set in the western side of SR
3-3-3         1600.
6-87-  3-3-87 Annexing certain property beginning at an iron stake in the northwestern side of
3-3-4         Seventh Street, Southwest.
6.88-  11-22- Annexing certain property beginning at an iron stake in the north line of the
11-22- 88     North Carolina Department of Transportation and at the head of a culvert.
1
              Annexing property of the First United Methodist Church Parsonage, said property
6.89-  8-8-89 beginning at an iron stake at the edge of Seventh Street, Northwest, Arthur
8-8-1         Meadlock’s corner, and running south 68°, 45 minutes west 165-½ feet to an iron
              stake.
6.89-  11-14- Annexing property of the Church of God Parsonage, said property being all of lots
11-14- 89     numbers 11 and 12 of the property designated as the Mrs. Emma (Mrs. Harvey)
2             Feimster property.
6-90-  9-28-  Annexating certain property beginning off the existing town limits south from
9-28-1 90     First Avenue Drive, Southeast approximately 800 feet to an existing corner of the
              town boundary.
6-91-  11-6-  Annexing certain property beginning at the existing town boundary, being at a
10-1-1 91     point at the intersection of the westerly right-of-way of Liledoun Road SR 110
              and the northwesterly right-of-way of Moose Road SR 1109.
07-92-        Annexing certain property being lots 20, 21, 22, and 23 in the subdivision of the
07-01- 7-7-92 Ingram and Stewart property.
01
6-94-  12-6-  Annexation certain property being Dr. and Mrs. Max Schrum’s property, and
12-6-1 94     beginning at a point on the existing town boundary with said point also being a
              point on the western right-of-way of Sixth Street, Northwest.
6-94-  12-19- Annexing certain property beginning at an axle in the Alexander Railroad track,
12-19- 94     also being a point in the existing town limits.
1
6-95-         Annexing property of the Macedonia Baptist Church, said property beginning on an
04-30- 4-4-95 iron stake in the branch and in Mrs. Frank Watson’s line, Guy Sweet’s old
1             northwest corner and Alexvale Furniture, Inc.’s old northeast corner.
6-95-         Annexing the property of Ralph Chapman, said property beginning on a stone in the
04-30- 4-4-95 Cove Gap Road, Rebecca Davis northeast corner, and running north 71½ degrees west
2             29 poles to a stake in H. T. Campbell’s and George McLain’s line.
6-95-         Annexing certain property being Saunders Lane (Area 2) beginning on the existing
07-01- 5-2-95 town limits of the northeastern corner of lot 53.
3
              Annexing certain noncontiguous property, the first tract beginning on an iron
6.96-  3-5-96 stake in C.K. Sherrill’s line, W.L. Harrington’s corner, containing 14 acres,
3-29-1        more or less; the second tract beginning on an existing one- half iron pipe on
              the east side of Secondary Road No. 1409, containing 3.60 acres.
--     6-11-  Annexing certain territory beginning at the northwest corner of Lot No. 140 of
       96     Tax Map E-7A and the eastern right-of-way of N.C. Hwy 16
7-9-          Annexing property belonging to Family Care Investments beginning at an existing
97-4-- 4-7-98 one-half inch rod found within is located southwest from the northeast corner of
7-1           Brushy Mountain Enterprises, Inc.
7-98-  4-7-98 Annexing property belonging to Larry Schronce beginning at an existing axle, Mrs.
4-7-2         Dallas A. Campbell’s southeast corner; thence Southeast following N.C. Hwy 16.
              Annexing property belonging to Greer Lackey beginning at a computed point being
7-98-         located in the western right-of-way margin of N.C. Hwy 16, said computed point
4-7-3  4-7-98 also being in the common boundary line with the property now or formerly owned by
              Dallas Campbell and said computed point being the southeast corner of the
              remaining property of the Alexander County Registry.
              Annexing property belonging to Tim Walker beginning at a 1/2 inch rod being in
              the easternmost corner of Lot #16 of Emma Feimster property, said rod also being
4-99-  5-7-99 in the southernmost corner of Charlie Lowe’s property, said rod also being the
5-4-1         southern and easternmost point in an agreed line with Charlie Lowe, thence with
              Aaron Court, a 12-foot stone road, South 124.02 feet to a new iron rod set in an
              agreed line with Ethel Daniels property.
              Annexing certain property belonging to Victor and Andy Baker of Midway
              Construction, being all of that tract of land containing 6.851 acres located in
7-99-  9-7-99 Taylorsville, and being a portion of the land described in Deed Book 19 on page
9-7-1         211; and being bounded on the east by Milstead Street, S.R. 1104, and being more
              particularly described according to the survey of Wesley G. Fox, Registered Land
              Surveyor, for Don G. Angel, dated July 24, 1999.
              Annexing certain property belonging to Sandra McIlvain, dba M&T Investments,
              beginning at a -inch iron, being the southwest corner of the property of Mildred
7-99-  9-7-99 F. Wilke; this iron also being the northwest corner of Emerald Point Investments,
9-7-2         Inc.; this iron also being the southeast corner of the property of Fred Lane
              Trustee; this iron also being the northeast corner of the Joy Teague Matlock
              property, all as shown by deeds of the Alexander County Registry.
              Annexing certain property belonging to Michael Kerley, beginning at an iron
              stake, Jeff Brown’s corner at a dirt road, and running thence east 84 feet with
              the southern edge of the road to an iron stake, Hermie James’ corner at the road;
7-99-  9-7-99 thence south 112 feet with Herman James’ line to an iron stake, Hermie James and
9-7-3         Robert Hoover’s corner; thence south 77 feet with Robert Hoover’s line to an iron
              stake, Robert Hoover and Paul Little’s corner; thence west with Paul Little’s
              line to an iron stake, Paul Little and Jeff Brown’s corner; thence north 144 feet
              with Jeff Brown’s line to the beginning.
              Annexing certain property adjacent to Brushy Mountain Associates, Inc., beginning
              at an iron stake in the south right-of-way line of U.S. 64/N.C. 90 located south
4-00-         from a right- of-way monument; thence south to an iron stake, being Henry
4-0-1  5-1-00 Goodnight’s southeast corner in the line of the Brushy Mountain Recreation
              Associates, Inc.; thence north to a right-of-way monument in the east line of a
              60-foot access street; thence east to the beginning, containing 32.04 acres by
              coordinate computation.
              Annexing certain property of Feimster-West L.L.C. located south of Taylorsville
5-00-  5-30-  and on the east side of N.C. 16 S, beginning at a point located in N.C. 16 and
5-30-1 00     also being a common corner with properties of Darren Scott, the tract containing
              1.085 acres.
              Annexing certain property adjacent to the existing Wal-Mart, beginning at a
5-00-  5-30-  right-of- way monument located at the intersection of an off ramp to N.C. 90 By-
5-30-2 00     Pass and U.S. 64, the monument being the true point of beginning, the tract
              containing 17.239 acres of 750.919 square feet.
              Annexing certain property beginning at a white oak tree, running south with the
              Barriger line to a point in the center of a private drive, the point being
5-00-  6-27-  indicated by an iron stake on the north side of the drive, thence northwest with
6-27-1 00     the center of the private drive to a point in its center indicated with an iron
              stake on the north side of the drive; thence northwest to to an iron stake;
              thence northeast to the beginning, the tract containing 0.48 of an acre, more or
              less.
              Annexing certain property beginning on a new iron rebar located near the eastern
              boundary line Highway 16; thence south 81 degrees 46' 51" east 289.61 feet to a
              new iron rebar; thence cornering south 03 degrees 45' 00" west 205.00 feet to a
              new iron rebar; thence cornering north 81 degrees 46' 59" west 289.61 feet to a
9-00-  10-3-  new iron rebar; thence following the same line north 81 degrees 46' 59" west
9-05-1 00     30.09 feet to a point in the centerline of Highway 16, said point being located
              north 10 degrees 15' 56" east 312.85 feet from a fire hydrant; thence running
              with the centerline of Highway 16 north 03 degrees 46' 00" east 205.00 feet to a
              point in the centerline of said road; thence cornering south 81 degrees 46' 59'
              east 30.09 feet to a new iron rebar, the point and place containing 1.50 acres.
10-00- 10-3-  Annexing certain property of Tract II: beginning on a PK nail located in the
10-03- 00     center of the intersection of NC Hwy. 16 S. and State Road 1607(Macedonia Church
1             Rd.) containing 2.96 acres.
              Annexing certain property beginning on an iron stake in North Margin of Aaron
05-01-        Court, running in an east direction with said road 204 feet to an iron stake in
05-01- 5-1-01 north margin of said road; thence in a north direction 190 feet to the town
01            branch to a stake in said branch; thence in a south direction with said branch
              234 feet to a stake in branch; thence in an east direction 206 feet to a stake in
              North Margin of Aaron Court, the beginning corner, containing 1.0 acre.
              Annexing certain property beginning at an iron pin in the southeast corner of the
              intersection of the rights of way of Millersville Road and U.S. Highway 64,
              running south 58 degrees 16' 34" east 251.92 feet; south 55 degrees 5' 12" east
              561.24 feet to an iron rod; thence south 40 degrees 5' 11" west 395.20 feet to an
09-02-        iron rod; thence north 66 degrees 41' 12" west 788.66 feet to an iron rod located
03-01- 9-3-02 in the right-of-way margin of Millersville Road; thence with said right-of-way
01            margin north 10 degrees 9' 23" east 198 feet; north 26 degrees 43' 35" east
              141.03 feet to an iron rod; thence south 64 degrees 38' 26" east 29.82 feet to an
              NCDOT right-of-way disc; thence north 32 degrees 17' 26" east 158.57 feet to an
              NCDOT right-of-way disc; thence 88 degrees 55' 02" east 94.27 feet to the point
              and place of beginning, containing 9.23 acres.
01-07-        Annexing certain property beginning at an iron pin in the northeast corner of
03-01- 1-7-03 Claude Shrum as recorded in Book 238, Page 663, Alexander County Registry, said
01            pin being the southeast corner of Robert & Gloria Smith as recorded in Book 429,
              Page 2160, Alexander County Registry, and containing approximately 23.875 acres.
       4-15-  Annexing certain property beginning on an existing PK nail set in State Road 1607
–    03     (Macedonia Church Road), containing 27.234 acres of land belonging to Feimster
              West, LLC, near the corner of Hwy 16 South and Macedonia Church Road.
              Annexing certain property described as a Tract containing 9.88 acres of land
–    6-3-03 belonging to Robert Christopher Welborne, on the corner of US Hwy 64 and
              Millersville Road.
              Annexing certain property described as beginning on an old iron stake on the west
10-14-        side of 6th Street, NW, Max Schrum’s northeast corner, and runs south 68 degrees
03-01- 10-14- 14' 20" west 150.13 feet with the Schrum line to an iron stake; thence north 23
01     03     degrees 15' west 100 feet with Florence Laws’ line to an iron stake on the south
              side of 6th Ave. NW; thence north 68 degrees 24' 15" east 150.15 feet with 6th
              Ave. NW.
              Annexing certain property described as belonging to Kenneth Brian Cone, beginning
08-03-        at a stake and running south 4 degrees west 14 poles to a stake; thence south 86
04-01- 8-3-04 degrees east 16 poles to a stake; thence north 4 degrees east 14 poles to a
01            stake; thence north 4 degrees east 16 poles to the beginning, containing
              approximately 1.64 acres.
              Annexing certain property described as “Black Oak Ridge Road Area,” consisting of
              17 parcels of property owned by 11 property owners. Beginning with the property
09-07-        of Alexander Railroad Company map #7D-0428A continuing east along Black Oak Ridge
04-01- 9-7-04 Road making a continuous line until reaching and including Raleigh and Nancy
01            Pearson’s property map #7D-0478. Thence heading west including Mary J. Long’s
              property map #7D-0462B and continuing west in a continuous line until reaching
              and including Sheree Bowers & Others’ property map #7D-0435.
              (A) Annexing certain property owned by Denny G. Teague, containing 0.419 acres.
              The property is described as beginning at a stone, the W.P. Ingram corner, and
11-09- 11-9-  runs north 80 degrees west 18-1/4 poles to a stone; thence south 2 degrees west 8
04-01- 04     poles to a pine stump; thence south 88 degrees east 18-1/4 poles to a stone on
01            the bank of the road; thence north 8 poles to the beginning. There is excerpted
              from the above boundary, a part of this lot of land containing approximately 68
              square rods conveyed by Luella Wike to Roy Hendren on 6-21-47.
              (B) Annexing certain property owned by Brenda A. Childers. The property is
              described as beginning on a stone, Barlowe and Patterson’s corner, and runs north
            88 degrees west 18-1/4 poles to a stone; thence south 9 poles to a spike, Barnes
              and Teague’s corner; thence south 75 degrees east 19 poles and 5 links to a spike
              at the road, Teague’s corner; thence north 5 degrees east 17-1/2 poles to the
              beginning, containing approximately 1.5 acres.
              Annexing certain property owned by Brian E. Deal, containing 0.65 acres. Property
11-09- 11-9-  is described as beginning on a spike by railroad track and runs north 5-1/
04-02- 04     2 degrees east 18 poles to a stone by a white oak bush; thence south 67 degrees
01            west 14 poles to a stone in the bank of the railroad; thence as said road bank
              south 42 degrees east 16-1/4 poles to the beginning containing 124 poles.
05-03-        Annexing certain property in East Jay Drive area, consisting of 14 property
05-01- 5-3-05 owners.
01
07-19- 7-19-  Annexing certain property, being all of Lot 3 of Block C west of Brushy Mountain
05-01- 05     Subdivision as platted in Plat Book 2, page 151, Alexander County Registry.
01
07-19- 7-19-
05-02- 05     Annexing certain property belonging to Mitzie M. McCurdy, containing .60 acres.
01
07-19- 7-19-  Annexing certain property owned by Alexander County, containing 23.325 acres,
05-03- 05     designated as Lot 2 on recorded plat book 7, page 18 in the Alexander County
01            Registry.
              Annexing all of Lot Nos. 12, 13, 14, 15, 16 and 17 in Block “A” in the
– –4-4-06 subdivision of U. L. Hafer, M. R. Ingram and J. R. Stewart located at 396 6th
              Street NW belonging to Myrium Stewart.
08-01-        Annexing Foothill Properties, containing 26.245 acres and New Life Christian
06-01- 8-1-06 Fellowship property, containing 8.17 acres.
01
04-03-        Annexing certain property belonging to Kelly E. and Nancy A. Watson, containing
07-01- 4-3-07 .50 of an acre.
01
07-01- 6-19-
07-01- 07     Annexing certain properties on Leroy Road, Pop Davis Road and Boston Road.
01
09-04-        Annexing certain property belonging to Darrel and Sharon Adkins, containing
07-01- 9-4-07 26,450 square feet, Fidel and Edis Cecilia Portillo, containing Lot Nos. 29 and
02            30 of W. Boyd Isenhour Subdivision, and Lorianne R. Kerley, containing 1.2 acres.
02-05-        Annexing Wade and Renee Kerley property located at 237 and 238 6th Street, being
07-01- 2-5-08 all of tax map #E-7D-0164.
01
04-01-        Annexing Giles D. Scott and Janet S. Scott property, Lot #1, Plat Book 11, Page
10-01- 4-6-10 10, being a 0.707 acre tract along Boston Road (SR #1604).
01
01-01-        Annexing a tract containing 0.75 acres of land belonging to James and Kristy
04-    1-4-11 Hunt, located at 56 Gravel Hill Court.
1I01
01-08-        Annexing a tract of land containing 1.64 acres and located at 24 Highway 16
07-12- 8-7-12 South, Taylorsville, North Carolina.
01
01-04-        Annexing 1.13 acres of Brushy Mountain Golf Course located at 300 Golf Course
01-14- 4-1-14 Lane owned by BMGC, LLC.
01
02-04-        Annexing Lots 22 and 23 in Block A of the subdivision of J.C. Bell situated on
01-14- 4-1-14 College Avenue.
02
01-10- 10-6-  Annexing 1840 and 1874 NC Highway 16 South Taylorsville owned by Vue Properties,
06-15- 15     LLC.
01
01-02-        Annexing PAHAL Shop and Save 3752 NC Highway, 16 South Taylorsville, NC
02-16- 2-2-16 containing 1.46 acres, owned by PAHAL, LLC, Icard, NC.
01
02-02-        Annexing Speedy Car Wash 90 Buffet Boulevard, Taylorsville, NC containing 1.50
02-16- 2-2-16 acres owned by Memory Makers, Inc.
02
01-05- 5-24-  Annexing Lots 24 through 30 in Block D of the Stewart, Ingram, Hafer Subdivision
24-22- 22     on 7th Street, containing 0.60 acres, owned by Jeffery and Barbara Collamore.
01
             
 
TABLE II: FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
            Granting to Public Service Company of North Carolina, Inc., its successors
4.1  1-2-68 and assigns, the right to use and occupy the public places of the town for
            constructing, operating, and maintaining a gas utility system, for a period
            of 30 years.
     10-3-  Granting to Alpine Cablevision, its successors and assigns, the right and
4.2  78     privilege to erect, maintain, and operate transmission and distribution
            facilities for cable television in the town for a period of 20 years.
– 7-8-86 Renewing a power franchise to Duke Power Company, its successors and assigns,
            for a period of 60 years.
– 6-11-  Approving consent to the sale, transfer and assignment of the non-exclusive
     96     cable franchise from Cencom Partners, L.P., to Charter Communications, L.P.
            Amended agreement by adding a new subsection as follows: The foregoing
            requirements shall not apply to any sale, assignment or transfer which do not
            affect the continued role of Charter Communications, Inc. in the management
            and operation of the cable system, provided that (1) Grantee shall provide
– 8-4-98 written notice within 30 days of the transaction; and (2) Grantee represents
            in writing to the Grantor that such transaction will have no foreseeable
            effect on the agreement between Grantee and Charter Communications, Inc.,
            relating to the management and operation of Grantee’s cable system in the
            franchise area.
– 2-19-  Approve consent to the sale, transfer and assignment of the non-exclusive
     99     cable franchise from Charter Communications, L.P. to Paul G. Allen.
            Granting Charter Communications, its successors and assigns, the right and
4.3  3-2-99 privilege to erect, maintain, and operate transmission and distribution
            facilities for cable television in the town for a period of 15 years.
– 6-22-  Granting a gas franchise to Public Service Company of North Carolina, Inc.,
     99     its successors and assigns, for a period of 30 years.
           
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to North Carolina General Statutes
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTES
G.S. Cite Code Section
G.S. Cite                 Code Section
Ch. 7A                    153.24
Ch. 14, Art. 7A           111.16
Ch. 14, Art. 26           111.16
Ch. 14, Art. 26(A)        111.16
Ch. 14, Art. 27           111.16
Ch. 14, Art. 37           111.16
Ch. 14, Art. 39           111.16
14-4                      50.99,
                          150.53
14-4(a)                   10.99
14-4(b)                   70.99
14-151.1 (repealed)       51.99
14-304 - 14-309           Ch. 117, App. I
14-309.5                  Ch. 117, App. I
18B-1001                  110.05
18B-1004                  110.05
Ch. 20                    70.01
20-4.01(32)               71.04,
                          71.40
20-37.5                   71.04
20-141(e) - (g)           Ch. 72, Sch. I
                          150.21,
47-30                     150.22,
                          150.23.2
Ch. 53, Art. 22           Ch. 117, App. I
Ch. 91A                   Ch. 117, App. I
105-36.1 (repealed)       Ch. 117, App. I
105-37 (repealed)         Ch. 117, App. I
105-45 (repealed)         Ch. 117, App. I
105-46 (repealed)         Ch. 117, App. I
105-53 (repealed)         Ch. 117, App. I
105-54 (repealed)         Ch. 117, App. I
105-55 (repealed)         Ch. 117, App. I
105-58 (repealed)         Ch. 117, App. I
105-61 (repealed)         Ch. 117, App. I
105-62 (repealed)         Ch. 117, App. I
105-65 (repealed)         Ch. 117, App. I
105-66.1 (repealed)       Ch. 117, App. I
105-74 (repealed)         Ch. 117, App. I
105-77 (repealed)         Ch. 117, App. I
105-80 (repealed)         Ch. 117, App. I
105-85 (repealed)         Ch. 117, App. I
105-86 (repealed)         Ch. 117, App. I
105-88                    Ch. 117, App. I
105-89 (repealed)         Ch. 117, App. I
105-89-1 (repealed)       Ch. 117, App. I
105-90 (repealed)         Ch. 117, App. I
105-91 (repealed)         Ch. 117, App. I
105-97 (repealed)         Ch. 117, App. I
105-98 (repealed)         Ch. 117, App. I
105-102.5 (repealed)      Ch. 117, App. I
105-109(d)                114.09
105-113.70                Ch. 117, App. I
105-113.77                Ch. 117, App. I
105A-3(C)                 51.26
111-11                    71.04
Ch. 113A, Art. 4          150.44.2
Ch. 130A, Art. 9          153.10
130A-290(a)(6)            153.10
130A-290(a)(35)           153.10
130A-290(a)(36)           153.10
136-44.14                 150.45
136-102.6                 150.35
Ch. 143, Art. 21, Part 6  153.01
143-34.12 (repealed)      150.44.2
143-143.15                153.31
143-215.1                 52.046
143-215.1(b)              52.046
153A-122(b)               110.05
153A-123                  90.99
153A-123(d)               90.99
153A-123(e)               90.99
153A-145.7                110.05
153A-152 (repealed)       Ch. 117, App. I
159-8(b)                  117.01
Ch. 160A, Art. 8          153.01
Ch. 160A, Art. 19, Part 3 153.01
Ch. 160A, Art. 19, Part 5 153.01
Ch. 160A, Art. 19, Part 8 153.01
                          10.99,
160A-175                  50.99,
                          93.99
160A-175(d)               93.99
160A-207                  114.09
160A-211                  Ch. 117, App. I
160A-211(b)               Ch. 117, App. I
160A-371 et seq.          150.02
160A-372 (repealed)       150.15
160A-373 (repealed)       150.16
160A-374 (repealed)       150.52
                          
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
—      7-14-47     110.99
—      4-5-21      Amending Charter
—      6-1-21      Amending Charter
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.       Date Passed Code Section
2.4            - -         90.01
3.2            - -         91.02
5.1            - -         131.01,
                           131.99
5.2            - -         131.02
5.3            - -         131.03
5.4            - -         131.03
5.5            - -         131.03
7.11           - -         110.01,
                           110.08
7.12           - -         110.99
7.3            - -         110.07
7.7            - -         110.05
7.8            - -         110.06
9.4            - -         92.01
9.5            - -         92.02
10.5           - -         71.02
15.4           - -         94.03
15.5           - -         94.04
15.6           - -         94.05
15.7           - -         94.06
15.8           - -         94.07
                           70.02 -
18.2           - -         70.09,
                           71.01
—            7-7-39      113.99
15.1           11-7-39     94.02
21.2           8-6-40      51.25
—            4-15-43     110.05
10.2           7-29-46     Ch. 73, Sch. I
10.1           11-18-46    Ch. 73, Sch. I
10.3           5-4-48      Ch. 73, Sch. I
18.1           7-1-49      Ch. 73, Sch. I
3.1            11-7-49     91.01
                           51.01 -
                           51.06,
                           51.20 -
                           51.24,
21.4           1-5-54      51.26 -
                           51.30,
                           51.32,
                           51.33,
                           51.99
13.1           5-3-60      115.01,
                           115.99
4.1            1-2-68      T.S.O. II
14.2           6-4-68      30.08
11.1           2-2-71      31.01
10.4           10-2-73     71.20 -
                           71.22
6.1977         12- -77     T.S.O. I
4.2            10-3-78     T.S.O. II
10.6           5-6-80      71.40 -
                           71.44
—            5-29-80     Ch. 73, Sch. II
—            9-22-80     Ch. 73, Sch. II
—            7-24-81     Ch. 73, Sch. II
—            3-25-82     Ch. 73, Sch. II
6.5-4-82       5-4-82      T.S.O. I
—            6-2-82      Ch. 73, Sch. II
6.7-7-19-82    7-6-82      T.S.O. I
—            8-6-82      Ch. 73, Sch. II
—            10-26-82    Ch. 73, Sch. II
6.12-28-82     12-28-82    T.S.O. I
6.3-1-83       3-1-83      T.S.O. I
—            8-8-83      Ch. 73, Sch. II
—            11-1-83     Ch. 73, Sch. II
6.2-7-84       2-7-84      T.S.O. I
6-84-8-1-2     6-11-84     T.S.O. I
6-84-8-1-3     6-11-84     T.S.O. I
                           90.02 -
                           90.04,
                           90.20 -
—            7-1-84      90.25,
                           90.35 -
                           90.43,
                           90.55 -
                           90.60
6-84-9-11-4    9-11-84     T.S.O. I
—            1-8-85      Ch. 73, Sch. II
—            3-7-85      Ch. 73, Sch. II
6-85-6-30-1    6-19-85     T.S.O. I
10.7           3-4-86      Ch. 73, Sch. II
10.8           6-16-86     Ch. 73, Sch. II
—            7-8-86      T.S.O. II
10.9           9-2-86      Ch. 73, Sch. II
10.10          10-7-86     Ch. 73, Sch. I
6-87-1-1-1     11-4-86     T.S.O. I
6-87-3-3-2     3-3-87      T.S.O. I
6-87-3-3-3     3-3-87      T.S.O. I
6-87-3-3-4     3-3-87      T.S.O. I
—            5-5-87      52.49
10.11          5-5-87      Ch. 73, Sch. I
10.12          8-4-87      Ch. 73, Sch. II
6-86-8-19-1    8-4-87      T.S.O. I
                           30.01 -
14.6           11-7-88     30.07,
                           30.99
                           114.01 -
—            11-22-88    114.09,
                           114.99
6.88-11-22-1   11-22-88    T.S.O. I
6.89-8-8-1     8-8-89      T.S.O. I
6.89-11-14-2   11-14-89    T.S.O. I
10.15          1-2-90      Ch. 73, Sch. II
10.16          3-17-90     Ch. 73, Sch. II
—            9-4-90      92.15
6-90-9-28-1    9-28-90     T.S.O. I
15.10.1        11- -90     94.01
10.13          2-5-91      71.03,
                           71.99
10.14          2-5-91      71.04,
                           71.99
6-91-10-1-1    11-6-91     T.S.O. I
07-92-07-01-01 7-7-92      T.S.O. I
10.17          9-6-92      Ch. 73, Sch. II,
                           130.03
—            5-4-93      113.01,
                           113.99
4.93           11-3-93     97.01
10.18          3-1-94      Ch. 73, Sch. II
                           111.01 -
                           111.05,
                           111.15 -
—            5-3-94      111.24,
                           111.35 -
                           111.40,
                           111.99
                           51.26,
—            7-1-94      51.31,
                           96.01
                           112.01 -
                           112.09,
                           112.20 -
—            11-4-94     112.25,
                           112.35 -
                           112.40,
                           112.50 -
                           112.53
6-94-12-6-1    12-6-94     T.S.O. I
6-94-12-19-1   12-19-94    T.S.O. I
6-95-04-30-1   4-4-95      T.S.O. I
6-95-04-30-2   4-4-95      T.S.O. I
6-95-07-01-3   5-2-95      T.S.O. I
                           93.01 -
—            8-1-95      93.13,
                           93.99
—            11-6-95     131.04
32.01          11-29-95    Adopting Ordinance
6.96-3-29-1    3-5-96      T.S.O. I
—            5-6-96      Ch. 52
—            6-11-96     T.S.O. I
—            6-11-96     T.S.O. II
32-02          6-11-96     Adopting Ordinance
—            6-27-96     Ch. 116
                           52.001,
                           52.002,
—            11-12-96    52.015,
                           52.037,
                           52.046,
                           52.085
—            1-7-97      70.10,
                           Ch. 73, Sch. II
7-9-97-4-7-1   4-7-98      T.S.O. I
7-98-4-7-2     4-7-98      T.S.O. I
7-98-4-7-3     4-7-98      T.S.O. I
—            6-30-98     51.31
—            5-5-98      96.01
98             8-4-98      Ch. 98
—            8-4-98      T.S.O. II
—            2-19-99     T.S.O. II
4.3            3-2-99      T.S.O. II
4-99-5-4-1     5-7-99      T.S.O. I
—            6-22-99     T.S.O. II
7-99-9-7-1     9-7-99      T.S.O. I
7-99-9-7-2     9-7-99      T.S.O. I
7-99-9-7-3     9-7-99      T.S.O. I
4-00-4-0-1     5-1-00      T.S.O. I
5-00-5-30-1    5-30-00     T.S.O. I
5-00-5-30-2    5-30-00     T.S.O. I
5-00-6-27-1    6-27-00     T.S.O. I
                           150.01 –
                           150.07,
01-2000        6-27-00     150.10-
                           150.12,
                           150.15-
                           150.59
9-00-9-05-1    10-3-00     T.S.O. I
10-00-10-03-1  10-3-00     T.S.O. I
03-2000        11-6-00     150.43.5
05-01-05-01-01 5-1-01      T.S.O. I
03-2001        11-13-01    150.43.5
—            7-1-02      51.31
                           53.01 -
—            8-16-02     53.06,
                           53.99
09-02-03-01-01 9-3-02      T.S.O. I
01-07-03-01-01 1-7-03      T.S.O. I
—            4-15-03     T.S.O. I
—            6-3-03      T.S.O. I
                           30.01 -
—            7-27-04     30.07,
                           30.99
                           51.31,
—            4-6-04      96.01,
                           98.02
10-14-03-01-01 10-14-03    T.S.O. I
08-03-04-01-01 8-3-04      T.S.O. I
09-07-04-01-01 9-7--04     T.S.O. I
11-09-04-01-01 11-9-04     T.S.O. I
11-09-04-02-01 11-9-04     T.S.O. I
05-03-05-01-01 5-3-05      T.S.O. I
                           51.31,
—            7- -05      96.01,
                           98.02
07-19-05-01-01 7-19-05     T.S.O. I
07-19-05-02-01 7-19-05     T.S.O. I
07-19-05-03-01 7-19-05     T.S.O. I
—            3-7-06      Amending Charter
—            4-4-06      T.S.O. I
                           Amending Charter,
—            5-2-06      93.14,
                           114.10
08-01-06-01-01 8-1-06      T.S.O. I
—            11-7-06     92.99
04-03-07-01-01 4-3-07      T.S.O. I
07-01-07-01-01 6-19-07     T.S.O. I
09-04-07-01-02 9-4-07      T.S.O. I
                           153.01 -
                           153.04,
                           153.10 -
                           153.17,
—            10-2-07     153.20 -
                           153.24,
                           153.30 -
                           153.35,
                           153.41,
                           153.99
02-05-07-01-01 2-5-08      T.S.O. I
03-2008        2-5-08      Ch. 72, Sch. I
04-2008        2-26-08     31.02
—            4-1-08      51.31
—            4-2-08      51.26
                           51.31,
                           51.33,
—            7-1-09      51.99,
                           96.01,
                           98.02
                           153.01 -
                           153.04,
                           153.10 -
                           153.17,
                           153.20 -
—            6-2-09      153.24,
                           153.30 -
                           153.35,
                           153.40,
                           153.41,
                           153.99
—            12-1-09     51.26.A
                           51.31,
—            —         90.23,
                           90.99
04-01-10-01-01 4-6-10      T.S.O. I
01-01-04-1I01  1-4-11      T.S.O. I
—            - -         51.31
                           93.01,
                           93.04,
—            - -         93.50 -
                           93.52,
                           93.75
—            - -         Ch. 93, App. III
—            - -         Ch, 93, App. IV
                           117.01 -
—            - -         117.14,
                           117.99,
                           Ch. 117, App. I
01-08-07-12-01 8-7-12      T.S.O. I
                           51.31,
—            6-18-13     96.01,
                           98.02
01-04-01-14-01 4-1-14      T.S.O. I
02-04-01-14-02 4-1-14      T.S.O. I
—            6-18-14     51.31
                           51.23.A,
                           51.26,
—            - -         51.26.B,
                           51.30,
                           51.33,
                           51.34
01-10-06-15-01 10-6-15     T.S.O. I
01-02-02-16-01 2-2-16      T.S.O. I
02-02-02-16-02 2-2-16      T.S.O. I
—            2-7-17      110.05
01-2017        6-12-17     151.01
—            - -         152.01
—            - -         51.31
—            6-16-20     51.31
—            11-3-20     Ch. 72, Sch. I
—            11-3-20     95.02
—            - -         96.01 -
                           96.09
—            6-15-21     51.31
—            - -         96.01 -
                           96.09
01-05-24-22-01 5-24-22     T.S.O. I
                           51.31,
                           51.33,
—            - -         93.50,
                           93.51,
                           96.01,
                           98.02
—            9-6-22      110.05
                           50.01 -
—            12-6-22     50.17,
                           50.99
                           51.31,
                           51.33,
—            - -         93.50,
                           93.51,
                           96.01,
                           98.02
                          
 
